. I heard the first bodybuilder to use it was Larry Scott. Really. I wouldn't be surprised. I don't know. You admitted to that in an interview. It. It was. It wasn't a. No, it there was no negative stigma was like taking amino acids. You know, you were exactly what he said. He said we thought it was like taking vitamins. They all thought that it wasn't till his fucking 90s. But we either know. We don't know, back in the 70s. That's why. And then I get the readers. I went to we either. He's off his son of waitin for him out out. No, in the waiting part. We're the secretaries are. And it's a lump on the wall. in penny, something penny, you can greg with no. But anyway, so on, that was a penny. Is he a money guy? I think that's James Bond. Yeah, no, no. We either had this secretary for ever and forgot her name, but she was really sweet. So I'm on the wall, this is a match of a bunch of vials in the conch out from the whale. No, okay, it's like 12 or 15, and these cars with a rubber band stretched together. And as a piece of paper, an over-water rubber band, it went in, no, on it. And it says, four virtual. And it's up on the bill. And then we come in later and maybe say. That's great. He was an asshole over a whole week. And you know what? He was so thick, but he wasn't real broad. Like, you know, I mean, kind of like, like, a stock-spydom Phil Hill, remember Phil Hill? Is Bertlo Fox still in jail, John? Yeah, he was supposed to get hung, but they could commute it is chronic with telephoto. And you know what the reason was because they never had such a crime there before, so they, they, well, yeah. Because not only did it kill his girlfriend, but he killed his mother too. No, my daughter. My son, where's the girl? Where's the girl? Hey. Same kid. It's crazy, right? That's what a crazy murder that was. Well, how about, how about, a brave, a brave, a meal? A very big meal, a silent, a meal, a shot of a shot gun. In the face on Valentine's Day. Yeah. Did they have an argument? Did with the kids in the house, the crazy guy. I'm in the face. Hey, I've done it. They're all fucking whacked. You know what I'm saying? A lot of crazy people have that. Now that little killed his wife, they killed himself. Have we had killed him? They shot each other in the heart. Right, but I think that was that was, he shot the, he shot the boy because the sun was so pissed off. He's like, my father's a piece of shit. Why did he need to take my mother with him? Did he hate it? Did he hate it? They couldn't make him with someone they got lost. He didn't want to do. She didn't want to do it. He did. Shout out to you. I was that, now there's office. I didn't know that, is that true? Greg is that true that he was at a murder suicide? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I thought it was a half. I thought they both killed them. Said no, no. No, Bob Bonham, Bob Bonham went to the, to even to the, did a, did a mass to funeral on shit because he was really close to it now. And a, now the sun was telling that mother fucker, like you know what I mean on his father because he felt like his father didn't have to take. Look, you're depressed. You want to kill yourself. You got issues. Kill yourself. You shouldn't have took my mother with you. He killed him. That was a very, very successful. I don't know if he was a very good one, but he was a very successful plastic surgeon. He wasn't even more certified, but he was doing a nice job. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then he went into hormone replacement. He just started describing. And I think he got arrested or he lost his license, right? For some. I think he, I thought I think what put him over to Andrew with the suicide was the how they, all the money they lost in the housing. No, but John, but he lost his license. He lost his license to practice medicine. So he was like personal training people. Yeah, yes. Yes. So I think he's got to have a friend. Yeah. He was so low. Hey, if you start all over again, that's all. If he, if you can't do that, George, it's a little late for that. What about my halecto? My halecto is not done. Is that right? I mean, when it's a, when it's a fucking wife's house, if fun at a kid's, and said, I'm going to give you something you never got to forget. It is. He's a, I love you. I see. I love Steve. I don't know why he did what he did with do some things. My path was his health was really bad. I think I think you needed a kidney transplant. I was fucking he was also not, you know, the story. He's not, I know him too. He was fucked up. Well, I mean, I look, I can only know go by how he treat you. He helped me. When I wanted to become a pro bodybuilder, I see that he came out and helped me. So I mean, as far as all this stuff he did, I didn't agree, you know, I just, I didn't agree with him. He was crazy. That's all I mean, he did. He was going to extreme person. He was crazy. He would take me to the show. He was showing his like, he would be promoting all natural. And he had to be the high school. That's how I do it about. He had a high school. He didn't think about it. Mahal is going to do that. But my, but the way Mahal had lived his life so extreme, there was no way he was going to go down and like be this combless and guy in the nursing home. You know, he was going to go out on his own terms. And that's why he did that. I'm sure. What about that show I did? The man who's on his explode and that bullshit, right? He was in there basically calling me a fucking drug addict. I know. You know, and he was there. And he was not true. He was pushing that natural. If he can't do it natural, he should be, through he's the king of fucking clubs. Right. And he was still prescribing him. He was still having guys used drugs too. But I would go to the shows. He'd be there. And I wouldn't talk to him because I was so angry with him. You know, I mean, maybe the every people would always natural athletes. They just get the fuck out of you. You fucking, you're natural those guys a lot of other. Not anymore. No, why? You know, was his client Tony Randall from the article. And Tony, Tony, Tony, Tony. All right. Don't, don't, but see his bad publicity. No matter what, Steve, he said, whether it's negative or positive. Okay. It's all good. Can you get him in the radio show, man? He told that story. You're right. Do, can you put your job in the room? I mean, I don't really want to. You'll put your truth as better. How are you? We don't just have a warning. I don't know. Well, guys, we got a rap just thing up. John's got work to do. I got to work for you. I'm sorry, Dave. Good. Good. So after all was said, I guess Jim he only gives us a couple minutes of his day. You know, but after all said, what, what we decide was the most potent drug cocktail, steroid cocktail. What was the best relationship? Suston out in trend blown. I agree with that, John. That's the truth. I don't like. You don't grow. You're not going to. It trend blown is definitely, but I can't take the way, way, man. Power blown. I used to, matter fact, I got a recipe. Same thing. It's trend blown in the air. Power blown. That's kind of a. Power blown. That was the bad. That's just trend blown shit. Now is this fucking, it's bad. It's somebody made it in a bathtub or something. It's a food. It's a food to make it. It's a food to make it strong. I'm a problem. What's that? What's that? What's that, Georgie? He said, what about food? It's a, is it 85% of what are growing food? Well, if you're a, if you're a, if you're a, if you're reading, if the, the cookies, you know what I mean? The drug, the drug, the drug combination that made me the strongest where I actually was able to able to function and eat my foods. I couldn't, or else, killed my appetite. So it wasn't even, it wasn't even, they weren't even good for me. Trend blown test the on, thrown and injectable, deanneable. Remember the injectable deanneable? The best. That's the one I stuck in my bicep. A quarter of f**k infection. If you know what I didn't like it. You know what I mean? Like about the ejectable. Reform it be. The injectable. I didn't use that one. It had a device. Oh, my God. But later on, you have like, as it suggests, it, you know, got like that foul vitamin. You know, when you eat a lot of food, over dusting and vitamins with that stuff. Oh, my God. Well, I like the dankel version. Dankel had an injectable deanneable. It was great. I like, I don't know. I like, sourced in on mixed sourced in on, uh, anadrol. I like the anadrol and then I like with ganobal. Like what an EQ. He was, he will EQ would may help you eat better. So that was a good idea. I had a, I had a good EQ and deck of stack. 600 each a week. That was, that was a good idea. So much alike. They compete for the same receptor. I don't know. I don't agree with that. I like the mix those two. You know, I think you need to test the hospital in there. Oh, I'm a great idea. What do you mean? It's good to eat. It's good to eat. How many days a day? 12, 12, some meetings a day. That was a shakes too. So that was my idea. That was a good idea. It was a good idea. Yeah, it was a year after the year. Yeah, it was a year after the year. Yeah, around. I don't remember. Don't remember. When I see, I such pictures you the other day. Don't you ever miss, I mean, I miss being jacked. No, I'm too scared. Yeah, I want to, I everything's breaking. And now, if I was that big, I'd be dead probably. So it's nice to look back and say, yeah, I used to look like that. That's good. At least I accomplished something that I could have records of. You know, that's the important thing. Well, you got to say, you go. You got new goals, Dave. That's right. That's right. You know what I mean? You know what I mean? Yeah. Are you building a building? I had an idea. Well, once a month, we'll do a show. Oh, yeah. We all together. You know what I mean? Cause I see a little hole bunch of construction on your team. Why don't you build a big new iron door where we can come down there and it's day for where we get and we can show. I miss it worse. Now you guys want to get any of our mistakes. You know, jesus c jij chanda polama cookies of the jumbo light. You can go to Mr. Pot's protein.net. And they got some great new stuff up there. You can check out whatever the latest and greatest is up on his site. John, if you want to catch your podcast, how do we do that? Just Apple, Apple Podcasts, Apple iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, this type in fitness fame and fortune. Right. What's your next appearance? Are you doing any more generation iron stuff? Yeah, I still do generation iron. I got to get back with Patrick BeddDavid. I blew them off and I, you know. Never. You got to get on that show. You know, his guy there, you know what I'm saying? I got to show you some stuff, but I got to see if they still want me to come back because I blew them off and February because it is a throat. Yeah, I don't believe me. They'll want to get you on that. I'm sure. And, you know, mate, and you know what I do. Get me a whole lot. What about Jimmy the boat? Hey, so Jimmy the boat, what do you do? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? Well, in my head, I know that it's time to wrap this thing up. They know what you're doing. Let me introduce you to Jimmy the truth. Yeah, give me the truth. Give me the truth. I am the truth. I am the truth. I'm the truth. When I say, listen to the black back show. Jimmy, I do. I just want you a trust the world. One, two, here. One, two. See you next week at theorama. Amen.

You can smell the cooked eggs. You're hell, Ian. Get your... Woo! Now you're a man! A man, man, man, man, man, man, man, man, man, man! You are now a man, you're a man! Hello! Anybody new? Stop it, dude! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! I love it, dude! Welcome back to another exciting episode of After hours of day polamo, and today I don't even know whom joined by Toyota. John Romano, Mr. G, and I have a field of looking at him. I'm assuming he's by the shape of the lens. It's got to be Jimmy the Bull somewhere in a rural field getting piles of dirt somewhere. Yeah, and he's pissed at me. He's mad because you accused him of having a smoke bomb in his truck last week, and it was actually a very much... It was very much... It looks very controlled. Where is Jimmy? What's going on? By the way, Greg is getting a stress test, I think, right? Yes, he is getting a stress test. He is not stressed. I need the stress test, not him! Right, you do. So now what happened to the truck last week? First of all, I just wanted to say because I'm like the how much I love you guys. You're all my heart, George. I'm wearing everybody. Look at the fucking scenery I give you guys when I get on fucking the phone. Look at that. Look at that truck, cruelty. He's got the spirituality, look at that. He's got the spirituality, look at that. He's got the spirituality, look at that. I'm not kidding that. Man, he's gay. Lance, he doesn't know what Lance is. He doesn't know what that word would be like. Greg, you're asking him to fly to Space Shuttle, like, yeah. Yeah, yeah. He doesn't believe that the shuttle goes anywhere though. Good, John, that's feeling problem. It doesn't go. And I got some fucking proof today, some hog proof. I'm gonna shove it down, George. Stoke today. Because he pissed me off. He pissed me off because he's got out of smoke bomb. And I was fucking dead, smoke hit in the air, I had the fly to pop in there. And I had the foam and I had the fire, I was dead. All right, I was broke by death because I dumped out of it. It's broken. And it almost hit the ground. It's fucking fucking, it's fucking, it's fucking fucking fucking, it's fucking fucking, it's fucking fucking, it's fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fuck. What the fuck? What the fuck fire? It's like good, fuck, good shit, John. Oh, he's got a smoke pop in there. What the fuck? That was a good impression. Dude, do you see? Let me conjure it up. It was very, very, very m 변� well. There were times when Baristas went insane, but, we lost our, we lost the fire some time. We lost those love. I ever met Bar erf unfortunately. Yeah, we lost those 80's. Be quiet and be nice. But I owed ya the first time to things just lit up. Menschen went crazy. Pow, nah, do we lower the day. So he waited we have a small ring in fact Normally Normally when someone's car is or truck is ablaze the first thing they do On a podcast Fire I'm loyal to you guys that's why I tried to get on even I Have put your fires like I got on the fucking podcast See that's why it seemed contrived to me. All right, so what's the contrived what the look at the fuck I was What the fire what the fire The fucking the heart of my fire the GPS plugged in the light and it sparked out in the court I thought let's just a fire John He what the fire. Well, yeah, he caused the fire so I'm saying it looked contrived I'm saying he didn't do a purpose they've been My point is my point is in any reasonable person notice their car or truck is on fire What is the first thing they do? My You lie stream right here Instagram. That's it you do now I mean, I wouldn't you want to put the fire out isn't that the first scene it comes to you And for a stay was she was dead man Dan dirt pull us Hold on, but the fact here we're missing the fact is that he caused the fire by plugging his phone into the cigarette lighter Right You guys you you Everything around you fucking piss me off. I You have to pay for the damages because the truck court fire Oh, okay, wait Dave you made a good point This is why this is why I'm not buying okay, there's so many holes in this story He's been complaining about that truck for like oh you're ever Brakes don't work this doesn't work that doesn't suspension doesn't work the real fall I'm So now Jimmy could say I thought plug this fucking thing in over here to trucks gonna burn up and I'll finally get rid of this fucking thing I'll give me into the truck There it is smaller in a way burn it up like a leaf and what does he do he can't so any air with us? He doesn't try to put the fire out One-nine one one my truck is one fire. No Somebody comes and delivers him a new fire extinguisher And in the meantime in the meantime when he could have called 911 and the meantime he's on the phone with us Send a phone like you know when when when the middle of the old show all the family with the Caralcon and the Jesus whatever archie would would argue with me head remember People don't even talk about And he would start talking to the lawyer. Oh, Lord, please tell me with this this this And get him this is like Jimmy right now or called in that we're Fred Samford could say and it's Lissman That they twist everything around when you're telling it truth and you're trying to seek that more lawyers Jimmy yeah You're flatter not you answer to the Because you're so fucking late all right We did rich in Branson go when he went on that flight into orbit Oh The owner right on yeah, not he will both of them yeah, he went to base on up there When they go He like Musk went the first time he had that stupid dummy and his fucking and his fucking glory and fucking flying around He heard that was total bullshit and then this guy here wants to push up this comment They want you to still believe in the space fucking thing right the guy went nowhere He went up in the air He popped this fucking cap and he fucked the power of shooting that he said he was just based and he did a little float back like fucking Hollywood That was all garbage because the right day round and there was no space out there And I got some proof right here John the kid that I this one and you can't remember the pot I got hot fucking evidence who runs this place and I'm gonna stop this down you thought right now what is okay? Go ahead Go We be Cv evidence I'm gonna give it to you right now Okay, I'm always always. I'm always we shudges shit I'm always look at what it's true For God this or anybody says about me. I'm a not a much experience. I have spoil hot rod. I don't give a fuck All right, I'm not gonna sit down And have somebody tell me with this place is and I'm not gonna do any investigation myself dismiss the three's assholes Put shit on the TV and I have rockets go up. I'm not gonna do that. I'm sorry Is the proof. All right. You got a double bill on your teeth. Do I have a dollar bill on me? Anybody got a dollar bill on me? I got a dollar bill. Hold on. I get the dollar bill out and get it calculated. I probably got to get killed for this. The next fire, I've got to probably be hit it. Okay. Here's my dollar bill. Okay. Put it on the table. Okay. And I want you to look at the pyramid. And I'm not talking about the old sea and I, and all that bullshit in the world order, I'll grab that. Look at the pyramid. Look at the bottom of the pyramid. What do you see? I need my reading glasses. I don't know. What does it say there? Well, you got to, you got, you got, you got, I mean, you got to put glasses on. And I can't, I can't do this whole day by myself. You got to, you got, I got my little magnifying glasses. I look like my dad's free. Get your magnifying glasses. It says, it says, I'll be finished. Let me finish, york. It says, Maudace. No, no, no, no. The Roman numerals on the bottom of the pyramid. Not many people notice. Yeah, it says, MZ, what is that? 40, MZ, C, C, L, D, L, D, L, L, L, what is that? No, let's break this shot. Let's break this idea. M stands for a thousand. I found you. You've made a D, 500, right? D, D, D, C. Let me finish. D, C, C, 17. Stasters, 7, 100. Right. How can you see that? L, X, X. Stasper 70. Right. And then the VI, whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever. Yeah, it says, yeah. Okay, 17, 76. What year is that, guys? 17 years ago. We've got our independence. Okay, here we've got our independence. Okay, and we're going to find out who gave us our independence. We already know that. So here, now let's take this here. Take the M, which is in the beginning. Right? That's a thousand. Now minus a thousand from 1776. 776. 1776. 1776 minus the thousand. 1776. And minus a hundred. Because that's the next letter, which is seen in the middle. And then minus the, and minus the X on the end. And before the middle, you know, it's got three in the right of the cross there. So you got a thousand or hundred and ten. You minus that from 1776. That way, what number you come up with? Well, hold on. Why, why you, why you arbitrarily, did making the ducks and you're not using all the light, all the numbers. So it fits in the other. Because they hide it. They hide it in there. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's in there. But you're not using all the numbers. You're arbitrarily picking all of that. You're all a number. David's hidden it. I like something. I don't do something. I mean, you hide something in a bush. You use all the fucking punches. Oh, you're a little bit like it. I didn't fucking question. But he's talking about, you know, no, no, no, don't get tinned. You're using the numbers. You're going to make your number work. That's not what you're using all the fucking, you're using all the letters. It's, it also, it also, it's been a, yeah, it's all the pushes. He was, it also, it also just, if you're, if you're raised to letters this way, it also says 15% discounted, Dino's car. It made 666 by the way. So you want to get 666? This is why the world's going to help. All right, so now we're going to go here. So 666, you get 666. Listen to me. I haven't dabble now because it's been a while. Slowed up on one side. I finish over here. Okay. This is, this is, this is, this is, this is, let me got, let me got the DC, which isn't, almost in the middle there. Right DC, you got LX, and then you got the VI, or take, they put it right in, you know, right down like they separated, and now I definitely say, right? Yeah, that's, and that's, that's what DC, LX and VI, 666. It's in the fucking numbers, bro. It's in the numbers, right? So what's it? It's like, you're a suitable. My point is that that's who rules this fucking place. The flat right that we live on. Read that every minute, do it. They lie to you, they fucking, they cheat us, they fucking, they do it. Who? If that, they delete, they run this fucking world. That's hard. That's hard. That would have fucking, that's hard. That would have fucking, very well, they, and they're fucking, and they're fucking, and they're called sign is 66. And they fucking, they, they shoot fake rockets in the fucking hand, and make it think this place. They'll be the record now. They'll be the record now. They'll be the record now. No, you're out of, if you tell fuck that. Yeah, you take the M, and then you subtract the V, and then, and then, and then, and then, 12, what do you get? Yeah. I don't know, I'll source you saying, I heard it, what do you, what do you get? I was listening to you. I was listening to a Joe Rogan podcast, and he said that the, that Stanley Kubrick, who did, you know, 2001 space out of sync. Remember that movie? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Well, he was directing that at the time that the guys were landing on the moon. They're saying that they hired him to do the moon, you know, just to fake the moon land. Very good, Dave. Very good. Very good. I'm actually, you're impressed. You can kick that in the country. So then, how come then would it tell a scope that gets you to rover driving around on the moon, right? Get the fuck outta here. Come on. Yeah. I can't even get a spot on the same. I'm gonna go over to the rover driver. I get the fuck outta here. Please, who'd I film the fuck a lunar module when it took off the moon? Well, that would have been a blasted off in 69. Okay. What I had fucking gravity is on my fucking TV and the buzz fucker station. It's on my way fucking, somehow they filmed the fucking lunar module that karma fucking's pinned up and just like the bit the fuck outta here. Okay, so I was having you Dave, full shit. So how do you go from, how do you go from that conspiracy theory to the, to you being so sure. Wait a minute. How is the $666 on the dollar bill proved the earth is flat? That's what you were doing. You said he had to, yeah, yeah, I can't get it. Where's the proof? Where's the proof? Where's the proof? Even if you take the M from the D and add the X and take the V and the I out and you get 666. How does that make the earth flat? What I'm trying to show you, John, is that these people you've simply, they use fucking dilute them. These people you've simply put a right in our face. They think that's funny. You want to stand? All that shit. You want to stand? All that shit. You know, you got the fucking thing. He's the freak. Everything is on the wall. It's all tired. We live in a fucked-up system, bro. So it's all in. That's how funny. So explain how there's a correlation between sixes on the dollar bill and the earth being flat. John. Yes. And to the question. Listen, I'm just talking about, we live in a life. Okay. I'm saying the earth is flat. You can believe whatever you want. I don't believe we're going to spin in poor, flying around the fucking side. I think it's total bullshit. It's all rockets, okay? So look at the here. So let me ask you a question. What do you have here? I'm just trying to let what they did. Jimmy, I'm not alone. I'm just trying to understand here. So you're saying basically that. You're in the moment on the dollar bill. That you're going to get just the vacation from the theory that the earth is flat. John. You have no question. Did you ever hear it, sir? It's a yes or no question. Does it, it's a centonic. You're on the bill. You've just to find it. No, it doesn't directly tell you. In the numbers that the earth is a point. No, it doesn't. Okay, it doesn't. I'm not saying it. That says that. Okay. You're missing the gold. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You said you went proof right here. I'm going to stuff it down. You throw you. You went. You went. You went. You went. You went. Look at the numbers. You went. You're going to hold a normal John. It's got the numbers. I think. What he met is that it's all conspiracy. Yeah. So it was a taboo thing. Well, that's what I think we then that that. That that that that that get the dollar bill and. You know, you know, Georgie. I said not. When I said, when I got under show today, I said, I'm going to stay calm. I'm going to stay calm. I'm going to stay calm. And I'm going to fucking explain this to John because I know how we eat. All right. He's like. The lawyer. I'm going to have it. I think of you. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. John, maybe that's. Maybe they try to kill him with the cigarette light or thing. And it's. Maybe that was it. It's. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. I'm going to be. You're going to be. You're going to be. You're going to be. When Robert DeNiro got into the car and the thing blew up. They did. I'm going to. For some reason that one year. Catalic had a metal plate underneath it. And it's. That's true story. By the way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's like Jimmy. They try to fucking blow him up with. I think it's something. I think. I. I state Dave. George. I still want to know. They. Why is getting to all these accidents with the truck because they. They're. They're. These. He's trying to say that he wants a new truck. So he's going to damage the old one. And we already figured that out. He sent it on fire. All right. So he puts the thing in. But I. I want to know what is dollar bill. I don't. I don't. I'm going to get the fuck out of cause I'm. I'm. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. Yeah, they have a certain the particle collider. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Get this. Well, let me ask you question. What is their logo? Please tell me. I don't remember. This is a. He's talking. Okay. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. The particle collider is this thing. A big huge tunnel. They dug on the ground. They spin electrons and and all kinds of new trons and they collide. They. They spin back. Okay. So please, Dave. Show me the logo. Please, Tyler. Get it out. Show me the fucking lungs. I'm monkey being dollar side. Difficult facility. Look at the fucking logo. Okay. Think of the kill me tonight. Am I sleeping at a bus by going down in my house? I don't. Sorry. See you. What is it? It's probably. It's probably six. It's probably six. It's probably. It's I'm telling you, George. It's six six six. Pull it up. You. You. I mean, the. The sex is Jimmy's right. Oh, that's. That's not proven. I see a George. I see a. I see. Tyler. Put it on. He's got it on. He's got it on. John. You hear him. Hold on. Please. I see it. Jimmy. What is he? I don't still don't understand the point. He's trying to make. What. What do you. What are you trying to say? Is he. He's. He's. I'm going to tell you what. I'm going to tell you what. Wait. Wait. Wait. You started out today with going to prove the earth is flat. Okay. Then you said you had proof. The proof had something to do with numbers on a dollar bill. And now you're now you're trying to say that the numbers on a dollar bill matched the logo of the collider in France. And somehow that makes the earth flat. It's higher. It looks more like a nine. Four. Six. There's four. Six. There's four. Six. Nine. Look at nine. You got to put it up. You got to put it up. All right. Three. Three. I think it's three. Nine. Actually, the. I got to see. I got to see. Nine. The. Nine. I don't know. They. I don't. I don't. I don't. I. Yeah. Hold on. There he goes. I. You. You. I can't see it. Hold on. Hold on. I. I was not prepared. You got to step up your game, bro. Okay. So what is this? Wait. Where's the. I'm pulling a Chris a Cito. No. Can you see it? So it's not. Nine. That's right. It's. Oh my god. I had. You really got to stay on your head and spin around the get. Yeah. I. I think they just make it look like sexes if they wanted to do something. I. I think it looks like a peach and a stick figure. It looks like a. It looks like a stick figure. What it's had up its ass is what is it look is what it looks like. Tyler. Punch up. What is on the front lawn of. Sir. The front lawn. What you get. Just Google that. What is on the front. What's that you. What's that you. What's that you is on the front lawn of. Sorry. Please. What's that you. Yeah. Yeah. That. That. That. Shiva. Shiva. Okay. Shiva. The. The. Hold a. Shiva. Is this. I. What is she the. I. She's the. God is not the. I got a story about. Very simple because they're the straight. The collider is what destroys. My. It makes. Total sense to me. Oh. You. Tha. But. This man. So that. recover. Came. He's going. Got it got our every. Golf. Guys. street. God What the fuck What is it? What have they destroyed it? They're trying to find the god Paul. He's not a split open space at time. That's what they're trying to do. Oh my god Did he how did he get this infected? Did one of those bugs crawling his ear and eat out like part of his brain? I got a lot of stuff. I got a lot of stuff. I got a lot of stuff. I'm starting to worry about you We gotta set up a goal fund me account for extensive psychological evaluations. I'm getting worried about him, man That is dead You're fucking over there You see what you're up against there's such a thing as a stretch, but not even a lane Brian could come off with something that spring Oh I gotta go man. I gotta go I gotta stop this fucking load and go back to reality now You mean go back to make fry just going about okay burned I love you Jimmy. I love you Jimmy. I love you, too, man. I see good later man. I love you too Jimmy. I gotta stretch love you guys. I guess here's my story I'm gonna straighten you thank you for taking the time to listen to me for a couple of minutes I want to give you my I want to give you my my story of Shiva So I go to India right in 2012 and I'm going shopping Aaron Sigmund and I are going around shopping to all these we have we hired this guy for the day to drive us around And we go in there and I'm like everyone's you know buying little trinkets I'm like I want the goddess Shiva and he's like the guys are good No, maybe he was Vishnu Vishnu, is it which was the one that that's the goddess of death? supposedly Shiva yeah, so I get this picture Beautiful picture someone drew of Shiva and he's like oh I people don't buy these pictures this picture I said well I said my party goes they think bad luck here in India so I said I said his dish isn't she even the goddess of death He says it really it's really the The goddess changed got us to change I said I will I bought the picture and and two hours later in the gym there I tore my quad Change my whole home Because I know my wife remember because the man is it was physical therapist she was helping out She helped me out she called me up and we were talking about you know my physical therapy So how did I turn my quad in India? I never would have my wife which means I wouldn't have my kids which means I probably wouldn't be Florida right now, so You know, you think you were the name the one of your daughters she but after that. Yeah Deadlock I don't know so All right, I'm out of here. That's the beautiful story Dave. I will remember that for the rest of my life I was the best fan of your wedding. Yes, you were the only man in my wedding That's right, I still love all these daily collider logo John I love you. I love you John I will talk to the Assidina this question what about you know they search hold on Jimmy listen You know they show these a lot of these celebrities with the hand in the pocket You don't want to send me those pictures it's like a sign of the the McCree Mason's right Yes, I did yes How it's starting even is a free Mason it seems right those flex wheeler So Jimmy the one eye It Jimmy is a free me Jimmy your free me. He's the right He's the one tell us about all the conspiracy theories. So you know I have to say that yeah, that's what I thought I don't think that's why you're probably the next fire. I'm probably gonna be fucking it John That's what's gonna happen. I'm a post fucking god. What level are you? I can't tell you what level I am He's ground level obviously John Oh my no, I'm fucking so go with my underwear We're supposed to fucking John The fucking game with the fucking nine's You know you guys are like you guys like you take your hair for glass of water you put it on the fucking table I say Dave John what are you? She oh Jimmy get your dollar out. I got to show you something That's what you guys are you guys fuck will be constantly You're gonna be going Jimmy does a K look inside of a circle. That means this is accepted at circle K This means No, you ain't allowed to fucking circle K anymore unless you got a vaccination How about that? What's going on in New York now you can't you can't go to the gym I heard in New York City I think if you don't have a vaccination Yeah, I call them Oklahoma just to the house that we can't go to gyms we can't go to restaurants We can't go to fucking theaters we can't go to the horse unless we have a vaccination god Okay, at that 20 minutes after that he just got it did died is fucking Girl's ass So much while again, she's not getting died What happened? He got charged How about that? He had charged Investigation showed that there was there were women who have come forward to say that he was manhandling them and it's Provoked by John you missed your ball brother. They want him to call and the next phase is they could probably bring charges against him Will they? Probably Then a crowd they get away with everything You know bring him up on charges. Let's go back. I gotta go. Thank you. I lost fucking three pounds John Dave George. Thank you very much. I gotta get out of here now. I gotta go I love you man. I hope you we're that shirt good health, please I'm just trying to make you guys aware of things around your world you understand? I'm not trying to convince you or Turn you into a flatter. I'm just trying to share information with everybody because I want them to know Other than what they told that's still like that I love people and I want everybody to know the fucking truth or or maybe possibly No good information that I believe them through or not That's all I'm not trying to turn anybody I'm not saying I'm a fucking brainiac my name a new truck Give me new trial is Jimmy to full. Okay. That's all I'm trying to say Okay, reference That's why the Jimmy new trial is I'm signing out. I'm signing out Jimmy new trial I'm not sure Oh, I got one more thing. I want to say I got one more thing. I want to be dead Somebody mentioned One of my friends said I'm not a scientist He's gonna start talking about the moonland these are that bullshit right because while you you're not a fucking scientist Why I got to be a fucking scientist the fucking investigation on my own? I gotta go to cows you're gonna agree to this I want to think outside with this motherfucker's a tell me or show me our TV No, it's nothing wrong with that Nothing wrong with that Well, it helps if you're educated enough to know off the bat what's fucking Crazy bullshit and what is you see don't waste your time Results call the doctor nation John it's called the doctor when you was a baby when you went to school You will find your own you just thought fucking visiting your pets and you went to kindergarten Okay, the first day they Scott cuts is did they put a fucking round ball on there And this is done this is that is destiny a teacher that's what they did you grew up Look at that round ball. It's called a vaccination It's like universal pictures when the movies come on it seems to fit the things fit it with the fucking universe I remember I remember Don't I remember standing for the pledge of allegiance. I don't remember that shit It would seem like it would be that's kind of a good idea easier for them to control us We were on a flatter than on a globe. What do you think to me? When you think oh Because let's let's make believe for a bit fight go. Let's how glad you brought that up So there is a way to win the believe for a minute before we go We've been making you oh You not for me You miss the fucking Mr. Don't all for you not for me. Okay So let's pick believe you not me that we live on a round ball and we came from monkeys and we came We were a little sperm in some mud hole fucking nine million years ago and somehow we grew up And we got legs in a mind in a consciousness and and we know it's right from wrong and all that other stuff So if you if they make a state that that we come from nothing that means we me we're on nothing We're insignificant we just a little ball a spec it does just flown around and it's endless fucking universe Yeah nothing But if you renew the earth was flat now that's a different story you say wait a minute If the earth is flat why would they lie to us all these fucking years and if the earth is flat and is at home Covered it like the scripture shape well we must have been put here We must have created we must live in a creation because everything has a purpose here That's what I'm saying so everybody really truly believed that they would have no control of us because we would definitely know that We would put here by God if we ate and we live in a creation and those guys would be powerless against us But we're not we're all fucked up. I gotta go love you guys God be a lighter. I think he just described simulation theater You know you don't want to sad about getting old Is that is that you you can't is that you watch your your bros next to your Period, you know and and you watch their mental decline and it's it's very disturbing I feel really bad for Jimmy he makes a compelling story though definitely is pretty compelling He wasn't always a flat earther. No, I didn't think it was a flat earther. Oh, breathe only Yeah, I didn't either but but you know the dollar bill has been the subject of more conspiracy theory And I think I anything ever on the face of the earth It's a lot of shit a lot of hidden symbolism and everything that's out there So the symbol this symbol is oh a the symbolism aspect of what he was talking about should have been separate from his flatter A theory because yes, yes, there is symbolism because there is that there is that free mason Whenever you want to call them under you know ground You know type of Because they fraternity that's out there of people that you know Work together obviously that probably run the world that put a lot of symbolic stuff out there to kind of like say hey We're here type of thing, but I don't think I don't think you know and I believe that there is a degree of truth to that Probably more truth than we acknowledge but I can't buy the whole flat earth thing Well, let's go back to the money for a second. Yeah, you I want to explain to you why There is symbolism and stuff in here. They had a cell this shit when it came out They before money paper money came out we had gold and silver coins right that's how you did Business you could be paid with gold and you paid with silver in different size coins and denominations It wasn't it was because the the metal is bulky and in convenient that we went to paper money And the paper money was supposed to represent and you should blow them out of gold and silver It for knocks Guys who who created these notes wanted to make them extremely difficult to counterfeit and and and Make fake ones that would you know Honestly, I'm not a couple of people's money So they had to make it attractive so they put all this symbolism and shit in here They could make stories about and make this thing the most interesting Most interesting history packed Note that you could ever fucking it when make people want it and keep it and save it and not want the money The metal and that's why all of the paper money has characteristics about it That following in these conspiracy theories because when they designed them They wanted to make them popular and attractive and wanted people to want them and so They wanted the one and because it is stuff they want to look at and see if it's true or whatever But they had a so the idea of paper money versus hard money and that's why you have all of these things that Jimmy thinks the world is flat That's a good story to me. No, it you're right. I mean in a sense because You know and I and why not put all that historical US history on the on the bills. I mean that's the role. You know that's how we had to make them attractive If you have if you have gold in your hand silver in your hand and you're gonna What is gonna make you say okay here bank you take my real money and give me paper in exchange for The mindset of the time was you want to change people's minds So that that's why it's like a cell phone John right? Who can make them more attractive cell phone those the most gizmos and gimmicks in there and that's how to get the cell The cell phone exactly exactly Yeah, Jimmy's just trying to quade everything as it's serious Yeah, there are some conspiracies that are probably true It's not every Rockefeller you know the Rockefeller organization which has to do with the banks little people have the money that control everything That's what he's trying to talk about Georgie I'm surprised he's not interested in current events like why is he what what's his position on the vaccine and all in a Conspiracy is surrounded in the COVID numbers and all that that's the shit that people are talking about now They're not looking in fucking six six six six on a dollar bill right now So And flat are old bullshit to be honest with you when he seen is there a bunch of elites in all these countries that want to try and and control everyone It's like world communism Well, that's what they're doing here with this stupid fucking virus is they're trying to control right all right And then when they try to like they say Modularize this group that group this group you separate the groups black white right gay You know Transient all these groups this way is the Colleat this no Create division and with the vision Yeah, I mean, I mean, I mean, they'll be so they'll keep going up each everyone will be Dividing tongue. Well, they don't want to eat and they don't want anyone to congregate and they want people to actually it's like you know Keep everyone separate and then you know no one's gonna fight the government or do or say anything Well, it's tribalism as we tried this driving and that's what happens. Yeah, if you look at monkeys And they the one monkey tribal the monkey If they catch another monkey, they'll rip the other one pieces. Yeah, you know there a monkey That's what happens speaking of monkey now Did you see the I just want to switch to the Olympics for a second that Laurel Hubbard girl You know who's the transgender from Yeah, who made the Olympic teams who I thought we would always a travesty and she was breaking all these records all of a sudden She she couldn't lift anything she fell all the lifts and she didn't even win a medal at the Olympics Yeah, she couldn't present the good snatch I personally think that she I think she threw the Olympics. I think she she purposely missed the the lifts I think she there's no way she couldn't have lifted that way It was a breeze for her. I think she did a purpose. She wanted to get in the Olympics to make a statement But she knew that winning probably would have been who knows people might have like tried to kill her I don't know you know I Said someone someone someone sent me this thing. I don't know if you see it up there you remember that movie metelda Danny DeVito Yeah This trench ball someone from the UK put this up. It's really funny Ms. Trentville has an age of days since his 72 Olympics She looks like the this trench ball character from I'm just a moment Oh that teacher. Yeah, yeah Oh I could feel like with the big ball. Yeah, she was in the 72 Olympics. She did the shop put her something like that right remember So while we're on the Olympics we got to talk about Simone Biles Yes, she somehow mysteriously was able to do the last of her last event Well, I want to take my C-word comment back last week We already eliminated that's the show We're about oh Well, I mean I want better but I want but I want but I want to explain myself other than the fact that I was hanging out with Lee priest And he uses that word every other sentence That I'm telling you he uses that word for more Anybody who is Was it any a day call the word Or their best friend they use a for a Different year He uses it all the time so anyway I was just talking I'm so anyway I was on a tip of my tongue anyway But what I thought what she did at the moment was pretty terrible, you know, and I still think what's going on is pretty terrible And I what and I just now I'm on the fence about this whole situation because it's not technically her fault She's just subject she's just been subjective subjective subjective subjective to this Victim culture where you know everything's got to have a cause and effect where you got to get them up till the fixie Dave when you want to enjoy you when we were kids did you ever here to turn ADD Did you ever hear anybody on Riddle in what you had 20 you had 30 40 kids in the classroom Some of them were smarter than others some of them were caught up someone's a class clown Other's were slower than the word a little bit slow the smart ones help the slow ones the teacher kept there and everybody fucking made it And it's a puzzle Everyone had it fits as a puzzle You're either a or Z right and everyone made it right, but now Read it because he's got a dd or he's got On that was untruth John that the yes, she has a dd but she was able to bring her medication there because of course Yeah, of course they actually applied a head of time for her to get a agreement to be able to have She literally just had you know something happened to her mentally We don't know what the break was we don't know what emotional issues she was having it's a lot of stress No family was allowed to come with you over to Tokyo They they only let in the country while you competing after you got to get out and have to 40 it I was after you done competing they don't want anyone in there I don't know why they allowed us to have they should never have the Olympics and Tokyo they should have changed it Yeah, sure how to explore it and Florida exactly would have been no problem What was happening she was getting disorientated when she was doing the flips didn't know what's happened What George you somewhere along the line somebody told her it's okay to quit That's what happened and if you're a if you're a good your divine for a gold medal in the fucking Olympics to be the number one person the entire world The seven and a half billion people yeah, there's a lot of pressure you got to be able to take it I don't take it and you fold the deserve to lose I would have called the coach I would have told it Regulatory you got to do this to me the what you did if you fall on your face You've got to go through because everyone's watching you It's the message But George it's the it's the it's the mentality that's been right out of them with this Mental culture and Fucking victimhood nonsense. I will take you guys back to 1984 in the Olympics in New York in Los Angeles The LA Times ran an article a question 15 hundred Olympic athletes and they asked all of them the same question If you could take a substance that guaranteed you a gold medal But would kill you within the next five years would you take it 98% of them said yes So that house that's how important a gold medal in the Olympics was Now now you're at the representing America You're the top of your team you're supposedly the best one ever and But it's time to shine and what do you do? I'm a little bit stressed out today. I got the twisty. I got to talk to you There's much is required you know I tell my athletes all the time I'm like you know I'm you know I'm pretty laid back coach and sense until I see people crying and complaining and bitch I say look Finding the least not easy. That's why there's not a lot of great champions out there Right want to be the best you have to suffer you have to endure you have to go through pain You got to get this comfort you're not gonna like feel good You're not gonna want to like see people and talk to people you're gonna be and I remember the last two weeks before my The USA championship's in 1985 I was so lean that it hurt to sit down on a chair my glutes It was like nothing there was it was it was miserable I was I couldn't sleep and I I just laid in bed I I couldn't I couldn't relax and that's what you need to endure if you don't have that mindset if you don't have that I do or die I'll die for this attitude you're never gonna be the best in what you do and that's the truth And people don't want to get that today anymore too bad tough shit If that makes me a tough ass, you know Maniac coach whatever that's what it takes So you got your just be a guy who goes through a transformation or girl lose a little bit of weight That's a different story but if you come to me and say I want to be a pro I want to compete on a pro level Then you've got to endure what it takes to be the best and that's good Well, I'm gonna a lot of people don't have inside them. No If you're if you're if you're comfortable if you're comfortable you're doing it wrong Right it's dangerous Jim Nassick's dangerous if you land on your head you could break your neck and die We know that just like the X games events are dangerous Just like professional football is MMA boxing body-building's dangerous too We they take Performance enhancing drugs you're pushing your body and dehydrating yourself You're getting a That's dangerous there's a dangerous there's a danger component to it if you don't want to be in that zone Don't do it. No, we're making you do it exactly a day if you remember Billy Billy Billy I mean that despair I'm a Billy gun sort of is contest yeah, he was freaking out You didn't want to go on there. He started to broke down. Yeah, you had to think you have a pep talk to them Yeah, I said you let it get listen to me it doesn't fucking matter You let it get to fuck out of it because the only thing you remember is to think you didn't do Everyone feels like this this is what you feel like you feel like the way you like you want to die But if you look up this song Here's the thing here's the thing See if if Simone Biles Performs flawlessly what's her reward millions and millions and millions of dollars and in Thoresmiths and contracts and appearances all kinds of shit named after her A line of gymnastics clothes. She's gonna be a house old name everywhere and if you know how many people get to enjoy that Run the latter of life This fucking many out of seven and a half billion so you know what the price tag for that Lofty hurts is quite high and a few people Exactly you can't afford it if you can't afford it you can only So it's like I want to buy a Ferrari, but I'm 375,000 dollars Responsible cash shot not do I get in any way? No, I don't get it You're gonna have to work your ass off to get it. Yeah, I mean that and whatever I did Whatever I did to get to that point where I could flake off pocket change to buy that thing that is worth a lot of suffering And it's worth a lot of negative. It's like a lot of stress a lot of Performance enhancing drugs mind-all-thering drugs whatever to fucking takes to be number one That's what you got to do yeah, and if you saw it life Just entered as number one in the fucking world the top of your team the top of the US and say to the world I'm a little stressed out. I'm gonna quit that's that is Passed fucked up so it's like it's like these these people you know that they They want you to hold the hands the whole way you think you think in the elite level of gymnastics or any other sport for that matter That the coach is holding the person's hand and saying oh Rubbing their back. Oh, it's all right. No, you you gotta be fucking tough as nails man You know when I coach people at the elite love who people who tell me they want to be now I'm gonna talk about like regular people know about people who want to be pro body I'm tough on them. I'm not your mother. I'm not gonna chase you for your homework If you don't send me your updates, you're not gonna hear from me. This is right this year in adult How bad what this you know the people that want a bad I hear from them every day they give me updates They're always constantly on top of me because they want as much out of me as they can yet They're not waiting for me to come and talk them into bed at night to make sure they get a good night sleep I mean it's it's pathetic when I see that and I don't How how can people if you don't have that killer instinct that you never are gonna succeed at the I don't believe level we're talking about triple late. Remember triple ace training at you work to midnight and then at midnight When it was getting ready for WrestleMania You be on the bodybuilding diet like in a rain for show and you be training like a savage you know To get the rain and that's admit that it's Whatever it takes right I mean You didn't want to do this So if it's the reward you know if the reward for all of this shit was a blue ribbon and an afternoon and a park on a Saturday That's one thing when you're talking about the top of the world and most of the world with so many millions of dollars coming your way If you do your job right. I'm sorry, but that's a tough deal and if you get it You don't deserve it Bottom people other things people will go right that's what you got to be What you don't mean it's and it and people who got to the top will tell you this one and then no That and you get only a personal life people dying people things happen people get sick you know you lose your job you know or lose your baby why you're trying to To a copy I lost his audio Yeah, Mr. G you're mute There it is It's something it really depends on you know where you want to go with what you do you know like I said it There's so many different levels you know what you're in when you're at that elite level there's no excuses There's no like Hold my hand there's no like feel sorry for me because you know what those people finish last those people don't finish first Hey, I just sort first-hand Did not the girl who's in the you'll see she just wanted one of the first-round knocked out That's weekend and Vegas yeah, and In the training She They would just that was destroying the coach Kind of on a back for like 15 minutes straight go That's she was gonna fight it she did that and she was freaking out and then She got mad and the coach had listened. I don't give a fuck This is what you gotta do you gotta listen what I'm telling you and as we saw you She wound up winning in the first round knocked out because she went to that shit being on her back Yeah, you're just like being on your back for 15 minutes straight being choke Get about it Every day It's What's going to Jimmy's girlfriend's you want to go I look I In a marathon right you run marathon. Yeah, like so what happens? You could run you could run 25 miles and you got 1.2 miles left to go and you want to quit Yeah, like like there I That happened to me you hit the wall. Yeah, so my dad was at my first bad Thought my sis dad my dad was listening You don't have to keep running you can walk with your god of finish Yeah, right with my slip by my I've never forget that I had food poisoning joke I'm kicking the day And threw up hip like through what I finished and as a result the finishing that Experience was able to to give me a life going through things that you're gonna It's really simple, Georgie. We are from a different era We're from the era of when Apollo 13 was in trouble They shut the door the flight command. There's the first thing he says is locked the doors Nobody leaves failure is not an option You can't consider it you can't do it give me was that was that was stage too bad I was fake well was Jimmy would say the Tom Hanks directed that scene You're out the middle of the ocean and it's only one way back to swim yeah You got to do what you got to do and and this This generation is some own bios generation is loaded with victims Quitters people with shitty work ethic and and and The no concept of what it means to not put yourself first to put your team first to put your quest first and you last I don't know how to do that so it's and it's not her fault She was taught that she was taught somewhere along the line that it's okay to be a victim It's okay to quit. It's okay to put yourself first. It's okay to put your team last She was taught that by someone I think she wasn't but I think once she what happened was with the whole Olympic gymnastics program Because of all the pedophilia that that doctor and I said they got He was you know molesting all the girls and everything like that after that It's because it was it was a rain of terror of a terror You know when when Bella Corollian and the wife ran everything they kicked everyone out and they cleaned house now Everyone's in charge of themselves now. So you don't happen when the when the you know when the Cats away the mice shall play and I think it law they lost that killer instinct They don't have that they're at all these coaches now are afraid to be tough on these girls Because they're gonna get arrested or they're gonna get brought up on charges They're gonna get fired lose their position So everyone's like well, let the kids run everything. It's like it's like going to school and having to teach And not be able to keep control the kids, you know So yeah, it's you know There's a certain benefit to structure and discipline and toughness Yeah, what? And we teach it any more it's it's it's not loud because everyone's allowed to be cool everyone everyone's a winner John When I was in school in the morning if he could hit him when I was in grammar school in Long Island The teachers could hit us my fifth grade teacher Mr. Lowes used to keep it RELUS stand fully yard status from the lumber yard and he would break him over your ass in the front of the whole class We get put everybody in his circle put the desk in the middle of the room Bend you over it and break the fucking rule across your ass in front of everybody and better time That's how I went to school imagine Today oh my god happened another about it. Yeah, you you really are you you need to be humiliated The toilet lesson, well now you can probably you know many times I had to go through that over a whole year How about you were you acted like a dick when you like 18 19 and you got punched in the face I mean you know and then you realize you know Being a dick I gotta you know I can't act like an asshole you need the boundaries Yeah, we need discipline everyone needs it kids drive off brave new world guys That's a bottom line here. Hopefully hopefully we survived this the whole world of the world Was that girl on drought was she on medication? No, she was on she's been on ADD medication for our whole life Oh my god, because she's needed it. She's a kid to cook in the school. She's been on since she three years old So it doesn't it doesn't matter that's what she's been on she and she didn't they didn't take her off the medicine They tried to start a whole conspiracy thing saying she didn't get her medicine in Tokyo because it's illegal But they weren't they applied ahead of time and they got her the right to be able to use it That's what I'm saying it, but these keep they put these people on all this which which always it actually screws up your own seren toning Of course, you know a cycle top of drugs because Because the very thing is trying to try to stop suicide causes that I Didn't I think George you know my theory on the whole of those drugs is that on people that really need it Because they actually have a deficiency in certain things I think it works well on them. I think it's when you give it to people for the wrong reason who don't need it That's when you get those crazy weird side effects like the guy John Was the best to gain the teller hoot and teller hoot and didn't really have depression He wanted to take steroids to spawn and take a moy from him and then and then he went to depression because he was losing all the muscle He made I think that and so they put him on an ante to press it that he didn't really need And we're just going to Call suicide alleviation and baby dry base right but a lot of what I'm saying is he really was Clinically depressed because of a chemical imbalance Propting that the ante to press it would have helped him it ran in the family his mother was mother was depressed And it's just a tried committing suicide or his mother or vice versa. I believe that diet and And and and a protocol talking to somebody and and having A tool to to lift you out of it naturally is far better than trying to try to introduce and drug It's gonna it's gonna actually alter your your step your mind You're here 100% right with the diet 100% right I've done it look I've done it my whole life with people coming in on on the drugs. I take it off Yep, I Go do you feel like I only has three or four suicides to his dad That's right fact that it's less than five is commendable I have Z it I have a hundred percent success rate What do you buy the way that's me? That's because of you not because of you John you also need you need your soul. You need another thing. No, you're gonna feel you're gonna feel bad You're gonna feel fear everyone feels that you know It's called that anxiety which we're supposed to feel if you lose your job You're supposed to feel fucked like fuck by the way. I'm gonna dope It gets you to go up move up and survive and get another job. Yeah, you know what George you had a friend who was who was I went through a very difficult time What personal loss, okay, and I often Is trash is lost with so severe Multiple family members that that I often asked him how do you possibly cope with this amount of grief and pain and Laws how do you do it and he goes you just have to accept the fact that this is what it feels like to be alive No, you're all your feelings are not gonna be good ones is all it's not gonna all be sunrise sun sets and rainbows You're gonna have you're gonna have difficult times in life and they manifest feelings and those feelings The thing that you don't do is numb them and blunt them and turn them off and take drugs to suppress them You've got to feel them you're gonna feel them and and deal with the feeling and feel terrible and cry and feel It lonely and alone and then get that out and then you'll start getting back in a life and you know things Things pick up and you never lose your memories. You never lose that that grief But you still move on you still find life worth living because you would understand how it feels And it's chose to be a survive It chose to be a surviving just like the people in our shoe with Survite the concentration camps speak to them Speak though what what what could you go for and see your whole family it killed in front of you And then every day That you could be you burn the light or gas gas You know or home I'll leave you I'll leave you with this final words. I got an I got an interview Mr. USA after this Which would probably be a little more interesting this conversation, but maybe not I know for sure Jimmy sent me a street chat of a they found a black hole with a light behind it somehow You know supposedly black holes are have so much gravity that they suck everything including light into the into the hole That's when they said black so I don't know I sent me a picture of it It was yeah no one Jimmy was a reflection of dust in the lens It's already named it it's where it's It's called the Albino black hole. That's what we call you Anyway, I know I I wrapped this thing up guys love you I'm gonna I had a fun today with John in the George and of course Jimmy to bowl is always very entertaining and I love Jimmy Let us know in the comments below who thinks that Jimmy's right? Do we are we living on a flat earth is there a conspiracy going on here or do you think he's out of his mind in the comments below? Let us now And I have six six six is all over your dollar You mean it Jimmy doesn't read the comments. Oh you know George I forgot to show You sent me though you sent me a great box of stuff I had not tried the bagels. He sent me his protein bagels and he sent me all the leaf priest white chocolate stuff My kids are not good He made a white chocolate with with fruity pebbles in it Yeah, oh we're fruity pebbles. Yes He sent me the white chocolate with the fruit in it that was yeah the mango is a good tip But you got it you got to make the fruit you got to find like a keto cereal you could put in the George so it doesn't have as much sugar. Yeah, I mean I could put I could put the Pop-tart I could put that in the crush that and crumbs it and crumb it up in there. Yeah, or We'll just get like a keto cereal that has no carb's in it Oh, this oh that keto cereal. I mean yeah, I'll the cereal school my favorite is the cereal school Or what is it man? The cereal I come go to the health food store. They got a whole variety Yeah, the cereal school that's good because it doesn't have anything to bother you stomach in there It's like zero net carbs. It's pretty amazing. I eat them all the time Five it's a five Yeah, who's putting fiber. Oh, yeah, it's fiber definitely a lot of fiber. It's still not a fiber But they're not digest now they're not if it if it's if fiber is a car But it's bite definition not absorbable so if you have 20 grams of carbs and something But it's only 19 grams of fiber there's only one Gram of carbs that can be absorbed that that's what they call the net carbs That's the most important thing you want low net carbs so Carb is a five Don't you want to absorb Don't you want I mean don't you want to absorb some Carbs I mean not not if you're trying to lose weight You're trying to make a lot you're trying to make a low-carb snack here, right? Isn't that the right? I've been doing that. I've made keto. I mean, you know, it's a balance with flavor Yeah, you know, I'm saying that these are taste really good. Try this cereal school keto Keto cereals you can maybe mix it into your white chocolate mix there a lot of protein too All right, I got to wrap this up day to let go here with the entire whack pack We will see you next week valentine will be back hopefully with a clear heart

You want to save God your help, maximize your immune system, grow muscle and lose that faster? Over immune is not herbs and spices. It's not a proprietary one, it's patented, it's a one-of-a-kind product, it's backed by science from the University of Wisconsin Man's. Over is approaching an ad about it's different, it's real science, it gets real results. Check us out at Providatcom. Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If you're the hardest training person at your gym, you are old school. If you hate math, but you can count by forty-fives, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. When you're asleep, there just get a start. John, D's, after hours. Welcome back to After Hours, I'm of course a Pulumbo here with my compatriot and crime. John Romano and what's hanging on over there in South Carolina. You are lucky that you didn't have this show yet planned for yesterday because I was half dead with food poisoning. Oh really, that happened. What do you call it? Hunk. Oh no. Really? Wage it fine that. Oddly, it's publics. They never have it and I'm like, wow, they got concoct. I'm going to make some, you know, whatever. What is that called it? Is that's congilly? No, it's congilly. Same family. It's different. It's congilly. It's congilly's way better, but you can't say that. What's the Italian name for conch? It's a different. It's a big shell. You know, that big shell. I don't even have a name for the Italians. No? I think you guys congilly's like that, but it's different. It's called congilly. But anyway, for 22 hours, I was like dying and now I'm still having eaten yet. John, you know what's funny? I can hear it in your voice. What? I can hear it. You sound, you sound a little bit rasping a little bit like, you know. Adam's dog, and you're sitting there. From coping his brains out for, uh, for two days. Were you vomiting? I, well, see that's the thing. I have this condition where I can't bomb. My throat literally snaps shut when it, when it starts. And that nap and shut feels like there's someone dripping my fucking esophagus. Oh, it's just painful thing that I felt. So when I feel like that coming on, I got to like push it down and swah. I mean, I fucking horrible. And then of course, if I would just puke, we'd get Adam, even instead, I got to wait till the travel's all the way through my intestines and, you know, it's fucking hurts, man. So it was 22 hours of just fucking hell. I'm trying to think of who that Indian woman in your background, that picture on the wall looks like John. It looks like someone we know. Who? The Indian woman behind you. I don't know. Some, after the artist, my wife made friends with. What does that look like, Greg? I can't really tell. I got to shit a Jenny Blackman. I didn't, you know, want to throw out fits. Yeah, lifey. You know, a story about when Blackman came home one night and Jenny had her boyfriend in the bedroom with tied up and handcuffed and she was whipping them. I like her. She's a good, I like her. I love her, man. I kept her in Vegas an extra day one time. There were any Olympians. She was hanging out with my whole crew party and everything. She was a blast. I think it was cool what she was doing. I just think that Blackman's seeing her. That was what I was laughing at. That was the thing. What she was doing was not a sight. The fact Blackman walked in and said, No, you're probably walking. He's like, where's the vitamin C? Yeah, I'm thinking for the first time. Yeah, I'm looking for the vitamin C. Like ignoring anything that's going on around there. I wouldn't mind being tied up by her. I'm telling you, I would have been fine. So you know, I found out my cousin, one of my cousins told me that my favorite uncle, my cousin's father, who's no longer with us, my uncle Frankie, who happened to have been on that show. That's incredible twice. That can be a seven. For making him made, he made sculptures out of the sand. He made like a draw, he made a king Kong. And it was so big. And so realistic, they had helicopter's over. Oh, going over. It looked like it was something on the beach. Got beach to watch up on the beach. Anyway, I found out that he actually had a child with like one of his co-workers. He was a hairstylist. He owned hair salons. And I found out I have a new cousin. And ironically, the new cousin is moving like 10 minutes from where I am here. So I have a new first cousin. I never knew I had who was like 48 years old, you know? Which I did a family, mother or father. Bottom, bottom, bottom, bottom, top inside. Yeah. Oh, it was just a plumber. Yeah, well, I mean, yeah, technically a plumber. But obviously she's been remarried. But so I just think it's kind of weird. You know, when you find that, I'm just, you know, everyone finds their lost relatives on answer and sister, you know, because the, you know, if you've been adopted or you don't know your father, you know, you're a father, you know, a lot of times you'll upload your, you're, you know, you're getting a test that send it to the ancestry and they can find matches for you. You know, I'm always petrified that someone's going to contact me and say, I'm your brother, you know, and I found out like my dad. No, worse, I'm your son. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's, that could be worse. Yeah, I don't think that's going to happen. But there's plumber here in the Jersey show. They're going to plumber is plumbing. That's more of a genre monod. You got another daughter. You got another daughter. I thought you were going to tell you. No, I meant to tell you Dave, I talked to my aunt a couple months ago. She said her cousin is a plumber. Oh, we knew we were related. I, that make, now that makes sense. Because, yeah, I said, well, where? Well, you know, what is she going to, this is Palermo? She's telling me. Yeah, that's, that's around the same area. It's got to be related. We got, I knew we were related somehow. Had too many, too many coincidences. We should, you should upload your stuff to answer. She maybe we're brought out of the, I know now that I know that. I am. You guys just like, John uploads his stuff and it comes back. I get a match. I'm like, look at it. So I'm like, who's this match? I got, you got to broaden the genre monod. I'm like, what? That makes sense. It all makes sense. No, no, no, no, no. He's your twin actually, you know. So anyway, so I, I, I sent you, I don't know Greg. Did you watch the video I sent you? When? Oh my God. I emailed you. You say the like emails. I emailed you a link to a generation iron video about, Yeah, but if it wasn't of some guy getting fucked in the ass, would it's even better show? Yeah, I didn't know. I wondered you said it today? No, I sent it a couple days ago to give you some time to watch it. But I'll play the clip. I'll play the clip. It's, it's generation, I did a, like, a little interview with Steve Weinberger, George Farrah and, and Kai Greene, probably was all, you know, older, and they ran it. It's basically Steve Weinberger who's obviously the head judge at the Olympia, talking about, you know, how they judge and what they pick, and George, the Farrah and Kai are asking questions, you know, and say, you know, questioning things and placing it. It was pretty good. It was more like, blind burger and George were ganging up on, on Kai. Yeah. Kai's like, you know, let's play a couple of little timestamps so you guys can watch it, and then we'll talk about it. Because I want to see what you think about, you know, some people say judging is politics, some people, politics is Kai would say. Some people think it's, you know, it's legitimately judge, some people think that, you know, and Steve has a good explanation as to, you know, basically, you know, we judge what's up there on that particular day. So let's play the first clip. Yeah, let's play the first clip. Well, nation is flawed. All right. Well, let's talk about it. Let's play the clip. We don't care about who look good yesterday or who's going to look good tomorrow. It's who look good that day at that time. Somebody could say, oh my god, you should have said it yesterday. Yesterday he looked great. Well, you know what? You know what I'm staging now with judging you now. This is what you look like in his dining and placed. I mean, it could be a guy that doesn't have the best conditioning, but has the best shape, but because he wasn't in best conditioning, he's not going to win. A guy with the best conditioning will win. It depends on what is in front of me that day. You can't say because feel he be high green. The guy green is not going to come back next year and beat him. It depends what happens on that stage. Not yesterday, not last year, not with, you know, their projection of what they're going to be like. It's what they're like right then and there. Any questions come to mind, George? Not really. It's hard to judge, you know, like a lot of times. And I hate this. I see many times people seem stuff in the pictures. Oh man, Sean Ray, you should have beat you. I don't know. I was there. I see my doorion didn't. They're not going to look better than other people. They're guy in fifth place. Maybe he has the best back double-bice up. And he looks like, it's like, All right, so that's the first club. I think our way to go back to the bice. Well, they're the only other people. So basically what Steve is saying is that, you know, he has to judge what's there on that particular day. And I agree. Because you know what? We see pictures on Instagram all the time. And I, you would swear the guy's going to win the show. And then you see him up on stage and it's not the same effect or you know, they He there's something that they lose is a little something or One guy comes back better at night than he was at the free judging so You know, it's very easy to criticize from looking at pictures and videos online and unfortunately In COVID we really no one can even go see these shows anymore We have to kind of trust the judges opinion now. Do they get it wrong sometimes? Absolutely, but what do you think about what what Steve said John? Tyler's making me dizzy over here Luckily no, that's the only thing But so the thing with the pictures is where I have the issue okay Wine burgers like us he's a dinosaur. Okay. He knows what a black and white TV looks like all right So to say Sergio Arnold and you're looking at the pictures You're looking at the pictures of the technology that was available right today We have 4k high definition super super definite we have all this Technology you can take pictures of competitor A and competitor B and and and Put them next to each other on your computer screen pause for pause for pose and you can dissect them Down to the poor size of their skin because the pictures are that sharp so you can't tell me That today you can't put up a picture of each athlete pose for pose for pose for pose Repose the entire show and they're posing routine where you can stop it along the way and and you can you can Pick this apart Infinite I don't agree because she it's about Spodied building is about comparing two physics and next to each other. I'm staying compare them one One you can't take one and I super pose the next to the other you can't do that You can get a short guy put him next to a tall guy and actually adjust the photo with it I did a same height I don't you can't go by pictures though. You cannot I've been backstage And I think after the great and then I see pictures of money in it and it don't look so good You know, I mean I disagree I see you can put competitor A next to competitor B right on your screen in super high Deaf 4k whatever technology we have and you can you can see everything. It's not that it's it's the presentation It's how the better the better part of that is is that when the judge is sitting there and wearing front of them they only see them at the moment and split second timing this way you can stop you can see you can see Every detail if you want the insta replay John is what you're saying Why burgers right he's right because you could look derogize who you could see a picture of me and then that pose They look phenomenal you understand what I'm saying I'm saying pose pose pose for pose can't all compare what that pictures. It's not a statics for I agree I can do it in videos then you can have the two videos playing side by side How they look next to each other though that's important Another on the screen you don't want to show what do you know Let me give you an example flex wheeler was a master at distracting people from his weaknesses and bringing eyes to a Strength and that's why he was so dominant on stage and also because he had the best physique in the world Yeah, but he they would show is where he wasn't at his best, but you know what you you would have sworn he was at his best because You couldn't take their eyes off the guy and you you almost didn't look at the other guy and look at it Right it's a loop There's definitely there's definitely you know page stage right days right. Oh, they're taking he'll take your eye off of you won't even look at the other guys because you look at fucking flex Look I know what Dave saying and he's right and it's kind of wine burgers is right too There are some guys who if you look at photos of him you say fuck man He should have won but it that's only because Deposes and a photos that you say right here What I'm saying is you can have the video Technology why say The way of the two guys next to each other or the comparison you can have the video you can stop it you press the space bar and you Can you can look this is what you want you want to have an instant replay So the Olympia gets judged the guys go upstairs and then the judge has sit down and and and the coach Honey romba says I want an instant replay on on Phil he's and so the judge's got to take another look at Phil Ethan What I'm on I'm not saying what I'm saying Did be no way I'm not saying that I'm not saying it what I'm saying is in in a comment to wine I'm commenting to wine burgers statement that you can't tell anything by photos and I disagree with that because of the technology we have today that makes these images so sharp that it's better than being there Well, what I'm saying to you even though making a mockery of it don't you I'm making a mockery purposefully I'm showing the the how I'm saying it over to Bubba and over the top purposefully because The judges judge what their eyes see at that very moment So if they're bamboozled by the people on stage because they have great presentation if they're you know If the flash of how how the person you know presents themselves is drawing their eyes to that person and not the other person That's what got it that's what made them say first place when I got it if you go back and look at the videos and pictures They've had even realized hey we made a mistake because you know what but that's what judging is about About what the answer is when they see that on stage what the body will the made them feel you know Yes, do right that's what the show is about how many times have you seen a picture of a guy? We used big Grammy before the Olympia couple days before we call my God Did you see the pro? There's no fat it looks great. He shredded he's so in he's right on target dry hard Well, the same you see him on stage. You know like dude that's it a couple days ago I saw pictures of a couple days ago. He looked amazing But now you see him up against the other guys and now you see him right there and Even though he's so big he's not like what you said about the flex wheel thing I feel like the stage presence of another guy is taking over Yes, there's could body building that's what body building about that's why Arnold used to win What it Arnold used to say sometimes he knew guys were better than him, but he would get out there and he would he would just hit nothing with double-pice He would hit that post that was his signature and he would just keep going like that You know remember story about him with the background of Sergio will leave it He said we should use a dark background You know, so Sergio will even with Glenn more in with background You remember that? Yeah, yeah, no you're right. I mean, that's a fact It's different things like that Arnold is a master at stage presence. I remember Lee Haney telling me if I was Tom plots He goes I would get up there and do nothing but leg poses because that would freak the judges out there would freak out the audience And he would actually he believes that he would actually score higher because the attention would be on him If I want to say I agree with that for a last century, but but on that on the technology is so good No, I think you're talking about something else. I agree with you in the same Where we are saying John you're saying the technology so good You could actually see the fucking blood flowing through the guys body. I know what you're saying bye by side But you can't let me give you a good example That's a judge when when Kai beat when I mean when Phil beat Kai at that last Olympia or one of the Olympias Phil was really off at the pre-judging and and it almost looked like he was probably losing it after period and then he came back better at night Okay, if you weren't that show You probably couldn't if you wouldn't have caught the nuances of how good Phil looked at the finals versus the pre-judging If you saw the pictures you would swear Kai green one the show. I mean ties bigger He's freakier he's got great conditioning his presentations really good But in person at that finals Phil was you know, he was raining mr He was freaky looking but he naturally got better to the night. Yeah. Yeah I mean it really it didn't translate well the pictures and pictures It looks way better because Kai's it's a part of you know, I totally agree with that But there've been instances where we are you don't need a replay. Yeah, okay? The year j-beat beat Victor Martinez. Yes. It's good one I'll give you Steve Weinberger's favorite the 1991 missile and right that's the one here So you can't tell me that the judges or I'm judging what's right in front of me right then in there and Why in Berber himself knows that's bullshit because he went through it with his wife in 1991 So yeah, but I think that was pot. I think that was really you know a Joe weater Thing and absolutely one yeah, I that wasn't yeah That wasn't but Steve wasn't judging then that was a different judging panel that was ruled over by Joe weater who you know Don't they call but you but you cannot say that the lineage of FBB judging is based on what you're seeing in front of you that day or hell no All of us can knock on NASA should have be Dorian Leroni should have beat him that there's definitely a year or two showing ratio one So you can't say you cannot convince me that it's all about what the judges see in front of him that day because there's too many Instances throughout history where that just doesn't you can not let go of that on this No, let's segue to the next play the next clip where Kai actually lays it out here. Here we go watch the book People walk away a lot of times I've heard them say hey man politics judges rigged what You know, I always said that okay, you know what I mean when you're friend and family Then they're gonna start telling you the truth then we don't have politics and you know in-worth But now as a coach and I'm telling you this and I'm you know everybody know me I'm not a kiss I say even I'm here you know when we went to When we went to Spain you'll beat you beat Phil Ethan's down But I understand why we couldn't take Phil heat from being this or limpian weekly to take him off It doesn't look good now I disagree with that. I think you beat him you should beat him see that I don't agree with that but we saw it I've had arguments they have a show. Yeah, of course. I mean there's a lot of time Joe and I differ so are you saying that there's an optical illusion that not an optical illusion you just In a living color Different not somebody lies see it the same way you could see it on the internet It's impossible So what do you think about that? Do you think they make a valid statement there first on George George is the biggest kiss Ass of all time which is that that But I love but that was the first thing that I love guys like politics What do you think about George George is a great guy in person George you're great anybody knows George I love George I like the break we break each other's balls, but I I do like George a lot What's on my god? He's got a lineage of Bustable history Now what do you obviously we know that has been politics throughout you know his and I don't blame the judges for that I believe I blame the people who Might have been behind the scenes and I think Joe we'd have for many years pulled a lot of strings You know here and there not a lot, but you know You we saw our couple controversial decisions over the years you know 91 misalipia, yeah, but I disagree with wine burger dare because because in living color I'm and Greg has sent the and Greg has sent the the the the high-deft Pictures of various women's assholes in such stunning degree that you become the lines and that's what you know a Greg I mean the the the amount of technology we have at our disposal today for viewing things in high definition is Out of sight and for living in living color you can't make that and I disagree I think it's the opposite I think on video it looks better than it looks in person because and if you have the added Ability to stop and you can stop that video at any given point and you can you can spend two hours But that's not a how a judge judge though John then I'm gonna have That's how it has I'm a fine to look obviously you can't do an instant replay I agree with oh The subt that the settle these arguments over who look better who should a one it's a hands down Guaranteed that the judges can make mistakes and This ability proves it is all I'm saying I think what you're talking about something give it to I understand it Yes, you can see every poor understand the blood going through it about I agree with that but can you use that to be a judge You know what's funny? Look at a picture. You can't see the flaws as much as you can Let's not that's not the point But I think that's what Dave's talking about right Joe Dave or no I think you see the flaws more the way John is talking about I don't think the judges quite see as much Right, but that's not how it shows judge the show is judged by a live I mean a live judging panel that is an emotional there they're not robots in other words So there there are emotional beings that are moved by how people perform on stage How they present their physique what they're bringing to the stage Wait a minute that's like comparing one of these dolls that you get a sex doll Did you have any of that look so fucking good? Got the sex I don't have the sex doll in house That shit Not a pseudo but you can't compare a sex doll with like a real girl you're missing a point Sex doll yeah, you're right you can't compare them to sex doll don't fucking argue I'm saying Okay, no problem, you know, but I'm saying like you can't just go by the video I've to me you have to be there a person like Dave said it before with this flesh wheel thing was a perfect example I she guys backstage with a look phenomenal then on stage the guy who look back in backstage Is she couple guys right maybe this one guy looks great like Dennis wolf you still great to me But then when I see him on stage you need fucking look at good as you gotta you know guys you better than backstage Let's the whole stage presence We're talking about let let let's fire first I think the judging especially in the new era the last 10 you know 15 years since you know Man, you just take an over full force and and and wine burgers been the head judge. I think they they get it right 99% of the time but Is that what percent is the one to two percent times where? Things are questionable when I say questionable it means that like if mr. Olympia is competing and he's a little off They throw him a bone if You know You know We're at a show and and maybe there's like something Reason why they may want to get a guy into the Olympia and he has to qualify They may throw him a bone if it's close and and that's just human nature because I think that there is an aspect of the sport of Which we call market ability so we want our champions to win we want we want you know Certain people in the Olympia okay for a marketing purpose is so I think there there's a fudge is a fudge factor Everyone's in a while will we see are you that? We don't agree with what? Any element steady judging when you think judges should use video now you think that they should actually use video age and asics they go back and review they can appeal they can appeal You know, but that's by performance That's They can But even But Dave what you just said is what wine burger is adamantly denying He has to he's a judge I mean to come on, but I but like I said when he's judging and they're on a hundred They're on most of the time to have a judging that in my mind at least to have a judging Get it have judges get it right 98% of the time that's pretty damn good Look I'm you got it. I don't want I don't want them to take this the wrong way I think and I agree with you is since wine burger has been In his position now The judging has been almost inarguable at all ever it's always right on as far as I'm concerned However for that one or two percent of the time where it's not obviously yeah Why can they just say instead of the judging what's in front of him that day? Why can't you say an in the guys of judging what they're judging? What's in front of him that day? Sometimes a guy makes a mistake or human You know Well, you know you gotta remember too if you have a decision Okay, where Five judges think the guy this guy wins and four judges think the other guy wins Okay, and we don't agree with the final decision and maybe I'll need to do any of the fans at home This still with four judges up there that thought the other guy should have won you know, so It's not it's like everyone is on in the conspiracy It's not a conspiracy where everyone's in on it. You know some people like one thing some people like this Look some people like like one Trump some people want Biden It doesn't you know it is what it is There's no right answer you know also You know when you're judging if I'm a judge sometimes you have a relationship you might know Phil Heath you might say hey He's my buddy, man I this guy's a good guy He did enough to win as far as I'm concerned I'm voting for Phil Heath even though maybe Kai Green looked better that day I don't know I'm gonna have you blue yourself if you really know someone like that well They all know everyone knows everyone George you know that small in We all know each other right we all know that's what that was so hard to judge Yeah, I mean I mean I got what's it was like Other personalities like you automatically gravitate to want it. You know Extra fruit you kid you know if you're voting for a bikini girl you're gonna vote for the girl that you think you know You like the best you they try to I like minutes so I'm so if there's all proof it's what it is It's a guy Have you guys well for the girls now Here's a question though. Should you be able to what should you be able to appeal a decision now with all the technology John pointed out that we have The ability to do an instant replay in like three seconds you can play it back the live stream Should you be able to say you know what we want to appeal this decision and I mean obviously Never changing in a million years But um or or even better yet and I'll throw this other one at how about have another another round of judging where they actually go back and judge the video No a confirmation of judging around you know now you take it away taking it away It's the way it is just I'm just throwing down I don't believe it you can't go and stay replay. What are you gonna say no no wait? Let's go back to being to replay Can we? Well Greg why do they do that in football? Yeah, but if for that's performance there's no performance Not it's whether it's whether or not the ball got where they measure for the first down Everything are you gonna go back and say wait a minute I green and more stations and the stars and Philly look at his gloat he's got more gloat Stag we instant replay I want to challenge the call I think what it does I think it does two things God one is it it definitely validates the argument against it because you can have you can have two varying Opinions and the video can prove it. Yes. It's too late. They're not gonna take it away from them again But what it does is is humanizes the judges and says sometimes these guys fuck up and what wine burger says They're judging what they see at that moment In front of them I agree with them. It has a flaw in it is all I'm saying is that statement What a flaw how though they're all those guys are in in a pretty much close to the same condition Okay, one guy's a little more dry or you're split. I'll give you an example Let's say a guy loses five judges to four okay, and now and because it's so close So when we appeal that we appeal so when it appeals the decision they go back They look at the video every all the judges and if they all agree Hey, you know what I'm sticking with my decision. Great, but maybe one of these guys or two of these people will say you know what? I didn't quite see it right I'm gonna change my decision and it gives you an ability to them to say you know I made a mistake, you know You can't do that you can't you can't but you can't go back it could call like no I'm talking about how they show you break it the same day The way you know what I'm saying is you can't go back at it the Empire misses a Okay, cause of the strike, but it's a little bit off the fucking black which is a really a ball in baseball You can't go back and say you know what that was a strike that was right I think you did all the time I didn't you can't argue balls are strikes. I don't believe that you could okay Kai-Gree and then more striations and styles right what about if they if the guy swung can they go back and and review Whether he actually can't you know when no I yet No, they don't review that an Empire can call ask another Empire His opinion first based on power did it go around? Yes, he went around but they kick out of the video tape on that they go to the bottom football the judges Reps are on the sidelines watching the video right at a football. Okay, but let me use your question What are you actually reviewing it still you are you saying he wasn't hard enough to sky was Let's go to the big what are you arguing? No, but the same thing you say it round one comparison one more look yeah I stand in next I don't see it man. I don't listen to me who's better artists Picasso or fucking Michael Angela me Michael Angela's way better to put up Picasso look like he did a fucking a kids painting and shit Okay, but but there are people who would say for castles, but what I'm saying is body building is a matter of opinion We've seen guys over the years. I mean that that were phenomenal if you put fucking You know like Frank Zane and his prime against fucking Marcus rule Frank Zane would fucking beat him every time because of what we use as a criteria for bodybuilding But realistically Marcus rule has to beat everybody part hardness everything What I'm saying to is you can't just do that you can't go back what are you reviewing? Okay, listen I'm a judge and I stayed you know and I say to you okay, what do you want to go back to the video? Okay, what do you want to review? I do it the chi green at more striations in his thighs than fill he But okay, but Phil he's overall condition was better his structure the all what he did at that moment What Phil he did this is what fucking wine burgers trying to say and wine burgers watch his show is free with men At that moment when they were doing it double by step though whenever they were doing it when it was doing Apposes it just it was something there that may be Phil he tied at that moment over die green You could go by for body property. You can't judge on that you're judging on Basically how he executed the poses the whole the whole ball of wow your right I'm going to try and what you're saying is you can't see that on a video You know, yeah, I don't think you could go back and forget listen But what do you want to review who's hard? All right, yeah, yeah, I mean for us at the first old Greg your 100% right It's it's an impression it's an impression that people You know why I'm trying to say but what I'm what I'm John and I am saying is what if you had a third a third a fourth route What if you want to call whatever number round we we add another round with a the judges each it have a little monitor They're looking in they see the entire Comparisons and they get to look at it from a different perspective what watching it on video Looking at the at the perspective and then they have the ability to either agree with their decision or actually change your decision No, no, no, no, you're wrong. This is before this this is before the final results are submitted No, listen to me though it baseball It's it's the board football whatever it is It's like okay a ball was hit He called it a foul ball, but really hit the white so it's fair Do you understand or hit you know he died beat the other guy the first space but they called him out So it'll re-review that I'm saying is you're giving the judge you're giving the judges and the ability to get a second look so to speak to make sure that their decision that they initially saw Was right But what are you looking at it what are you looking at it what are you looking at it tonight show What are you looking at it to comparisons? It's the same thing if you have an a question your mind is your a judge and you're saying fill he's Kai-green fill he's tiger and I can't make up my fucking mind. I want to leave again video, you know and you look at the video now you can see side chest front though Right, I grab red you can't pose for pose for pose and you could you could watch exactly what you see So watch in 25 times if you want right you have it. I just don't see you're taking out Listen to me in in sports when you get I understand because you get it wrong It baseball it was if it was called a foul ball, but it was really fair He was really safe at first. Okay. He was called out, but he was really safe Okay, safety with football. He made it over the line. It's actually a first down whatever But the difference in bodybuilding what are you actually going to keep telling you you look at you compare You're watching the same thing that you saw so you're getting comparisons What do I want to see I'm the judge? I can't decide between who had a better front double bicep Kai or Phil now I can see it on a video in front of me. I can stop at the video I can count these striations. I can count those striations. Now yeah, I'm going to change my mind I think now that I've seen it again I think that my first impression was off and I think I'm going to give it to Kai. I Understand it but you're still it's the criteria the criteria of what are you looking You're actually going to go back and look at who looks better in a double bicep You look at the first time I just feel that you can't do that But it's not based on performance on stay I mean perform you know the performance What if you were paying attention what if you had a bad day You know you maybe you really didn't take your good look and you and you've forgotten what you really saw Maybe you wanted a second look as what John said I don't know I don't know if you should do that though. I just don't see the difference No one would know anyway would be behind the scenes It would be done but I agree with wine burger though. I do I I understand what he said. Oh, I do too I bet it shows and I've seen people say someone so should have won and I was like no way I was there man. I big difference when you're there I agree with you but sometimes a lot of that shit politics. I mean when I get into it You know what what one burger is got a tough job To in that position. It's a very difficult and a subjective sport like this I mean you get a lot of enemies, okay, so he's got a very tough job What I'm looking at is how could you apply modern technology to make that job a little less difficult and or and a little a little less Problematic in the long run and if you can say if you can have an option as a judge You can have an option say I'm having a really hard time deciding who's in first and who's in second? It's that close. I need a better look. I need a second look. I want to see them again Now you get a chance to do that What they should do John I think is at the judging panel Obviously can't do it all the shows but for the Olympic Arnold you have a little monitor You're able to actually write that in there Replay and watch it yourself So even before you make your decision you can kind of go back and review it and say okay, you know what this is what I'm Especially if it's close right you know what they do They all look at each other. Yeah, I think what do you think because no one knows because they because it's too fast sometimes Well, they don't think I'm thinking about between them But what I'm saying is a lot of times Greg is because they weren't paying attention or they turned away for a second This gives them the option to go back and actually because every single one of those judges No, it's had a judge, okay, but sometimes it happens very quickly or they weren't really paying attention on Maybe they just got distracted by something and this gives them the ability to go back and really take a good look So that when they make their decision they're making a really informed accurate decision and and it mitigates to our Give it after the fact Right you can it it makes it very difficult to say so and so shoot a one when the wine burger can say you know what it was really close But we had the ability to go back and check all the judges You know how to second chance to review them again We hit an in person we did it on video we did it at the night show and after all of that It's the way it is that this guy won hands down you're gonna have to accept right or Let's first of all just a little bit You see the enough for debate with the IP. Are they actually thinking about doing this or no? Who knows we're just thrown it up there. It's the idea You put out there that may get incorporated. Yeah We're giving them a great we're getting it or not and she's like she's already like dude you could argue all you want I'm we're not doing that. I'm not getting rust in place So we're like fucking pissing in a fair great five 10 years ago I said this should be a classic physique division. They told me that would never happen and never never happened 10 years later we got it all right, so we got a pun the idea out there That's bringing money while we're getting incorporated That's bringing one money to the sport if that's different from from doing video shit or not you know You know that technology they said in told Trump had that USFL they didn't have instant replay right It's not when they started doing it when he did that that USFL leave years ago He had cameras and cameras that went along on the lion fog players. I thought they didn't I mean what he's about the axe he's about that. I thought they did instant replay too. Mr. J Oh, they always they had instant replay, but I mean that's no they didn't know they never had that in the NFL They incorporated after I think Trump put it and use it on the sidelines like they do now They use it right on the side. No, I know but John you remember I think Trump had the ability to start at that whole thing with the instant replay and then the NFL adopted it when the USFL went out You know I believe stolen one of our listeners is gonna yeah Correct to some but I mean look at the end of the day at the end of the day I think it's I think that anything in everything possible should be considered to give these guys the best shot the best look the best shake because Getting to the Olympia is Fucking hell and and for you to get there and Realize that you missed the placing because the judge was looking at a bikini girl when you should have been looking at you Or and it didn't have a chance to make up his mind or whatever What do you question now let me ask you question now now do you go how far how far do you go with this replay? Do you go who placed fifth away? Great top five that's it top five whatever you ever Let me let me give you another example. I'm gonna give you another example. Okay, let's talk Your watch when she first hit the scene and figure I think it was our first pro show in Tanthor I mean she was hands down the best there She blutting me so much better than everyone else. It was the and you know if they put her like fourth and I Talking to a judge after woods. I'm not gonna mention who it is and I said how did you put her fourth? He's like well, she looks so much different than everyone it to she didn't match yeah She looks so much better because she was so I mean she looks so much different because she was so much better than everyone But I think it was it was a shock to them if they would have been ahead of the ability to go back and look and Really analyze a way to minute she's so good We have to give this to her you know, I think it would have given them a second chance to maybe absorb it and And allow it to kind of get it because the next show she did she cleaned up because everyone realized hey, we made a mistake here, you know I don't know sometimes they gave that decision because the other girls and you know Politics that's what I believe I'm a you never There's not supposed to be that's the whole point of the show that but you're never gonna take that out You're never gonna put it to the whole point of this argument the whole point of this argument Is is that there's no politics and and and you can you got to decide what politics actually means in the scope of this What happens if the end of the day is? where politics to be Used in this situation right the end the end result is the person who should have won did not and That's that's the issue now if you can take that away and you can create an error Man, this is not gonna over like politics if they have a their decision if they have it in my look Don't my that out so many things we talk a shit about the IPB whatever is got I mean dude He's not gonna place it up like I forget to get that and that is yeah But you all you want you know what I totally disagree with that and the reason I do is because of my wife and My wife turned pro her free she turned pro in two weeks She went shot right to the top of the whole time out in in Miami at the nationals I was worried about are they gonna fuck her over because of me and And at that point I was at the height of my disc or their disc content with me That's true. I thought for sure that was gonna happen even told Mel Chansey the whole thing And he goes not in I can do that and they didn't I mean just I don't I don't look I like Well, this guy's up of wine burccadult good. I don't think they did that bad that you know It may be if you were on stage. I might have been like I think back in the day when we'd or was controlling everything There was a lot more politics involved because we all about marketing ability with the magazines now There's no market ability there's no magazines no one cares if they can get this down to where it's almost always right every decision So accurately because they're getting the ability to review things like this when then what's gonna happen is this the sport We'll be that much more accepted by the fans and it will be that much more popular or devil's advocate What do you do if you're gonna? Just the Olympic we're gonna do this in a book. I borrow a classic well You start look Greg you started the top you started the Olympic in the Arnold and then the technology now is so Available that you can start trickling it down to the bigger pro shows the nationals possibly It's has to start at the top first Look Greg it's like when they come out with a brand new car that has a new technology like I love that technology Like the blind spot indicator in the car you ever see that you get too close So I'm doing a blind spot in Blake it blanks in mirror now that was only for the very high-high end cars It started with now I got it my my on the mini van has it, you know I still draw rock out the window It's my technology See it's gay Jimmy we go this while you don't have a criteria that's all I'm saying I don't know what you can go back to replay looking at I still don't understand I don't know how you gonna understand that it's simple as hell You look at the guy you have a question about if you think competitor number 56 should be over number Competitor 57 and it's a when it's the first there's sense between first or second you can't make up your mind You look you go back and look Look it was happy birthday John your 59 now. Yeah. No Well Jimmy Jimmy but what let's let's chase Tyler is one here anybody He wants to hear you rant what's going on it? It's crit didn't set any videos of pilgrim state mental asylum I don't know why he's doing that is there some kind of like a subliving message there You want to go to the mental hospital well I be one a you know I'm gonna play guy my old age. I didn't want to interrupt you The argument you guys had a good argument go with airs all I kind of lay back a little bit You know I'd have respect for some of the tying and that's what we don't so another worried you're having a good day Yeah, no I'm not having a fucking good day. Okay, so I would I got I got I'm not having I'm back to the other because my fucking bed don't call but I got a load of airs for the back So what I was I got airs for the swirl I'm going to fucking job I'm inside the complex of the fucking pilgrim state right You know have a active head today, you know, and there's only feastree be jee street a E street I street only so the guy saw me yeah, go down east she back to left on H street around 126 to fucking Entry I'm like okay, but I'm like I didn't know I'm like where the fuck did he say to go? I fucking drive it all over the place trying to call somebody all this stuff That this woman jumps out front of me. What a hands in the air. I thought she was with the S for crew Stop it off and she comes over to my drive is not I got a wrongly follow me. There they guy his lost He's follow me because who was best those son of a he goes she comes to my daughter I go it's everything right man. She goes they want me to die They want me to die They want me to kill myself. I just won't take it easy man. Hope He's at the He's at the He's at the Pilgrim state mental institution There's you click bait for Instagram right here Yeah But I she'd have replay on Jimmy yeah, yeah, the woman looks he jumped in his truck He's at Pilgrim state a mental hospital institution there my grandfather built that thing probably 70 years ago And I ironically it looks like it's all run down it looks terrible you said to me video from there It's almost depressing. I don't know why they let the thing run down so much What did your dad work out there, John? He he was a Creedmore Oh, Creedmore, okay. Yeah, what do they name all these these mentalist to these these creepy names like Creedmore and You know we're in my Creedmore is that it he was on the grounds of what the of what was the old windchester rifle Fact ice and then now they got a mental institution I don't believe you I want to see a replay That's easy Just getting We didn't Jimmy go we lost him completely. I don't really like it. He's probably Curse them right now. He always call him after every show. Tell you He didn't want to have me on the show. I said you always call from these terrible connections What do you want me to do for you? He doesn't even he's still talking. He doesn't even know you He doesn't even know What's going on Mr. G where we haven't got any cookies in the mail. What's going on? Got him to come and I just made him right here I never get to see in you. He shows us the bag every week and we don't get anything in the mail We'll get a couple I'm still way back two months ago with the white chocolate peanut butter. I'm right what I want to know is what is he doing all day? He's obviously not baking cookies all day, John. No, he's not Are you falling behind in your order, George? He's thinking of ways how to get around sending out our free code I do about seven orders it. I've fulfilled about seven orders a day Which is about 250 actual cookies in bag. We have to check that. You're not cooking enough. You got to cook more Oh, no There he is. Oh, I Be cut off Yeah, let me just finish guy. I got I got to bet the somebody because I got nobody to fucking I'm right I told the woman to go fucking get the truck behind me. I know I thought I know we never heard the story Like we know we're your left off Jimmy It keeps us lost to me again Hey, can we talk about Jennifer Blackment. I end up guys again I like that I like her. She's nice She was a girl girl. I really I add all of the black men's I miss her her and then to one and a mom Like I'm a least I like the more Oh I just hate getting stabbed in the back by somebody who used to call me as brother. Yeah, I wouldn't might be a tie-up They have been a back a few times I could do without the stamping part Greg I think Steve and I I think I should have a new show with Steve What do you think supplement talk with Steve Blackman? Yeah, bring him up bring mommy show with us now. No, I wanted to do a supplement talk with him every week Yes, me or you want you want to hear our tear now Who you date now not for five years? Why not the why do I have a good testosterone level? I'm over at 500 I feel good Oh Hey, some this it this it that shit in the truck is fucking a real pain in the ass man Well, I could a good spot. I got a big it's a story of my fucking life That's what it that's what it I went to go on the evil my family at a night. I got it on the board And we want to go to a ship place Oh Jimmy you know what I bet you were getting great content here Every I was about to put these together where he's Jimmy starts ran through yes stops And then next one and then do the next every week he calls me after the show and he's crying to me about how you don't love me You could you cut me off My Jimmy can you please go someplace with is actually internet when you when you do the show for 20 freaking minutes It why can't you stop? I don't know I told him to do that. I don't know Just stop for 24 Minutes Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy don't stop to get a hot dog. Let him when he gets stops get his hot dog You need to show have you ever been Jimmy stands still ever now No He could stop he's he don't know what you don't work I'm going to keep going I'm going to be going I used to go over his house back in the 90s I used to go over his house because he's he worked for metrics at the time This is before I worked for them and he would give me the boxes of the of the metrics packets because he never used them So I come over there and I get those and I hang out with him for a couple, you know an hour or two And he'd be in the house and he he was this is what he was digging out the basement He had his x y He was where I don't know if it was y other was y-th yet He was living in our house. She had this tiny little house and he decided he was going to double the size of it by digging out the basement So we did it himself Remember that so I go over there And she had these Persian cats which I love cats, you know, and he hated these cats and these cats He would throw the I would have to yell at him. He would literally throw the cats across the room He hated it And he was digging this basement out and the cats would be in the basement while he's digging out. I'm like Jimmy. What are you doing? Why are you digging this basement? I need more room here So he finally finished his the whole house and it was I mean it was a bit what he did to this house was like what John does to John's house Amazing, you know work it looked like he basically doubled the size of the house and Then he got kicked out right after she finished it I Kick him out sooner, but she waited she waited finish the house. Yeah, yeah He had to pass were very happy about it when they got you Give me a eight eight all the protein and all that stuff because he never really ate right where you would be like no He had dogs George used to give me the protein. I know he would have been he would have been bright Extra- He was good a bin. He not only was strong. He was muscular and lean too. I know he's a freak But we could barely move remember he was extifurse a boy. Yeah, it's so much Remember when he had that little rack tail in the back Yeah, he couldn't put it in himself. He had him somebody else doing They have to take a chisel and chisel is elbows to send it. He can move him He was so stiff. He ever seemed on his cell phone. He's like this Eugene who had to best story to did he ever take his stories about one reader? He's gone for an Easter still establish. Yeah, he always told me I have a little part of that It's roll the bitch would take the whole bottle. They actually, you know, they actually moved the nerve in his arm because his elbows became so like Calcified that the nerve was trapped this and they actually relocated the nerve someplace else, you know, I remember the surgery and it worked it worked They were shot and his strength was just as good. Wow So I just I've seen him do the most insane lips on me. I spotted him bro 600 pounds fucking reverse branch On stage I spotted him and I told him dude if you don't get this I'm fucked. I can't lift that off you but he's like don't worry about it He's already doing reps and shit reverse bench that 600 pounds the greatest to me to bull story that That's the greatest, but one of the really good ones is I I've told the story before we went the metrics booth I figured I think it was 96 and Or 97 and there was that they had a contest beat the bull Who could do the most curls or 225 in the bar, which I didn't even try it and I was 315 pounds at the time and so Everyone the whole day got to go and then you came back and then you know You'd have to Jimmy was the last one to go but before Jimmy went Ronnie Coleman was working at the metrics booth with at the time he was no one he had only he had it really even want to approach Yeah, but you know he still had those like 23 and charms, you know and Ryan he's like yeah, me can I give that a try and everyone's like right? Yeah, all right whatever, you know no one no one knew how strong Ronnie was Ronnie did like 75 reps with 225 strict for all not like you know Jimmy's Jimmy's reps were like Who Ronnie was like full range, you know motion like perfect reps. He's like man. This is easy Oh, yeah, he won he beat no no no one else beat Jimmy, but Ronnie beat Jimmy actually I think for exactly that should be Jimmy but but but Ronnie was unbelievable that's how I knew right then and they I said holy we're looking at something really special in the Future man You saw him doing it he had strength any of the size to go with it. That's what was so amazing, you know I'll tell you who would have given her a run tassie column remember tassie Yeah, yeah tassie target friend of mine It's a start of a get and they'd be crawling out in the whole everybody be counting That was the coolest show remember how it would to have to hold the battery out here like this the When we got it yeah, yeah, yeah, that was that was a cool thing Why did they get rid of that that was all? Everyone died, you know all the people around the show died Well Bob still that by was Bob on him show Yeah, but didn't Kenny Castle a Kenny and Bob ran it together You know they couldn't get the sponsorship anymore for it I think that's what it was it was expensive. Oh no women's physique world with a one-sus font of that whole thing Yeah, they sponsored it but Bob ran it with Kenny cast right But what happened was when the magazine stopped being important anymore because of the internet They weren't making as much money those women's physique guys We're making a fortune selling videos. What's something that so what happened to winter stream Wettish him just was the editor and chief of the magazine. He didn't own the magazine. Yeah. No, no, no, it's Bill Jance Bill Jance Yeah, I Bill Jance is the guy with Bill Jance was uh, when is him was just one of He was the editor and chief. I you know one of his guys there When is this the live when is she my little 120 you kidding me? It's got a lot of evidence. I don't know why they don't bring some of that shit back That was fucking I'll tell you why the women the strength stuff was so popular watching the women Aside from the Shmo's who liked to watch it. It's because the women would actually laid on the line If you ever did a strength competition like that with guys No one would do it because they're all like oh, I don't want to get hurt I don't want to I don't want to I don't want to practice it You know that no one wants to be involved but you can get to top women and tell them hey We're gonna have this strength competition where you're gonna have to do this and lift that and and squat for reps You'll get everyone participating at it. Oh, they used to do it all it's that they'd be fucking up there doing pull-ups Squats, you know fucking curls they it the whole crowd who we've count them 31. Yeah, 30 you know what I'm saying I was thinking that holding a car battery out in front of them on the clock That was freaking nuts. Why didn't one was crazy too? You know I worked backstage Everyone of those shows because Bob bought you know, yeah, I was Bob's best friend so I was always you know It was great. They were fun to watch. They really were They would sell that place out to all you better believe it He did it like they would do it in fancy hotels too, right like the health and stuff like up Yeah, yeah They made it like a like a real like like an event like it was like I won year I forgot with it the year Debbie Dobb and Debbie Dobbans died. I was there She died like a month or so later, you know when she went up a Tommy Marathon house But what happened was uh we would it and Bob Bob had me watch the door on the inside of All the girls were changing they were walking on stark naked front It was great. We know how much you know Yeah, you hated every minute. Well, dude. I was sitting there like oh my like like that like in revenge at an earth Oh Like a pervert yeah, hey Dave that you should be bros versus pros. Well, that's right. That's the idea for it For a judge Remember Tazzy yet Tazzy up here in foam and yeah a lot of times I had a lot of the girls in Up here a big one. What did I do in Bob? Bob? I'm doing now Greg. I just talked to him Saturday. He's retired. He's down in Florida. He's retired pretty much You know Bob's in his seventies, right? No, he's there is 69. Oh, okay 69 fuck What happened to Jim Greg solstice? I believe it or not it's still there It's right now it's in limbo because he was selling it at ice post to take it and then he didn't kind of fuck Bob over a little bit You know I heard because friend of ours might buy that Jim Greg. You know I'm talking about is it a Paul? No I Know just guy Paul's the guys supposed to be by another guy that I did I know that you know too I'll tell you after we have to show's over. I don't know what is he on the property? He must own it He was only there's not on the property. That's part of it Is that just a big problem with all that shit, you know, but it's the same range It's a standard shit happen with me when I saw myself in George did the promise that they want to make condos Guys don't want to fuck you hey guys guys guys get the gym and then they don't want to fucking play every month And you know then you're like oh, I got to take it back now because you know fucking playing Okay after having been in a gym business I can tell you that unless you own the building forget about it. Yeah, I agree it's no good That's the McDonald's that's the McDonald's Business model you have to own the land right right of course Well the McDonald's was not in the hamburger business. It was in the real estate. Yeah, yeah, they proved that But a gym when you got because you need so much space when you got that rent bill You know every month just like 10,000 15,000 25 Well some guys have paid 50,000 dollars a month. Yeah, you know That's a huge not to cry building More you're mortgage would be attentive Yeah, you got it. You got it on the building. Yeah It's kind of original brutal. Today especially here in New York man forget about yeah Yeah, I think I think the gym business is gonna is gonna go by the wayside it already is just Just COVID shit everybody's putting gyms in a house Yeah, you know, I mean there'll be a re-emergence of gyms again after this because it's people like to leave the house and get it to freak out in the house Once this COVID thing passes over people gonna want to go and train it and someone else's gym It's great to have a gym in your house when you can't go any place else, but it's nice when you have the ability to go to a nice clean new gym Or if you want to go to a hardcore, you know, hold the wall whatever you want It's nice to be able to go there and have the energy of the gym I think that'll never be totally it's not the human beings other people yeah absolutely George your right man I'm basically all these all these great gyms It was all the people that were happy to that's what he went. It was a camaraderie Nobody would have phones and anything like that We would talk to each other right right when you're in your house you go like ff five minutes I'm gonna say fight then you're phone call comes before you know it it's hours later You still haven't gone down there right? It's not the same True, no Well, I love jumping on my motorcycle and riding into gym. It's nothing like Working out you get to park right in front of the front door. It's the best way to go Well We're getting to that point again I'm sorry Jimmy the bowl you got cut off again. You'll have to vent next week Fine to go to that next time. That's the best advice I can give you We can truck for 20 minutes. Also anyone watch you if they want to sign up this to Saturday The date seekers to becoming a die a guru course. I'll be holding that from nine to six PM nine in the morning to six PM all day Saturday. It's online You can sign up at the aprilumma.com and I think you guys will really enjoy it Don't wait too long Make sure you sign up before the end of the week also What else is going on? What do we have coming up this week? There's a show this weekend There's nothing Chicago That's the week a fuck I borrow bill class again. I don't know oh the Aliconti Spain show is this this coming week big ranny-old the on stage Do you guys think big ranny's gonna have a shot do you limp you this year? No? Okay, John You look straight but till it gets on stage and you see that behind we turn around hamstrings MIA The calves don't match the thighs you got giant. I got that. You know huh I'm yelling at Tyler the back is not thick. You know I mean why does it have the density right? You know I'm saying I say he's gonna pull up set. Okay. Yeah He needs a freaking cookie John Yeah, I'm waiting for months. I don't get any cookies. No, I mean what do you think about big ramie? I don't keep it cookies We're talking about cooking sorry about big ramie big ramie. Here's the thing with big ramie Okay big ramie has everything He needs to be mr. Olympia I think more so than any other competitor out there except for maybe honey shoe pad But big ramies problem is I don't know who the hell he's listening to with the end because he always gets to the you know To the five yard line and it falls apart and I don't understand why he It was because I I think it's you know when you go to ten coaches it's got to be you. It can't be the coaches. You know at that point right So why does he do that? I mean it's been it's what five years now quite meant it's called it's called up You know you have it's a heart of a champion you know sometimes people panic, you know at the end I don't think he does really Some people can't deliver on the biggest stage they only get deliver when there's less pressure on them, you know I don't know why he can't pull him he's like five percent away He's so close That as rich piano would say it's all about five percent you know which which five percent of you in that's the problem, you know Yeah, yeah, all right on that note guys. We're gonna wrap things up on Dave Pulumbo for John Romero Greg Valentino Mr. G Jimmy the bull wherever he may be and our producer Tyler Scharvel see you next week Later Get the misuppose protein dot net by your jumbo lights and you guys are all getting samples to wait

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Paloando and today is Thursday, July 19th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Back in the day, my sixth grade teacher once told me that the thing D students don't realize about A students is that A students are necessarily smarter. It's just that they're the ones who are willing to sacrifice more. And with lessons three months to go now before he's slated to make his Olympia debut, second year classic physique standout, Carajo Para looks like he's starting to embrace the sacrifice. Oh, para really exploded onto the scene this year when he came from out of nowhere to take third at the Arnold Classic. And then for his on core performance he stepped up and crushed the field in his huge win at the upper Midwest Classic. Don't let that small sample size trick you into thinking anything crazy because it's more than obvious that this guy has a ton of raw talent to work with. But with the margin of our being so thin at the Olympia level, it'll be interesting to see where he stacks up against the truly elite guys in the division. Once you get to the Olympia stage, if there's one bogey man, you absolutely cannot allow to come back and bite you in the butt. It's showing up without superb conditioning. But the way he looks right now, I think even an armchair bodybuilding expert could figure out that conditionings just not going to be an issue for Lukas Osloville. Less than two weeks after his first win of the season at the Vancouver Pro, the Osloville camp released some new updates where we see the longtime veteran showing some throw back 1990s super grainy conditioning nine weeks out from the big dance. According to reports Osloville is still sitting right around the 240 mark, which is exactly where he was back in Vancouver. So if they can manage to stay consistent and keep himself within striking distance, you might have a shot to come in and surprise a few people in the Olympia top 10. The race for the vacant fitness Olympia crown is one of the more underrated storylines of the pre- Olympia season, as far as I'm concerned. Well tell you what, the rena-damping underrated about 2018 Toronto Pro, fitness champ Darian Vorello, more than a month removed from pulling off one of the biggest wins of a career, one of the hottest athletes in the division does it look like she's losing any steam. The latest updates coming from Vorello Entertainment team point to all systems being a go, which is exactly what you'd want by now seeing that we're heading into the third quarter of Olympia prep for everyone in this year's field. After seeing what she did up there in Toronto, there's no denying that Vorello is a dynamic talent who's capable of some amazing things when she's at her best. The only question now is whether or not her best will be good enough to make her the next in line to be crowned, miss fitness Olympia. The older you get, the more you realize that trying to reinvent the wheel is one of those things that only ends up leaving you frustrated in the end. But trying to reinvent yourself, if you're patient, usually turns out pretty good once you're on the other side. This week we saw a rejuvenated and reinvented Aaron Clark pop up looking like he was ready to take on the world once again. I know a lot of bodybuilding fans who were glad to see the former 2012 Olympian back in action this year as he made his first 4-ray into the men's open after a long layoff. So now that he's finally starting to feel like his old self again, hopefully we'll see one of those vintage Aaron Clark out of the park home run style performances again at some point here in the near future. To quote the modern day philosopher and hip hop mogul Drake, my Mount Rushmore is me with four different expressions. And when you've won four straight Olympia titles like Joanna Malacarney has, I think you could probably make a convincing argument about why your face deserves its own mountain. Early this week the champ release footage from one of her latest back day efforts where we see her looking as focused and flawless as ever. Interquested to come the first woman ever to earn five physical Olympia titles. However, she just released some shocking news that has the industry flawed. She's retiring from competition and won't be defending her Olympia title this year. As crazy as this new sound, especially in the last minute, it really is not that shocking. Malacarney is one every major women's physique title the sport has to offer including the Arnold Classic. So at this point in her career, she really has nothing left to prove all of us here at muscle in the morning, but like to wish her a peaceful retirement and Juliana, thanks for the memories. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day full on bow reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

We're launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Friday July 30th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It can't even begin to tell you the last time we let off a show with women's bodybuilding. And since we have this brand new clip of Andrew Shaw training legs with Sid Gillin to share with you, well today's scene like the perfect time to do it. For the most part we haven't had much of the way of training or physique updates from the training and defending Olivia Champ since she won her title back in December. But from the way it looks, she and Sid Gillin have a whole dynamic duo thing going on at this point in their respective Olivia perhaps. And to be honest, seeing two current Olivia Champions training together is a rare thing nowadays. So more power to them for recognizing the value in having such a high level training partner. Like we saw last year when Andrew is at the top of her game, she can be damn near untouchable. And with someone like Sid Gillin as your wingman, it's hard to imagine her settling for anything less than her all-time best. Now since we're already on a woman's bodybuilding kick, I figured we might as well keep the ball rolling with this new update courtesy of your 2021 Omaha Pro Champ, the Kayla Acock on Tuesday, Michaela posted her first training clip since she won her Women's Bodybuilding Day view in spectacular fashion two weeks ago. And as you'd expect, she did what she always does, which is getting there and take care of business. I know that there are a ton of really talented athletes and women's bodybuilding that we just don't give enough coverage to. But even in a group with this level of depth, Michaela stands out as someone who could present this serious challenge to Andrea Shaw at the Olympia this year. She's always been one of the hardest working athletes in the business, and now that she knows what to expect when it comes to competing in this division, it's not hard to imagine a scenario where she eventually finds a way to take over. Outside of bodybuilding, in terms of pure star power, it's hard to match what raining and defending bikini Olympia champ Janet Lyege is bringing to the table right now. Last week, Janet let it be known that not only has she started her Olympia prep, she's doing it with every intention of coming back to defend her title against all comeers. I think if you look at the strategy that she's taken this year with her not competing at all before the Olympia, it presents a really interesting test case in this division. More often than not, we see our bikini champions competing multiple times throughout the year, which can be a huge strain on their body since they're essentially dieting 24-7 with no time off. But if she can make this work, it might set a new load management precedent going forward for how a certain athlete's choose to map out their season, and it will be Janet's blueprint that will serve as the foundation. I want you to take everything I just said about Janet Lyege's strategy and toss it out the window, because three-time bikini Olympia champ, actually call it was her test take in the exact opposite approach this year. Despite the fact that we're only halfway through the season, Ashley's already competed seven times, collected six wins, and we already know that she has plans to compete at least one more time between now and the Olympia, because she's headlining the list of names of this year's bikini international. In fact, they think you can make a pretty solid argument for this being the best regular season stretch and Ashley's entire career, which is crazy considering the fact that we're talking about the greatest athlete in the history of the division. And if there's anyone who makes the whole quote, it's not a sprint, it's a marathon thing ring true, it's her, because I don't think it would surprise anyone, but she added another chapter to her already historic legacy by finding a way to add another Olympia title to her trophy case before the year is all set and done. And that does it the added another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypal Unbow Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hi, this is Brian Helderbrand with rxmuscle.com, we're here live in Houston at the Branch Warren Classic, and I'm here with Men's Physicom Better, Erin Singerman, Erin, you've been prepping for the show for a while. How are the other boys? Well, I'm going to say Brian that they look very skinny and comparison to me. I'm looking at some of the guys, and I heard I tell his fiance Trent is the one and beat. And I'm looking at him and I'm looking at me and I'm thinking that he looks very, very skinny. That could be a good thing, or it could be a very bad thing. And you're weighing in three what now? And three twenty seven on the go, that's me, that's me. On the day of the show, I'm hoping to drop down from in the 320s turn on 220 to 18. So, that's a good number. I'm going to drop my water Brian, I usually lose about 100 pounds. Yeah, that's what I've owned. That's what I'm holding right now is 100 pounds of water. Give me a thoughts on tomorrow. Is there, do you know the number of competitors for the class? No, but there are a lot of people here. I would say, look, from the looks of the amount of competitors and athletes meeting, I'd say there's at least 300, they're in 50 competitors. If you want my guess from seeing the other Texas shows, let's say they'll probably be around 40 or 50 men's with e-commetters. So, I've got a lot of competition. So Aaron, tell me about your cardio confessionals. I know these were a big hit on the side. Everybody thought they were pretty funny. There's some good stuff in there. Overall, tell me about your impressions. Well, you know, the idea behind cardio confessionals comes from when I originally started working with Iron Mag Labs. Please Iron Mag Labs.com. Thank you. Like that? Gabe Brian came back for a second there. Lovely. So, when I started working with them, the idea was to find a vehicle to promote their products and their brand while showing people the journey of me getting ready for a contest. And I used that to show people my progress and to give me a venue to promote them. And I feel like it would be an interesting way to do that by documenting my cardio and documenting the thoughts that went through my head whether it be about life and being happy or whether it be about the difficulty of being on a diet or traveling while being on a diet. So it's just kind of, it was a means for me to do two things, promote and also to kind of, I guess, let people follow me. Now, the men's physique division is really growing. It's interesting to see the total number of sheer volume of guys that are showing up for this. You're height and you're weight. How do you think you're going to fare against some of the smaller guys? Well, Brian, I basically think it's going to one way or another. There's not going to be any middle ground. Either I'm going to win this show or I'm going to do really bad. It's really, I'm going to be at the very top, I'm going to be at the very bottom. So it depends on what they're looking for. If they want somebody, they're allowing, I got a great compliment at Team U from a top industry guy. And that's what they want, I mean, what a compliment. That is what he said that they would like to see this men's physique transition into. So if that's, if they'll look at that, they'll look at us in that light. And I think I'll do it really well. If they're looking for a hundred and ninety pound Abercrombie model, I'm going to do really bad. My, my, my thought is he actually wanted you to dress up like a gladator for him back in a hotel room. That's more of my guess. And of course I did that. I will be placing first as a result of that dress obsession. And we'll see video that soon. Of course, well, that was a requirement. You know, I think he said it's the private video though, Ryan. I'm hoping it won't be out everywhere. Well, there is a thing called the internet. And somehow another, I think it'll be there. But this is Brian Helderman or Brian Helderman with Aaron Singerman here. The, with, you're making me nervous, sweetie. That the branch won't classic and Houston Texas. I walk. Yeah, show us. Oh, he's a little bit perfect on me. You want to see the walk? Yeah, let's show us the show. Shut the knee you call love. What can fast? He you've been a mess. Where you shouldn't have been a mess in. And now someone else is getting know your best. These boots are made for walking. And that's just what they're doing. One of these days he boots. I've gone all the way.

So we are here back at the doctor's appointment, doctor's appointment number two and it's already over. It's already over. You want to, well, should you show what's on your hand or you want to hold on to a man? Damn girl, where did you get that rock? I got a lot of blame. Got a lot of blame over there. Guys, give it to me. So tell us what happened. Tell me what happened. Tell you what happened. I actually know, but tell everybody else. So I'm laying on the chair and get my ultrasound and you didn't do the vagina when this time, so I could shoot the whole thing. Yes, but never vagina ultrasound. So you know, Erin's doing his thing, filming it. And we got a little bit of time because we got the heartbeat again and there's like a whole baby this time. Yeah, we can actually see the baby, see the face. It looks like it's blowing kisses. It's just hard. It's very cute. So it's, yeah, you can see the whole, the baby is three inches now. Yeah. And so it's, you know, got eyes looking. Definitely showing that in me. So, so anyways, so we're laying there and Erin's filming the ultrasound, I guess. And all of a sudden, she starts writing, will you marry? And I'm following along. And okay, in my head, I'm thinking this woman's trying to hint something to him. Like, marry my mother, you know, pregnant her. Yeah. I was like, yeah, you know, they're kind of put the pressure on. So then she finished the sentence and said, will you marry my daddy? And I completely shock and speechless. And I turned around and Erin shut off the camera surprisingly. And set it up and got down on one knee and passed. Then you said? And I said yes. Pretty without hesitation. And the lady said, this is the first time she stood in 11 years. Yeah, first time. And the first time anybody has ever done this. I know that probably meant more to you than me. Although that was very, very little. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, no one here, but you put a lot of pressure on me. You have to admit, you may not have met you. You know, you're not, you may have made me a jail. You've also joked around a lot. Yeah, you joked around, but I felt like there's like some seriousness in every joke. And you said that I, that I being a creative person that I should probably have something really creative and unique when I proposed to you. And so I can't put the budget ideas and none of them worked. And I really feel gratified that this one was met your expectations. Honestly, anything you would have done, it would have impressed me. And I would have said yes and been just as happy. I thought you were going to just knowing you. I just thought you would have done it in front of a big crowd. So I'm actually very happy that you've kept it intimate and personal. And just with us and the the nurse. So I was very happy. I was very happy and it's awesome surprise. Great proposal. So. How old was your child one day? How daddy proposed to mommy? Yeah. Well, the baby was actually there. The baby was on the screen watching over as I proposed. So he was kind of like watching, or she was kind of watching over. All right, I love you, babe. You You You You You

Whyof Iwahney Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!

ägentes & theăn So powerful on this game. D delightfully Attack! Chill inşn like a ts when we'll never do that Chill

Special time! Yeah, come on. Good. Four. Four, come on. There it is. So that's the ground. Four, you have to have a whistle. Five, you can't put the back. Six. Seven, come on. Eight, go. Yep. Keep it down and lower that. Roll these aside. Close the side. Sit. And right. Get your little butt. Get your little butt. Roll it up. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. There it is. For the back, it is called finish. Track it. Three more. Two easy. Track for momentum. No momentum. That you get 15 at least. Come on now. Come on. Down and lower that. Straight up and down. Come on. Straight up and down. Straight up and down. Two. Four. Five. Let's go. Nine. Eight. To get up man. Seven. Go. Let's go. Six reps. Five. Four stretch more. Three. Two more man. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. One. One. One. One. Two. Then the first exercise. Five. Two. Two. Three. Two. One. Five. Six. Four. cinco. Five. Five. Five. Six. Five. Five. Five. Four. Five. Let's go. Let's go. Mom, let's go. 10 reps. All right, here we go. Thomas, at the Tampa Bay of Powerhouse, Tim Downtown, Timma. Nice to meet you. I actually ran into Joel, but I don't expect him to be here. We do not. We do not. We do not. Yeah, I was wrong. But the two hours were not clear. We were downtown and then the goal was to get for a day or two. He's working with me from my house. Thomas has put the share for the North Americans. So I'm excited about that. I watched you keep working to see some footage before they are. Or we need to talk here. So he's turning you near a very hard. I was impressed with me. I'm tense. He is asleep. The normal workout was this. So this is the everyday training that we're going to work on. Yeah, every time I'm trying to live with you, Tom's. And they're having some push me. So people work really well together. But you're using tense and it's nice to be trying some part of the next thing. Okay. How did you get into the band when you get into the community when you're helping for a counter-chime? Well, we met a couple of years ago. We were trying to get into the California. I've heard a couple of weeks. Since then, we've done like a chance of being a, we just kind of kept in touch. And now it's down to 10 or so. It's really close to me. He knows I've been some guidance. So it's really a good time in the training. So he's been awesome. I'm a little bit better. I think you have a lot of stress. The first time I've been in the end. And it's kind of the year when you can surprise everybody. That national is a heavyweight. And you did. You got to get the place. Yeah. I didn't know what to expect. That was obviously, you know, I know what exactly one of the, like, but as far as cutting out on the scene, that was a very impressive name. You'd be the one that seems to be the one that seems to be out on the scene. What is the difference between the last year and the one that seems to be out on the scene? What is the difference between the last year and the one that seems to be out on the scene? I'm not sure. I'm kind of in a hydrating flat knot. I think it's much easier than to show that it is. It seems like I'm watching this year. So, you know, I was making a little flat or something. I was expecting. What a story. We remember the happened with my, I'm a glacier. This year I said, I've got a lot of footwear. I tried to get some little more intense and a little more focused. I was kind of shabby when we get more stuff together. But I was just, this year's news to become a lot more awesome. How did you love taking more of American to why you just said, and this one is that the national is coming. All I'm talking about here is, you know, it's a different show. You know, you know, say, how everything's going to be shown. There's always something in the national's. And I heard that. And I've heard that there's a national message you're ready to become a couple of about football players. Well, for one thing I did, I was just looking at you. It was obviously your biggest last few minutes in around 2012. Yeah, I was in a week, to 14 and my hands and in a state shop. I was like, to what? And what do you think about this? Should I further come forward? I cannot run this command for a film the outdoors again. So, you got a point that you got. That's good. That's one of the good. It's a good, it's a Joel Thomas, Eric Samarx, which was a lot of time to be seen in North American in what? Seven. You know, who was this at the week? Seven weeks? Arturo. Thanks, buddy.

Day Palombo here with an R.X. Muscle News update. Sad news from the body-building world. John Meadows has passed. We've got word from the Meadows family and from this close friends that he passed in his sleep last night. He never woke up this morning. He's been speculation as to what was the cause of death. I've heard anything from pulmonary embolism to heart attack. I really don't know the Bionicity and the Heism and an official statement released from his wife. But I do know that this is a humongous blow to the body-building world. John was one of the most well-respected and well-liked people in our industry. And I can succeed. I can call him a friend and I'm a little choked up. I called Shelby Starns following after I heard the news. Shelby was pretty tight with him. Shelby was so choked up on the phone that he could almost talk to me because he didn't even know until I told him. That's the kind of effect John had on people. He was a good guy. I didn't talk the most time. I probably spoke them over a couple months. I would get him on the TV show on our X-Muscle. But it was like, he was a guy I would call a friend because I can call him talk to him about anything. It was very intelligent, very analytical the way he analyzed things. He was very passionate about what he did in body-building. We probably, if you guys have watched the interviews I did with him over the year, or you've watched any of his channel, you know that he'd been training since he's a young kid early teens. He just loved body-building for the very beginning. Then when he had one of the, I guess, hallmarks, I think of John Meadows career was one. He had that terrible, the astral problem with his colon and he had to have his entire colon removed. I don't think he ever thought he would ever body-building him because the guy has just got his his tough as nails. He just came back from this better than he was before. And he said, hey, I'm not quitting. I'm not giving up. And he eventually won his pro-card after many, many years, which I think my hat off them for because that persistence and never quit attitude is something that very few people have that tenacity that he had. You know, that I don't care what people think about my physique. I'm going to build the best possible physique I can, bringing the knowledge, the best conditioning and give the fans and the judge what they want to see. And I'll keep making improvements until I get what I want. And quite frankly, I think a lot of people had counted them out. They never thought he was going to achieve what he did, which was pro-status and then even placed in a 12-show. But he did it because he had that mindset that you can't teach anyone they have to just have. And I wish more people that I worked with as have mindset. But that's why there's not a lot of John Meadows out there. And last year when we interviewed him after he had the heart attack, and he found out once again, it was another vast dual problem that he had had similar to what he had with the colon, luckily his heart was on the mend. And he had said that it was remodeling itself and improving and it was a great interview with him. And I've been watching his, you know, his Instagram and updates he does all the time. Because I think he's a good fount of knowledge. And I thought, you know what, he was going to beat this as well. And I don't know if the heart was something that got him or something else happened. But obviously he had a genetic weakness for whatever this vascular issue was in his body. And unfortunately, he's no longer with us. And I have to say though, a bowl of the souls that I've encountered, you know, John was probably one of the most passionate about what he did. He lived his life for that passion. And very few people could actually say that they've done the same. And that's what makes John so special. I think, and I think that that's what we have to really remember when we think about them. He was that kind of a guy. He lived what he loved. He didn't care what anyone said. You can't do this. You can't do that. He said, you know what? I'm going to do it anyway. This is what I want to do. I don't care if you think it's not, you know, I have a health issue. And I shouldn't be doing it. I'm going to do it anyway. I'm going to do it the right way too. And I'm going to do it the healthy way. I'm going to do it the most efficient way possible. And that's that rubbed off. And any effect of a lot of other people's lives because of that, you know, because he was able to impart knowledge to people. Not everyone, you know, not all great bodybuilders are great teachers. And not all great teachers are great bodybuilders. He was able to bridge the gap and do both. And I think that that's what made him so special. Very few people can, you know, can be that hardcore guy in the gym on stage. And then also for his clients and for the people he's teaching those methodology soup. Also, a lot of people want to give way to secrets. John didn't care. John was like a guy who was like an information provider. And being in that same kind of line of work myself, I can really respect what he did because I have that same passion inside of me. And so when I see a guy like John no longer be with us, it really, it does bring it here to my eye and it hurts me inside emotionally because after all, I mean, we start all questioning ourselves. We're all not, you know, I'm a little older than him. This guy's in there for years and everyone starts saying, hey, the guy like John Meadows can go down. We're all vulnerable, right? Isn't that what we all fear the most death? But if we live the life that has meaning and imparted meaning to us and gave pleasure to others, then I guess we did our job here. And that's really the take home message. Yes, it's a very sad day in the bodybuilding industry. And it's a very sad day for John's wife and his kids. And I will pray for them and send all my love and healing energy to them. But let's also celebrate the life of John Meadows. And I'll be accomplished and all that he gave us. Let's think about that and take a moment of silence. One day, Pellumbo, with an Rx muscle, news update.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. I'm Dave Palombo. Today we have a special guest here. He's our 2021 NPC USA, a men's overall champ. Yes, he is Mr USA and he is an IFBV pro. And he's here today, Jordan Hutchinson, welcome to the show. Hey Dave, it's awesome being on me and I appreciate it very much. You know, you're a great story and I'll tell you why because you're a guy who know and saw a comment. You know, we kind of know who the favorites are, usually going into these shows. And you just want to walk the radar and the reason I found out why I would release off my radar was because you have a competed since 18. And give us that whole story. You know, what would you come from and why do you take so long and get on stage and shoot for that pro card? Yeah, I mean, so I fell in love with bodybuilding about 19 years old. I'm 25 now. So I had a year and a half, two years of training for my first show. It was sad excuse for the show. But I just was trying to teach myself how to do this thing. I'm just from people that have coast coach me and doing it in the gym. What was some of the mistakes you may tell us some of the funny cooking. Oh gosh, so my first product, 2015, I was carb cycling. Right. But my it was four days low carb within a day and then a high day. But my high day was like eat parable terrible food every fifth day. So it was like I was so extremely regimented in the fifth day. Go good nuts. Right. Like what was going on? Like a good example of like a going nuts. Yeah, it was it was not good. But I mean, it was an experience learning curve. And then after that first show, I just fell in love with that. Got a coach and kind of coached out a little bit and competed my first in PC show in 2017. And then competed again in 2018 because I knew I needed more time off. But I've just always seen myself as needing more improvement. So I saw myself short sometimes, but I think it's a good thing because I've taken that serotonin off. So I think it's why people saw me and didn't know who I was. I kind of flew under the radar because 2018 I was like, right. We're taking 16 months off to grow to fill out my frame. I was 196 on stage. I won the light heavyweight class there, but I missed the overall. What's that? As the NPC muscle heat in North Carolina, I saw you go up in Western North Carolina in the mountains, middle of nowhere. Again, where no one given this herd of body, but it's not a thing out here. So there's really no networking anyways. There's like a few cool gems, a few cool gems, a bit more fitness as my gym there, home local gym, but there's really nothing around here. But first body, but you guys. Because of that, I have to assume probably the equipment is in probably the best equipment that you can probably find. Well, so built more fitness, why go there is they have all these cool old school pieces. They've got like a hammer strength, pull over, they've got all the old school hammer strength. Presses, not the newer ones, I like the older ones better, but I think. Now there's really no gems with cool pieces. There's like a couple corporate golds and stuff like that. How many people were in your high school graduating class? So that's another funny story. I was home schooled. So I'm 105, my dad worked. He worked, but off you taught me discipline, how to work. And my mom homeschooled us. Once I got to middle school and high school, I started doing these private ties classes that were kind of like private school, but you know, 30 kids would go once a week in the new handle your own workload, the rest of the week. Wow. So since I was 14, 15, I worked at least 30 hours a week on a regular job. Really? Like what kind of job? So 15, I worked at a garden center, loading on loading trucks. And that was one thing that helped me. I guess built some muscle before I hated the gym back then. I didn't want to do a single dumbbell curl. I hated it. Well, you were working all day. That's why we don't want to live anymore. I was lifting stuff all day, but I hated it. Let me ask you this question. Do you have a choice to work? Or would like your mother's like, this is the way it's going to be. You're going to homeschool you're going to work. Well, I wanted to be able to do stuff. And my parents did absolutely everything they could for me. They give me the last bit of everything they have. I got this. And it wasn't enough running around. So you had to have them five kids. And I wanted to do what I wanted to do. I've always just made whatever I wanted to do happen. And so basically, I was like 30 hours a week from age 15. Just to make sure I could do the things that I wanted to do. But once I moved out at 18 or 19, it was just trying to make ends meet. And pay cash through school. And I was falling asleep in my classes because I was trying to get all my meals in. Get on my food, bread, do school. Go to work 35, 40 hours a week. That's crazy. And that was when I was like, you know what? I'm sick of this. I want to bodybuild. And some people had some negative things to say about that. I'm sure. So your family and you're talking about people? No, mostly family. They at first had a hard time understanding what I did. And still sometimes it's hard when, you know, when there's family events and stuff. And I can't eat or I'm bringing my top where I have to skip out to the prep or whatever. But they are so supportive now. But at first it's like, what is this weird thing you're doing? You know, right? But they've always supported me and everything. It's just hard for them to understand. But yeah, I just couldn't handle bodybuilding and school. But it was more like, ex-girlfriends or friends or whoever that were like, you know, man, you need to go to school. Why would you do that bodybuilding? You're not going to make a money. The chances of you making it big in this. That's a genetic sport. All that kind of stuff, you know. Now, what made you believe in yourself? I mean, aside from the fact that you liked, I am the kind of same guy. I'm kind of person that did everything I liked. I'm not even going to regret it. But what made you believe in yourself that you actually had the ability to go far in the sport? Well, everybody who knows this or knows me knows I've always said genetics is going to be the only thing to limit me. Because I will, I will eat dirt if I have to. I'm extremely disciplined. I'm OCD. So my problem is in my wife. So you want some focus on something. I can't stop thinking about it. I don't stop talking about it. I just live it. And so though at first, I felt like maybe it wasn't something I was going to be really good at. I still gave 110%. I skipped out on fun things that 20 year olds do. I was, I didn't drink a sip of alcohol around that time. You know, obviously, I'm great. But 21, I wasn't drinking. Right. I was prepping my meals. I was skipping out on stuff with friends. I was like, I can't come hang out. I'm training. You know, so then that again is hard in it. Where there's no bodybuilders. Very lonely road. You know, I can imagine that. You know what? You got to be a marks your own beat. I always tell people. And I was just saying it today on After I was recording. We were talking about the Olympics and some old miles. And I'm like, you know what? People don't understand. If you want to be the best of what you do. You have to be willing to, like you said, eat dirt, die for what you're doing. And it doesn't mean it's healthy. It doesn't mean it's going to be a good for you. But that's not what being the best is about. It's dangerous to be the best. It's dangerous to go out there and do 14 some assaults in the air. And then possibly land in your head and break your neck. It's dangerous. It's always nice. Yeah. To run a football and have 380 pound guys tackling you. I mean, it's life is dangerous if you want to be the best of what you do. And you have to be willing to go where other people are not willing to go. And it seems like that was always your calling. Yeah. And elite mentality. I mean, I would my motivation from day one was Dorian Yates like watching him, Trunks through the snow of the gym. And he always talked about genetics. You know, all these other guys had better genetics than him. And that stuck with me because I know I'm not one of these guys that just grows super easily. And I think maybe now I'm tapping more into what genetics I should do have. But I will say I've had to be one of the more disciplined people. So of all the bodybuilders I'm friends with and network with. To be able to make it in the shape by do or put on the muscle I need to. I have to be very, very rich, men's at your round. I mean, I can talk, I can talk to myself like a like a pro you're round. Though I haven't been a pro and it's still blowing my mind that I am a pro now. But I've always put 110% so. After winning your way class at the USA, which I thought you did a pretty handedly handle that. You had to go up in the overall now in the overall and you didn't know, you weren't that you weren't the super heavy weight. It was a guy bigger than you obviously and then he was guys getting it all the way to the police grade. Did you think you had it? I mean, what give me your mindset going into that overall? What do you think? Well, gosh, getting off stage. So my coach is Chris Tuddle and he is so. So in tune with me, I mean, he was he was constantly there for me. The entire the entire prep and peak week and so of course I text him as soon as I get off stage after I was handed the award. And in my head I'm freaking out emotions are high. I'm about to lose it. And I texted him and I was like, we did it. We did it. We did it. He's like, jobbing over yet. That's all the text said. And I knew exactly what that meant because he's always said just go into it with a. Non mentality. You've got to be focused on stage. You can't let your emotions get too high. Can't get too excited. You've got to hold your closets. And so at once I read that, I was like, okay, I've got to beat this massive super heavy. Somehow based on shape imbalance and conditioning because it's the only things I bring, get some massive. Right. And then I've got to beat this light heavy. You know, as well because this shape was incredible too. So I just went back at it and it was it's still weird looking down at Steve Weinberger like, knowing, you know, he's a hedgehog at the Olympium. Like, is this really real just in pre-judging? And then so the whole time I'm just thinking, I got to impress Steve. He's got to know that I can be a pro one day successful pro. Right. It's not exciting. When they called you name out, did you? I always, because people always asked me to question when you're waiting to hear that final call. And obviously I didn't win my class at the US Air or National. I was second a couple times. And it's the worst. It feels like it feels like it's 20 minutes you waited there. But it's really only like 30 seconds. Oh gosh. It's like forever. Yeah. Before they called you name out as the overall winner, what was going through your mind? Seriously. Well, I knew it was close. And supposedly it was by one point. And Eric Wood, he's an awesome competitor of the guy that took second in my class. He was a class act. I have tons of respect for him and his physique. And I knew he was good. And, you know, they even rejudged my class. I don't know if you know that. Yeah, I know that. Yeah, they brought Sid Ray up. And so of course, I'm feeling really good about how pre-judging went. And then one of the officials backstage is like, oh, you're all class. You're your class getting rejudged. I'm like, oh my gosh, I've got to focus. I don't even. I don't just get to go do my posing. Yeah. Which I hate doing posing routines. He's like, you got to get rejudged. And they worked us Friday morning at pre-judging already. Yeah. So I was like, I've got to absolutely bring it because I know it's like this. But when they called my name and it was just a moment of discipline. If I still, I still just can't even believe it. But you're right times absolutely slowed down. Yeah, because I mean, you know, I mean, you could have gone either way. You know, it was crazy. You know, it was crazy. You know, it was a class. It's a horrible feel. And I feel bad for the guy comes in second place, you know, because. Yeah, I mean, I think that's the only place like, Goots and hands that I really, I really shine there. Yeah. But we both had such similar shape. I remember watching them look back and forth at us like, Where's we have a very similar physique. So it's hard to judge as such a look as each. It's funny because nationals, you know, they get taught to pro cards. You know, I say he's only the top guy in the class. So I'm sure we're going to, he's going to see his pro card this year. So I agree. Well, yeah, I talked to you. Yeah, you'll be. Let me ask you this question. You know, a lot of people probably are thinking, you know, Some guys jump right into pro shows right after winning a big show like this. We've seen it happen with the lunch for 21 the USA. Are you planning to take time off or do you think we might see one stage in 2021? Well, Steve, so I'm absolutely taking the time off. And the thing is for me to have done three total empty stations, 2017, 2018. Right. After 2018, I planned on a 16 month off season. I changed coaches in the meantime. But originally the plan was 16 months. So changing coaches extended a little bit. Then sure enough, I was like, 20, 20 is my year. I'm focused. I've put on a ton of size. I'm ready to compete in 2020. And then COVID happened. And it threw me off a lot. I was without a job. A few months. I was living with a buddy that I mean, he was letting me live with them without paying rent. Because I was just digging out of my savings for everything. That's alright. It was just a rough time. I work a commission job. And if you're not hustling, making money, you're not making money. It's not a, you get paid time off all that kind of thing. So it was really rough. And Chris Tuddle stuck it out with me through 2020. We started in January. But we wanted to compete like that fall of 2020. So it extended my off season even further. It started ended up taking a off season from September 2018. And then we started January this year. So I wasn't planning on taking that much time off. But it did be well because I put on so much stage weight 30 pounds of stage weight. Yeah. So my goal though was top five. I had no expectations going to show other than my goal was to top five at a national show. That's been my goal for three years now. Right. Well, you did that plus a lot more. Let me ask you because you had mentioned to me. I had asked you earlier that if you were married. And you said you had a funny story about that. Oh, yeah. Tell us the story. So my wife and I met last year. She's the most incredible woman ever. The most supportive for bodybuilding. Yeah. She believed in me since day one. We work in 30 for bodybuilding. Now he's not 100 and Sit down. Well. Okay. So Once, the executive is back. And she says hi. Yeah. So we cruise our competition. Yeah. You should sit down. Think about that that guy that's your husband. Yes. She's keeping him. Do you know, are you a roller coaster student? really pretty strict and I like that he is. So we're talking, you know, reef, reefy days are just at some rice, at some cream of rice, at some oats. There's no like go out and have dinner. Go out and have a burger for a reefy after like training or anything like that. So and we did a 20 week prep into my regional show than six more weeks into USA's. So my wife and I get married in March and I was like begging for me to be able to do something with her. But he's like, all right, look, man, you're gonna have to do a steak and a plain potato, split a dessert and that's it. So we're in Charleston with our top wear on her wedding weekend. You know, so that's what's about to happen now is all the dates I've owed her for the last eight. I was gonna say, whenever I hear a guy always say, oh, my wife's an incredible woman. I said, man, they must have been a real bastard. They're very, very happy. I'm not terrible. She'll tell you I'm not terrible, but there were a couple weeks there was I was super depleted. We in the regional show and now and man, she's stuck it out. I bet if I got her on here, she'd tell me some stories of it. Oh, yes, she would. I don't believe you for a second. Yeah. Well, he's a trooper. Yeah, yeah. Congratulations on the huge win, Jordan. And you know, it's a great, you know, story because, you know, we're so used to seeing people that have been going over and over and over. You're one of the few people who just, you knew what you go, was, you knew what you had to achieve. You took the time to do it. You weren't rush it. You actually got the extra time because of the whole COVID scandal. Right. And you know, you delivered. And I think that it's a great story of success and perseverance. And I really wish you the best. And a future I know you're gonna have a great career as a pro. You're still very young. And what do you see, what would you like to bring your stage weight up to for your next show? Well, yeah. So I know I'm not delusional. I know I'm not a hunger-laborada. I come and straight out of getting my pro-card, going straight into a pro-show. I know I need the time off to grow. I'm very aware of that. So I just need to overall size. So if I could put on 30 pounds of stage weight in a couple years, two and a half years, I can imagine I can put on another 15, 20. Maybe 15, 20 pounds with my waist stank tight. I think I really could be dangerous because I seem to be rewarding shape with guys like Keyon and these other guys, Sean Rodin, I want to bring that kind of shape to open with as much size as I can. And you bring my arms up. So it's kind of like when I'm ready, I'm gonna go for it. I would love for a year or two to go by and be able to do a pro-nive-u. You almost remind me you're physique a little bit, even your actually the way you look is, you're almost like a little branch-worn clone. He started very similar to me. He didn't have that crazy freak as a way to physique when he turned pro. I'm when he won that. But man, he certainly grew into that, into that physique. I don't remember who it was. Somebody recently said the same thing. I was like, wow, that's, that's... You look like a little bit facially, but you're physique also when he first turned pro. People forget when you look like when he first turned pro. Very similar. So hopefully you follow in his footsteps. Yeah, I got, I've got big shoes of phobia in the street, I say, I mean, that was totally, you know, when you're from a small town where nobody bought e-bills and they're all telling you you're great. And then you go here and they actually judge you that way and oh, wow, I beat all these guys. It's a great feeling, but I'm gonna be honest, I went in with new expectations, but I guess it made me work that much harder. I remember it, I think it was 1986, a U.S.A. Ken Brown, people even bought you no way, it was, I've interviewed him before, but he came out, he was a small, from a small town of Pennsylvania, like the matter of fact, the town where I went to college. And no one had heard of him, he kind of crawled out of the woodwork. He won Junior Nationals, he went to USA, won USA, beat a whole field of the people that know whatever, even expected. And he came out of nowhere, it was just a hard work in guy, like, you know, that sometimes when you're isolated, it actually works here at a vantage, because you don't have all the drama around, you know, what you're doing. Oh, for sure. And I mean, you don't have people, I mean, people don't know the sport at all here. It's like I'm part of this strange cult, obviously, that people don't understand. And so I'm just kind of doing my own thing, but in the work, I'm a home body with my wife, and we just meal prep and get stuff done. And it seems a work for me. So for now, at least until maybe we move somewhere where we can actually network, you know. Yeah, I hear it. Well, luckily with the internet, now you can internet, where you could network anywhere, you can be in Tim Buck 2, and you can take network from people, so. Right. You've got internet connection. Well, congratulations on the huge win. You'll keep us updated, and I wish you the best in the future. Thank you so much. I really appreciate having you all day. All right, and thanks for joining us, and it's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With. I'm Dave Palombo for Jordan Hodginson. We'll see you next time. Thank you, guys. Good evening, your ma. Thank you so much. Thank you.

into a puffy costume of an infliction that has to freeze. So... Theetotbunkot problemas Seegooooot Seegooooot. Noble perfect I want to thank you so much, Judge, for coming here. You know, the like us with your performance. We wish you a lot of stuff has in your career, and we have a recognition for you in the name of the team, body architect, and please introduce some plastic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

We're deepening everybody. My name is Carmen LaRille and I'm here at the MBC Jesus Godmium Classic. I'm at full promoter here with Josh Andrus. I'm very impressed with career so far and I would like to talk to him about what are you doing right now in terms of your career and preparation. Right now I'm getting a prep for the I have been North Americans and Cleveland Ohio yesterday five weeks out so that's what I'm currently doing right now. Would you like to talk about another future plant all the then competition? Well I do hope to go and have a very good showing at the North Americans get my pro-bar from there. Take a little bit of time off it's been a long year probably about a month and then get back into it and start competing in the pro-circuit and see for that takes. For people that don't know much about you how did you get into this sport for how long have you been doing this? I got into it when I was in college back in 2003 and I did my first show later in the year 2003 and then organization called the NABF which is no longer existing. I fell in love with a sport immediately after that I stepped up stage who moved down to court and started competing in the NBC in 2005 and I've been here ever since and I love this sport. I love all aspects of it. Awesome. He has a very impressive career I've had before and I will like you to show us a little bit of your routine your moves for tonight at the Gaze concert. Okay. Are you sure you come up closer to sure? Yes. Thank you. Thank you so much for your time and for being here being a guest sponsor. I hope your career is full of something. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening everybody.

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of net carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday June 14th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, happy Monday. We're 17 weeks out from the Olympia and we have a brand new update from Justin Rodriguez to get you started off today. Last week Justin announced that he was starring the first phase of his Olympia prep. And he said that he's excited to see how things progress over the next few weeks, given how solid his starting point is. Considering that he started the year with a win at the Indie Pro in a second place at the New York Pro, I think this goes without saying that this is the best version of Justin that we've seen. So as long as he doubles down on the things that got him here in the first place, he shouldn't have too much trouble dialing it in for the Olympia weekend. In case you missed it a few weeks ago, we reported that Nathan DeAsh said that he was planning to compete sometime within the next six weeks. But at that point the information was still so new that it still felt like things were up in the air. Well, now here we are more than two weeks later with Nathan still looking like he's well trending in that direction, despite the fact that we haven't heard any official word from Nathan or his camp about what his plans are right now. From a logistical perspective, Puerto Rico's probably too close for that to be a realistic target, which means the next big show would fall into that potential window, I guess would be Chicago. Even though that's about six weeks away from where we are now, since Nathan hasn't competed in almost two years, I don't know if he needs to hit the next one out of the park, but a double or triple wouldn't hurt. He's still one of the most talented athletes we have, but it is not in his best. I don't know if talent alone is enough to carry him through some of these new lineups. I'm a big believer in people aiming high, because we only see what we aim for when you start out by setting your bar high. You don't see anything less than that as a possibility. And a bowl Lewis has his sights set on another top 10 Olympia finish. He's doing a damn good job of aiming his focus in that direction. After last year's breakout season that saw him win the New York pro and placed 9th at the Olympia, the new and improved about 2.0 is starting to pick up steam, now that his Olympia prep is in full effect. If you look at what he brings to the table, Bo has enough tools to jump a few spots this year if he's made the right improvements. And considering how fluid that top 5 through 9 ranges bent for the last few years, if he shows up on the money, I don't think landing a spot in the first call out is completely out of the question. As the old saying goes, those who failed to plan planned to fail. And the word on the street is that Guy's sister knew his planning to step on stage for the first time this year, sometime within the next two weeks. Even though he's been training and dieting for the better part of the last few months, there were some scheduling issues with the shows he was initially targeting, which basically left him stuck in limbo up until recently, even though I don't think he's come out and set it, at least not as of the time I'm recording this right now, that two week window, pretty much puts him right in line with the Puerto Rico pro, which is historically been a great show for the 212. So if he goes out there and nails, it's a pretty good sign that he's on track to have another really strong season. And that does it the yet another addition of muscle in the morning, on day polembo reminding you to always be true to your passion. They should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Dave Palabo here with an RX muscle news update. I don't know if you saw my Instagram or the RX muscle Instagram. I posted a video two videos actually that were sent to me by Kai Green this evening. He texted me and said, I want to send you this video. I wanted to get your opinion. What do you think? Im applying that, you know, what did I think about him? Doing the Olympia. I looked at the video as you could see the video is Kai looks insane. And from what I understand him from what he imparted to me, he is just quote starting. Meaning that, you know, whatever supplementation he's doing is minimal at this point. And that he's only going to get better and better. And look, you know, I told him what I think anyone else out there would have told him had to see this video. Don't wait. Strike now. No regrets. Do the Olympia. When this Olympia solidify your legacy. And this is the only thing he has and accomplished that is probably the most important thing to him. Even though he's successful obviously, he's making money. He's a legend in body. But when he's a go-down, there's a whole thing body ball there. But look, at the end of the day, everyone wants it to want to. And he who doesn't want to win the Olympia, you know, who's been out there competing. I mean, I would have loved that one of the Olympia. I didn't have to talent to do it. Kai absolutely has the talent to do it. And obviously he's feeling good about himself. He looks great. And why not now? You know, I told him I said, I gave him, you know, he said, well, how do you think it should go about it? I said, look, call up dance, I'll let him in and say, look, I want to do the Olympia. I'll sign the contract. I think that's been the whole impediment. All along is a real Kai signed the contract. You know, I think I think he's right. I really get the impression he's ready. I think he's in the right mental state now. I think with the right people in place running the Olympia, I think he feels very comfortable doing it. And I think he wants to beat the best. And that's, you know, I could revolve in debating why do I do it when, you know, when the Sean Roden, you know, had a big cake a title. But the bottom line is I think Kai's a fierce competitor. He wants to beat the best of the best and who better to beat them big Randy if he can. And I think it would be a great battle. I think it would make the Olympia a, it would raise it up certainly to another level. I know we've been teased by Kai and we think it's he's always pulling a fast one. I was, I don't believe that to be the case this time. I don't think he would have reached out to be personally. Had he really not had serious intentions on doing the Olympia. So take it for what you may. The video says it all and not only just Kai looked great, but he's always the Shelton. I love that about him. Game pull up though, but then our X muscle to use up there.

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. I know sometimes we joke about certain people trying to break the internet. But Monday and Tuesday it actually felt like high-green was actually trying to do it. Now, unless you drop your phone in the toilet or you've been living under a rock for the last three days, you've probably already seen these pictures of a 317-pound high-green looking like something straight out of the Marvel Studios. And not only did Kyre release those photos on Monday, on Tuesday turned around and trolled Philly Heath with photos of the two of them side-by-side because Phil hadn't liked or commented on his photos yet. I have absolutely no desire to go into the whole wheel here really not compete again, narrative that I'm sure people are talking about. But I will say this, nobody's better at selling the art of illusion and body, building high. So if he does have something in the works, I'm sure this won't be the last riddle we end up talking about between now and that total. If you guys didn't catch our Wednesday show, we did a segment that featured Justin Rodriguez and Nick Walker, guest-posing, at an event in New Jersey last weekend. And at one point during that segment, I commented on how big Justin was because he made Nick look comparatively small standing next to him. And now I understand why. According to a report from Justin's camp, he was tipping the scales at 305 earlier this week, which has to make this the biggest in the leadest that he's ever been 15 weeks out from a show. I know that Justin has said in the past that he wasn't crazy about having to play the size game. But from the way it looks, he might have changed up his tune. He might not be £340 like Rammy, but he's at that point right now where he has more than enough muscle that he won't be overpowered by anyone. I guess this is what Justin's 3.0 looks like and it'll be interesting to see what the final product looks like when he hits the stage again in October. On Tuesday show, we hit you guys up with a quick preview of next month's Portugal Pro. And even though we covered a lot of ground, we didn't talk about any of the potential to 12 contenders. So I wanted to throw Austin Cars name out there as one for you to think about. From what I've heard, Austin was originally planning to compete at the Puerto Rico Pro last weekend, but there were some travel issues that held things up. But earlier this week, Austin did say that he could possibly be thinking about making a run for Portugal, which is still about three weeks away. There are a lot of people I know who think that Austin is one of the most underrated athletes in the division and that he actually could be a legitimate top 6 Olympia contender right now. So if he can find a way to earn himself a qualification, we might find out if the top 6 is on the table a lot sooner than we all expected. Remember a few weeks ago when Nathan De Escher announced that he was planning to compete at some point this year. And we said we thought that the Arnold UK seemed like a logical landing point. Well, as it turns out, we were right. A few days ago, Nathan announced that he was really in the fact of competing at the inaugural Arnold UK in October. And then he has every intention of winning that show and then turning around and being even better at the Olympia a few weeks later. All the trials and tribulations that Nathan has gone through over the last year or so, had been well documented. So it's nice to see that he's back in a place where he can devote some of his time and energy back to doing what he loves. And if you can deliver one of those vintage performances that we all know, he's capable of hopefully at least to a certain extent. It'll make some of those struggles feel worthwhile. And that does it yet another addition of muscle in the morning on Nathan LeBo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

What's up, body building fans? Dave Alumbo here and I wanted to just comment real quick on the latest beta beday post on Instagram. Beta obviously the owner of Oxygen Jim Mountain Kuwait. You posted a picture of him and Kai Green and he said 11 weeks to the sand out which got a lot of people excited. He was talking and speculating his Kai Green actually going to do the Olympia. Is he working with the camel crew out in Kuwait? Will he be a last minute entry into the Olympia? And will he go back on his word that he would never do the Olympia again? I had good inside sources to tell me the Kai would never do the Olympia. The amount of fact that he was offered a lot of money by some independent people to do the Olympia and he refused. Now we're seeing beta-di posting this. And beta has been one to drum up publicity in the past. He's made some sensationalistic type of things but he's usually not an over-promiser. He's usually an over-deliver actually. So the question remains is Kai Green doing this year's Olympia? I was a betting man would say no probably but the excitement and the speculation especially given the fact that Phil Heath is going to tie the record or trying to tie the record this year with eight wins. Probably one of the few men on the planet who could probably unseat him would be Kai Green. Then again we all have to understand the Kai is in his 40s. He's not a young man anymore. You know, does he have what it takes to do it? Is he still as good as he was? You know, Senator Frank Millen pushed him to the limit and theoretically beat him at that on a classic the last show that Kai competed at for a warrant for the posing round. The Kai pulled off would have been a different decision. So the question remains, will Kai do it and if he does decide to do it, can he win it? And if he does it win it, is it a winner or loss for Kai? It's certainly a win for bodybuilding. That's for sure because the excitement level, the Olympia will be outrageously insane. Kai Green is without a doubt. I don't care if Phil Heath has more followers than Kai. Kai is the most popular bodybuilding on the planet right now. Still, even though he hasn't competed in over two years. So that says a lot. He's got a tremendous following, not just in the United States, but all over the world. So is Bader trying to get a little bit of publicity going here? Or is it really some truth? And this was a little foreshadowing of what's to come. We reached out to Bader and Bader said just wait. So I believe there's more. This is just the smoke before the fire. Stay tuned. Let's see what happens. I'd love nothing more to see Kai Green up on that stage. Day Palombo with an RxMuscle Quick Kit.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pot tart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning on day polumbo and today is Thursday October 1st, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. One of the beautiful things about life is that there's always room for improvement. And more often than not, people derive meaning from their pursuit of growth. Just ask Dwayne Walker. It isn't just the move from the 212 to the open that caught everyone's attention after the restart. It was the way he did it. Dwayne's third place finish at the Tampa Pro was so impressive that he had some people going on record after the show to say that he was the future of the open class, which is a major statement considering the names we have occupying that space right now. But now that he has a sense of what it takes to compete at that level and he's gotten a taste of what it's like to bump elbows with some of the big guys. It'll be fun to see what he does next for an encore. According to Jordan Peterson, the way we present ourselves to the world has a direct impact on where we fall in the dominance hierarchy. But luckily for Nicole Zenovia Graham, presentations of one of her strong suits. Since the restart, Nicole's been the breakout star of the figure division. The performance he put together with the Sivanna Pro was one of the most impressive that I've seen all year. And that makes her one of the more intriguing athletes to watch heading down the stretch. The figure division is so top heavy that sometimes it can feel like there's no room for anyone else to break in. But this is 2020. A year we're literally anything is on the table. So if she shows up righty and completely locked in, who's to say that you can't be the one to upset the balance of power. Some people say that variety is the spice of life, which is funny because I've heard other people say the exact same thing about a T.L.S. Santiago after a dominating win at the New York pro a few weeks ago, T.L. is heading into her second straight Olympia appearance with a ton of momentum behind her. You would think that placing Aetherner Dave U last year would have put her on more pupils radar. But up to this point in the season, we still haven't heard her name mentioned in the same conversation as the rest of the top five group. The top seeds in the bikini division all are so close that judging them feels like you're well splitting hair sometimes. But if she comes in even 5% better this year, that contrast might be all it takes to bump her up another few slots. If you're a 212 athlete prepping for the Olympia, now might be a good time if you'd click that back button in your corner of the screen because the new updates from Kamal, Elgarni are probably going to ruin your day. Early this week, new photos surface of the raining and defending 212 champ, looking better than I've ever seen him this far out. And here's the thing, it's not just his conditioning, Kamal's bigger than we've ever seen him. Whatever situation he's got going on down there at the dragon's lair with flex Lewis is obviously working because this version of Kamal looks like he's a lock for that repeat. But then again, I can't say that I'm old, that's surprised either. This is what champ he's supposed to do. Greatness is the expectation and I think this year's contest could be a great opportunity for Kamal to come out and reassert his dominance. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Day Palomo here with an RX muscle rant. Today I'm a little irritated and I'll tell you why. A study came out and I started a new station posted like a study about a report. I studied it was put out. It was appeared originally in the frontiers in nutrition and they basically did a retro practice study and looked back at people's eating habits and the people who were falling a key to genoc die and they made some pretty bold statements. They kind of led the whole thing was led by this one statement by this Lee Crozby who was a registered dietitian which really doesn't get a lot of credibility right off the bat in my book because registered dietitians are so brainwashed in eating certain ways that they don't really even have a very flexible ability to go outside the box, so to speak. I talked to a registered dietitian about how to get in shape or how to lose weight and you'll get the basic dribble you get in health class in high school. I'm not too thrilled about that right off the bat. They went into the study trying to just prove and try to put down the ketogenic diet. What they basically said is that typical ketogenic diet is a disease promoting disaster. That was the comment. Right off the bat. It's pretty ridiculous. I'm like, all right, let me see where all this diseases that they're going to list in this study are. All these people that are getting sick and they don't really show any statistics. They just basically say, well, according to these eating habits, this could lead to this. The way they base it on is that they think that all people who eat ketogenic diets eat red meat, processed meats, and saturated fat only is their fat sources. That's like saying, you know, following a moderate carbohydrate diet of all lollipops, snickers bars, and you know, juju bees is going to cause a lot of disease. Of course, it will. If you ate all sugar, you're going to probably make yourself the type when diabetic. But if you're eating a low carb version of that, that's just a crappy food. So eating a ketogenic diet just means that you're putting your brain in ketosis. What does that mean? The restricting carbohydrates, brain doesn't have a fuel source, switches its fuel source, it's a fat or a ketones, so to speak. White foods you eat to initiate that ketosis has a lot to do with that health of the person who's following the diet. So of course, if you're eating bacon and cream and, you know, pork rines and all the crappiest sources of protein and fatty acids that you can get, of course, you're not going to be healthy. Who would be healthy eating that crap? Would you lose weight? Yeah, because your insulin levels will be low and you'll be in ketosis and assuming you're not overeating, you will lose weight. But like I said, you could lose weight eating poptarts too if you only eat a little bit of them. That's the weight watchers diet approach, right? Just limit your amount of calories. So I think this diet, this, this study is very skewed off the back, because they're probably looking in a lot of people that don't eat right, that are doing these diets for eight weeks, they're fat, they're overweight, they don't know how to eat, they have no education into how to eat properly. So of course, you can make generalized statements like this. Now, there are main three dangerous groups that they point out is it's very dangerous for pregnant women to follow ketogenic diet. Now, first of all, why would a pregnant woman follow a ketogenic? Who diet? It's well, they're pregnant. Okay, no one does that. You might exercise to keep in good shape, but no one is dieting while they're, you pregnant, okay? So that's a ridiculous group right off the bat. The second group they say is, well, it could result in long-term kidney failure for people who have kidney disease, chronic kidney disease. Well, guess what? Anything can, why would a person in chronic kidney disease do anything that's going to, you know, put strain on their kidney, which would be any high protein diet, obviously. So that's an invalid group right off the bat. So it's not like the ketogenic diet is causing kidney disease. If you have kidney disease, a ketogenic diet could put a strain on your kidneys and result in long-term kidney damage. Of course, that's obvious. You don't put people on a high protein diet who have kidney disease. And the third group is, well, the third thing they say is, it could raise LDL cholesterol and lead to heart disease down the road. Now, we know, we know, and the American Heart Association has already admitted this, that eating a diet, even high-encaturated fat doesn't lead to increases in LDL. LDL cholesterol increases way, way more in the presence of high sugar intake in the body. So that's a skewed statement right there. Now, obviously, if you're eating the right kind of fats too, you could actually reduce LDL. So it does not raise LDLs. A good quality fatty acid intake, whether it be through supplementation or foods, or reduce LDLs. It happens. I've seen it happen in my clients over and over, especially as you're losing weight, those tend to go down as well. So those statements are kind of, to me, just like, throw them out the window. They say, you know, in this thing where they list in all the different things that can cause, they say it can cause cancer, increases in cancer, even though we know that a ketogenic diet actually reduces cancer in some of the benefits that give ketogenic diets to people with cancer all the time to starve the cancer. Now, it doesn't work for all cancers, but most cancers work feed off a sugar. You take away the sugar, you feed them, you get them in a state of ketosis. And a lot of patients can reverse the cancer from using a ketogenic diet. They're also saying that it can lead to more Alzheimer's disease and heart disease. That's just not, there's no statistics to prove that. That's just not the case. We know Alzheimer's is actually called type 3 diabetes. It's from an elevation of blood sugar, not being able to control your blood sugar. Your pancreas, not working properly, not producing an advanced insulin. When you're on a ketogenic diet, your insulin requirements are super low. Blood sugar is very stable because your body is not using blood sugar. It's not going up and down. So that these are these are idiotic statements. And they're made because what they did was look at an idea. The idea was that a ketogenic diet is must be all disgusting fatty foods that are mostly fat, no good quality protein in their all saturated fat. And of course, we know that all these bad foods are not good for you. So we'll just say that these foods cause this. And that to me is doing a disservice when you put some of you out there. And then it confuses people. People say, hey, I'm following a ketogenic diet. I'm getting really good results. And I'm not talking to even body builders. So I'm talking about the average person who wants to lose weight, who has trouble following a diet because when they're on a low carb diet, their blood sugars are all over the place. And they do much better on a ketogenic diet. To get the Mr. Olympia who doesn't want to do a ketogenic diet, we don't need that. That's that we're talking about talking about people who are trying to lose weight and be healthier. So studies like this or these reporting on sites like this are just not, and this is not a control. This is something they go back and look. We don't even know what the variables are. We don't know what these people are eating on a regular basis. We don't know how long they follow them. We don't know what their history was before they started following this diet. A lot of misinformation is out there. They dry and irks me because you can prove anything is bad for you. And anything is good for you. I've seen studies where they say Omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil, you know, God said they will cure you of everything. And then I've seen an absolutely opposite study to say they're no good for you. And so you can prove anything if you set the variables of your study as such. And why we play this mental masturbation game in research, nutrition research, I have no idea. We know what the tenants of research of nutrition are. We know what your body requires. Your body requires protein. It's in the amino acid driven organism. And then it needs a fuel source. Whether you choose to use carbohydrates or fats or both as the fuel source is up to you. And if you happen to respond well to a ketogenic diet where your brain is using fat as fuel rather than carbs and glucose essentially, then follow it. It's not going to be unhealthy. If you're eating good quality fatty acids and good quality protein, if you're eating lean chicken breasts and you're eating whole legs and you're eating lean sources of turkey and stuff like that and lean fishes. And you're incorporating nuts and avocados and good oils like extra virgin olive oil and macadamida oil, you're going to be a super healthy person. You're going to get all the health benefits of that, plus you're going to lose weight. So don't allow your mindset to be thrown off when you see studies like this come out because there's no merit to them whatsoever. They just withdrawing out a lot of stuff. When I read the headline article was quoting the lead register dietitian reviewer of the study because there really was no study. There's no researcher than just reviewers. When they see typical ketogenic diets cause disease, as a disease promoting disaster, right off the bat, I see sensationalism, you know, and it's greatest and they're trying to get headlines on this thing. If you have to sell your study by a soup, you know, soup.headline, you had nothing behind it. That's really what it amounts to. So guys, these smart read your articles with a real fine tooth comb, so to speak, and push away all the sensationalism and see if there's any substance there when it's all said and done. This article has no substance. I can promise you if you follow a ketogenic diet with healthy protein, healthy fat choices, you're going to be healthier. Day polonbo with an Rx muscle ram.

Stop! Everybody! Was that just a teen sky? Can I just post the 80 things? So we just kind of like... Oh, that's it! How you doing? How you doing? You are not one of us, it's me, you're notIN' lum That's going to come out special! Hang on, hold your hand tight! Ah, I played really well for you Alright, here we go. We're ready! We're ready! We're ready! Can you dance with us? Now, can you dance with us? Wow! Wow! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! All that's really cool! It's just amazing! Up there! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Come on! Thank you! So, let's go! Let's go! Congratulations! Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

Ask him, it's completely irrelevant. Now it's one. Mimi? She sent me 5 men up…

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, our 30-year-in-a-ro. What we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've got three and four brands in that carps and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Live With Brought to You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. It's an A's guest, is our 212 Mr. Olympia champ all the way from the UK, Kamala Gardney, welcome to the show. Hey, thanks. How are you? Thank you for having me. Look at you. Smiling your face, look at huge. I posted a picture of the day you on Instagram that you guys sent to me and you are looking very free to you. This is the biggest I've ever seen here. Well, I don't know what's happened to me. I'm getting older. I'm getting bigger. To see, I'm keeping this in bed. I'm keeping, we've been grooving you wrong because you're still in me. What are you going on, Bruce? So here we go. You could do it as well. I only you could do it. You obviously have genetics that the rest of us don't have because I don't know how you're doing it. You look enormous. I thought you were doing the open for a minute when they sent me the pictures. Why, you never know what's going to happen in the future. I still got four or five years. Yeah. How old are you? Are you 49 or 50? I'm going to be 49 this November action. I'm going to have a set up rate this year, too. My birthday and defend in my sights and in Vegas. That's crazy. I can't believe you're 49. People say the Dex Jackson's amazing. I think you're just as insanely genetically freaky as him because like you said, you're actually making improvements at 49. It is. The gun is it's I'm so happy to be like, and now it's been like a Dex Jackson, which is we know the legend, Dex Jackson is all the time. One of the best bodybuilder ever. And I think he has the most pro-winning show. For me, I have the most amateur winning show. You do that's right. Yeah, there's another similar. How many wins you have as an amateur? I'm a true show as I won about 10 times the ISBV, what will champion? And I won about 11 times Asian champion. I won the European champion. I won African champion. You won so many times you don't even know how many times you won. That's the funny. No, I don't know. I have so many titles, which is I don't think anyone that's got as much as my title as an amateur. Now, which is that's great. I have a theory on why you're still improving. Aside from the fact that you obviously don't have major injuries. But you had a period of time when you kind of were not really competing. You kind of were like, we're in limbo a little bit. When you kind of were on the outs with Rafael Santoba before they split, I think that you've preserved your body because you really didn't go all out for consistently the whole your whole career. Would you say that's the accurate? Well, I think so. Yeah, yeah, because then four years or three and a half, three years, four years, I've still kept training very light, but I've haven't touched nothing. Nothing whatsoever. I think that's, yes, a clean, old-my system. Yeah. Started refresh again. I think yeah, this is one of the things. I'm blessed to be honest. I blessed with a genetic death, mellum, blessed with a genetic death. Yeah, I would say so. You had to admit it. Last year, a lot of people weren't predicting you to win the Olympia. Chris Asito was, he told me there's no way you lose it. And you proved everyone wrong. You surprised everyone. You showed up at your absolute best. You destroyed the line up. I thought you won pretty, pretty handle-and-land, I didn't even had any doubts that you were the winner there. And you established yourself as the new 12-guided beat. How did that feel coming off that Olympia win? And knowing that you're the number one guy now in the world? To be honest, Dave, to me, yes, the title as the Olympia title, which is the biggest in the mix in the world, as a 12-champion, it is a big title. It does mean a lot to me as I am from the Arab countries like from Libya and from Africa, North Africa, from that kind of side and mid-Lace and everything, it is something big and huge for them. And I see the respect from these people. It's gone so huge. A lot of people like, it gave them the hunger. Kamal is done in this age. So it's, to be honest, it's improved the sport big time, big time, big time. And everybody likes saying, we want to be like Kamal. It's gone really huge. And you hear all these comments and you see messages, people send you all that. It feels great. It feels like, especially with my family, with my kids. And my story is well, which is, I left home, Libya, because of bodybuilding when I was like 20, 20, 21, 22 years old. I had all that problems in my career and struggle to move to different countries. And to finish it with the Olympia title, that's, it means a lot. It means very, very big. Are you like a celebrity when you go home now to Libya? Oh, God, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. To be honest, I've been treated. The thing is this year, we haven't been, haven't been back home to Libya after the Olympia, but when I went last year, when I come third, when I went the Arnold, I've been treated like a king. I've been really treated more than the president himself. I mean, do they, do they want you to come back there? Are they like trying to like entice you to move back to Libya? Why not should really move back to Libya, but it's like, they proud, they really, really proud. Straight away, as soon as they arrived with the airplane, as soon as they opened the doors, they got me through the VIP, Oh, really? Wow. Yeah, all the media, the vice president over there, the, to know this building. So they know when you're coming into the country, huh, that's crazy, wow. Yeah, I know that they've been waiting for me. It is, it feels great. It is great. It really like, something really, really, really big. You're walking around here in the US, no one knows who you are, but you go home and you're, you're a hero, that's amazing. Now you're living obviously in the UK, it's told us that before. And the UK has some really weird travel restrictions. So a lot of people will concern that you wouldn't be able to make it to the Olympia, but you kind of have a strategy, you're, you're, you're, you're leaving the UK, right? Pretty much, and you're going to be moving over here for a couple of months? Oh, yes, Dave, you know what I've heard, because I do really like the fellow oil, uh, episodes and like, muscle radio with the Chris, and I watch all videos. When you mentioned like the Olympia's going to happen, doesn't matter what, so it's better for all the qualified athletes, it's better as they come early, you don't know what's going to happen. I've heard that with the, from Dennis James, I've heard, so I spoke to Chris, I think I need to move. I need to go there, because you know what's happening? There is unfinished business for me. Sure, I need to do. As the current Olympia last year, I have them to be honest, this year's been taken from me, all right? I should have been, I should have been really like around, there's a lot of being set up from me, especially around the Middle East, around the Africa. Yeah, there's a lot of towards being supposed to be gone around, but it didn't happen. I suppose to like represent the sports, especially the area, as you know, as the only champion as an Africa, from like Africa, from North Africa, and everybody's proud of me, so everybody wants me to go around, is a lot of things being set up as seminars, or around them areas, but everything stopped. So it's like, we decided, I don't want anything to be in my way, especially this year with all what's happening, and I said, I need to go early, I need to find my way to defend that type of rule. I'm going to do it for me, and I'm going to move to the US for my family, for all my believers, for all my lovers, the people that really believe to me, I'm going to do it again. I'm going to drop that title again. Yeah, I'm not going to let go. Look, the history of the Mr. Olympia title, whether it be the 2012, the open, Mr. Olympia comes back as good or better than he was the year before, he never loses. I mean, it looks like you've hit, how much you weigh right now? I'm to be honest, Dave, I'm the best shape of ever been. I'm the man I'm one of five years about to, to 29, 229, to Terry. Wow. And it's the best shape ever. Condition wise, everything is there. To be honest, we plan this me, we plan this me and Chris earlier. Like we talk all the time, and he sent me a message one day without nothing, send me some pictures. I said, Chris, what are you thinking? He said, this year bigger and leaner. I said, I'm up for it. We stop. And we started them. We started them. We started prep November. Right. Well, we've been. I put a picture up the other day. Well, we'll put it out on the screen. You look like an absolute freak. It was on my Instagram, our muscle Instagram. I mean, you just, um, no, no, you're big, but you're you're shredded here, absolutely. I mean, you look at you can step on stage almost that way. The honest, yes, I mean, within six weeks, eight weeks maximum, I could be on stage. Is that the plan because of the Olympia September, and I could make it. I'd really could make it with my heaviest. We trained hard. We definitely, the good thing is, the good things like in the lockdown as well, because I have my own gym in England. So I've always trained. So like, you know, we live like as really professional food, train, and sleep. That's what it is. You might even have your own gym during a lockdown that you had to go to. Because anyway, Bobby, when you go in there and train, sorry, when you go to your gym to train, do people like try to knock on the door and say, hey, can we come into? Well, to be honest, they buy a lot of friends. They message me. They need to borrow some downpoles. They borrow some rent. I said, four guys, I can't even. I might do it with the empty. I'm trained myself. Right. Right. It's like, I don't really, I didn't give anything. So they did understand that. I had to really, a lot of friends and members, even they offered me money. So please, we can rent it from you. We can't do this. Varys like, yeah, I had a really good sessions. I trained very well. And during that lockdown, so I think that even made improvement as well. Oh, I'm sure. I'm sure of it, because you know, a lot of you, you got it at the energy over guys who who didn't have access to a gym. So the fact that you never had a stop or anything like that had to be a huge advantage to you. And now you had extra time to prepare for the Olympia, because it's not a September. You actually have to hold December now. So that's obviously an advantage as well. Do you think that we're going to see a full stack to 12 line up at this year's Olympia? What's your speculation of that? Well, I hope so. I mean, as you know, second, third, fourth, they are from US, which is the league there, which is Derek Lansford, Schoen Clarida, and most of the guys, I mean, a four or five of them, they are there. I hope. I mean, I know there are some guys that haven't qualified yet. At the moment, I think what we are about 11, 11, we're going to qualify. Yeah. But again, they need to act quickly, especially the guys that are brought, they're going to, I think it's the best thing they do like what I'm going to do now. Yeah. To make sure they be there. Because last year was 25, competitors in my class, 2012, but this year, I think that is some people they're going to have to, they're going to have struggled. They're going to have problems. Tell me why. Tell me why Kamal O'Garney is going to be Schoen Clarida and Derek Lansford again this year. Why? So, you're going to tell me why you're going to be one's third in Clarida again this year? Because like I said, there is none finished business. I need to finish that. And I was doing taking that year, it's been taken from me. You know, I'm going to support. Yeah. Yeah. I want to support that. That's for. I want to support that. Actually, that class, the 2012, because we have a lot of things set up as well, like a big tour in America, as big tour in Europe for me. I'm branding. Everything is being canceled. So, it's like, yes, we want the title even branding. I mean, we haven't done much for last year, as we know, because of the situation. So, hopefully, we're going to come back and we do again this year. I hope so too. I mean, because you're right. You kind of got your, it's like I miss America winning the Miss America or Miss Universe title and she can't go on the world tour to kind of showcase that she's the most beautiful girl in the world. So, you know, that's the same, same philosophy. Now, you guys sent us this video. You deadlifting a little earlier today. And you're moving 500 pounds off the floor at almost 50 years old, like it's like a joke. How are you so strong with the adiabno injuries at your age? I'm moving that way because I need to win. I'm going to win that, right? The villain is with the strength as you see my technique, Dave, okay? With that video, that's how I train all my career. So, I feel that if I feel the way it's going to be heavy, I don't really drop the weights. You ask anywhere I train. I don't do noise. I don't make a noise whatsoever. I don't do it. I don't. If I don't do that technique, that means the weight is heavy for me. I don't know how the weight is not heavy. If 50 years old you're moving weight, that is 20 or something. 50 years old is my old man. We just started. My body can't do that anymore. Sorry. Yeah, I don't know. I've been blessed and I've always looked after myself very well. I've always eaten healthy. Dave, I've always, I've never liked him crazy with even the other supplement. I mean, my first competition was 1994. Wow. So, yeah, I've been competing since and it's like I've been training with them, like very, very careful. I've never like gone crazy. I've never like bang in that weight. Crazy heavy. Yeah. So, I don't know if you don't lift recklessly as what you're saying. But no, our strong. So, there's a difference. It's not like you're lifting lightweight. You're lifting heavy weights, but you can handle the weights. And I think that there's a difference between that because if you don't move those heavy weights, you don't have muscle like you have. That's for sure. But at the same time what you're saying is you shouldn't be reckless in the gym because that's how you get hurt. Yeah, exactly. Yes, yes, you go right. Yes, you go right. You're, I mean, in the food intake, do you find that as you've gotten older, you need less food or more food? Well, to be honest, I'm the man I'm eating a bit more because of we come to them. We come to the a point which is I started getting really leaner. So, and then we decided to put me nearly double my car. And we were taking about 200, 230 grams per day. As a car, now we eat, we nearly 400. Wow, that's a lot. That's a lot. That's a lot of food. How much protein you? Protein is about between 250 and 300. It's a defense like of days and training days. It's a lot of food. It is a lot of good. I'm struggling. I'm eating like God, I'm forcing myself at the moment because of the because of the time and these being postponed. We haven't started any car, you yet. We haven't started any fat burn as yet. I mean, still like training as no. Yeah, you got times. Here in about three thousand calories a day then. That's what you're saying. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It is, it is, yeah. It's a clean calorie high-click kind of clean, but it's clean. Yeah. I mean, that's not right. Do you cheat me off like on the weekends? Wow, every now and then, defense gives me like burger maybe once in two weeks, which is even the burger to be honest, it's homemade. My wife's make for me is not really a good thing. Oh, really, I wouldn't count it as a cheat for you. Yeah. This is me. I'm really, I don't know. I'm really fussy with my food. Even cheat mail. I mean, if I eat something like really is not in the list, really, I'm, I do really get upset. Do you? I thought, you know, I, I, I think that I, I think that a COVID quarantine like this for someone like you is actually an advantage. And I'm going to tell you why. Because you really can't go anywhere. You have no distractions. You have your own home gym. You got your own food. You're not going out to eat. You're actually more focused. I think because because there's no distractions. There's nothing to do except train, eat and hang out with your family. I think that for someone like yourself, this is going to, that's why you're so much better because there's not it. If you were traveling all over the world doing your world tour, you know, you would be, you wouldn't be eating right. You wouldn't be necessarily being at the train the way you wanted to focus. This is probably this little quarantine actually probably worked to someone like your advantage. You completely, right, you're completely right. I mean, to be honest, that's why, for me, I do refuse some tours like nearer to the show. This, this is again. I mean, they've really, really been more successful as a finance wise. Because I've always like trying to avoid any trip, anything to take me away from training, to take me away from my, my day routine as a bodybuilder. I really, I really refuse a lot of things, which it could make me, I have an offer to be like with the, with the, with the, with the president's son to be his personal trainer guy. They offered me a lot. When I was in Qatar as well, I refused to be, I refused to be his personal training with the, with the king's son as well. I mean, it is because I don't want to be out of my routine and that would be really sad. But you know, and if you were a single guy with no family, you probably would have gone because they would have let you train and do whatever you wanted anyway. It's just just who the hell wants to go all the way over there and then it'd be at their back and call. You have your own gym. I understand. But if you, if you were a young single guy, I'm sure you would have taken that job because you'd be crazy, that's right. I mean, I've done it when I was little, I had a chances with back rooms that before in Libya. I had these chances, but I don't know. It's for me, I've never worried about how much money I make to be honest. I've never been greedy. I'm happy what I have got. Yes, but it's, I don't know, it's something when you take me away from normal routine as a bodybuilding. I get lost. I really get lost. Are you sponsored by anyone, right now? Yes. I'm sponsored this year by BBI, which is BBI Sports in Florida, I think, which is not far from the way you are. I've got like sponsored with my Libyan Libyan Amel-By-Fone, which is a local Libyan mobile phone. I've got sponsored by what they call it, the powerhouse in Qatar and the supplement housing Qatar. I've got a few sponsor, yeah, I've got few sponsors that I've found, which is not that, this is not that. Yeah, it's good to take as long as you're being taken care of. I'm happy. Well, you know, I'm glad that you were able to chime in and talk to us today. And so, you know, impressed with how you look right now that I have to imagine that everything's going well. And here's the question I think a lot of people want to know. And you're, your buddy over there was teasing me. Early, you wouldn't tell me. Where are you staying when you come to the US? That's the mystery. That's the history. It's going to be a big history. Here we go. It's going to be just in you, and never never been said before. Anyway, I'm coming to the Dragon Jim. Oh, I predicted that. I said that. I said he's going to be training a maximum of the decision. Flex brings in all the people. I know I'm flexing Flex. He is a very good friend of mine. We have very close. We speak all the time. I get a lot of advice from him. I know he's a lot younger than me, but I mean, I met Flex actually when when I was guest-bose here in England, his was first junior show. He was first show in England. I was guest-bose in that show. So that's what I met Flex. And then since then, we've been, we've been contact and everything. So I went, when I've heard that lockdown happened and everything, I've decided to move. So I spoke to Chris and I said, what do you think? I'm thinking to go, yeah, I said, I said, I mean, check, whatever you feel, I feel like happy and I saw a spoke to Flex and I said to him, Flex, what do you think? He said, come out, shout out, man, come. I always love to you. Love you to come of all the stories. So yes, we decided to train and stay with Flex, hopefully. Are you staying going down? Sorry, you're living with him, too? No, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, to be honest, he offered and I said, no, I wouldn't be in field comfortable. T'be honest, even his wife, Alice, she's really made me more than welcome. But I would be my sponsor, BBI, actually, they are, they are arranging my accommodation over there. So they have arranged a lot of things for me as well when I would be there. But they're going to take care of everything over there. I think everything is set very well for me and hopefully, we're going to move, make the difference over there, hopefully. Good, maybe we'll get Flex, maybe you and Flex can do a little interview with me. Flex has been promised me and I know he's watching this, so you can call him, he out of Flex. He since he was exclusive with AMI years ago, he's like, as soon as I lose my exclusivity, I'm going to interview with you. They told me one of me to come through his gym, but I had kids and now COVID, so maybe we'll get you guys both on an interview from his gym, direct from the gym, Greg and Vela. I mean, to be honest, when I'm there, I'm going to make the most of it because I know Flex and his social media and who he is and everything is going to be in big. I'm going to take that chance to make the most of it. So, hopefully, to move even there as well, I mean, for me. I thought, you know, when they told me you were coming to the USA, said he's either staying with with Flex. I thought maybe you might say with Chris, but I said, now he'll only held the keyboard to that. He's going to definitely go, stay either with Flex. I thought maybe you were going to surprise me and say you were staying with Lundspir in the tan tan fan. That would have been a shock. You guys were trained. Well, I mean, I mean, probably, I mean, why not if we can a train do one said, why not? I mean, why not? I mean, I don't mind that. You're spattering with Haiti back in the day, right? They would number one and two. So, exactly. Why not? I mean, we train together. Listen, we are on mine. I mean, he's, that a client's for his, I mean, he's a young kid. He's, he's 26, 27 years old. He's got a long future in front of him. Right. But if we train together to be as a good family, this is what we should give to the world to go. That's what we should show. Well, as we, yeah, as fans, we like to see that anyway. That's fun to watch you guys train and battling it out in the gym. You know, it's something that maybe you can get maybe you get ones for the come down drive down to Boko. You know, and you guys have all trained at Flex's gym one day and film it. That would be fun. I'm sure the fans would love that. Yeah, it is exactly. So, we, we doing as this for the fans, for this photo sport and everything. Why not? I mean, if the fans, they would love to say that to see that. And hopefully that's the end of the day. It's up to Flex. I mean, that's his gym. Well, it'd be fine with it. Yeah. It's more publicity for his gym. But, you know, Flex is a good guy. He likes to help people out. Oh, yes. He's got a very good heart. And, you know, that's very rare and imbodies. You know, he's not, he's very unselfish. And he's, he's about, you know, helping guys that are coming up and giving opportunities. And I think that's what makes them a special champion. So, but come on, you know, it's great to hear that you're going to be out here in the US and that we're going to make sure we see you at that Olympia come December. Good luck with your training with your travels and keep us updated. Oh, yeah. Thanks, thanks Dave. Thanks for having me as well. I think you're not far from Flex. No, no, no. You might, I'm actually maybe like two hours to an hour. The problem is that, you know, with the COVID thing and the quarantine and I have kids and I just don't want to expose myself. It's otherwise I would be at Flex's gym definitely filming over there. But, you know, it's a little, for me, it's, it's too risky. If I didn't have a young kids, I would be doing everything, you know, but, oh, yeah, yeah. I mean, if there's anything we could, when we did, we do anything. Why not? I mean, right. Would be great. So, you guys will take a ride up. Maybe you guys will take a ride for me to my studios. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll probably do that. All right. All right, guys. Thank you so much for joining us in. Like I said, best of luck with your travels. Guys, it's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

Still you I'm gonna go Heading there I'm gonna never run Heading there I'm gonna never run I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm sweet You know you wanna see me I'm sweet I ain't gonna miss you I'm just taking my way I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm out you by my side Feeling like you need to see me I'm gonna go Oppo You're gonna be in the frontlight You hold your anger I've seen you Put your feet And let me show you It's for granted Fish backs It never's for granted Yeah Don't get angry Sp cares I'm gonna cover you I'm gonna love you Feeling like you're gonna come up again Feeling like you' need to see me I'm gonna go of YouTube is another year YOU E Runnin' Do The Stars!

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 NPC Oklahoma State Championships. I am here with Canita Maze, our women's bodybuilding masters and open overall champion here tonight. You switched from figure to bodybuilding. It was obviously a good choice. Yes sir. I like bodybuilding a lot better. When did you first start doing figure? You told me earlier that it was back in 2000. How many shows did you actually accumulate before you said, this is not for me? I actually did two back in 2003 figure competitions and then one last year at the West Texas when they told me I was too muscular for figure. What place did you come in at West Texas last year? Oh God, just way off, way way off. I like I want people to know how bad. It was pretty rough. I wasn't even in the top 10. I wasn't even in the top 10. Okay, so that had to be very frustrating for you. Right, yes, yes. I mean, I know a lot of the figure competitors don't like that to switch for some reason. When you suggest to them initially, you should do bodybuilding. It's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't want to do that. Yes, but bodybuilding is, it doesn't have to be masculine. It can be really feminine and just look really, really great if you do it right. Now, next year, this is going to have a new women's physique division on the local level. Is that something you might do? Would you seem to like the bodybuilding to enough to stay with that? You know, I've struggled with that decision back and forth about whether to do the Z-C or the women's bodybuilding, but I really like the women's bodybuilding. Enjoy it. Yes, yes. How far do you see yourself taking this? Is this something you want to take to the national level now? Yes, oh, yes. I would love to go all the way with it. I would love to get my pro card in the women's bodybuilding. And would you have a time frame in your mind? I mean, do you want to wait a year or wait till next year? What's the schedule? That's my goal. Right now, I'm going to take a year off to put on size, get a little bit bigger, work on some of my weak points, and then go from there. If you had to be, can you give yourself some constructive criticism? What would you say you need to work on? Legs definitely legs. That is my weakest as much as as much as I try. And as hard as I work on my legs, I can just not get a bigger wider. And is it harder to die for bodybuilding as it then it was for figure? I think it was harder for figure than it is for, yes, for bodybuilding. This year I did something a little different. Last year I did a lot of the chicken and tuna actually toopia. And a spare guest broccoli brings this year. I did a lot of red meat. Four mills of red meat. Are you trying to pack some size, I'd say that? Yes, yes, yes. Because I straight down too fast, too easy. All right, can you name our women's open and master's bodybuilding champion here in Oklahoma City. For now, I'm Dave Palombo, our axmuscle.com.

Dave, a Lumbo here with an RX muscle news update. The Chicago Pro has led out. The Friday night festivities are over. Tomorrow will be the open today was the 2012 classic physique wellness and a few other categories as well. They did today and what a battle we had in that 212 division. Oh my god. Key on Pearson, the guy everyone was talking about. We wanted to see any skip the Olympia in 2020 after making a big splash in his debut in the 212 class after moving up from classic. Obviously winning that event in 2020. We wanted to see what he was going to look like here. We've been waiting and you know I didn't deliver. The guy made improvements. He's bigger. He's better. Could he have been a little tighter? Absolutely. But he has such a genetic gift between that small ways. The way he moves the way his muscle belly is flow. It's hard to beat someone like that unless they're really off. And he was not off here by any means. He could have been better. And I think he will get improved from now between now and the Olympia. But I mean this is key on Pearson's show to lose and he certainly didn't lose it. But having said that the other 2 guys in this class that play second and third, Muhammad El, the Sonny and second, Karat Badgell and third. So close that you can flip a coin. Really. I mean you can make a case for any one of these guys to win this event. That's how good they all are. El Desani, major improvements from last year as well. Pollished muscle, great hand presentation. The guy has got all the bells and whistles also that you look for it in a module. I mean the conditioning of these guys was amazing and all of them. I mean Karat Badgell might have been the best condition involved in it. I mean he made serious improvements from last year. I know I help him and man he worked his butt off. Literally to make it to this show and make a statement here. And he did. I mean top three of the level of caliber of athlete that was here. These guys are top eight all day long at the Olympia. I mean that's they're going to be in that group. We're going to see these guys battling on Olympia stage. This was a really really good 212 event here in Chicago. And you know what we knew as we started moving close to the event there, we're going to get better and better winters. You know, all the study just needs to maybe dial in in 1% and he's going to be date super dangerous. Karat Badgell another half of percent and he's super dangerous. We're going to see these guys probably in Tampa. I know we're seeing Karat. He's not done by any means. He's getting to that Olympia and he's got a fire inside of him. And I know he was upset that he didn't win and I don't blame him. I mean when you kind of hit your best and you have the old tools, you figure how can I lose right? And I'm sure every one of those three guys and I taught three felt the same way because they brought it and it was just that good of a line of it. And any other event we were seeing this year, each one of those guys probably wouldn't want to respect it, you know, there were 212 divisions. So great, great outcome here. Super exciting for the fans. This is what we want to see battles at the top of the 212. If he opened the classic physique division, that's what's making this sport exciting. And we have to congratulate, you know, Kion Pierce, and in doing what he needed to do. He showed up. He brought it. He brought enough to win here. And that's what he had to do. He's qualified for that Olympia. He's going to come in this year. And we're going to see this guy battling it out for an Olympic crown for sure for sure. And I know he's going to come back better. And we're going to see Karat bachelor with that Olympic. And we're going to see Mohammed Al Desanid that Olympia. So hats off to those guys, tremendous tremendous whip. And then if you take a look at the classic physique division and you see Darwin, you read that. I mean, this guy, these classic guys that come in out of nowhere. I mean, I don't think this guy was on many people's radar. He came in here and he delivered. You look at these pictures. This guy's got a beautiful physique. He flows. He's got conditioning. He's got presentation. That's what classic is all about. And that's what we love about classic. That's what I love about classic. And I can't wait to see this guy in Olympia stage. So congratulations to him. Look, a lot of great stuff happening in Chicago. Tomorrow, the open division we've all been waiting for. Really, winkler. Making his day to you, trying to qualify for that Olympia. Until a broader standing in his way. And among other guys as well. So we'll check that out tomorrow. For now, they're on game. Pull them both within our act. Muscle.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car capped hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Polimbo, and today is Tuesday, June 8th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes I have to tell my clients that instead of guessing the future, they need to shape it. One of the best ways to do that is to create this sort of lifestyle and habits that give you the best chance to succeed instead of leaving things up to chance. So now that there are less than 10 weeks to go before he makes his season debut, now would be the time for Kevin Jordan to start doubling down on some of those old winning habits. Even though it's been almost three years since the last time he competed, you wouldn't know it just by looking at him. He still has all the size and shape that made him so dangerous only now. He's probably fresher than he's ever been at any point in his career, which definitely works to his advantage. So if you cannot go off the rust and the cobwebs, landing somewhere in the top six feels like a realistic possibility. You are certain extent contest prep is a little like bike riding, in the sense that you forget how hard it is until you're about halfway through. But once you're past the initial phase of discomfort, muscle memory starts to take over. And then before you know it, you're staring at the finish line. Now even though Melissa Valier is back on the proverbial bike for the first time in almost two years, you could already see some of that old muscle memory starting to take over. According to Melissa, right now she's planning to make a return to the Tampa Pro, but she also has every intention of making it back to the Olympia stage this year as well. People might have forgotten this, but two years ago she actually won the Tampa Pro to earn her second straight Olympia qualification. So the path for her to get back there seems pretty clear. Once she takes care of business in Tampa, it'll secure the qualification and free her up to use the next few months to go all out with her Olympia prep. Because once that first domino falls, it won't take long but for everything else falls into place. I know that we've been talking a lot about the two 12th edition and the Chicago Pro over the last few weeks. But I want to put another name on your radar, Alfred Shirek. Last week and I heard from a source that Alfred was tossing around the idea of making his season debut in Chicago with the hoping that it would put him on the path towards qualifying for the Olympia before it rolls around in October. Believe it or not, he actually qualified for the Olympia last year too because he placed third at the Europa in Spain at his pro debut. And that was the show that gave out qualifications to the top three of a handful of divisions because they ended up having to cancel so many contests in the middle of the season. I've heard people close to Alfred say that they believe he has what it takes to be a top 10 Olympian right now. So if he gets off to a good start in Chicago, those top 10 sentiments might not be as far off as some people think. Earlier today I read an article about something called completion bias, which essentially explains why our brains feel compelled to complete a task after we started. For whatever reason it's something that's hardwired into our DNA and it explains why the act of just going through the motions sometimes is so important. It's because once we start, our wiring drives us to finish. So with that in mind now that your Rishna Iala is starting down this path to become the first ever wellness Olympia champ, the wolf completion bias says that she'll be wired to see this all the way through coming into the season. There was a lot of energy behind your Rishna as someone who could come in and set the standard in this division and that still is true now as it was then. As long as she doesn't stray from the path, there's a very real chance that she ends up bringing this whole thing full circle. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Mornings. On day, Columbus reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on day's book, Twitter and Instagram.

Welcome back to live with Broughty by Species Nutrition Visit SpeciesDutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and tonight's guest is the Van Cover Pro Classic Men's Champion, Khaled Chikawi. Welcome to the show. Hey, thanks very much for having me Dave. It's an honor to be on your show. It's an honor for me to be able to pronounce your name right for once. I should have just contacted you right off the bat and said, how the hell do you pronounce your name? Now, now I'm an expert. But that stuff doesn't work. Most of the time I tell people how to say my name and then five minutes later they forget it. Now I got it. Khaled Chikawi, I'm never forget that. Now, you have an interesting story because you started embody building. You won the Canadian Nationals in 2016 winning the heavyweight in the overall. And you actually beat Chris Bumston in that show. A lot of people might not realize that. Talk to me a little bit about how you got into body building. Because you're one of these guys that have been all over the world. You were born in Tunisia. You moved to several different countries. How did you get introduced to body building? So when I was a little kid, I was kind of like late. He never really into sports or anything. But my big brother, he was like a lot into sports soccer football. He was always active and he got me off from being like lazy and I took me to the gym. I started and after a few months, you know, my body really reacted well. Some guys in the gym suggested that I do a body building show. I did and I've been hooked ever since. What's your was that that you started? The first competition I did was in Savannah, Georgia. It was in 2009. Wow. Was that when you were living in the United States going to school? Yeah, that's right. Yeah. I moved to Italy at the age of five. I lived there for nine years and then I went to Egypt. I lived there for five years and then I decided I wanted to learn English. So I was like, what's the best way? I'm going to go and, you know, immerse myself in the culture. And I went to Tennessee of all places for a map for a undergrad. And then I moved to Savannah, Georgia just for a year. That's where I competed the first time. How did you learn to speak English? Coming here. Did you have something, Lush, or any of you disposal? I mean, it was very little English that we had to learn in school. Maybe a couple classes, but it was really hard because like I was kind of like drop in the airport and I had no clue how to say anything. And you know, in Tennessee, they don't speak like in New York. I'm shocked you don't have a Southern accent from learning to speak there. I used to have a little bit, but you know, and it was very difficult, but I caught on. I think my my experience of learning languages made it to you. Yeah, you have a an accent. So what language do you speak? So I speak Arabic, if you need some kind, it's like Air Force dialect, the Egyptian flu, Italian, French, English, and some Spanish also. Wow, that's impressive. Now, see, I heard before that the Egyptian has a very noticeable, I guess you could say dialect because the funny story. I don't even want to tell the story. Why is the Egyptian different than the regular Arabic? I mean, I think that, you know, the main route of Arabic is the Arab, kind of like Latin is for all the languages. But the closest one to the real Arabic is Egyptian. Plus there's like a whole movie scene in Egypt, kind of like Bollywood. So all the movies that are Arabic are most likely coming from Egypt. I got you. So you can speak to a big Romney, no problem then, right? Oh yeah, no problem, fluency. But if I speak to Nizha to him, he probably won't understand anything. Really, that's interesting, that's very interesting. I'm fascinated by languages. I have no memory. I have a very terrible memory of memorizing words. I can't learn languages. I can learn the grammatical aspect of it, but I can't remember all the words. How do you remember all the different words from all the different languages? It's very, I don't know. I think, you know when I was born and I was very young, there was three languages going on in the house, right? Wow. It was the Arabic. I was an early, so I had to speak Italian and then I was going to French school. So it's like, yeah. Can you differentiate them? Do you think that you put them all together sometimes, you know? When I was young, I remember speaking Arabic to my Italian teacher a few times, yeah. So when you have someone talking and you understand, if you always recognize what language it is or you just know it in your head, you know actually I'm very strong at actually detecting the language from people's accents. Wow. There's an all over the place in a word and met a lot of people from so yeah, I love languages too a bit. Interesting. Interesting. So when you turn pro in 16 and you beat a really spectacular line of a guy's there and that's when all the young guys were really coming at a candidate, Bumster was in that line up. What were people telling you? Were you like, did you feel like, hey man, I got this. I'm going to be an open guy and I'm going to do some damage in the IFBD and you kind of went right into a pro show, right out of that Canadian national's win. Talk to me a little bit about what you were thinking and what was being told to you after you won that national championships. So you know, ever ever since I started competing in national in 2011, I was already a blessing for me to be in a national stage back then. I felt it was probably the highest I'll ever go. And then in 2014 I won my class for the first time as a light headweight. And then they gave me some pointers, the judges on what they're doing on and I took a year off in 2015 worked on all my lead body parts brought up the map. And I would say I was the most confident that year. And my coach was really really confident for me to the point that he told me, you know, I bet you you're going to win and if we do win we're going to jump into a pro show right away. So, but I didn't know what to step on afterwards because I was a heavyweight. Right. He opened the European team as I liked it all of you before. I was kind of skinny at a young age so it's hard to meet the main thing in a very heavyweight. Right. But through 12 was amazing for me. I love that class. It's just that I was, you know, year after year, shorter people kept showing up. Sure. And I just looked kind of like playing feet on the perfect you couldn't gain any muscle through the right. I mean pretty much. You know what the way we're doing it up exactly. So you did that you do the 2012 in the in the IPB pro ranks. You did the Tampa that year the following year you did what you do to Toronto something like that or Vancouver in 2017. And then you decide for 2018 like a lot of other guys that I've seen do this now you're switching to classic. What prompted that? Who helped make that decision for you and how did you know that was the right decision? So as soon as the class came out a lot of people around me people are like and my friends were telling me you really should do classic that that classes for you. Actually after doing Tampa for the first time as a 2012 one of the judges that I don't remember who he was but he came to me and he told me you should do classic that's what we're looking for. But it still wasn't a feeling to me you know the classic with the lower weight and back then it was even lower I think it was like 190 for my height. Plus the shorts you know it's tough to get out of the trunks and the fact that it was called the classic physique instead of bodybuilding you know right it's a little hard but you know it was always in the back of my mind because I saw Chris Bumsted jumping right into it and he was doing so good so fast so I was like you know they increased the weight and they changed the boxers and and maybe changed the name I would definitely make this way it's but last year they increased the weight to 200 pounds and I was I was convinced enough to do it. You're still out of sucked down 15 pounds to make that way I mean what do you have to do do you basically get down ahead of time but do you have to like basically dehydrate yourself the death to make that way class? It was it was the first experience with my coach right that Toronto was the first time we didn't know we were expecting we always had the same recipe for all the other contests but for this one it was like brand new he had an idea but it was really hard to make a make way. I think I was 210 pounds the night before it went in and we had to do sauna we had to do all kinds of crazy stuff to barely make it actually at the way and I was 2 pounds over and they gave me 30 minutes extra to loop the 2 pounds. Wow that's that's that fun that's not fun. So afterwards I just blew up right because I guess I was so dehydrated and every 8 that blew up and I was bigger on stage so you know it's funny because I was about 2 or 9 on stage as a classic physique and and I was about 2 or 9 on stage as a bodybuilder for 2 to 12. So that you really you really didn't change much so you didn't have to really lose any muscles what you're saying you pretty much had the same physique. Yeah that's what they did to move for me. So you you place second behind Terrence Ruffin who looked amazing obviously that Toronto show then you decide I'm going to do Vancouver. Obviously still in Canada it's not that big of a deal it's on the other coast but yeah I'm going to go do Vancouver. What were you thinking did you think you had a good shot at winning that? Actually I honestly felt like I had a good shot at winning the Toronto Pro not saying that taking away anything from Terrence but after the pre judging there was a lot of high around me I guess people are coming up and saying you look amazing I think you got this Terrence is amazing is an incredible poser and he had a good balance to his physique so it could have gone I guess both ways but when I lost I was still very happy with my placing and again the judge just told me I should go to Vancouver. You just bring the time to physique they gave me some pointers and I worked on that for four weeks in my coach and brought the new package. And you won and we'll see we're going to be seeing you on the Olympia stage in six weeks. Is that a dream come true for you? I think that was like beyond a dream for me I didn't even I never even felt like an ever step on that stage but you know I was kind of like a approach shows as like the humble guy I would I can hopefully talk by but confidence kind of built up and now you know I just hopefully people won't help me out I think I can bring something to the stage. Now knowing that you beat Bum said before and he was second in the world in classic last year do you feel that you have a good shot at making that top three? It was two years ago right that we had to battle and he was incredible on stage at national he was he peak I think he was full round shredded I got second I was happy to beat him and then he went on I think two weeks later to North Americans and you won this class right bro so I mean I think he's the only one I can compare myself to on the Olympia stage right so I beat him before I think anything is possible he made a lot of improvements ever since right ever since he turned broke but I have to so you know anything can happen what's with all this Canadian talent all the sudden we we never had all this Canadian talent all of a sudden the best guys are coming out of Canada what do you guys got in the drinking water up there I don't know we have the maple something secret going on there Southern's going on out of there I gotta find out what it is now you have an interesting background because you have a degree in software engineering you know where you can you learn well you tell us what it is what what do you what do you what is your degree in and what do you skill to doing I guess so in the United States I studied computer science and mathematics because I was always passionate about computers so and the next step was to do software engineering right so you can learn how to build websites and you know apps and stuff like that so that's what's the way I'm doing and I worked as a software engineer for a few years a project manager IT business analyst all the way up to operations lead and at that point I kind of kind of felt tired of working for somebody else because I had a baby in mind but I had like a project in mind and I've always been working on it on the side but I gave it my all since last year in September explained us what fit log is because you told me before the show and I think it's fascinating yeah so fit log is at college we had to create a thesis which was like a basically a product that combines two of your passions and so I created fit log Java simple Java based platform back then and it was just some an application that helped to calculate macros on a diet that that was it and when I showed it to the teachers and you know the judge panel of the masters they really suggested me that I should continue working on it and I did not just stop there right so so that's what I kept doing and I kept adding on features I was also a trainer throughout my time as a student just to make ends meet so I was actually experiencing what the trainer needed and I kept on adding all the features I was tired of reading diets and workouts on Excel sheets and words I hate it and emails and you know you don't remember who sent you what that sounds like man I wish I could have like a one stop shop for everything you ever need reminders diets workouts supplement protocols even like weekly everything so that's what I'm working on I've been working on it for the past four years that's they intensely anybody can go and try it it's for coaches, gurus and trainers or even fitness enthusiasts that just want to follow their diets it's free for the first three clients you put in there yeah and it's free for whatever if you're just using it for yourself right that's awesome that's a great service you're offering so anyone going there sign up for an account it's free download it you put your information all your macros in there and you got it made after your coach and you want to take keep track of all the clients that you're working with which is something I should do except them two ladies and enter all the people's names in there although I might do and I might have to hire someone to do it you could put all the names of all your clients in this week as to touch of your phone you can look up your clients see exactly with their eating taking supplements all that great stuff and and you'll seal the macros listed out correct exactly yeah so like I get to meet the client or we have a phone call schedule I just going to check what he's been eating what he's been training and then I just want to talk about right most of the time you have so many clients you forget to decline the dog on that what he's doing or sure eating so it's a cool way plus you can put reminders whenever like the diet is expiring so it reminds you to that's really what's the most important thing is when when they're coaching is expiring I think what happens is we forget a lot of times you know exactly so that's how I added this feature actually two months ago because I was losing money right as a like how come I made so much less than the last month and I remember that I forgot to count that clients and I guess since you don't like you seem like you don't care but I'm creating the app to make you seem like you care a lot I'm not just seeing but actually care because on top of things right I'm going to actually download I'm going to put a few clients and I'm going to see how I like it I'm going to test it out I think it's a great idea I love creativity too and it's something that you're passionate about it's something you can constantly make better and I'm sure people can submit suggestions to you and you can add on features to it correct? That's 100% like that's one of my kind of like model is I take all the criticism all the comments into consideration I add them onto my road map so that everybody feels kind of like they're building this right thing and I'll tell you like half of my features this year were from people on Instagram just I wish you could add this I wish you could add that and I'll just do it and all that sits mine right so it's very cool. What's your what is your Instagram account? It's Caled OFT and you have the liberty coming up now in six weeks obviously you're pre-preparing for it by the look at your face it looks like you're already ready are you pretty much in contact shape now? Well basically after doing the two shows it was really hard for me I guess back to pack my coach told me we need to step away so kind of like no like notice friction on diet do whatever you want for two weeks right and that's what I did I travel to Mexico and I came back into itself and I started the prep it's been hard you know because I guess with job with from all the sugar and stuff but actually this week I feel pretty good the energy levels are back and losing most of the water that I gave on the patient. Caled it went to Mexico for a vacation he came back speaking Spanish. That's the five days. And it's the list you'll be like NASA or Alcambotti pretty soon you'll have a language that you disposal. Yeah you want something look like that. And what if his languages was Egyptian too? So that seems to be the universal bonding language that everyone uses. Hey congratulations on the big win in Vancouver and the Lippi qualification and we'll see you in Las Vegas and hopefully we'll see you in that top five Oh that would be a dream come true man for real if you don't mind I wanted to just thank my sponsors ATP it's Montreal based it's like one of the best supplement company here. Basically we joined together last year they saw some talent in me I guess and we wanted to work together I never worked with anybody else but their their work ethic there integrity and honesty is really what brought me to want to work with them and people with that kind of values. Congratulations on the contract that's awesome it seems like everything's going right for you and that's that's the ultimate body of all this dream right to be able to do what you love to do get paid for it and be successful in competition and you got all that lined up pretty well right now. Yeah I'm gonna knock on some wood right after this. Very much for your done in my day. When you put hard work and you don't have to try to knock on wood or hope that things good things will happen to you kind of make it happen and that's what you did and I think a lot of people should take a note of this interview and see that you put a ton of hard work in you went to school you became a software engineer you worked and then you started your own business you know you live in the American or the Canadian dream I should say and you know you're your successful guy and you're doing things that you actually enjoy doing and I think that that's a great like a you you're being held up as a great role model for a lot of guys that watch the show and and realize that hey you know what if I'm willing to work hard too at what I love I can make it as well. Hey amen to that man I'll keep working hard on maintaining that image I appreciate the kind words. All right that's gonna take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition visit species nutrition dot com. I'm Dave Pellonbeau and we'll see you next time.ck

Day of Logan Blumbo here at the Public Supermarket on a Saturday night everyone else is at the New York Pro. I am here with my wonderful family, not missing at what's of our Logan. We're going to do an ice cream review right? We're going to review some ice creams because I never do this because I'm not really an ice cream here but a little sick of the false advertising and the answer to the seventh of our piece games even though ice cream tastes good. It's the moment you get a stroke rush into the wind. You know, I'm lactose intolerant. I can't eat milk. Any kind of old products because of the lactose in it. My body just doesn't digest it. So I was really kind of caught by a prioris ice cream has a lactose free ice cream. So I'm like holy mac, well this is my all time favorite ice cream that I will be from prior. So I go in and look at being really enlist and you know what the first ingredient is? Skin milk. How do you have skin milk? Can a lactose free ice cream? You know having to find this, they put the lactase enzyme in it that you digest it and enzyme it supposedly digest lactose. That's what they do. They just throw a little lactase in everything. They say lactose free. This is not lactose free, my friends. This has got skin milk in it which is probably the worst offender if you're lactose intolerant. So very disappointed. The most deceptive marketing I've seen in this supermarket. Yeah, I went and I looked at the lactated ice cream. I didn't know lactate made ice cream. They're very notorious for their milk. And once again the first ingredient I see is milk. It's either skin milk. It's regular milk. Once again throw a little lactase in there. This is eating all the customers right? Look, we don't like that. Right? You say no no no. Say bad bad bad. Say that. Say bad bad ice cream. I knew you're good. Say bad ice cream. Bad ice cream. Bad ice cream. Okay. Let's go to the next one. Now, Arctic Zero is this is where the man is buying. Is a also protein ice cream I guess you can say that they use way protein in here. But they use way protein concentrate between no has lactose in it way way less than regular milk or skin milk or that they also throw the lactase enzyme in there and say it's lactose free. Which is not what this is way way better. Most of the time protein, the then fryers and lactate because at least it's they're making the tap the boost of the protein and paint the lactose down a little bit. It's not lactose free. Trust me. I mean this double ball there started. Now this is what really is an high-fine interesting. This I've eaten these yogurts before. This so delicious yogurts blow and show off to the yogurt. This is a dairy free product. They use coconut in place of the ice cream to give it that consistency like a coconut cream in there. And this would be the perfect choice if you wanted to go with a lactose free ice cream. But the problem is there is a lot of sugar on here. Not as much as in this other product that I want to show you. Which is the order of cereal or what's my other. Oh, no. Hagenas has a non-and dairy also ice cream. Okay, now this is interesting because Hagenas is very well known for their really good tasting ice games. Long enough to get the ice cream from the camera. The thing about this that I don't like is it's got a ridiculous amount of sugar in it. And of course here we don't like high-fifthus parts. This one's a little better. It's got some sugar but not a ton of sugar in it. So if you're going to go with the healthier choice, you know, for a dairy free ice cream, I would go with the so delicious bread. Now, if you don't give it crap, you just want to eat the best tasting ice cream. Just go for an old pag and that's what I know it. But once again, some of us out there are lactose and pome, we don't want to get a lot of stomach subset. These dairy free options are terrific. I suggest you give it a try. Once again, I would go with the so-to-licious. I mean, near yogurt. It does the bottom ice stomach at all. I don't get that crazy sugar rush app so I know it does never ridiculous the matter sugar. And it tastes pretty damn good. All right, Logan, any final words for the camera? What was your favorite color ice cream? What's your favorite color? What's your favorite color? The general. Is it a purple? Can you say purple? Purple, right? All right, Logan, Logan and Dave Mulan-Bow. Here with the man and Ari and Mulan-Bow as well, public supermarket. On a Saturday night, the night of the New York Pro, hope you guys are enjoying your ice cream and your keybeals. We'll see you next time.

Oh, you're fine. Ah, you're fine. So like I said, like I said, like I said, do you like my title? Or for a shoe? Welcome back to a special edition of Iron Rage. I'm joined by Lee Priest as always, and we're going to have a special guest in the studio today. And yes. Yes. Before we get going, too, this is Seedys here. The real lead priest. Did you get suspended from Instagram again? Yes, 30 days, I'm under review because some guy was abused. I said go cliff dive over the rocks. So I guess that's like situating suicide or something. I got a new business suspended by Instagram and Facebook more times than you were by the AFB. So this is, I just started this page for the moment. So if you want to follow me, that's where you're following me until I get suspended again. For how bad this is, how bad it is. Someone on there goes, oh, you've probably got suspended cause you're an asshole. And I wrote back, well, if everyone that's an asshole got suspended, there'd be no one on here. And because I said, and because I said, our cell, we've been 30 seconds. This boy, it late, our second, such and they took my post there. But the guy who wrote our cell, he's post is up. But my post got taken down. You're definitely on a watch list. There's no doubt in my mind that you're on a watch list. Dave, I saw you before we, excuse me, I saw you with Jimmy on the other day. Yeah, I got this, I got this, you got a piece of paper. They're going to be the paper. Yeah, get a bit of paper. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Right this down, right this down. I got a pen to I'll do it with you. Right down 300. Yeah. Plus 200. Right. Plus 60. Mm-hmm. Now, now add six. Plus six. What do you get? What do you get? 666. Unbelievable. Now, now, there's 666 in Congress. Now, let's just say, four more people, four more people came to Congress. What do you got? 670. And let's just say those four people now go out for lunch. What happens Dave? What do you, what do you get? 666. Oh my gosh. Oh, shit. Ah. As incredible isn't it? Ah. Now, let's just say six at those people go for lunch and you back to 660. And then 10 more come in, and we back to 670. And then four people go to the toilet. What do you get? 666. Oh my god. Jesus. It's the same in the face. Ah. Ah. Ah. It's the same in the face. Ah. Ah. Ah. It's the same in the face. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Oh one. I want to be just turned. What do you just turn one of them upside down? This is 69, are wevan extra? Ah! Ah, ah! Ah, ah! Ah! Ah, ah. Ah. Ah. Let me ask you this question. In regards to the suspension of an Instagram, yes? I mean, it almost seems like we don't have freedom of speech anymore. I mean, I don't understand what's with it. What's I don't understand why you can't call someone an asshole. I mean, is that bullying? Is that why they've didn't? I can't even, well, I was even on Nick the polo's finger and he had that, um, what's the name on the comedian that held up the Trump's head? I think I did name it was a what's a name the redhead of the girl Kathy Griffin. Yeah, yeah, female version of character, the character of top six here. It's like when I see her, I just wrote down, oh, God, she looks like a pig. As soon as I put that in, this cannot be posted, even the word pig, you can't say. But who's checking all your posts? I mean, how many employees can they possibly have? How many billions of people on Instagram? It must be set now like algorithms where certain words with me because like I said, that guy said to me in the comments, probably because you're an asshole, you got, you got kicked off. So I wrote, well, that's the case, everyone's an asshole and because I said to her, that's all right. As soon as I hit San 30 seconds, this violates our such and such and this sort of thing, you know, it's, it's very, it's very, you know, that they're monitoring every word that you're writing. It's, it's pretty weird. It's like, if you don't, if you don't, don't follow me. And I want to come up on your thing, you had to save there on the other show, the other day. You got to text me early, Dave, before I, I know, you know, I remember the last of minute, I can't remember anything. And it's true. If you don't hear, we live in democracy, but you don't have to vote, but if you don't vote, you get fined and then it's ex-ADI, it's said, they suspend your license. But now we've got this thing in the mail. See, it's called a census. You got to fill this out next Tuesday and you got to fill out every person in your house, how many people are in the house. It's not to help with healthcare. And what it sort of should, but the thing is to see census data is informed the nation's decisions on local services, funding, healthcare, infrastructure, aged care, blah, blah, blah. So you got to fill it, he's out. And if you don't fill it out, because you're living in a democracy, you get fined $220 a day for not filling it out. And then you don't pay to find, if you have a business, and here we have an AB in, that's like a tax fall, and then you see a business, they'll cancel that, so you can't vote. Oh man. Now, what if you don't get the mail, what if you don't get the mail? You know, what if you don't, like literally you don't get the letter, like you move, then you didn't do a change of address or something like that. I don't know. Well, a lot of people are complaining now, because this is like now you just go online and do a lot of old people don't study old people, if they don't know about how they got to find out, I guess, is what's the news. You got to contact them and now send you out the papers, the fill out the papers, and mail the papers back. But then again, like you said, if you don't do whatever, then you're screwed. And here, this is how badly, this is today, they've been breaking news here. Signes in lockdown, we're in lockdown at the end of August, but where I live, we're not in complete lockdown until now, because they're trying to get everyone to get the vaccine. Last night on the news, breaking news, I live in the Hano Valley, COVID has been detected in the Hano Valley. They're checking the wastewater works, and we have discovered COVID in the feces. So now we need people to go out and get tested because people, people are proofing out, COVID is going to be on the London-awaited water works, we're all the series goes, and they're protected, COVID is the series. So now everyone's got to go get tested. You know what happens when people get tested, more cases come out because more people are getting tested. Guess what? We've got to attack the satellite to me, but not so what's going on here? It's the six, six, six, six, and the three days. Guess what? When you have COVID and you poop, the COVID goes into your feces. You flush it down the toilet, it goes through the waste management plan. Of course, this can cover it in the feces. What are they thinking over there? That's what they're doing there, they're testing it to see what areas come from. They're cause the surge plane, that's where all the surge from my area comes from. They're saying, because we're about to COVID in the food now, people in Newcastle have COVID, see if they can get tested. Lee, I just realized with the worst possible job you could probably get is the guy who has to go into that sewage waste and actually test the fucking stuff. A shoddy, a shoddy monkey, the last time dipping the bottle bottle into the water. Oh, you can't wash your hands. I don't care if you wear 25 pads and gloves. You couldn't wash your hands enough to get that stuff. He got the bottle of water anyway. Oh, come on. COVID. Oh, no, it's T-D from 47. Hancock Street. Someone, someone flushed on condoms. Let's, let's, I want to talk about something that's going to bring more joy to our face than COVID and poops and getting fine for nothing. I got our friend. He's been on the show before Felix Gare, all the way from Mexico. And I understand they want to, they want to start a new steroid line of, of Lee pre steroids over there in Mexico. What's up Felix? Hey, Teddy, how is going? Anyway, I'm still alive, bro. You are. Have you had news in the comments from the last video everyone was like, that man's going to get killed. He must have, he's going to be dead. But Carter, take you out, huh? They did not do up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you for 44 having me here, buddy. Oh, and before everything, to all those mother-and-fuckers that say that my English subs, I dare you, mother-and-fuckers, to do an interviewing Spanish. You actually said, I think you're better English than Lee does, actually. You speak much, much more proper than Lee pre-stas. You don't get banned from Instagram, too. Pull-fuckle? All right, give us, I wanted to get you on it because you, you had an update. We both forgot about your interview. So I got you on here with Lee and I, what's the update on the, on the ground steroid scene over there in Mexico now? You always give us kind of like, what the latest and greatest is, what's going on over there is the stuff better now, or worse since COVID, is it harder to get stuff easier? What's going on? Well, it actually, you will be surprised. I don't know what happened, actually, but in the COVID, many people start buying a lot of stuff, many new labs, good things and bad things happening. The thing is that the Ross were much harder to come as you can. There were coming, they were coming from China, obviously, yeah. So it was harder and harder, but right now, I think it's much better. You got more quality brands. Right. Roy tests have been a big, big, big, useful key down here to test things. I'm glad everyone's used. Yeah, we saw a lot of things. Let me ask you this question, why doesn't Mexico, since everything's pretty much legal there, why don't they just make the Ross and Mexico? I don't know. There was a guy that actually was, has those intentions to start to doing them, but it was just talk. I mean, I don't know. I think the pharmaceuticals, it's a big mafia, I think, like government, saying that as US, you know, it will be, it won't be a good, I don't know, good market, I guess. You know, Lee, they talk about the cartel in Mexico, but really the American cartel, which is the people that support all the drug companies here are probably way worse. Don't you think? Yeah, yeah. Are they relying on you? Can we lose Lee? Now, here, yeah, I do. Of course, the American governments were sent any cartel. They did a big as criminals. They'd get me signed on the government and the criminals stayed. They'd get me, because you know why? If you get 60 fucking people in government and then you get another 600 of them find the drugs and then six people come in and die. That's 6, 6, 6, and then you're 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, and that, and those drawings on your fingers, I think I do. It's the market. You see Lucifer Tated here. Yeah. On a, on a going riddle, Steve, I just write my father's name on my dad. What? Now, but that is the government big farmer is the biggest criminals out of everyone. And the reason they get upset is when other people do it, because they're like taking business away from them. We kind of have people making money that we can't screw out. It's just like anything that's like as soon as you start making money from something, they've got to come and get their cart as ridiculous as that. I think, and back to Mexico, yes, we need the beef brand of steroids which may on the bottle a little pose like that. I think they should have a wee priest brand that. I think that would be very good. I agree. I agree. Just like Romano, I mean, Bionics was a fucking hit for like, when I tried his line, I think he doesn't do it anymore down here. But when it was, it was fire like, yeah, yeah, I mean, for real, I, I blood tested and I was surprised. Yeah, he was making, he was making it himself. That's why it was probably the best. Well, let me ask you this question, what, what is the brand that you should look out for? If you're in Mexico and, you know, you're looking for stuff and what, what are some good brands that are testing out well? I'm, look, there are like, I'm not joking. Like 80, last night I count 80 brands. So much shit in here. There's so much shit still. But I can vouch, like me, I know I'm not muscular and you said, but I've test with my friends and some people that I know that they're buying real Ross, three brands, box elaps, which is, which is, I have a couple of shit here. Oh, we have a lot of money. Yeah, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, hold that up again. I, I like the silver writing on that Lee. Yeah. Very nice. Very nice. Oh, I have a cheater. Oh, they don't know. That's a talk that I want to talk in in, in, in a moment. And make us, that's lead. Now in Mexico, yeah, what they do is, you know, like when in, in, in Australia, the US, if you want to get a sponsorship from like a, a, a, a nutrition company, you get free protein, you get a sponsorship that in Mexico, you get a gear sent to you, too, because the companies that sell the supplements also sell the gear down there. I want, I want, I want a sponsorship from a gear manufacturer. Because people look, they know I'm everything. Like, always tell the truth. So if I say this brand is steroid works, there's 80 of them, whatever, put my name to people are going to buy. We can be the King teams of Mexico. Me, are you going to move to Mexico? Get get out of Australia if he let you out and they are. I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico, Mexico, Mexico is on a green zone, so I can fly to Mexico and they problem. So, so I'm, I want to contract with a supplement company steroid company in Mexico. I got to put you up in this one, like a castle with a big freaking wall around it, you know, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'm not into that fancy. She just get me in the Donald's in a game and it, you know, they're all you take to, and just, just a couple of thousand every month and a couple of bottles of gear and I'll be happy. There you go. Yeah. All right. Come back. That, that's a, a really new modality. So that the three brands are box elapsed, farm a com and XT laps, but you have to find the real XT laps. He has like 13 years. They are even on the, on a ballics book. So they're, they're the biggest ones. I actually, I'm going to send you some exclusive footage to you. I actually send you to your Skype, but I guess you can, you can put up your Facebook because I can have Tyler put it up for that. Yeah. And, but yeah, surprisingly, the new methods of selling in here is like that, sponsoring like, if you wear a supplement company. So it's, it's very, it's very, I don't know, weird. Maybe because I don't know if in other parts of the world they are making this and, and they actually give your cycle. They give you sometimes if you compete in another country, they pay your flights, they pay absolutely like a supplement company, but they give you steroids. So it's, it's weird. But I, I don't know if you're not speaking to about who do I speak to about these contracts. Yeah. And, and let me tell you, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, you're going to have like 20 people, 20 companies contact you after this show saying, will fly you in, will put you up, will give you a house, will do whatever, you just wear our shirt, you know, absolutely. I'm there, I'm there. All right. There are a few top Olympians that are sponsored by Mexican-Sary Labs. I don't know, it's many names, but you know, heck, heck, heck, they, heck, they have Olympians, but not have the most truthful person in body building. It doesn't talk shit. And I'm only five foot five. If anyone needs to grow four miles, they're like, that excites. Are there any, are there any, are there any, what are everyone? Felix, are there any compounds out there? Any, any drugs like that are kind of unique that we haven't seen in a while that are being produced legitimately by these Mexican labs, you know, like maybe like methange, or diproponate, or injectable, Diana Ball, stuff that like are like classics, you know, get to the Diana Ball. Oh, wow. Oh, I think I'm leaving my family and divorcing my family to come down there for that. Look at this stuff. What is it? 50, 50, M L's? Yeah, that's a kill. Does it cut? Can you get it in a bigger bottle? That's what it does. This is a 50, that was just 20 years later, the way you take drugs. It's like, it's like, you're just, how would you set much? You just put on the eye, they have an eye and just like, no, Valentina would use a bottle of that a day, the bleep. He's loaded on one. That's one. That's one. Yeah, that's one by seven each bottle. There's plenty of, I got this from a bed pharmacy, right? Or of, you're not going to believe it, like $50. Oh my god. How many, how many, is that 50, M L's? No, 100, M L's. 25 million grand for Jesus. Oh, that's perfect. I used to use 25 million every other day. That stuff is great. The cheapest, the cheapest I now here in Australia, like, if you just want to get like, sus 250, a 10-millimeter bottle of sus 250, the cheapest you'll get in Australia is like $120 a day. Wow. Wow. That's a lot. You can get in much, much cheaper here. But, um, you know what, you know, guys, what's happening here? Mexicans are now getting the new substances. I have a, I have a friend, who made DMP, like, but he, look, look what he did. He did DMP and he makes them 10 milligrams. So it's, it's like, safe zone. Yeah. But, I don't know. I mean, so, I remember that you said before, Dave, that the problem with DMP is that the, the safe dose is very close to the, for that fake to the little, right? I mean, right. You know what I mean? The, the, yeah, the promise, just when you're taking enough to get good results, you could actually take too much. It's like, GHB, you can kind of go over that line very easily. And I believe that in different people's bodies, they metabolize the DMP differently. So, you know, one guy could use it and it works perfectly. The next guy drops dead from the same dosage, you know. I've never, I've never done DMP. Once I heard about what it does, I think it's stay away from DMP. Yeah. I've done D.P. And don't really think D.P. He's very close to the other guy's penis on his, a bit of affection. But, that's a little bit more scary at the point of being people. You know, sometimes you're scotted to be cast. It's like, it's like a sword fight, the rabbit hole. It's a sword. Just saying, I know that sort of stuff goes on in Mexico too, because they go to the potty drugs down there as well. I'm going to Mexico. We should come and then, oh come. We have come to Mexico. Superdrol too, Dave. It has became so sorry, guys. I'm a little nervous. So I'm trying to don't worry about it. We're enjoying all your information. Don't worry about it. Keep it coming. They like, they like, they like, they let me pop some tennis. Oh, no, just kidding. I twice. But did they do I see a sick, I think? That's a small behind them. No, his beard. His beard is, it's shaped like a sick sleeve. See it? How do I go back to me? Or is that a sword? Or is that a sword that's a sword that's a sword that's a sword that's a D and P bottle. If you turn it upside down, the paint looks like a stick. If you get to end and you're up the other two, you'll be tough. And you draw a little bit on there and then the teeth. Take it away from the thing and connect it. Six, six, six, six. That was fun. I don't feel like sorry. There you say. Yeah, well, I put this thing like they are introducing into the market. These new compounds, which they are not new, but in the Mexican market, they are new, pre-multaps. Oh, really? Have you tested those pre-multaps? I do, but I don't have the fucking video. I was going to buy the right test and I was willing to do it right here. But it didn't come on time. That's one of my favorites pre-multaps. Yeah, it can't get, can you still get, can you still get, can you get, I'm not here in Australia. Can't get really pre-multaps. Yeah, well, I'm not here. I'm not here. I'm not here. I'm not here. For a pharmacy, no, no. They are discontinued for too many years. Then we talk about feel like the fact that pre-multiple powder is really expensive. So, I'm surprised that they're making real pre-multacetate tabs because, yeah, you know, I would imagine, if I was a guessing man and someone told me they had pre-multaps, for me, I say they probably die on a mold. That's what I would say. That's the point about this sponsorship. It's growing. These guys are getting much more money. Yeah. On certain people, making much more marketing in social media. So, they have more money to invest. Right. And they actually are doing the things like right on this spot. And it's crazy. They are doing super-drilled too. But young guys are abusing it from like popping ten a day. Yeah, that's so much. That's very toxic, super-drilled too. But the pre-multacetate tabs. I'll tell you why I like them because women can use them because they only have like a four or five hour half life in the body. So, it's not like women were being exposed to the drug for the entire day where if you inject pre-mabong injectable, it stays in your system all the time. So, you're going to get a much greater exposure rate. The ass-tate tabs. And for men, if you take like a pill every four hours throughout the day, I always found that the last like six weeks or so, I've got really hard on those things. They really, really harden your physique up. So, it's a good drug if it's real. And, you know, I'm assuming that you, like I said, you verified it. And so, that, I mean, that's pretty amazing. What, how many pills are in a bottle? In this bottle, 50 pills. Yeah. I mean, not a hundred pills just fits. That's all right. That's how the old German ones came. The, the pre-multacetate tabs. Yeah. 25 milagrant. Cool. Yeah. Very good. And yeah, the market has been has been changing in good ways and bad ways, too. There are so many guys. These years, I got like 10 young boys with his cheeks infected with, you know, 30. I mean, and this one, and he just says, that's what happens when you get these guys, you know. All I heard was 10 young boys and they take it in their cheeks. Or, automatically, a boy fucking jade bite. Ah. You're like, too much. Yeah. Yeah. But, so you say there's a lot of dirty steroids out that the people get infections from. Absolutely. As far as they, I mean, they're good, very good stuff. Only those three grants. But the other 70, eight, something like that, they're completely bunk. Right. And I actually made a video in my channel, which is a, I mean, it's a very little channel in English too. I made a video. I thought I took a moon and I did go to each pharmacy. Yeah. And the point of the video was tips to avoid of getting scammed, you know. I'll give us some of those tips. Let me hear it. Well, first of all, if you, I mean, I don't want to advertise my channel. But if you see that video, I record a pharmacy and each, that's a fucking mafia girl. I mean, I don't care about seeing that. But those pharmacies, you gotta stay away from them because all they have is fake. Like the GHS, like the, uh, the, you're talking about the touristy ones in the tourist areas. Yeah. And border, yeah, tourist, everyone, every, every Mexico tourist zones, like beaches, um, in the border, in the border towns, like Chicoana, you know, they are all over Mexico. Like they have to actually avoid those, those pharmacies. They must go to let me tell you two good pharmacies. Pharmacias Benavides is, is not, is one legitimate. Yeah. And let me, let me write that down. How do you spell it? This time is, is it six? Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. And, and the other one is pharmacias, Wada Lajada, just like the city. Oh, that's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. That's the one. Wada Lajada. Wada Lajada, you can get over there. Wada Lajada. Real or ready, Jack, sauce to know on the free, multi-stombe, but which is testament data. How much of the red Jack's going for nowadays in the pharmacy? There are a lot, right? Yeah, like $30 just once he sees. That's crazy. Well, who's going to pay for that? That's nuts. It would, that's shrink compared to Australia on the first. Yeah. Well, there's plenty of people that really don't trust on some brands and they mostly the new IPB pros from Mexico because I don't know, you have seen that we have much, I have you, pro. Oh, you got some great pros coming out of it, right? Yeah. So I think they are like the guys that are investing in in most arm, arm of products. But yeah, like the underground maps, those three that I told you are, you know, the best ones in the market right now. Well, you know, I appreciate you. Like informing us. I've never been to Mexico, so I'm willing to come and I'm willing, if you know people at these free, good companies, I'll take any sponsorship from you. I think when you decide to do your show, we figure out what you're going to do. We are at, I think you, you know, Randy goes to Dennis James has to make sure he doesn't cheat on his son. I'm going to go to Mexico. You've got a Mexico. Yeah, you're going to Mexico. 12 weeks. I do seminars. I can do seminars in Mexico. I can train people. I can get stem cell and get drag out and party and party and can't cune and do everything. Just don't get the infected cheeks while you're out of that's all. Dave, Dave, before we go to, I'm sure Felix might want to do these two. And you got a dollar bill. Have you got a dollar bill? I would not do it. No, no, no, get it, get it, get it. I'm getting my dollar bill out of your home on a second. And why are you always carrying a dollar for anyway? That's where I want to open. I'm an American. I got money. I carry cash though. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now fold it in half. Yeah. Yeah. Now fold it in half this way. Yeah. Now fold it in half this way. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Now fold it in half again. Which way? That's right. Anyway, you decide. Yeah. Now fold it in half again. I can't. Now what do you get? What do you get? What do you get? Direct. So fucking fingers. So fingers. I think I got a 666. I mean, a hold on a second. Hold on. There's a 6x. The x in the game. The x in the game. And the c. There's a 6. And you got free dollar bills. And you do it three times. You'll get 666. Oh. And I just so happens. I have three dollar bills in my wallet. Only three. Is that a cool one? Oh my god. You're a part of the luminality. Uh oh. Now take the M in the c and the x in the one one. Minus x, add the d and then add the c and then add free go back to the M minus set by three and you get p and what do you get? C3, p o. Star Wars. It's fun. And the universe. C3, p o. All right. This is my room. I'm going to start. Lee priest, Kairin, moving to Mexico together. They're going to roommate together and Lee's going to help Kairin ready for the Olympia. And then Kairin will help Lee for his comeback to the Arnold class in March. That's going to be the he's going to help he's going to help me dance. And then I'm not sure. Because Phil, he put now to these pictures. I think there's a kind of this between Phil and Kai. Yeah. You see, he can drum up the most bullshit. That's right. He's going nowhere. I'm going to say this. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. All right. Phil, I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to. You. I. You got to. You got. Yeah. Just me. Just me. I got us commitment on the air right here. Look at this. Look at this. Imagine that arm on a bottle. Yeah. Oh shit. Yeah. That. Oh yeah. Hellwork. That was ugly. Something in. And the good thing is in Mexico, too, there's a lot of short Mexicans like me. Yeah. It's Lee, the T-shirts is a trust your priest, you know, and then put the brand name right in the need that you know. And the T-shirt would be T-shirt would be black with just a little white. That's right. That should be the brand. That's what. That should be the logo. The bottles to look like a little priest. And that and that white bit on the color. I see an even just goes on the Catholic priest. All right. So. Just have a little. Jack can be the. That can be the. That can be the. Peel away. That can be the peel away. That's here. Open the bottle. You peel the little white thing. That might upset a lot of people because there is a lot of religion and Catholics in Mexico. So we don't want to upset some of our customers. Dave. That's right. That's right. That's right. I'm sure you feel it before we before we wrap this thing up. What give us a one more great bit of information that we might not know about the underground scene over there in Mexico. I've got to write it down. Well, you guys with those three brands that I've told you, you can you can get you know good qualities cheap prices. And I think XT lapses is actually sending to the US a lot. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They have a real facility. So that will be convenient for for the guys. I mean, I've been receiving gear. A lot of people sending me free stuff from the US to Mexico. Actually, right, to try it out. And man, uh, it's not that good. Like like the year from the US. It's not that good. That has, has mostly the American people said, you know, I have a lot of friends there. But I started using injectable superdrol and man, my fuck, I was I was so fucking, um, pumped it up like three, four months ago. And then I was at my mom's house. And I was sitting like this. And that the air conditioner was, you know, really swam here. So I started feeling through a very, very, very, very, very scared like like like, uh, so I, I noticed that I was starting fucking losing hair from that. I mean, I was scared of something. I don't know anyone would use some of the drugs that are really toxic. I mean, I know the superdrol probably injectable form is as in quite as as toxic it is as an oral form. But I, I wouldn't use see the reason why certain drugs were never made by these sub-former, statistical companies legitimately was because they were deemed too toxic. Yeah. So they didn't make them. And a draw was probably the most toxic drug they actually physically made and prescribed. Everything beyond that they said, you know what, this might be a little too dangerous. We're not going to make it. So of course they wouldn't grab all those drugs and they started making those and sell them. So if I'm advising people, I always tell people stay away from the really toxic drugs. There's so many good antibiotics out there that you can use that don't have that level of toxicity that there's no reason that you have to find the the one that is the most toxic and use it. That doesn't mean it's the best. It just means you can have the most side effects from it, you know. That's very good of big pharmacy in America to not put out any poison or toxic drugs to the American people. You know, not like I'll see cocktail coding or that's the thing. They're very, they're very worried about you know, I thought like they're going to sell your cigarettes or anything. That could cause cancer. I'm very happy that the farm of the studio got company in America. It really looks out for the Americans health. Go USA. What's T X T sponsors L T sounds good. Yeah. What's the what's the number one selling animal that would you say right now? So I agree. We're a laboratory. No, I'm saying like drug. Like what drug is the most probably purchased is it testosterone? No, no, I'll try and belong for a sure. No, people are mostly travel on. Why is that? Why is that? It's all a young kids, all the young kids are still on the right way. It's a grain or trend this trend that trend this trend that it's like I used trend probably three times and the very last time was with caffeine would have been around 2000 and not 2000 and four. Get rid for an eye me and I put it in my shoulders. One looser when you put it in. I thought you said because it's skin stuff it may be even if it's based in alcohol as soon as I pushed it my chest got I mean the quietest ever. I couldn't even cough it was that time. I'm going to have a heart attack. I'm going to end up on the bathroom floor and leave all in my arm. So I never used it since I thought I didn't get this whole fascination with trend and young kids. I thought I talked about trend this trend that I'm like my god. And everyone that uses a lot of trend when I look at their pictures on Instagram and Facebook. They look shit so I don't know why. They're doing their first cycle with trend. I know that who runs like once he's he a day and I know for fact he's using real trend and real dose. So I mean it's very it people are getting argued you know what there's another compound that are getting so popular which is worse. It's trend below mix. So it's I mean I think it's more toxic. I don't know if the parabolic which is supposedly in there it's real or not. I don't know but people are dumping that shit in five or five that you're in just you know I mean these few are in just and you're getting results but I don't know I mean they're getting acne they're getting all the side effects their peeing doesn't go up. They're getting acne they get acne they're losing their hair but they're not getting any muscle but okay what happened to the old sock was when I started I'd just be deca and then my next sock was deca and doyen about what happened to the good I told the guy I told the guy once he wanted to use trevon it's let me tell you something. I want to use 25 milligrams three times a week just experiment truck he's like I heard you got to use a hundred and five times a week I used 25 if you can handle 25 milligrams three times a week then you can you can raise the dose a little bit this guy was was was getting bar fights this it was he completely changes personality because it really raises your aggression level up tremendously it makes you agitated it definitely raises blood pressure you sweat all the time on it it does make your body look good if you train hard and you do all the other stuff right but you don't really need as much as people think and I think that's a mistake that people are making I love trends my favorite one of my favorite drugs but you don't really need to use as much as you think 50 milligrams three times a week or every other day of tremble on estate is more than enough trust me if you do that you won't notice a lot of the negative side effects and you'll get most you just positives that's a guy I don't know if that's true I was going to ask you is that any true that trend really affects your brain cells like your thoughts your like yeah the brain cells I'll tell you something I'm a very mild matter guy always was I never really I'm always very peaceful I'm not really looking to get fights with people I'm not an asshole by any means in the sense that I don't go around starting looking to pick fights when I would take tremble on I was so angry all the time and I didn't even I didn't even connect the dots what it was being caused but I thought it was so irritable from dieting but the second I stopped the trend like when this one of the show was over and everything like that I completely changed my mood it really does raise your anger irritability it just it and it puts your nervous system on edge which means like you can never relax you can't it's very hard to fall sleep at night and some people get like trying to kick up from it some people get in the gestion because it overstimulates your digestive system as well it's not a great drug to be on for a long period of time if you're going to use it for a short period of time to get ready for competition that's one thing I wouldn't be staying on it for months and months and months though and that trend called me I remember that you said in one episode that you never experienced in the 80s and 90s you never you never you never was parable no only with trend acetate I noticed that yeah I think I heard the soul things right I don't think so I think it's the trend I think the difference was that when we used parable and it was only 76 milligrams you used it twice a week every three or four days so I think you just didn't get it because the dosage is worn high enough in tremble on the parable and had a very slow slow absorption rate it was a long acting compound so you didn't get this massive amount of energy and release it immediately so I think that's that might have been one of the reasons why but you know who knows what the real reason is you know it could be impurities and I don't know but it's trend alone across the board does cause that cough so I have to imagine it's coming not from the preservative but from the actual drug itself so well that's happening in Mexico guys that's the way we don't see a much more muscular people we are looking we we have much much better drugs much better better quality yeah much serious businesses into the industry here but we don't seem better bodies I think I think they are fought for focusing more on drugs than diet and and training programs and stuff you know still it's still at the end of the day it's about diet and working and supplementation and taking the right doing the right workouts and you know genetics yeah that's what I was going to say I mean Mexicans we just don't and he's not excused you know but you guys have good genetics though that's the difference you guys do have good genetics I think we have good genetics for men's disease but for open body builders I mean we just don't have not even one we have to 12 guys but you guys are shorter and that's why so I mean you know there's not many 12 Mexicans what what's wrong with being short you say nothing you'll fit right in you'll blend in they'll think you're Mexican don't worry about it they have good day put genetics for God they'll say look it's it's one more kiss hey yes okay leave you have a one up to Mexico and I say go swim how's it goes man yeah he was from New York he was a good bodybuilder how's he going to say come to Mexico and get it go pregnant and started I don't get anyone pregnant I was going to say that Lee you should come to or change the genetics with a Mexican girl is going to yes how about that isn't idea that's an idea bread your seat around we I'm going to come to Mexico I'm going to get sponsored by one of these drug clinics they're going to take my blood I'm going to give a little sample in a bottle and they got to take my DNA they got to sell my DNA from my blood and semen I'm sure I could do it someone can do it and we can have this like lead priest yeah this is your joking but you know what the a couple of people in my neighborhood I have a lot of property here they have cows and they're like I said how do you breed your cows I don't see any male bulls running around here they're like oh bulls are dangerous they buy you could go online you could actually buy vials of semen yeah and they send it to you in the male and I sent you just ejected into the females you know and then right place and you make baby cows that's amazing you don't even need boy and pretty soon they're going to pretty soon that we're doing that with us we'll be obsolete males they'll just be storing all of them they say they say you know because the bulls are dangerous having sex with the cow imagine the job jacking the bull off the they how dangerous that dangerous is that job but that will be a woo you can charge any woman to get them pregnant whatever you want lead imagine having a child of lead I want I want to love a child I'm going to love to have a priest yeah I went out with a porter recon once and this sort of close to the Mexican retirement talent they're crazy and I watched those movies and I like animal kingdom and stuff and all those girls are connected to the cartel so if you don't treat them right now come and talk to people oh yeah yeah one more time this is very I just discovered this 680 right down 680 no I don't want to do it right down this is this proved the illuminati's real and the earth is flat oh shit look at this right down 680 all right 680 minus 10 minus 10 minus 4 what do you get 666 and look I put it on the round piece of paper and when I ride on the piece of paper 666 happened to look what happened the paper became flat oh no it's like the flat earthers to you you're a genius yeah and mark of the devil what do I got on my shirt this must be some kind of a luminati symbol too it looks like it doesn't it look tile on the bottom look on actually on the bottom will be sure look that's a six and a six and a nine at the top on yellow two sixes on the bottom and that one at the top is a six at six zero six six I don't know what the zero is for mark and that would be like that see I just did a blood sacrifice last night right there it is actually they look they black look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look look at the blood I fix six six six on the shirt it's a date I can see it Jimmy could see it you think your body I'll do the special symbol right they do this and like this they're like that or you know that's the the illuminati symbol I got it I'm losing my money thank you Felix they put on more than other mission of iron rage don't forget to subscribe to the least new Instagram the real least priest that's a special symbol thank you I want to leave for you here in Mexico yes I want to get sponsored hook it up you're gonna get a sponsor I'm telling you thank you very much I tell you leave 12 weeks before the Olympia you got to go out there in the train with your new sponsor and your new year let him gear right America I lived in America 18 years and I never been to Mexico that's crazy yeah I think there was nothing this I think there was nothing to see because everyone was coming to America from Mexico so I think it was what should I go to exactly what he did I will make you a party if you come you didn't know you're missing

Welcome back. We're in the show where John Romato, Lee Priest and I, event our frustrations with the world, John is on a job site, but I got Lee Priest all the way from Australia, and Lee, taste topic. We have actually a topic today, we do. Even though it was a topic, you know. What job should I say on it? I don't know, he said he's working all day. He's got a, you know, earned a living now. Yes, he's a real person. And you believe the where is your dad at home? Deeply picking up the Mexicans? Yeah, either that or he's probably making tremble on in Mexico, someplace, you know. Chump, chump, chump, chump, chump, chump, chump, chump. Chump, chump, chump, chump. Chump, chump, chump, chump, chump. John didn't work a real job. John didn't work a real job. He's whole life until he got to be like almost 60, and now he's running job sites all the sudden, you know. He's job sites at the Becket College, James with the boot open, fucking job site. So today's topic, Lee, is a topic I wanted to talk about for a while. It's bodybuilders that are so consumed with bodybuilding that they actually sacrifice, they lose everything in their life. They lose all their money, their family, their friends, their relationships, and ultimately their health. So it's good to be consumed with bodybuilding and focus, but if you get to a point where it becomes detrimental, destructive to health, first of all, what do you do, and how do you stop that from happening to begin with? Well, you got to balance, it's like, even in the beginning, it's like, I was always like, it's like, it's not there. It wouldn't be a crow bodybuilder. So I never took a that serious, it's actually getting trouble from the other competitors backstage, because it always would be joking around. So you got to take it seriously, you got to take it seriously, you got to take it seriously, and I'm like, it's not as good. It looked the hard work done, I've died a day on. If I look good, I look good, I look good. If I go on stage, it's up to the judges' why, what backstage is the fucking beyond me, and like I said, as long as you go to the gym, and you take the training seriously, you go, we need to get your work out done, and stuff like that once you leave the gym, it's okay, you can go out with the family to a movie, you can go out to a park, you can go out and have fun, but you get these guys who once I go to the gym, or fuck now, I've got to go eat, go home and eat, and they sit there. Hey, you want to come out, not come out, go out, go out, I might fucking burn muscle, so I've got the fucking stay home. I've got to eat again two hours, I've got that, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, let me take a fucking jab in the fucking shoulder, up back to the gym. That's what they fucking do, and then they're like, the whole life's been doing that, then they get ready for a show, and they go in the more detrimental mode, jab and more fucking gear in themselves, not going out at all, getting angry at everyone, I was like, it's not their fault you're diving, you're the one to choose the fucking diet, don't take it out on everybody else, it's like, I didn't get angry when I was diving, people know I just fought there was something wrong, because they'd be like, Lee, you say quite, because I just sit there and think about the show, or what I've got to do next, the cardio session coming up, and I never got angry at anyone, but he had these guys when they got to be so 24, seven, they're going to burn out mad me, because they're just so like, I've got to train, I've got to eat, I've got to do this, I've got to do that, do you want to come out now, I'm getting ready for a show? Well, fuck it, I'm like, excuse me, you can't go out because you get ready for a show, just like, they just go fucking nuts, and like you said, they're relating ships to break up over it, the family hates them and all these sort of stuff, so, it's like I said, it's good to be serious about your train, stuff, but you're still going to have that balance side life, because I find that you know, if you've got the outside life, you're making so much easier to focus on a show, but if you're 24, seven training, dieting, thinking about this, thinking about the competition, thinking about, if I can gear and stuff, that'll simply, you burn out more physically. So, how did you stay so balanced like that, through your career? Because you lived in the environment, you were in Venice, you're going to go. I mean, that's where everyone lived the body going like, so you ate at the firehouse, you know, how did you prevent yourself from going over that edge, sort of speak? I didn't hang out with body builders, that's what, ah, that's good to see that. I don't know, I said, I ain't body builders, friends at the gym and stuff, but I never train with any other pros, I just train with normal people, and then when I was outside the gym, I hang out with normal people, I go to the dog park and hang out with fucking elderly people, walking there, don't you? I do the car racing, so when I went to a car racing, now it's a totally different group of people, different sort of things, so I can't stand that, you know, there'd be a couple of people when we go to the firehouse, someone from the gym I say, hey, Lee, can we come along? I think we can, I'm sure, come along. After 10 minutes, I'm reading the fucking shoot myself, because the whole time in the firehouse, so what do you eat after training? What do you eat before training? Now, when you get ready for a show, what drugs do you take? Do you take a, is it something you fucking talk about? 24 or 70's fucking body building, dieting drugs? That's what I talk about, so I can't hang out with people like that, they drive me fucking mad. When I, this is true, sir, when I would go out to eat with Greg Colvax in his wife Kim, I don't know if he ever went to eat with them, his wife would be there with a pen and paper. She'd be taking notes. It was like I was being interviewed during the meal. And I was very good friends with him. I love to hang it out with them, but don't get me wrong. But, yes, she was always right now, so they were always looking for the secrets from everyone, you know? That's the thing, people think there's secrets all the time. It's like, I say what I'll live report, do that, we never got to stay here, or it's when I used to hang it, you know, you'd eat with somebody other pros at the firehouse, like flexing it. Not once, do we ever talk about fucking drugs or cycles or training or anything? We just talk about general stuff cars or this sort of stuff or different types of stuff, what movies are coming out of. It's just general chat, but these young images sadly, the whole life consumed about the drug cycles. And this isn't more so now you go online. You know, before we didn't have, I read the forums back in the day, there was no fucking Facebook crap, and I don't think my space was the big thing when it came out. But the forums, or people talked about it all before, even then the magazine, you go to Jimmy Talk to mates about eating and training. But now every question is seen on a forum first thing. I think about doing a cycle. What do you guys recommend? Instead of taking advice of dickheads on the internet, they're telling them what they recommend on data taken. Saturdays guys take it, they'll do a show. Nothing happens, so they think, well, maybe we've got to take more next time, so they take more drugs and more drugs. That's just fucking crazy. No, because you see these guys sadly, who have always said it, you're going to have guys who are going to be to delete the guys that are top just due to genetics and that, they use it a bit of gear, makes them that much better. You got that 1% of guys who will be in the top pros. You'll even be a caliber guys. And you're always going to have the guys who have been a good at state level, national level, but that's as far as you're going to get, but in their mind, they think there's some secret if I do this, a little bit extra if I ask you to sky what are you taking, what combination, maybe if I do that, I'll get to a pro level. Sadly, year after year after year, you'll see them, 10 years down the track, still drawing the breaking of the pro, and just like you said, doing their health in, the friends and family have pissed off because they've got to be a good, it's a straightness never going to happen. So like I said, this could have goals, but you've got to be realistic too, and you've sported it. And I maybe never got to happen, but you can still train look good to national level shows. But as far as getting into the pro, it's something that's never going to happen, but yet the whole life is consumed about I'm going to be a pro. I'm going to be a pro, I'm going to be a pro. So like, yeah, I'm going to be a pro, or I'm a pro. Fuck with it. If you don't, Lee, you were such an immature person personality wife, and diet, and so like that. I mean, you know some of your contemporaries, let's take a guy like NASA. NASA's seen like the most coolest cat you'd ever see, and he was probably taking more drugs than everyone. I mean, it looked good. He ultimately destroyed his kidneys and died from it. So, I mean, how did you get, stay out of getting caught up in the race? I call it the arms race. You know, more than hard drugs. He's using a thousand dollars. He's two thousand. He's using three thousand. I'll take four thousand. How did you stay away from that? Because you could have very easily fallen into that, hey, yeah, I call you a money you were making. You could have afforded to take 12 I use in GH today if you wanted to, but you didn't. Why? Believe it or not, Dave. I am sensible. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. No, no, no, no, no. It's like anything. It's like, don't let the looks deciduous. So you're going to look at me and people here in Australia think a fucking biker drug dealer or whatever thing. But I'm not, I'm just pretty laid back. Cool. That didn't know you know guys who dressed well in suits, but a biggest fucking criminals out there and nice clean young people. So he can't let it look, you know, judge on how, you know, that people will. But no, with me, it was like I said that one time Trevor from Nuclear Nutrition, he had me use 800 milligrams of Tesla. Once I felt shit, I was always just went back to what I used. Because I said, the little bit so I used always work for me. So I've never had that mentality from day one where it's like, when I got into the sport, I knew drugs would have involved, but it wasn't like had that mentality where I need them. It's like, okay, if I get that it's legal, I can't really for a show. I have to take him to use him, but then when that shows over, I come off him and say, I'll come to the next contest. There wasn't one of these things where I need him to train hard without him. I can't get big without him. I can't do this. So I never had that mentality where as people think, you know, you see guys all the time, I can't get with him. I'm not on drugs. I lose sight of him, I'm not on drugs. It's like, there's some kids at the gym. They come up, they're like, I said, I'll train two times a week, three times most. They don't need properly. They don't train properly. They're kind of, hey, I'm doing a cycle now. So all of a sudden, they're in the gym five times a week. They're eating six times a day. Right. But I got his gears working great. Look, I put size on my strength score. And I went, if he just counted the gym five six times a day, and thought, okay, they probably, he would've got the same results. Yeah, right. Because they're on the gig. And then they won't come off, but then when they come off, they get it like, I've lost all my size and strength. Four of the times I've done cycles, I've never lost size, never lost strength. I got size now. I haven't been taking anything. As long as you keep eating good and keep training, you're going to keep what you have. So they said, so just, yo, yo, yo, yo. Just I've got a friend that has been on the gear for six years straight. Never come off. Every time he said, I'm going to do a show, I'm like, okay. Here we die into the four weeks, as soon as his T-shirt gets loose. He's fucking gone mental breakdown and fucking puts the dog. I can go back on, you know, taking more. You're not getting, because he can't handle. I think he gets smaller, sir. I've never had that mentality where I need drugs to do what I do. It's like, okay, yes, I have to use him for certain aspects, but I've never been on a more year round. People like, oh, when you come off him, you're a little bit for PC to, you know, they're not, no, like come off him, like fucking come off him, like, okay, I'm not using smaller amounts of shit like that. I'm off, sir. Right. But like I said, these guys just think they need to be on 24, 7 in the amounts. They take, he's just ridiculous. That's why I've said the guy is, to do take these ridiculous amounts. Come off it all to give us that of a smaller amount, train hard, eat good. You'll get the same fucking results. I said, the other one is getting the good results from you using the large amounts, he's the guy you buy and lock because you've got a driving a new fucking Mercedes somewhere and live in a Mexican and Florida, like, John Ramano, you know, I'll just say, and, you know, you know, did you, did you ever interact with like, Momo, Ben and Ziza? No, I've never met him. I think he just passed away before I came over. What about Andreas Munzer? Yeah, and he was a nice guy and stuff. So, and then I say, when you have people like that when they come out with, you know, this cycle's and stuff on what they're using. It's like, you know, did the drugs really kill him? Or did they have an underlying problem to begin with? It's going back to before way. That's why I said, it's good for bodybuilders to get checkups and stuff because if you do have underlying problems and there are things that are, I'm sure, taking a views and the large amounts of some people do with morals and stuff, isn't going to really help and that sort of thing. So, it's good to get those check-ups if you are. If I can, a views and the shit which most do and, well, they say, that's what's still a nice bit of seminars. I'm sure you've been seminars where people ask me what are you using. They call me a lie, I didn't want to face my tail and 400 milligrams of this and that, or such two 50, I take two meals, which is 500 milligrams a week. And they're like, oh, we heard you take this. I'm like, oh, fuck off, I'm going to take that too. I feel like I take it up the ass and stuff as well, but I'm the one fucking doing it. I'm like, oh, I'm doing it. I'm not a fucking know, would I? So, rapidly, don't you think it's because you're a genetically gifted individual. Obviously, your body responds better to smaller dosages. You're just, you're a different creature. And there is genetic freaks out there like you. Yeah, I'm sure there is. I'm sure there's guys out there, but you take a little bit more. But when I say a little bit more, I'm like, talking like, you know, when I was in England, you got young kids that look like shit, taken 5,000 milligrams a week. It's like, you know, if 2000 ain't going to work, three or four thousand ain't going to, if I can do you any better. So it's like, you know, your body's going to get to a point where it's just like taking too many vitamins. You're going to piece them out. You take too much steroids. You're body can only, you know, I'm sure it can only take so much in. So, when you just pumping that much in, your body can't use it. That's what I said, it come back to being a realistic again. Is this sport for you? You might never be a pro body, but I see you might be a good amateur in the top level, but some guys might not even be that, but yet they're like, I'm going to turn, I'm going to turn, I'm going to turn pro. And I've always told them, if you're going to be pro, you'll know it. If you've got the exact same to be a pro in anything that God given, talent or whatever, it's just going to come through before you even touch it, but these ones are done at all, but they keep thinking about taking more, it isn't taking more at that. And like the ones that I said, talk about a 24-7, trying to get all these information, actually get too much information. There's like, you know, you seem to the gym. The last one guy, what should I do here? It's like what should I do? They're seeing me over and asking another guy, how should I train this and what's like what should I take? It's like they get all these fucking bullshit information. They're trying to condone it down and okay, what is guys said, take a fast, this guy said, two, well, I'll go 15, you know, that, okay. This guy said, dude, listen to that, you know, then he end up with someone like, foster Lloyd. So what are you doing? Don't you think Lee though this should almost be like a boot camp? You should have to go through like a certain training camp, you can get through it and prove that you could actually train with high intensity using good form, you know, heavy weights and show that you know what you're doing in the gym. Then you should have the privilege of using anabolic steroids because if you can train right and you can't get your meals incorrectly, okay, then all the steroids in the world we know won't do anything. Let's go. I get in trouble with saying that a lot of online because some guys saying, I'm taking this, I'm taking that and I look at the profile, I said, I said, I said, really, what are you taking it for? You don't need it. Why not? I can take it on, I said, yeah, but to me, it's like, if you're not really going to compete, why use it? Because like, you know what I know, if you train hard, like you said, and he goes through proper training, trained, high intensity, eight well, it's not, you can still be in a great physique, she needs genetics, moderate genetics, great genetics. You're still going to build some muscle tone and dieting down, you know, you're going to die down, you always look better. You don't need to drive surfing and metallurgy people thinking they're going to pump and never do enough of a women. They're not going to compete. They just want to do it because I want to walk around looking bigger, do this. So I think get that helmet tell me, it's like, if I never can compete as a pro, I would never have taken steroids in my whole fucking life, I wouldn't have had any need to. So I think that helmet tell you these young kids that just take it because they say, well, I want to look good. When you can do that anyway, we've had the steroids, but they think like I said, they want to get bigger and bigger and sadly, those boot camps that need a good fucking psychiatrist at the end of that fucking. I have a serious thing. Think about it. If you did a six week boot camp, it taught people how to train and eat properly. And if you wouldn't graduate unless you could actually prove to the instructors that you could train properly and that you could eat properly. And I guarantee if you brainwashed that proper way to do things and the people's heads and you gave them half the dose. Okay, of what everyone is normally taking nowadays. I guarantee they get better results in every other person out there because I believe that the training and the eating is really what dictates the results. I've been a lot of the two. And to remember one time this guy at the gym, he's a girl. He's going to go on a cycle. He's like, like, I want to do a cycle. Just kick, fucking hassle me. Can you get me? Can you get me some Diana ball? I want to try to end of all this. That way. I like to look just train hard. You don't need it. So we're like, okay, we're getting some Diana ball. So we just had Diana ball, fucking bottle laying around. I just feel that full of fucking sacrament tablets. I said, he just take fucking five at ease a day. Five at ease a day. Five at in fucking three, three or four weeks. Fuck, my strength's going up. I put so as, because at the same time, I'm told him to eat more and train. I'll spot him in morning. He's fucking bench. I was going on a bit. So I can't believe. I've got so much bigger and stronger. I said, those tablets, I give you next time you take him. Fuck and chew him. You guys, you guys. Fuck this. Wait, you guys. I said, if I can shove it tell it's you dickhead. Fuck you. Fuck you. I said, I said, there's all in your fucking head. Wasn't it? You thought you were taking Diana ball. I said, I said, I have to, he's going to take him to the restaurant. I said, if you were going to give him a shot, even though I say it's three meals in a three. You can tell it's three meals in a three. You can tell it's three meals in a three. You can tell it's three meals in a three-thousand milligrams. You can tell it's three meals in a three-thousand milligrams. I said, I have to have the time it's just all fucking mental. That's the thing. It's like, you can just, you know, if you get a spot or someone, you think they're helping you list the barn. They're not in the fucking push the way up and stuff. So, comes to anything. Is that fucking placebo effect? You've got to put it on Diana ball. It's just fucking shook the table. But yeah, he's fucking body white when up by 20 pounds. He's strength went through the roof and fucking goes, only because he put it's taken Diana ball. What do you tell the people who come to you that you just see they have the worst genetics of all time. And they want to be bodybuilders. They got the cycles listed out. They got all the drugs in the drawer. And they're like, you just know, this person is completely wasting their time. Do you tell them to square out? Yeah. You do. I do, but I don't know. I get abused even online. I get abused. And then that is one kid once he said anything. Is he in the house he's taken? Yeah, he could be a doctor. You got to get through all these fucking, my mom and dad was a doctor. So now he's in his fourth year of going through the degree to get a doctor. Right. It sounds interesting. You know, I'm thinking of giving it up. I want to be a bodybuilder. And like, do you create a set? Why don't he just be a doctor and still compete as a deacon. Fucking be a doctor with a good physique, you know? Because that won't be professional. So he seems to be these photos. I said, look, honestly, man, I said, he might have a nice physique. Not going to be a pro bodybuilder. So just keep doing the doping. So you kind of the great job. You make lots of money. He wrote, back fuck you cut off. I'm like, oh, well, it's like go ahead then. But you know, he's trying to be honest with people. You get so fucking mad. The question is, where is that guy today? Where is that guy? I don't know. That's the thing. I love to fall off in some of these people that have given me a abuse saying, I'll show you sort of stuff because that's like I said, that's good to have a goal. I say, like, you got no chance to begin the body going to live twice as they want to be a bodybuilder. Bodybuilder, bodybuilder, it's like, start small. Maybe start a local share, but they're coming saying, I'm going to be a Mr. Olympia. I'm going to do whatever it takes. I'm going to do to be Mr. Olympia. You know, they're going to be Mr. Fuckin' Pico. Bullonver, to shut the fuck up. It's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that's like, that whole thing we've reality and like I've said it before. For some reason, bodybuilding and that attracts the biggest decades around because like I said, I got made to play the golf on the weekend. They play tennis, but they're not out there playing tennis. Same next week, I'm taking on Dr. Vitch and I'm going to fucking beat that kind of win, win, win, win, win, well to no. I got made to play basketball and like, you know, what, what's we going to use time? I'll be in the fucking NBA, fuckler, bro. And I'll be fucking bed on him. It's like, they do it for some because that's what they do. But everyone gets in the body going to go to the GM things to go to the fucking Mr. Olympia. They take drugs and then get it. And that young boy went on to become a man. Exactly. And then the wrong way. I'm going to be like, well, I'm going to be a fucking... ...a really weak one. I'm going to be fucking... I'm going to be a fucking... I'm going to be a fucking... ...a really weak one. I'm going to be a fucking... Oh, sorry, that's... You know, just, just leave your story. Bob Brushkin told me I went and post for him when I was first... I had just left medical school and I said, I want to be a bodybuilding. He told me you go back to school too. Yeah, I did hear he listen. Now I did, obviously, I didn't listen. He posed a naked foreign to. Yeah, almost. But hey, Lee, you know what? Good to hear from you, thanks for joining us today. You know, I just want to tell you one more thing. That advice you gave me five years ago. Go fuck yourself. That it works. Let me tell you something, Dave. What if the hokey pokey is really what it's all about? Yeah, and then there may be. It's just my big. I think about that. We're as John Romano though. We got to do the investigative... Yeah, he's not a good one in the job site. And that was what we're trying to... Whatever, it's what we're trying to say. He's doing his fucking A&L's interview. Yeah, exactly. I've got to ask him to do the same. Thank you. All right, I got one final question for you. Phil Heath, seven-time Mr. Olympia, is no longer on the contract now with AMI. There's no more exclusivity contract with him. So, he interviewed with MD. I'll probably interview him in the next week or two, whatever. Give me one question that you think I should ask. The more would be a one-good lead-preest question that I can add to the list. You would like to know about Phil Heath. Did he really run up and down that mountain on? Oh, I'm... I'm the movie. I've been listening to the body, though, yeah. No, I didn't really have the question, but, you know, did you say I got abused a lot by people when I said Mr. Olympia opened, might be on its way out of the classic to see coming in. People are like, oh, fuck you, late. The Mr. Olympia's going to be here forever. He's thinking as far as marketing wise goes, if they're trying to get it mainstream with the rock coming in and stuff like that. I figured they're important to get seen. The Mr. Olympia might be going the way of the Mr. Olympia, so I'm not going to abuse. Fuck you, don't you talk about, Marmar Marmar Marmar. People got excited about the fact that you kind of hinted that you were going to be competing in 2020. I got to tell you. Yes, I saw that. Yes, well, you know, classic physique never seen it. Why I said this? Well, then again, I missed out on your last episode where you said these trains, Jen, that's fucking bikini. The bikini here I fucking come. You know, I've got to get a nice sequence. Top, some nice, high, some kind of tactic. And I mean, would you do a hair weave like that for the long hair? Is everything? Yeah, and the lashes, but I got to know what a star's placing is go. How high up do you have to go to swallow or can you just spit and still get a top five? You know, Lee, when you were 14 years old, I don't think you could have made the classic physique class. I think you still were too heavy. I won my first Charizard third day. You've come on there, give me a little bit of credit. How much did you weigh at 13 years old? I think I was about 50 kilos, 110 pound. Yeah, you could have been classic back then, that's about it. After that it's all over. By the time you were 16, you were huge already. Yeah, so flexy, see that? I make it. And now it's on about I'm coming back and now it's like we sent flexy's going to retire. Yeah. Well, he's returning to 12. So you can still get him in the open. Maybe flex and I, if I turn into a woman, we can do the couples. You're one of the happy the mixed pairs. Remember that? Someone was asking me that someone's asked me that in the straight because my daughter's going to compete in the armed sports model, part of the world in September. Really? And she was asking about the couples because I did the couples with my mum she goes, if they've brought the couples back, maybe we could do it. I'll be like, oh, you have a fucking old pervert on stage. Yeah, you have to hold that. Does you, does you don't have good genetics? Yeah, yeah, I forgot some pictures up on my Facebook cover. I mean, on my Instagram, it's good to see you follow me Dave. You know, thanks for that. Well, I, yeah, I have no, I don't really look at your Instagram to be honest. I don't look at anyone's Instagram. The tail of the gym. She's in the gym train as you're not fucking dancing around stage. Like fucking Shaun's daughter and shit. What if like, yeah, what if like Shaun read, what if Shaun read head on your daughter? Would you be pissed off? I'm sure he probably has already. How old is that? That's okay because I like the way he's daughter dancers. I've been sending her messages too. How old is your favorite love and wool? I'm a Catholic priest. I'm allowed to do that. Oh, you don't have to have very good genetics, Lee. Oh, I've just, is this showing your picture? Yeah, I'll take pictures of her. Yeah. Thank you. That's very good to take. Yeah. So there you go. Impressive. There we go. So he's so in September. She must inherit that from your father. What's his name? From last week. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. You're out of the family. You're out of the family. You're not going to be doing it. You've got a very similar disease to yours. You know, when you were first in playing, you're complaining about the daughter already. You're not going to die at seven weeks. And you're already bitching to the hell. What have you done to tell you she wanted to get a tattoo in her face? Would you be alright with that? That doesn't bother me. Oh, you don't care. What harm can it do? That's. You're a big, you're a lazy, fair type of dad. You're not, you don't get too involved. I'm very open, father. I don't care about anything. As long as it's not hurting anybody else and it's not hurting yourself. And, you know, to each their own, I say, Would you like to see it? Would you be okay with your daughter competing like the, you know, the figure, a lip-eal level or maybe women's disease? Yeah, yeah. It's not as long as it did it safely because I wouldn't have our, like, you know, so you wouldn't be. She, but if you had to use, there was, and then she said, look, I've got to use them at this level of, like, you know, I understand that. So, you know, as long as it's done safely, I'm sure she went to doctors and had everything checked up on stuff. So, that's like I said, you can't, you can never really stop them from doing anything. They're going to do it. We can do it. Go on. I don't know what they're doing. They're right. They're right. Because they get some parents who are like, I'll never let them do this. I never let them do that. You know, especially the ones I got friends there that have daughter's growing up. And they're like, my daughter's never going to date. She's never going to do it. She's never going to have sex. I said, you know what? It's kind of fuck up happens. Just remember, when you were a young guy, banging someone's fucking daughter, you know, you're going to touch my daughter like that. I said, you get it to guys. I said, you know, my daughter can't do anything. She was feeling, tell me she had sex. I didn't get mad at her. I said, well, she's open and can tell me about it. And in the back of my mind, I was just thinking, fucking karma. That's it. Just kind of, let's come in. Come in back. You know, please, please, don't get all the same upset. My daughter's not going to date, you know, what's going to happen. So, at least I'd rather everyone, I'd give you the daughter when it can come until you think it's going to be open. We can stuff like that, rather than hide stuff. Here's some of these overpowering dads that just got around. Right, right, right, right. So, you're going to be as a father when you're too close. You're too close with parents, that's the two cool words. Hey, you just got to be like that. I said, like you said, if you get mad, let me tell him not to be otherwise going to. So, we all did it when we were young. You parents just started to get it. You're like, fuck that. I'm going to do it. So, that's how you go to be. They say, dad, I'm going to be gang-bang. So, don't ever gang-bang. So, okay, just go do it in time. So, experience life. Go out. You know, take the numbing cream in case it fucking gets sore and swells up. But, you know, you just go out and enjoy life. Come on, let's do it again, but at least you've experienced it. Get that any system there. So, you're going to do it later on. You know? Why is words of wisdom from leaping? In way of protection? Way of protection. There you go, right. Just say now. That's my, that's going to be my modest my daughter. Just say, no, and on that note, leaping. I can't hear him. I can't hear when he got chloroform died. Sometimes he's like, I don't know. What's that? Just to say, no. From leaping, stay below in Tyler's shore. We'll see you next time. Bye.

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Ramon O'Leapree tonight, event our frustrations with the world, Lee Priest, Colin and obviously from Australia, John Ramon O'Missing an action, but Lee today's show, the topic is about fat dieting. I gotta tell you, I'm so sick. If I get one more question from people asking me about, what do I think about this diet? What do I think about that diet? What do I think about this diet? This guy said I can eat chocolate cake if I don't throw this in many carbs. This person said I shouldn't be eating fat. This person said that if I eat protein, I should only be eating the egg whites and fish. This person said I should only eat red meat and then I got the guy who's got the carnivore diet, the only eats meat all day long. I can't deal with it anymore. Why can't people just go back to normalcy? Remember in the 80s and 90s, there was a diet that everyone followed. It worked. People got in shape and they did shows, why does everyone have to reinvent the wheel? I don't know, I tell them that they didn't reinvent the wheel, but what I think it is now that there's so many so-called personal trainers and experts out there that everyone just trying to make a buck come up with a new diet, put their name on it, give it some fancy little name out of number two and they say this is what you mean to stick to. But like I said in the old days, now I had all these fancy diets. You know what you gotta eat the polka? That's nothing at the point when they say those pictures of me. Lee, were you on a dirty polka? What sort of polka would you do when you're doing that? There is no type of polka and you just fucking eat food and you get heavy. That's what there is. You want to get lean, you cut the fat food out, you cut out the fats in the process foods. You know, eat clean and get on the fucking treadmill and just start training a bit harder. So, but now everyone's got this thing, like you said, so much protein. I've even got the guys out here now to go and get their blood done because they've got to find out what blood group they are because a blood group can go with the diet. That's another 3 days, right? It's like, I'm blood group A, so I can only eat this type of meat and at this time of day and then they have what you said before about that fasting diet, we only eat so many meals a day. It's just giving me something right. That's the thing. Yeah. And then all the came out was after a show you go and eat, but now that's, do you have a refeed? Do you go refeed your body? It's like a feed my body every time I fucking eat. I don't know what a refeed is. And once a second, what are you going to do with it? I'm going to do a negative day, right? Well, as soon as you talk about it, they said, like, all we're, looses is what everyone's doing. You've got to count your macros. Well, I think your might day, you had like a little calorie count of book and you could work out how many calories was in the piece that you can stuff. But then after a year or so, you pretty much knew it and the more diety you did, you just went by looking at it pretty much knew what the food was and the best way to go was by the mirror, I did some food if I was hungry. If I looked like I wasn't losing weight, I just cut back on a bit of food or just doing more cardio. But now, everyone's got to go to go, come up with these fancy ideas and like you said, don't come and ask you what the gym, I'm eating this, what do you think I should eat? And then I go ask another person, I'll train it. But as I should do it this way, I can have a guy diet not long ago. Maybe six months and next thing I see with the gym, I ask another person, I'll try it, it comes over here, I'll just speak to think here, because my cards should be done. And then I'll go talk to him and why fucking ask me. That's just stupid. You know, back, I remember when I was reading the Bodybuilding magazine's, when I first got into it, I remember reading Lee Haney's meal plan. And it was so simple, it was in the morning, he had two hall eggs with another like six or eight whites and he had a bowl of oatmeal. For lunch, he had a chicken breast, he had a bowl of rice and he had maybe a tablespoon of olive oil on it. I mean, it was protein fat and carbs. It was basic nutrition 101 that was that as always worked for everyone and then when he got ready for a show, he cut his carbs back. That was it. It was so easy to get it worked and we all did it. And yeah, granted, we've learned a little bit more about supplementation now and essential fats and maybe some vitamins and minerals and something like that. And maybe we know that we have to take vitamin D nowadays. But the basic nutrition is nutrition. I don't get these people with, oh, I could eat it. Don't it once a day on my diet, because it fits my macros or I'm only eating six hours out of the day now, but I eat 4,000 calories in that. Or I got to eat 10,000 calories because otherwise I'm not going to grow. I eat, Lee, it's driving me nuts. I got to be honest. And I do diet to people all day long. It's, I can't believe the ridiculous thing that I see out there. This is like the old days, like when you said the old dieting, like Arnold was milk egg steak, you know, just for protein milk and egg proteins and stuff. Staking potatoes. It's all the way. Like I said, Lee Hayden's diet, we used to talk about then the egg white, two whole eggs egg whites, I don't know, there's pretty much my breakfast when I'm dying. And then I'll have chicken and rice or steak and rice and then later in the day, I might have steak and vegetables or chicken and rice and chicken and vegetables at night. I said, I've always just stuck in a basement. As I said, it was not broken. That try fix it. Sure, maybe these days, some people, because everyone's got some fucking our mid-carb sensitivity. Well, they said the kind of that, I can't have this or they're a little too much. It's like, so then then you might have to, you know, tweak someone's diet. But generally, majority of population, if they just stuck to the good old basic, it's going to work for them because I live just saying that if you're on Saturday every day, I hate when you give someone a diet at the gym and like, sometimes it's for your mouth's more than me, but I'm not thinking on women here, so they come down on me. But you give them a diet and then you see them doing cardio two hours a day. They come back at the gym and train at night. And then four months later, how much weight if you're lost? I'm still about the same, because you and I know if you just clean up your diet and just start training doing cardio, you're going to lose fluid in like a week or two. You're going to drop a couple of kilos just from water. So if you've been on the diet with giving you for three months and nothing's changed, well, you're fucking cheap when you go home or you're eating pizza or something or I love this one. You hear the personal trainer, the gym teller clients just so they can keep ripping them off. One way weights to save and the client, the personal trainer says, well, what's happened is you've actually lost the fact that you're gained muscle. That's why the scale hasn't changed, but I'll get the calipers out. Oh, yes, look, you've actually put on muscle, but you've lost body fat because your waist is a centimeter smaller. Yeah, I know. Percuss. And the other thing that drives me crazy is that people cannot go more than 10 minutes without putting something into their mouth. They got to be either drinking branch, changing the meat away, restaurants every minute of the day where they got to have an inch of workout car, but they got to have, while they're on the toilet, they got to stick an atom erupt their ass, you know, just hit it to adjust it. Extra couple of grams of a glutamate. I don't get it. Why can't people just let their bodies diet and lose the weight? I see her. So I got a person who was an India. They, this guy, his former coach had him take in so many intro workout, branched Shane Amino as his glutamate, creatine, all day long. The guy couldn't lose any weight. I pulled all that. I didn't change his single thing about his diet. I just pulled all the crap out. All those powders that he was drinking and he got in shape in two weeks. Just from taking that stuff out. People think don't understand this calories and that stuff. You can't lose weight if you're always putting something in your freaking mouth. Stop drinking. Stop taking stuff. You're seeing with the gym. The gym is just drink water but now the other day, the other day, the intro workout, the trip is water. I never knew you were going to have to do that. During the day, the thing is, too, it's like, I forget every fricontas on regiment. If only I come to eat. Every two hours every three hours because you're putting something in. Because it's lean food, you're always hungry. But off season, people couldn't believe it. Because you know, we've been over before what I say. After you're trained, you've got to go on eat. There's an antibiotic window. I was like, you know, I wish somebody's comes with jump-out. That fucking antibiotic window from 10 floors up. But, you know, it's like, if I ate something as off season, I think when I'm hungry, I might have a big meal for breakfast. But then, if I'm doing stuff or going out, doing things, I like not eating for four or five hours. I'm not one of those people like, I've got to eat now. I've got to eat now. Well, at the time, you've been in the shows where guys have popped up. They're not contested, really. But yet, they're carrying their fucking S square around. They're carrying their fucking gallon, four gallon thing of water. They're going to fucking dehydrate. I'm going through the Simpson desert. It's like, bloody hell mate, you can get water anyway. You're not going to die watching a two-hour bodybuild. You're going to show me, you need to chuck a water. I just think, yeah, and like I said, carrying my meals, I'm carrying mainly if I was dying, but off season. I could go out and ask without eating enough to work out, maybe. I might have a protein drink, but then I might not eat for a couple of hours. But these people, I've got to eat now, I've got to put it over. I've got to find food. I was like, fuck off. You look like shit anyway. So something's not working. It's like, I don't know about finding food. You better go find some fucking genetics. That's wood stuff. When you're dieting for a show, the idea is that your body is living off stored body fat. If you're constantly putting something into your body, your body's going to use that as the fuel source. They're not the stored body fat. And then these people wonder why they can't get into shape. You know? And then the best thing is you see these same guys at the show. They're not in shape, and they're eating 4,000 grams of carbs to carb up on. And the water that's still like sweating profusely, you know, you're supposed to be dry as a bone backstage. And these guys are so bloated and sweaty, because they're eating so much freaking food in it. And that in shape, it's disgusting. And then they're like, I think I need to take insulin next time. Because I'm absorbing my food or something. What about the ones that are still fat backstage, sweat and like pigs? And you go back and eat in a chocolate bar. And I said, one young kid wants to eat it. It's going to bring my veins out. I'm like, what's going to take a bite? I'm going to take a fucking one of those wet shop vacuums to bring your veins. You've got a pump, they fucking water out. He has like, smooth as a baby's pump, but he said, oh, I hear you're like your chocolate and bring my veins out. I said, yeah, maybe if you've been there, or pull a rabbit out of your ass too, like a fucking magician. Just like somebody's people just have no idea, but they're always constantly eating those things backstage. Then it was wide backstage. Everyone's got these little tricks to do. Why in your mind? If you're dry, I've always said, if you're dry, and you're in shape, you're in shape. Sure, maybe you might get a little bit of a sugar rush from some of that stuff. But these people that think that, like, a look a certain way, but when I go backstage, what a magic happens and they come on the knee here the next day. Well, you know, I wasn't carved up enough. I had it carved, I was too deeply. It's like, what excuses come out? That's why I've always got ready. I've already two weeks out. That way you can play around with your food, play around with your diet. And see how your body responds. There's these people to think there's a magic pill at the last week, but I said, the whole dieting thing's just like I said, they're over-complicating that. That's like, what does the good people dice? They look at me sometimes and go, oh, he's at it. I'm like, well, what did you expect? There's not rocket size, but you're there expecting some big thing. And then you get the ones that call you up nearly every day who women are the worst against, or either hop on the scale every day. I'm up a key, like, I'm down a key, like, or I'm up two key, like, just like, just a fluid fluctuating. They're obsessed by the scale. It's like, stay off the fucking scale. It doesn't matter. Looking in the mirror. See how you're looking there, but yeah, and then you get the ones I said, they've got to be it after training, what are you going to, like you said, your body's got to burn the fat first, but they're thinking, you've either eats straight after my workout, my body's going to go straight and fucking eat on my muscle. But it's like, for one, you got no muscle to eat, so I might start eating your fucking bones before it fucking, if I can scale it and collapse it on the extreme. Yeah, I said, I tell him, you got plenty of body fat, don't worry about your muscle being eaten up. Yeah. Those, those do if you open the day and eat, for fucking months, you'll have a bit of muscle. And I think they're, they're worried about their inobonic windows. Too bad. So I think you, I think you'll survive if you don't miss a meal after you work out. Well, I always say the most dangerous people backstage at a show are not the people that look the biggest and close. It's the skiniest guys that enclosed it, have the Ethiopian life faces like they stay looking to have an eating meal in a week. Those are the guys who've been watching out for them, so when they take their clothes off, they're fucking shredded. Those are the people that went to the house. Well, call me, you know, I said, I mean, because every time I go back to the side of the way, black, black, black, black, black, black, you pay, it's a big black jumper, outstanding in a corner. Now, one paid me attention, I'm like, good, I just face the wife from everyone, but every time I pump up, I don't go into the toilet, put the oil on underneath my clothes, come back, yes, and I'm still sleeping. Have you pumped it up? And every time I took off the Christmas hair, I go, we had a fact in that shit come from. Like I said, you just under the clothes. I remember when, serves you, break back in the day when I was young, come here, guess posing. You had on a black, cool piece, like jumpsuit. Right. You can tell he had shape on him. Like, yeah, he looks like, okay, you can tell he's like, nice, shoulders, more waste. Doesn't look nothing big, but when that fucker walk down on stage, your guess pose and the spotlight hit him, it's where you put 200 pound muscle suit on, he's just massive, you like. Yeah. Was that the same guy that was just in that bloody thing? But you have seen it before, day when you go to his national contest, a band-and-white guy would be on stage or a lightweight, and you're like, fuck, he looks incredible. He walked past you in the audience, you go, wasn't the same guy on just on stage? He looks so small and closed, but when they're undressed, it's like, and then it's the opposite, the guys are in a massive, and their clothes get on stage and look like, he bloated the loons. So crazy. Yeah. Well, what I noticed is it's 6.30 or 7 in the morning there, and it seems to be getting darker rather than lighter. What do you guys have in the clips over there? The sun's coming up, look. That's not a new tattoo, that's not a new tattoo, all my face, that's the Venetian blinds putting sun. I thought you were like, I thought you did a zebra stripe sign your face. Yeah, a commando look, you know? No, it's actually getting lighter, because I think we're coming out of, and September we're coming to Summit here, I think you should go and see the other side of the set. Yeah, absolutely absolutely. Well, I'm in Florida, it's always summer here. Now, Lee, oh, I'm always summer, and always old people. That's right. I'm getting old side, but that's why I belong here. Let me just tell you this though. You know, finally, you know, to end the top of what's talking about, all the craziness, if you have a gift like one piece of advice to someone who's like, looking for a coach, or looking for the right, maybe die, to get them in shape for a show, what, what should you look out for, and what should you look for? I don't really just look for, you know, if you get to a gym long enough, you get to see people who might see them have transformed their body, they don't have to be completely a body, because you might just see a normal person that has started off the gym, they've been overweight in a loss, wait, can I just go ask them what you do, get some ideas from them, because really when you talk to people, it just comes down to sensible leading. That's why here in Australia, we've got the things on TV, they want to be in, you know, co-copop ads, and they want to be in this and that because they say it's causing kids to be a beast, seeing having these sugar cereals and McDonald's is causing the obesity, it's like, no one's forcing you to eat that food, I said, you know, they say we need more education for people, I said, even the general public who doesn't train, knows what's good and bad, you know, Kentucky McDonald's, you've eaten enough of it, it's not good for you. So we all know what to lose, but it's just, you know, the fact-class foods, you know, I'm more convenient, it's a lot of people eat it, a lot of times, I don't know what it is in America right now, but they always say you've got to have so much fresh fruit and vegetables a day, but here at the moment, the feed you've had a lot of kids, that's more expensive, you know, the chewing cream burgers from McDonald's works that cheapest atly, so, but it's not that good on the education, we all know what's good, but I just tell people stick to the basics and if you look for a coach, like I said, because we know what's is good and bad, you can pretty much do it yourself, because like I said, it's all trial and error, you just gotta see what works for you. You're gonna have someone give you a few pointers, say try this, try that maybe, different foods, do you want time, a day, you want to eat, but that's the main thing too, people with jobs and that just have to try and schedule a meal, just different, because if you are a pro-voidie, you've got more free time to get those meals, but if you've got to office job, you might be able to have a breakfast, but you gotta go to work and you might be able to sneak a shaking at some point a day, you might only get a quick lunch break, so you can't go and eat steak and this lunch time, so, you know, if you want to do what you can do, you know, there's meal preparation, you always see how many things we see on Facebook or fucking Instagram, meal prep for the weekend, it's got the meals laid out, who gives that fuck? He's my meal prep for the week, I just take a photo to go and purchase a McDonald's, there's my meal prep for the week, I've got personal chefs that make my food every day for me, sometimes they're young kids and they fuck up my order when I leave the dropper, I've got to go back and get my fucking chocolate sundae, but you know, if I'll excuse them because they're young, but even he actually here in McDonald's, they get like $80 an hour. I heard that you get to see him, you know, I didn't know this, when I went to Australia, I went to a restaurant there, and when I finished eating, I left my usual tip, I leave, like what I was in New York, and the waitress was almost ready to like, you know, she was gonna offer to clean my house, and I afterwards I found it, I asked what the house going on. They're like, you don't tip here in Australia, I'm like, you don't? They're like, no, the waitress is making like $25 an hour, because they're like, they're like, they're like, minimum wage for like a teenage, just 16's like, seven, two, and eightying to all the sundae get down, so yeah. So that's, you know what tips in Australia, lead all? Now, sometimes if you went somewhere fancy, fancy, you might, but now one tips at all, but the thing is, you know, sometimes you don't get good service in a lot of places, because they are, they don't have a chance, right? They're like, they'll fill your drink cup up, you won't seem for the rest of the night, like fuck, you have one drink, when I come back, like that and get a shit, so they're through the diamond, so I was like that, and it's like, that ain't key, but when they're working for tips like in America, you get really good service. So if you hang out the strain along enough, go to a store, where I just, you know, clothing store it at, service is pretty hard to get that, go beyond the counter on a telephone, like, yeah, customer, okay, is like, so service isn't the greatest, but the alleyway is pretty good to do, yeah, absolutely. Well, the guys, the more all the story is today is, if you're looking for a coach, if you're looking to do a contest, I, simple is best, because it's not a complicated process, as Leonai have related, when things seem too complicated, and guess what, guys, you might be getting scam. Keep that in mind, for now though, on day polonbo, with Lee Priest for another installment of Iron Rage.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low carb hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm back. That lower again. Uh, you're fine. It's like I say. It's like I say. It's like I say. Do you like my tailbone for a shoe? Welcome back to another installment of Iron Raid. I'm the plubbo joined as always by Lee Priest. Now here you're going to be now that Chadwick Boseman has passed unfortunately. A lot of very sad people. I love them as black Panther. I hear this opening so I hear that you are now in contention for the new roll of black Panther. Is that true? Uh, that's actually cool. Do you have a soda cartoon? Simba the white line? Yeah. That's me. Um, the white line. Simba. What a great cartoon. Yeah. Black Panther. You can't replace black Panther. So what line is coming? I got to. You're going to. What a sad story. I mean, here's a guy. You know, I didn't even realize when I read his obituary. I didn't really see the guy who acted in the Jackie Robinson story. I don't know if you ever saw that movie. It was really good. Very well done. Uh, for those people don't know Jackie Robinson. He was the first black man to play Major League Baseball. And he was so, you know, ostracized. I mean, it was horrendous. What this guy had to go through to break that with a call to color barrier. And, you know, and after him, obviously, a lot of other guys followed. But he was the first, you know, well, imagine could imagine him see in pro sports now in America, where it's probably predominantly black people. Yeah. Like what that, huh? Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. But you know, the fight with the feet. Well, there's no funny thing really about it. But Chadwick was really good in that. And then he obviously made, you know, his name as black Panther, which is really the first African American or black, if you want to say, superhero. You know, and I thought the movie was great. I'm obviously, I know you are two. We're both Marvel and Avenger fans. So, yeah. I mean, and I think they had planned some future movies. And, and the funny, the weird thing is that he was diagnosed and was being treated for cancer, while he was making all these movies. It's amazing. It was able to get to the satin and never, no one knew, no one knew. Yeah. No, it's funny because I watched him on a figure would have been, could have been when 21 bridges come out or just after that he was doing something else. He's in that there's a movie on Netflix now. He's in that's about the blood to five blood or something. It's about like a Vietnam type thing and they go back to Vietnam to get some gold or treasure or something. It's not Netflix. I think it's called in something blood or something. You'll find that on Netflix. I think it could have been in the last movie. But, you know, so I'm on the Graham North and show it on interview on a set of my wife. I said, God, he looks skinny like he's lost a lot of weight. I just figured maybe, you know, somebody's act is giving that their role like Ray, right. Fripping by him in the mechanic room. He lost the weight. Just being like that. That's interesting. I was thinking maybe maybe just losing this weight because when he's still up he just looks so thin and I think maybe stars are sort of smaller in person when you're soon. But he just looks so thin. I think I may be his next role because after seeing him in black Panther, he had a bit of size on him and stuff like that. He just thought, well, they're going to just go on around helping lots of kids and cancer wars and stuff like that. But nobody knew about sure he was going. And then, you know, I saw a couple of posts. It was a while ago, the head pictures of, you know, a pop-arazzi follows people as he can come in out of places, taking photos of him playing all the young drugs, looking in the look at what he looks like. Oh, when he really does that. Yeah. Those guys must feel pretty bad now. That's for sure. Yeah. Little did they know they had kids. That's what it gets still. It's like the pop-arazzi's like, look, I understand. Look, if you're at a premiere of a movie or your son way of doing something for a movie or stuff like that, okay, he's a picture. But in their private life, like maybe you can walk in down the street at a cafe out there and probably get one. But, you know, when they're with their families or on a holiday and they get photos like that, I think that should just be totally illegal against the law. You know, where someone could have a place to keep caught and they're at the beach or in the front yard and they've got helicopters for and over taking pictures of him sunbaking. If you were right, did that would be fucking arrested for talking and taking photos. Yeah, but different lives for public figures. It really is not fair, like you said. It's because it's a... Well, it's not only the standard, it's like, you know, somebody's had a promotion on their outdoings, I think. But family time when you're with your kids or on a holiday, that's private time. That should be off limits the pop-arazzi because, to me, that's just fucking ridiculous. They need their, you know, better laws for that type of shit. Yes, we might like the one that they do, but, looking. Some of the times they're when they're out. You'll see for top pop-arazzi. I mean, stars that will say, look, okay, I'm out of my family, but he five minutes takes some photos and then leg this alone. You know, that should be respected, do it and then get out of there. But the handle more day and fall on the ran here, you see, he's here, he's there. But he's holding his wife's hand at the end of the day, then not holding hands. They must be fighting me. Oh, wow. Or how many people have been taking pictures of your biceps, like you said, at the gym, you know, is that an indesian in your privacy? But I'd say, you like that. You like that. No, it's like anyone comes over at the gym. They're always saying, can I over photo? I say, sure, but a couple of times I did catch people where I'd be training. I look over and they're like this. That fetus, right? Look at it, he just come ask me, oh, do it. And then one time I was in the firehouse and those these two are so the other side and I was eating with my friend Kurt and I'm a closeer. I never got the video camera sitting on the table. I can see the red line on and they're filming me eating. I'm like, fuck and hell, so I didn't. I just started getting my burger and chips as I'm sure it up on spit it out like, don't go. Like I'm a fucking, like I'm a fucking retard. We're going to, we've got a photo of Lee eating having a stroke. So, please, oh, be. And that's why he eats like that, right? You know? But they're trying to sneak those pictures like that. The funny is one episode that threw me off of my training partner when I was squatting at golds. Yeah. And then I went on gym. Please, sometimes the Japanese too. It's always coming that by our people's or world gym. Yeah. You're way, way, way, way, way, way. We're self-established stuff. I don't know what they do. I think they just love it because they're going to go to golds and get bags of golds. Yeah. Clothes and, you know, because I've definitely got it. It would back in their country, but yeah, they, I was still in squats. I was ahead of about six or seven plates going super heavy. I'm psyched up. I walked back. And my friend Marks behind me spotted. I think I got a picture of you on the back of the five six plate mark I'll send it to you. And then just as I went out the squat, these Japanese, I just sort of stand in front of the camera and go, click in the flashgauge. Ah, you like it in the back? Yeah. Ah, fuck. You know, you just focus on doing the squat and all the sudden these camera comes. Yeah. Yeah. You're, you have a watch out. Fuck the old days when those valley out belts, how about the Velcro belts? Yeah. You put one of them on your get for a heavy lift and as you go down down the belt guys. Yeah, break up. Yeah. Yeah. The stupid, it was the stupidest belt of all time. And what they did was they got lead, lead the broadest spot to the, Yeah. It was like the spots and athletes. Everyone figured, well, if Lee's wearing the belt, which I'm sure you never wore the belt in Jim, if Lee wears the belt, then it must be good. But yeah, you put those belts on they look great and they're comfortable. Is everything, but they don't do anything, you know? No, I thought before Lee, that lead was probably, I don't see. I don't know if you're going to pitch Lee squatting five six seven plates. You know, probably around the free plate, Mark free and a half, the belt was good. Just the whole game. But anyway, you got to have a heavy weight. Yeah. And as when it flew over, but then I think everybody started going to Cadillac belts, which are always the best belts for those sort of nerves. Nice, live a bit softer. I remember I think one year was like at the Arnold Classic, you started doing the Superman one and he gave me, I guess Lee, I did this for you. I said, thank you. So I got it, but then he made a lot of them. But I didn't know because I was at the Arnold, and I was coming over to the Superman belts, Lee, and you saw him, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, and God, that's 50, 60 Superman belts. Right. And then I'm coming to the interview, guys, Lee, I made some Superman belts. Yeah, fuck it, no, I'm sorry, I'm just going to walk down. You know, he made a species belt for me, a species nutrition belt. It was so awesome. And he sent me like five or six of them. And I did some contest and gave him a weight. People were like calling up the office, they wanted them, and they were like, I'll pay anything. I'll give you five of the draws for one of those. I said, I don't have any left, they said I gave more weight. I said, I've been contested, everybody. I'll pay, I said, I don't have them. God of Cardillo, he made them. He's got nothing again in your one. Cardillo, if you're listening, I need a new belt for my comeback. Yeah. But the figure, I just like, is that soft leather, 200's like, it's the perfect sight. I am friends at where those, you know, big, fucking super thick, powerlifting type belt. Oh, I hate those. They dig into your sights. So they're cracking into your ribs. Yeah. And they're trying to put it on this, like, trying to put on that fucking, like, as beating the freaks. What? They're made for fat guys that you have to have a layer of fat on you. If you have no fat protecting your midsection, you're going to break your ribs with those things, you know? I've been there. I've friends with where they're built doing leg press. I'm like, how did you wear a belt? Yeah. You don't even need a belt when you're doing leg press. It's like, my stomach was bad. My legs hit my gut. I was like, well, especially when I was a doctor. I could not use those parallel thing belts. Someone was going to lend it to me. What I couldn't do with set. I was in more pain from my stomach than from the actual set of swaths. All right. So the way things are trying to put a lot of people like trying to put a covering on when you're already having a fucking work. I never thought of that analogy. You know, the thing is also, I think people don't realize you don't need a very thick belt when you're doing, you need it thick around your back, but around the front, it should be narrow. So it doesn't cut into your abdominals. At one point, don't put it on super tight because I think as long as it just felt that tiny bit of pressure was more psychological thinking, okay, I could feel. Yeah. You know what I started squatting, getting it when you're more facts sometimes when I get back my hips would sort of just go like this. Yeah. So it's just a whole minute. So even if someone spotted me, they just put their hands on my side. I didn't believe. But just feeling that secure. Sure. That's like, you know. Sometimes, you know, couple of times, your Steve Blackman spotted me sort of. Ah, the red man. Hey, hugged you. Yeah. He gave it a little bear hug. So very, that's very good. Putting where I was on my sixth breath and you sort of blowing in my ear. And I'm trying to squat. And then I'm like, bro, what's that? I said, what's that Steve engaged? Lee, I'm just going to put this here or keep your back straight. He said he had these special rod that he put inside and he keeps your back straight. He said you can do squats and work. He glitz you like, just squeeze your back. Squeeze, take a little squeeze. Squeeze. I was at a go. I was at a go on for six reps. The fuck am I doing 100? I kept saying, I'm almost there. I'm almost there. Oh, I thought a good picture. You, I thought, I emailed you the other day. If you can look in your email. I was just doing these steady reps like this. It's like, I'm not a soccer player. I kind of got any faster. What? I don't know if he did. Can he see the picture we put up? No, I can't see it. Why? He hasn't put it up yet. I found someone sent me a picture. Let me put up on screen. I'll tell you what it is. You don't need to see it. You see what email? I kind of forwarded it to you probably over the weekend. Not that one from born up. Oh, okay. I got one. You're all these poor hometowns. Yeah. You know, actually, when I'm actually good with this one, it's Lee Priest naked. I think, well, there's no pieces of me naked. But that guy's like his porn site. So actually, I had to subscribe to this porn site for like a month and nine ninety nine to see these pictures. No, wasn't even naked. I was like, I was like, I was in a picture. Yeah. I was like, I was like, I was in a picture. Yeah. Do I think, well, I want to see you in case someone did get you. Well, if you did subscribe for ninety ninety nine, if it would, did you check out anything else? Oh, yes. So I'd say, so someone with great fruit, but I don't know. We're going to put the picture up all on. I think there were pictures of the picture. I'm already built on the end. I was like, we're on the same cloud and there's a few of them. Oh, I'm sure. The picture is, there's a picture of you and there's a picture of NASA playing golf. Do you remember this picture? This photo shoot you did? You look at you way three hundred pounds in this picture. I'd have to say it. I can't see it. Well, no, you are wearing a red shirt with like short shorts. Oh, short shorts. You have a proper polo shirt. Polo shirt. Yeah. I don't know if they were to do that. We did a golf charity tournament. Fub, chicken, and NASA myself. Oh, I got a lot. Cafe, it was a... You don't even look like this on you seriously. You're probably like two three hundred pounds here. My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... My hand's so... Yeah, exactly like that. I've been constantly... You know... But let's get... Let's get... Let's get on a serious subject here. Because Chadwick, Boseman, died of colon cancer. When they discovered it, he was in Sage 3 cancer, ready, which is with past-the-size cancer, with music cancer, spread. Very hard to control that and get over that. And so, the take-home messages, guys, you gotta get your colonoscopies. Now, I have a colonoscopies scheduled for the... I think it's a 25th of this month. It's on a Friday. Are you getting a video? I don't know. I don't think anyone wants to see it. Tyler, see Tyler can find the girl along with this video. In the lead, in the lead cruise, bodybuilders reality. I think that the more interesting part of it is the preparation for it. Because I think like starting like 12 hours before you got to drinking all these... Solutions that make your poopy brains out, you know, to clean yourself out. What's that? Shit, when I went for mine, Colosska, he said, I said, bring the lead, that was an obstacle. What were you drinking? I never had a custom colonoscopy from a... Steve's called me to bring it. From an expert like Steve. Well, Steve said, he just drink these special G's and I drank that. And I fell to a little bit dizzy. I fell to a little bit dizzy. He slipped your roofy, huh? The rest was a blow. I got on back to this video, Tyler can find it. I went to had one of those colonics. You know, what a clean your out? Yeah. And they can't board a water in and stuff. Yeah, I can't even do anything. I had this, this was just for the bodybuilders reality. For something different, the ad, for the sort of fiends could see. So I filmed it all. You can see the stuff going down the tube. Like, see, this is just the show of my fiends. I'm not fully shit. So I just filmed it all. It is the funny story here. And those were pretty funny. It had a good sense of humor. Yeah. And as with filming at my friends filming, and she puts it in like, like that. I said, I said, I said, so you get these options. You guys, oh, yes, I love them. I love them. As I get least two or three a week, I said, oh, so you must like, I ain't not six. And I swear when I said that, she jammed that fucking thing. That's a little bit harder. She perforated as colon after. Yeah. He needed a repair to insert. But it's clear because they just fill you so much water in your. I had one very uncomfortable. Very uncomfortable. Oh, you feel like you've got to go. And then when you go, it all comes out. But then even when you find me done for like four or five hours later, I still sitting down pissing out of my ass because there must have been so much water left up there still. It was funny. They should have, they found out that you really were full of crap. I wanted to actually ask us, I saw like a little fucking matchbox kind of guy. But I'm like, I wonder where that went. Ah, I had a colonic. Did you find it like some weird looking stuff came out of you? Like, you know, strange looking, you know, poops. Because you know, everyone knows their own poops. You know, might someone stuff came out of me? Wasn't the normal, you know, they put on my poops that I was normal. Probably being wedge stuff there. Better part from GI Joe to matchbox cars, looking for a couple of other little drinks, party food and stuff. A couple of years, rub is on and out of that. You know, I never did fiber when I was doing the colife. This is back in the 90s. So then I discovered fiber and I said, you know what? I don't need to do a colonic. I could do it from the other end. The fiber is a lot easier to use than the colonic. Some people like them. I found the very uncomfortable. I didn't really enjoy it. I did it. Like I said, I'd rather do it the natural way. Like you said, yeah. You know, I've been doing fiber with taking some type of fiber five. You know, supplement that, you know, the good thing that I'm not just taking Meta Mussel, he sometimes and just drink that before I go to bed at night and stuff. But I had friends that take it in the morning. I said, how do you take Meta Mussel in the morning? I said, say you're out shopping and all of a sudden, your stomach starts good. Linging you got to go, you got to go. You got to go. You got to do a Valentina. You got to put the toilet paper rolling your sock and you can't carry that around at all times just in case. I remember that time he talked about the story on the highway. We had to pull over with the toilet paper. Yeah. But I don't know what to say. And then men do need to get checked up more because this is what annoyed me. It's not really an army, but I don't know what's like an American, but here in a stray even with men's sport wherever it be. Rugby here. Yeah. Cricket. Every time there's a cricket on there's like a national pink day. And it's the mayor sports for the way primotis breast cancer and cervical cancer. And what is women's heat is when I'm like, men have just as many cances too. But yet emphasis is always put on the women's cances. And even breast cancer is bad. It is. It's not the number one killing cancer. I get to say number one cancer. It makes women feel bad if they lose a kid or something. But you know, there's other cances out that there's a worse it's like women. Keep your cances for your own sport. It's like even commercials on TV. You know, men get problems down there. But all we got to see is, you know, you know, these bashing earfucking ads third fucking decent shit. Oh, we got to see these ads for, oh, use your lead repats. It has wings. Yeah. You know what they tell men all the men would bring the prostate cancer? Leave it. Don't get it. Anyway, just leave it to slow grown cancer. They don't even, they don't even operate on these guys. But every commercial on TV is about women's problems with their vaginal itches with their periods. You know, what came on to best these ultra-solving pads you can wear. That's like, what about men? Men might have a discharge down there. Have that put some commercials on TV. But even the cancer ads, you know, there's this particular cancer. It's about, let me get found, sir. And stuff like that. But there's always women's cancer because women listen women that. Fuck. That's the thing. The take home messages, whether you're male or female, as you got to get your call and ask me, I'm actually a teacher. I'm 52. I really should have gotten one earlier. I don't have colon cancer. My family, although there are other cancers. But I put it off. And so I'm going to get it done. And it's ironic. I had it scattered already before I even found that about Chad with Boseman. But I highly recommend that everyone, if you're over the age, I think of what's it's a 50-year-old or if you have a family history of it, you should get a bit 40 years old. Go get one with peace of mind. This way, if you got some polyps growing in the ex. A lot of people will have benign polyps. They'll clip them out. They remove them when they go in there. And then you don't have to worry about them turning into cancer. That's what? How do you say that? If I remove my polyps, that's Steve's ripping on the inside. All right. He likes to take out messages from the Vasinkial ads, from the period ads, and all these other things that women have that take out messages. They got a lot of fucking issues down there. That's my HACO message. And they got a lot of issues up to you too. But that's wearing. You're really getting us a lot of trouble bags. All the women are going to hate us now. Luckily, none of the women listen to our show. That's the only thing we need some video goes up on YouTube. We won't have Libra as a sponsoring ad coming on our way through. Yes, that's in nice and yellow. I'd called me up last week. They wanted to do a sponsor the show. And now you blew it for us. So all you can do is, all I like to say is, remember women, do your breast chicks, check for lumps, men do the same down here. Check for lumps, have a squeeze, have a squeeze, and you steal it around. Here, check for lumps. I'm deep in love with another installment of Iron Rage.

I'm here with Lee Preason, Cookie Monster and who else is here? I'm wearing my ride with the devil T-shirt today, ride with the devil. Ride with the devil. Essentially a song. A fan of mine, I'm a fan of he's seen that Mickey made and he's from America. You know he's a rock and roll singer. Yeah, no, remember that song? He said me a whole heap of merchandise. He sent me T-shirts and stuff and stickers and being down as an L-P and C-D-Z. Mickey made them following my Instagram and that is a rock and roll. How can he send you that? We haven't even know about you. He followed me and I saw who he was so I started to follow on him and he said, I'm a cool guy and wonderful guy, so he sent me some stuff. That's very cool. Do you even have an Instagram account anymore? You got the new one? I got a temporary one day. Guess what? I hit 2000 followers. Yeah! Almost back at 510,000. I got banned. I told you I got banned on Facebook. I'm Facebook, being 30 days. You know how I got this banned? Surprise, surprise. I posted a letter and actually letter from the government because someone wrote to the government saying, your PCR test, how does it distinguish between COVID-19 and Delta? And they were at back saying, I can't. Unless you use the super magnifying microscopes. We can't tell just from one of these tests. It just shows you. You need a lot of information. I don't know. I just got the information. Yeah. But these tests show you positive for Corona. But everyone that's still in these tests is saying Delta Delta to this person asked the government, can you test with the Delta on this? They said no. So they got a official letter back. I posted the official letter from the government and they said, you cannot post this because this could spread fear amongst people in that 30 day ban. Wow. You're definitely on the Facebook Instagram ship list for sure. They're definitely keeping an eye on the post. I'm talking. I'll call it a terrorist. Hey, fucking late priest is here on the water. Yeah, you're really high off your bus because every time you do something, they cut you off immediately. I've never seen that. You get banned more than what's this name does? Trump. Trump got, at least you're not completely banned for life. So you have been silent on the right yet that we know of that's for sure. I'm still waiting for my, my grace period. How long have I been off Instagram for two weeks? It's so 30 day suspension. They're looking to it. So then we'll find out the outcome of that. You're like, Mike, we have to put him in time at all the time. You're always in time at. And he always finds a way back out of the time at room. So that's like you. You start another account. I'm surprised they have it like blacklisted your IP address. That's, that's going to be the next thing. I know. Hey, hey, guess what? We could be going into a lot here. Well, Sydney now, I've been in lockdown for seven weeks or the gyms are shut. Right. Stay at home orders. Some of the bad areas have police and the army guarding the areas. Making sure you haven't gone within 10 days of your house. If you go further than that, you're in trouble. And you know what? Just out of your, you saw the, my iron, excuse me, I'm after hours. We, I posted an article that just came out of big study in South Korea where they actually show that exercise. Regular exercise is actually number one, prevent you from getting COVID. And if you do get it, you get it for a much shorter period of time. And if you, and the death rate is like almost non-existent, then something like 750,000 people they, they serve. We had only like 50 people died, you know, who exercise? We had, we had four deaths just that I write two or in their IDs. One was one was in their 90s in Palatins, K, pretty much, quite an impalative care. He dropped out of natural causes, but they figured out he's coppising and put it down. If they didn't, if they didn't, if they didn't mash up, he's peasy would fucking drop dead. But then there's a 30 year old and they're like, oh, this could even kill 30 year olds. But then the doctor come on and said, no, the, the 30 year old already had underlying conditions. So it wasn't like the COVID just got him. And then it showed a few people in the ICU on breathing machines. I tell you, they like when I was bulked up, I was bulked up. But these people had more chains than a fight Chinese phone book. They're laying in hospital, like fucking jabbered a hut on a fucking breathe machine. See COVID is dangerous. I think in fucking handbags at dangerous to that trick is fucking so obese and fat, but they don't talk about that today. Well, good news. I, I did see the bill Phillips. We all know Bill Phillips, me, S, nutrition. He was a relation to the hospital. He really got hit hard. He had gotten COVID for the second time and he was on a ventilator. I mean, I don't know if it's entirely confined to on Facebook. I think it's under Bill Phillips transformations. His wife took a picture and he's like, he can't even walk yet because he was, he was out so long that he, he had to learn to re-walk. He lost like 50 pounds of muscle. And he was saying that, you know, that God, for the fact that he had that much muscle on his body, that, you know, that's why he believes he beat it. But, David, did he have 50 pounds of muscle around? Yeah, that's right. The bottom line is that he never thought he was going to get hit with it, especially since he had already had COVID. I got there he is. There you found the thing. I mean, and now, but now, now where I live in UCAS, where he been locked down for seven days, you can only go out for, if you want to go out door exercise, you can walk around. Or, you can go to the grocery store and doctors. That's pretty much it. Or you can deem and assess any business or job. But now, because we had 14 new cases yesterday in UCAS, so we're going into another week or lockdown. And Sydney's been in lockdown after seven weeks. And the numbers are going up. Like, they're so restricted down there, but yesterday was 344. Which doesn't sound like much. 344 people out of a couple of million. Fucking hell. So they're getting worse. They're going to restrict their movements even more. That's like, fuck. I, you know, I think it's absolutely ludicrous. I mean, they don't, I can they didn't do this when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, it's flu season. I can they don't restrict everyone from going out. They're everywhere. It'll flu season. Oh, the restrictions. I believe the restrictions have, have way more control than than was that. So days. But, but it's like you said, if they're worried about it, help us. It's a come on. We're worried about your health and safety. If that was the case, you wouldn't sell fucking cigarettes. Would you because you know how the damage they do, whatever it be, second hand, smoke,uhan. You can't want somebody's drunk. You can't sell alcohol to them anymore because it's illegal It's a legal estate. It's something if they do something then you can be liable and sued and that so Why isn't that the case when I'd be people going to McDonald's don't serve and big-backs and fucking super-sized it I'll give you I'll give you to make salad prick and a guy coat before you too fat That's how it should be if you can't serve I don't remember several years ago They got rid of the super-sized they they they actually pressured McDonald's and then we're doing getting rid of the super-sized Like like okay, you know what I can't get a super-sized fries How about I just ordered two fries instead? I mean what I mean how stupid? I mean the stupidity of the whole of Oh, we're preventing from people are getting down. We're not letting him super-sized that fries Well, you know what he just ordered three more cheese burgers on the dollar menu instead of the super-sized fries I guarantee he's not The person who wants to get the food is getting the food he wants, you know Exactly or what I did was just take the word super-sized off the kept at the same size So now it's just a large the large is large and it was before it's like here's the difference to go in the seven or 11s and get those big fucking big gulp things It's like this like a fucking bucket with a handle on it. Lee like how much fucking So I can do that I bring them in there. I have a school I get a little cup because they get the sugar free a surface now So I'll get a little one. I fill it up. You know I just want to have something to taste good my daughter who's three years off She's got a cup of this big and this white and my son They're running down the the slurpy machine every flavor. It's overflowing on to the floor I'm like a mortar fire I'm like oh my god, but guys, please stop. I'm like you're not gonna drink this whole thing. Why do we need to get us a quadruple extra large fucking star guy the guy the guy in the seven and get sangries like excuse me Do you control you know it? They don't see that they laugh They think they encourage them. They think it's funny. They don't even care And then my son I got a hot dog there and he's You know And they don't even the funny things they don't even eat it. They leave half the slurpy of more than half the slurpy over He takes one bite of the hot dog. It's like he's like my kids just like the bisec You know, I mean, I think that's what it is. You gotta get the cup and then put the dome leaned on I won't let it go Yeah, but if you feel like if you feel up through the dome, we don't want to spill out or just fill up These things they feel everything they keep going until it overflows Oh, that's good. Oh, I used to like going that I Our seven 11 to you sell and all the crispy cream doughnuts, so yeah, they get made done some gifts I think you know I let them do what they want there because I know they don't overeat they they like the whole experience of Serving themselves the food and I I can relate to I like that when I was a kid too I like the whole idea you think you get it over on someone who hot dog and slurpy and a candy thing and and Like I said my kids were like, you know overeating I wouldn't let them do it, but they it's more of the buying experience that they like than than anything That's all like that's all like the taking experience and you're gonna pay for that It's not when you take a girl It's like when you take a girl shopping just get the shoes and hand bags like an old like an old comes from the god of Some way that's amazing. I just grabbed these hand bags and shoes and shit someone pays for it Unbelievable that's right, but that's a 900-year-old purchase a slurpy and a fucking Kidcat is only like three bucks and now In North Stred but seven 11's here have I don't even know if they have several of them but they have No an app where you can actually load Money onto the app and if you pay with the app you get three times the rewards points And I go there every day. I have so many rewards points. I'm getting free shit left and right because my kids are always going there So Hey, they make an effort They have fun those things out there when you go into those places and you're just going for petrol and come out for fucking everything Well, you know, I don't they have a sin in Australia, you know, they don't take coins anymore. Did you know that? 7 11 we should not waste no coins no No, you could use dollars, but they don't want any money anymore Matter of fact they encourage you to use the app where you can kind of store money in a wallet a virtual wallet The your credit card So you don't even have to take anything out which means you'll spend more of course, but you know they try to do away with money You know that right Anyway, I went into a store before it looked down happened I had a hundred dollar bill and the person's like oh, I didn't change for that All right Jesus was like yeah, they always want you to do tapping go and shit like that and yeah As well order get Jimmy honest and you will So what do you think about you know, were you did you have any kind of relationship with John Meadows? No, no, just just from what I saw online never meeting but Seems like he was well liked and that and people please I'm still getting inboxes today on Instagram We might few followers that I have I still get these messages every day. Leave it here John Meadows died I'm in Australia I'm not on fucking food I Use down here Yes, I do know John Meadows died. Yes. Yes. There's been several good years done. I have I am up the speed on the city It is but they still don't really know what it was dude. I said maybe maybe it'll be COVID When you start to see people in our industry, yes, you know And that you were like you know contemporaries with it around the same age you when you start seeing them dying And you know we don't know what even caused John's death, you know, but Does that worry you at all do you start going? I better get health checked or anything like that I mean because I noticed you know I started thinking myself A lot of people that I know and that I kind of came up in this industry with a God and not here anymore It's kind of weird a little bit, you know Yes, I text my doctor and said when did I have my last stress test then I'll just sound on my heart I think it's only like a year ago and I had a Gaussian check probably eight months ago and it was low and stuff like that But even that night Like John was 40 on on 40 don as you like in bed you can even you can feel and you can feel your heart And then as I'm listening this like boom boom boom boom Boom boom boom boom What was that what was that tools? And then because you stopped worried about it against worse boom boom Boom boom boom boom Oh, like fuck now I've got to read me I've talked myself and don't with me And I got news to you and anxiety attack perfectly mimics a hard attack because I have had one of those before and Man you think you you're you're going into cardiac arrest when you have one of those and then it makes that even worse Because just because you start stressing and panicking a little bit. I tell people here's the test Did you think you have in a heart attack? Don't go to the emergency room immediately drink in the last of wine Okay, if the wine takes the heart attack away then it wasn't a heart attack If you still feel the state of the glass of wine get get to the hospital who's fastest you can So that's my it always worry bad it but I know it's the body building. I never abuse steroids never thing you'll think we might be on it to abuse them if you Pre this position to something even a small amount good. Yeah, do something so like I said it's you never know But then I think I I sometimes look at other people and I went there And I tried sometimes go well fuck I know what he takes and he's still alive and I know he's doing Party drugs every weekend so I should be okay with it You figure maybe he's got better genetics he can handle or that shit like when you see Keep wretches and she think that fuck would have been dead Yeah, he's got it and the drug sees done and some of those rock and roll as you think She wasn't there a time they caught hasn't you know ticked it's last ticket I but you know what John was a very young man still he was under 50 years old So it's it's a big loss, you know for him and his family obviously but if I'm like 85 or even 90 years old and I don't wake up one day That's the right way to go. I mean there's no You just don't wake up. I mean you wake up someplace else. I don't know wherever wherever you go I think I've always said that's the best way to go like you know I've always said I like to go I like to go in my sleep like my grandfather, you know I like to go in my sleep like my grandfather Not the other three people in the car screaming their heads off But the other thing is I wouldn't be nice in your sleep if you're old but when you younger I said to my wife if you just ever there said I'd hate it because like say we're talking I want to jinx myself. I say okay Dave talked to you tomorrow Well you've made planes and all of a sudden you're actually up your count. Do it whereas I said I wouldn't want to have a Terminal illness but if they said hey, you've got six months You've got that plany you can see you could buy. You could have a party. I could maybe go out Commit a few murders on people I don't like you know really really leave a lasting impression on the world before I go But that way you can actually say you could buy as you get things in order I hate like those like it said someone like just go to work get killed in the car accident or If you're police officer you go to work and don't come home Those sort of things at a sudden. I think that's like a shock even though you know someone's gonna die Still a shock. But Lee is it worse to know that you're gonna die or is it worse to not not know you're gonna die and then just die. I mean You know I'd rather I'd rather have a no because What does this have to say because like I said that when I guess that's why they say every day you should tell people you love them We should tell people when you can never do it. I'm gonna say all you know when you always go on now I'll call him tomorrow. I'll speak to him tomorrow and then like I said something happened Like I'll fuck I should have called him all is just say he called Julie like I can't be Bob and call on him I'll give him a call tomorrow. They're not the son that did you like my fuck I should have called him back when That's cheating. So there is shit like that. So it is that is pretty sad if I can do haven't you still haven't gone kids Didn't he said that's always sad as well so there's a there's a go-funny campaign at how you can put it up on the screen again For John and his family and they they read someone's $200,000 already. It's pretty amazing that just goes to say how likely was you know Well everyone that's done a video on it. Me up put even before then I never heard anyone say a bad word about him. He was always down to work. He never said a bad word about anyone else So it's not gonna be like when I pass on David in this video. It's going that fucking Three six Yeah, he got what he deserved It wasn't awesome. Yeah, I don't even I try to think about like I don't even want to know what would happen When I die hopefully I don't want any go-funbies or anything like that. My wife's like shut up He'll be down Lee Lee's funny down then out playing cows with the devil that I saw You know we're making we're making light of a book. We're trying to you know But John was one of the really liked guys in the industry and we've talked about some little shows already I think I'm talking about a lot because it bothers me a lot that there'll be he's not with us anymore And we lost him so suddenly like we didn't expect it, you know I yes he was he had a heart attack last year, but he theoretically recovered from it. He said he was doing well. So I don't think anyone expected that we were gonna see this happen so suddenly, but You know you never know and that's That's the thing and that's the thing too. It's like all set. It's always no matter one bitch We've been the movie so in life in general But so it's the good and nice ones that seem to go early Yeah, and then like I said you could you can know an asshole that treats people bad no matter what industry it's in and have you fucking multi million years Live into their 80s and being fucking grumpy and shit and and from for like 20 years you've been saying why doesn't that fucking just die? And I never do maybe someone maybe being on earth is is punishment in itself We just don't know it until we actually are in there. I've always said that. I've always said you know People say you go to heaven heavens up there and hell's down here. Well if you're in heaven Hell would be earth because you say in down there. So if heaven's just such a wonderful thing Right now on earth we think it's nice and listen that yeah good and bad days and shit, but But if you finally get up there you'd be like fuck that earth was fucking hell Here is a tough yeah, it was a tough hey with just worked out the meaning of life and I wonder if you and heaven and you look down Is the earth round or flat Jimmy will fight out once and for all yeah, right? I did I did like that post you put up because I did comment on it on buys and tries I think I've had over 500 likes because I got pissed off when people were complaining that Ian's gonna do it in that show I'm like is a pro body builder I said I spent the make money. That's what he does Yeah, people are saying is stopping someone qualifying I'm like what if that person's good enough to be deemed They'll qualify if you can't beat Ian at this show you're not gonna beat him at the Olympia So what are you complaining about the Olympia is the best that a best to get there You've got to beat someone to best and if you can't get in it wait for next year, but what other sport Does someone sit out to say you know what I've won a few tennis tournaments you go ahead or the Patriots the Patriots I've won a few super bowls. We're gonna play shit this year and give another team give another team a chance That's what you do back in that when we're competing hate the saber here we go back back when in the 90s and shit many guys did show us I'd go to show you thinking oh fuck there's Kevin this flex there's Chris that's a top three So it didn't bother me there you still can be it because you still would make money, but then on the odd chance like San Francisco I came in a bit harder Chris for second decks the third set of our shows where if you come in on you can still beat him and that's the name of the game Well also too if you're that good that you're you're missing by one spot and you're coming in second Behind you and well if you do three shows and in B2 a three shows and you're second That three shows you'll qualify on points for the Olympia so That's exactly that's why you do multiple shows That's why the point system was enacted to get more guys to compete more often Right, I mean isn't that the reason I just couldn't believe the mentality of people getting mad Lim down on each stop another people going to the Olympia I'm like really just like oh well hold on hold on Hamilton Lewis your 117 champion He's up on the accelerator Yeah, a few of these other guys the chance get them a chance on the podium Some of those poor bastards have been racing cars for 15 years and they've been on the podium There's some baseball teams that have never won bro, you know the world series in baseball how about you fucking good teams Just ease up a bit give somebody's other teams a chance or he's who same bolt Hold on I'll just slide out Yeah, I've won this I've won this before Well, you have these bikini competitors have made it Ashley call waspser because she's been doing every I think she won 10 shows this year already and she's done like 15 You know shows you might have come in second a couple times and I'm like you know why does she can peak that many times and win that many shows and be that dominant She's better you know It's actually and let's just say okay These people get upset of her doing that. She has okay. I won through the show. I'll just swipe to the Olympia The good at wins that show gets to Olympia guess what you're not going to beat her at the Olympia It's a tough luck. It's like this isn't this is the this is almost that everyone gets a trophy I need a first place. I want to be solidified in this no, if you're not good enough Maybe you shouldn't have got your pro card to begin with the hand the thing back and go play that's your prick How do you think me? I think me last did like a hundred shows right or something like that over a hundred shows in this career Eat it look at texture eating do two shows a year Yeah, obviously was doing ten shows a year or 15 shows a year. That's how we did it But I think I was even listening to arm when Ian's on that show for what and that he was saying Doing this because he's got these two shows and I think then the Arnold is the good practice for like I think when the Olympia comes around and stuff I don't know but think before now he's got this one in that one I think that similarly said so when he does the Arnold which is getting close to Olympia He can like see how he's starting goes and experiment with these two leading up to the other big two Which is what you do it's like you don't just not To mention you know if you have stage fright and you have a lot of nervousness about doing this Which Ian has admittedly said that he he does get stressed out before a show doing multiple shows Kind of almost makes you numb to the whole equation and it becomes just second nature the best thing that I ever did was when I started doing a lot of gas bosings When I was going stage at these big shows I wasn't getting nervous anymore because I was so used to getting on stage It became like almost like second nature for me and that and that and they don't have gas bosings anymore No one gas poses so for Ian to do multiple shows I think it is a smart move someone he gets to the Olympia He's not gonna be as nervous. He's gonna kind of be comfortable with the process I'm like I said doing that I'm sure like okay to show you just one I think you look great, but I think that wasn't his best so You know, you can take whatever you learn from that show into this next show in Texas and Do things up because imagine if that was the Arnold where it came and looked like that don't be like a even though We look good at the Arnold that would be like a big mistake and you could slip quite a few placing so if you're gonna make a mistake Do it into smaller shows learn from that so now when you get to the Arnold and the Olympia You can pretty much hit at 100% which you're gonna need to be in those two shows for that People to get mad at him and just pitch and complain how he's stopping people is like Fuck up not to mention that he gets to go against a really good competitor and Steve Kuklow So if he beats Kuklow there that also raises his stock up if Kuklow beats him That's gonna raise Kuklow stock. It makes the show way more exciting too Exactly and to me like back in the day when you have people like that you knew if you knew flex was in the show Chris was in the show you knew you had to come in that show at your best So I'm sure Steve now going into that no one E and Z Ian's qualified Ian's gonna come in looking good. That's gonna make Steve probably coming in at his best So you know having come petition like that only makes the other people better if you're going into that show of the attitude Well, he's taken a spotty taking a spot away You shouldn't even fucking go because mentally it's a theater to yourself to begin with that you're fucking attitude That's what I say I agree 100% and I've led you set it because I didn't even think about bringing that topic up But it is it is important topic and I think that people have to understand that you know in today's state first of all There's nothing wrong making money to why not if you have your ability to win a show and put a few bucks into your pocket You know contest prep is not cheap So it's true It's his job. Let him he's in shape. He's gonna do the oral anyway He's not shutting it down for the Olympia so Do another show why not it's one more way he doesn't have to it probably is super easy for him at this point You know What is the thing look at look what you got to go through it again in shape if there's a couple of shows That's why we did it like in the old days with the Iron Man the Arnold the San Francisco those three were back to back then we said the European tours If you're in shape you've gone through all that hell you're suffered your family's probably suffered the freezer suffered If you've got shows back to back and you can make rabbits tangerine and 15 grand whatever But also get your name out there more that's what you do your professional you can beat that's your job That's like come on people and these same people are the probably complaining Probably the same little bitches are must be foregoing but he's pros dang competing I'll slide that any do one shot Here's your do more shows what the fuck is doing to fucking he's got to stop my man He's got to stop my man get the qualification How the least no no one's ever happy there's oh everyone's always complaining about everything If you know if you didn't compete it they're gonna say you didn't compete enough If you compete they're gonna say you're taking away a place you can't from someone you know You got to do your own thing and you know what if you can pick multiple times and look you're a bastard when shows and bring home prize money Then I say go for it and I know Exactly, especially And especially a bodybuilding because you know most sports when you're putting your body through this you've only got at Unless you're someone generally great like decks that who can you know have that longevity But not many people have super longevity. We're seeing a lot of people like Ian around his age Come and go within five or six years, but hopefully he's gonna be around longer than that So you're gonna make that money while you can put away for a rainy day because Have them for bed you can be young whatever hope I'm not disturbing you day from your phone there You can be a grander on a board I'm born I got my political show later today with Romano Yes, yes Real real leap reached on YouTube you can watch John Romano and either last we had a guest on weird Craig Valentino But you could get his camera to work so we just had a photo a photo of Craig were talking to But as I was saying you got it what was I saying that first of all Tyler how long you think that that show will be up on YouTube before they remove it from YouTube John Romano political show You're making a week and tell hey we're up to four episodes just what we haven't had one fun stand and order comments are being positive said John What are we doing wrong here? How many views you guys? They're just into the fowls and areas So that's how many good That's like once like that's because the other side did hate you haven't seen the show yet It's only the fans and then the show that it seems here Well, I I never I never I've only got like probably six fowls of followers on my YouTube Because I never used it. I guess yeah never used it and now I can't really publicize like I don't think that's a Video of a fan you yeah On Instagram ago and so but I had another topic I was gonna bring up it now it slipped my mind what was it Oh yeah, that's it. Yes. Thank you very much. I want to say thank you very much I am now proudly sponsored by XT Labs Mexico. Oh you did get this fun ship congratulations. Yes. Yes That has the question how did they get you your your your stuff you know If I'm Are they digging a tunnel under the ocean to get you? Hey, if I'm not here next week on we're in jail They're digging it from Mexico to Australia they're digging a tunnel just for later Yeah, they're gonna send me to T-shirts. I can do some photos. Yeah, and he says we'll send you some stuff to us No, it was the same He showed me the package has been packing stuff so it's like If I'm not here next week Well normally I know some people have got stuff sent you get a warning first you get a warning But they are really quite tell me pick you up Lee for questioning, you know As you guys are like they get some fancy Mexican olive oil bottles And just feel feel the virgin olive with suss two feet Yeah, I feel this olive oil bottle with Deca yeah, and you're good to go you don't need anything else And just put cooking supplies Imported oils from you guys you know, even way you're your whole game plan out to the government right now Okay, what about fire oils or I'm my side your oils That's all you could be Yeah, poppin balcels you could be sniffing them all day I'm five so congratulations You do firecels you're uh hopefully yeah Let me live in Mexico now I tell him sooner than we thought so They get a counterbatta more straight down There's a pro show when he makes a car when I'm told but I wanted me to come over for it But right now I think um USA it's not allowed in flights from Australia still I think there's one flight to Mexico but it went from here You can go to Australia in Mexico that's a green zone isn't it a green It can't date but you go to go this way so it's like almost Germany for inch you're coming around and the tickets the cheapest ticket cheapest tickets 15 thousand from 15 to 30 well the cartel flying you over so what are you care you know paying for it? That's it out there I jack All right, I got to wrap this up I got I got work to do late love you man Good show and congratulations and you knew sponsorship hopefully your lockdown won't be affecting you in any way whatsoever Luckily you got the home gym going on so I got that's funny Dave. Oh, I was generally trained by myself and that but now The gyms are shut guess what ladies got friends again. They come to my house and trade Don't tell me what that's loud. I think that you can be fine. I don't get you. I found this too when I was in cleaning out look Did he tell us in our last show? Yeah, come on. I'll have to show you the photo is next time But I found photos are when I was 19 younger family photos everything but this would be me this would be me next week when I get an order from Mexico We out there health We out the house Put your dumbbells down You know what the sad part is I have the same thick in the horn as he does like the same But next week I'll get a whole show through our horns I always wanted to get one of them when I went to summer camp in the over the summers as a kid the guy who ran the director The camp always had that the re always make the announcements on that loudspeaker thing Like I said

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our third year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastries from the Low Car Poptart. We've got three and four brands in that carps, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. One day full of both, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your apps, you'll be best joined the evolution. You look proud to be your new friend. Welcome back to Iron Age on Daypalum. I'm joined by Lee. I think it's Lee Priest in this week. You look relatively normal. You know yesterday, I was at the day before. I was doing cardio and I had to sit there and listen to you fucking ramble on about a fucking dentist appointment. I write you, because you're going to know the number of times. I'll be in the next couple of minutes. I get up at 5.5 or 3rd of duty, show it six and they have to go, you give me 20 minutes. You've done this head gut full of because you're always fucking late. Yes, he gave me the wrong, he gave me the wrong mouth guard though. You know, look, I thought it was you didn't show up to get fit in the same. I'm sick of gross negligence on the part of everyone. No one has any value to their working more. People just didn't say, you know what the problem is, let me tell you. When I went to the dentist's back in the studio, you had a problem. When I went, you could confirm this. Remember when you went to the dentist's back in the 80s when you were a kid, the dentist did everything. Matter of fact, my first dentist clean my teeth too. Nowadays, you go to the dentist's dentist doesn't do anything. You got these, my dentist used to give me that gas and put me on the and touch me. Yeah, I'm sure he did. I know you liked it too, that's what I heard. I know. I know. No, but you read the doctors and the dentist did everything. Now I go to the dermatologist. I have a, you know, something on my face. I think it might be, you know, skin cancer that got nothing was. But, and I don't even see that the dermatologist, I see that the physician is system. They do everything. They cut and things off. They're spraying and this and that. I want to see the doctor. I want to see the dentist. When you start giving your, the people who have less education, the job to do what you should be doing yourself, you get less than spectacular results. And I think that's why the workmanship out there is terrible because I went, I went to the doctor because I wanted to see it. I went to the doctor said, all I see is spots, you know, how to go to the doctor. I said, all I see is he spots. He says, have you seen a doctor? I said, no, it just spots. Now I said, doctor, I feel like a dog. Because we just sit down. I said, I'm not allowed on the 30th. Very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. I've got actually two big things I want to talk about. Two big things I want to talk about. I'm glad. Why, why is Tyler like, oh, like, so I'm dressed. We let Tyler out of the asylum this week. That's why he's walking back from Goetown and Mobile. Yeah, I'm going to move back. Now, I got two big things I want to talk about, really. Okay. The elephants and giraffes. What do you want to know about them? Nothing. Nothing. They're just big things. I just want to talk about it. I thought, do you know, you actually, actually, if I think about it, if you had a giraff, that would be a good friend because they'd always stick their neck out for you. Wow. You selling Bob Chickerillo now with all the corn balls. So you're throwing at me here. Oh, let me put on the purple fucking glittery jacket, then. Oh, welcome. Welcome, little. There's a lot of corn balls you throw at at me. You don't find since, since you weren't impressed by that. I'm not going to mention my other big thing I want to talk about to Hindenburg or to Spruce Goose. Yeah, yeah. Let me, let me ask you this question. If you had the opportunity to live like on a big acreage type of house, would you, and you had the opportunity to have like a pet elephant? Would you, would you, would you do it? Would that be something that you'd be interested in doing? I don't know because a pet elephant. I guess because I am very, I guess you haven't from a young age. Yeah. elephants are that very sort of maternally and they do like bond and shit. So if you're a bit laden, you're fucking snakes. It do. Oh, absolutely. I would trade all my shit for elephant. Really? Yeah. What about even a pig? There are even pigs of very good food. Yeah. I bet in dogs. What's wrong with a pig? I heard you've been married to a few pig. I was typically like that. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I thought I was fucking, you know, oh, those people are Dealer and then we're just watching you. I wasn't talking about them. They were, but they were class A citizens. I'm talking about the ones we don't know about. But everyone knows about my marriages. Those are Harry, I was carrying pigs, you know, from the farm. You're a kid. You call him Kathy a pig now, Jesus Christ. We could go back and look at some of your life. Yeah, that's shit. That's what's dropping. She was a man, baby. That's a man. That's dropping. That's dropping. That's dropping. Oh, what's wrong with? Let's go. We always bring my skeletons in our closet, Mr. Ruff. Now I always bring my skeletons in our closet. I told you that way, now I can put nothing on. That's right. No, I do too. Let's talk. The topic today is the cancel culture. I didn't know what the term really meant, but evidently, everything you've ever said in your life can be held against you. And it seems like that's what they're doing. What do you feel about this whole show television shows being canceled? You know, all popular celebrities being slammed now. What should take on this? That's ridiculous. It's like when they cancel those old movies, blazing saddles and everything else. You know, within the old days, people actually had a sense of humor. Well, you could put shit on your mate. You could put shit on other people. You could make fun of stereotypes. You could make fun of retard. Can you say retard? It's fuck. I just got canceled. There goes monetarization. But you know what? He's a good point. I want to demonetize these shows because when I watch him, the fucking ads annoy me. So, can't fuck a fucking fucking fucking fucking. Yeah. Yeah, but that's a chance. Actually, it's kind of you think it. If I got this morning and turned the news on while I was waiting for you or late. Yeah. There's his cartoon. He could blue-y something or something or something. It's about a cartoon about dogs on it. One of the dogs is blue. So, but now there's two episodes that canceling because of a certain words that they use in the cartoon a deem does they could be racist or could be. How is that show with, you know, Cartman? You know, the, how is that show? Oh, that's great. That's great, isn't it? That's so, that's so on PC. That's so on. I love it. But they're not politically correct. But who doesn't laugh at that? That's just so funny. Right, but it's like the old, all the family. Remember the Archie bunker. He was the biggest racist around. But what if that, then you had the Jefferson's. I would just as bad. Oh, I know. It was great, but it was that. But humor. It wasn't people laughed at it. No one took it personally. That's what I didn't get. It's like, if you go watch day of shabell, he puts shit on black people. Women, men. People should on white people. Kevin Hart does the same thing. It's comedy. You take it as comedy. There's some jokes you might like. Some, you don't like me. Should I make fun of black swites or Spanish? Chinese. I make fun of women. I make fun of kids. I make fun of kids. I make fun of kids dying. Because it's like this humor and everything day. If you just got to look for it. Yeah, but certainly, of course, that's what that's. That's what gets really nice. And how many comedians haven't done that. But now, like you said, they're going back through. Well, it's what's in that documentary I'm Kevin Hart. And he made that what home of phobic little joke about his life. He was gay 10 years ago. Yeah. And they brought it up now. And they want him to apologize. But in his documentary, I think it's on Netflix. I was like a six-part series where he still does ground for it. Ever seen why should I apologize? I'm not home of phobic. I got nothing against gay people. So why should I apologize for something that isn't me. People know who I am. If they don't like it. So anyone can take anything these days and miss construit. That's why I'm straightforward. If I say you're a count, you're a count. It's like, do he mean that I'm a count? Yeah, I did your count. So I was like, but the way they go back, I mean, they go back. I think one comedian, they even went back almost bloody 15 years. We got this comedian here. His name's the Buttsman. He's been doing comedy forever. But he makes fun of the vegans. He's almost like a Kevin Hart, not all Jim Jeffery's. Nothing's off limits. Just that raw franny everyone laughed at it. And he told this joke, where he first talked about how it was sad. And that member when Christ Church had that shooting, the white guy went into the mosque and killed 47 people. And he was talking about that saying how bad it was. Isn't that he goes, but then he's going on saying, you know, the worst thing about that was he goes, the very worst thing about that mosque shooting was that, you know, when people in, you know, Christ Church come out of the night clubs at night. No one could get home because what a cab driver's would be. And I mean, like the fucking crowd was laughing their heads off. The cancel culture come out. They got his show kids. He showed all his inboxes. He had probably thousands of different. I'm going to rape you, rape your wife, rape your daughter, cut your head off. It's like 30s people who are offended by a joke of putting out different. I know. I know. Oh, I'm fucking hell. But yeah, the TV show now gets canceled or they got to go through these review boards to say, well, that could offend this person and that could offend that person. Half the time, you actually asked the people, I mentioned this before when it comes Christmas time, they want to cancel Christmas carols because they say it might offend the Muslim people, people of different faith, they don't celebrate Christmas. This report, once went out to a predominantly Muslim air in Asked them, does this offend you to like, no, we don't care. If you want to celebrate Christmas, that's your holiday celebrated. Doesn't bother us, but you'll get some fucking white cracker head fuck with politicians, they go, well, I think we should stop this because this upsets the Muslims. They never asked the Muslims, but because his politicians come to the end and says it, the general public goes, fuck them Muslims, they don't want us, but it's not them, it's the fucking dickhead. Right. Like you said, someone that's running these sort of canes or culture that's causing all the fucking problems. Yeah. What do you think about what came out about Ellen, you know, degeneracy, you know, she was like the America sweetheart. Now they're saying she's like the most evil person of all time, you know. Well, I was funded because I saw, I just sort of been a couple of years ago, they had this show and here in Australia just interviewed on different people and two of the people they interviewed on their one was a, what actress it was and one was one of those Hollywood reporters and they were talking about movies you've done with people, people you've met and the Hollywood reporter who the interviewed and they asked them both, who's the worst person you've ever met and Hollywood in the bad, then they both said, well, I don't know if we should say and they both said Ellen there can, oh, she was a bitch and they were yelling, but she's she's so nice. This was a couple of years ago, so I'm surprised it's taken this long to come up and they said, oh, yeah, behind the scenes, she's totally different. Wow. That's true. But generally people, I like that. The ones that protest the most and try and be, oh, hi, everybody, I love everybody. Yeah. Let's look at that, not job Oprah. She's just as fucking bad. Well, it's like, you ever go to like a restaurant like a diner or you go to eat with someone and there's a couple there and they're holding hands and they're giving each other kisses, but then they have to go to the bathroom, they're going to miss you. Yeah. Those are the most miserable people. You know, they're all fucking active. Can they go, can they go to the home and punches are in the mouth? Yeah. Right. You found out he knocked her unconscious in the elevator, you know, and, you know, I know, it's just like, but, you know, I was talking about the whole and games that makes you sick. These are what I love. I'm sure you've seen this day. I was talking about the other day. There'll be a girl in the gym right. The gym training, there'll be a school in the gym real pretty. She'll be over there training. Two, like she's by herself and some of the guys are looking over at her. Add the blue comes this guy, strap in the crust of gym. You walk so about, puts his arm around the pattern on the ass. Gives her a kiss and then he looks around. Almost like almost like his Mark and his terror threat. Right. Mine. Yes. And then, if seeing this having you seeing this happen, they're all over and that. Okay, babe. Everybody know your mind and then he'll walk away and have the feet. There's a box and bag in the gym. Boom, boom, kick kick. I'm just letting you out the fuck is no two. I know how to fight. You're looking at my girl. That's really all the time. Give her a kiss, pattern on the ass and then they walk after the bag. Boom, boom, see that. I'm going to talk about insecure. Right. Did you used to do that when you were dating all the girls? No. I always went with one girl if they want to leave. Fucking leave. You're pretty more girls. I think you should. It saved me money every time I go back to my fucking broke up with a girl. I'll get my paycheck from weed or whatever. And I'll go out and do stuff again and then I'm like, fuck. Why have I got so much more money? Let's talk about. Why does your item singled? Fuck. There you go. You know the whole cancel culture thing to me is such a weird weird. You have to worry about what you say. And it's like we're living like in this like this like almost like we all live in this like walking egg shells. Like you can't say what you really feel. You can't crack and joke. No one has a sense of humor. Everyone takes everything the wrong way. And it's more, it's especially when you're on the top. If you're at the top of the wrong, you're at those big celebrity. You're an athlete. Those are the people that go and after they're scrutinizing everything these guys are saying. And you can go from being the most popular person inside of being the worst overnight. Like that. You know, it's what's in, I'm, what's Jay Rogan, well, I'm doing the treadmill. I was what should he had Rob Blow on and he had Robert Danny Jr. And he ran off in a bad, because he was actually talking to Robert Danny Jr when he did traffic thunder in that and how you know getting done up as that. And you're saying, I hate having they say black face because he wasn't black face. He was done up as a black person. It wasn't just these face. It was his whole body. It's a big difference. But he was saying that, you know, the way it was done, he never done it in the thing way. And you know, a lot of people still love it till he stayed. But he was saying on the Joe Robbins, so he's still waiting for that call. What's the thing he's going to come in when they're going to go away, way back and look for stuff. But how miserable is your life? Well, you're going to go through and watch what, you know, let's pull up someone's Twitter account. Okay, let's go back to when he first started Twitter in fucking 1788. I look at that on the cave wall. We made a joke about something. Fucking that fucking Noah back in the day of Jesus. I think how far do you want to go back and destroy people's lives when look, I understand if someone is totally racist. You can tell the difference between if someone's a member of a fucking KKK or someone's just making a joke. That's a joke. Move on. You can't, why destroy someone's life? It's like they're whole thing. I can watch him kein to saw when she had Rosen bar on. And you know, Rosen bar, sure she's crazy, but she never met nothing by what she's doing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. They trashed her as being racist. And this one, the thing she said she goes, I couldn't believe the other people on the show didn't stand up to me. People that have known me for 20 years or more. Right. Now I'm not right. Yeah, why didn't John Goodman stand up for her? Because he has no wife and he was, he needed a job. That's really what it was. Exactly. And she's like, I've done so much for like racial problems. She's done so much for women in shelters. Like she goes for all the stuff and charity she's helped and stuff. And I just said pretty much, you know, let's just, that sort of left this type of Hollywood these days. Is he dead? I want you in there. They'll kick you out. Yeah. That's just fucking crazy. It's just, you know, who is blacklisted? Who he's always talked to, talk about it? The, the, the, the, the, the, the. Very important. Yeah, but actually, I'm surprised the kein. So Cole, she hasn't got rid of that word. Blacklisted. Yeah, they, they, they, they, they, very, very, very fucking the rocket to you. So our beer, and brothers, David and Peter who you know and you were close friends with. They, they were difficult to work with supposedly on the set. They told me and they blacklisted them. I don't know what they said. They said something about. And then Peter was going around calling, you know, the, the like the Spielbergs and all the people who run Hollywood. The bad news Jews. He was calling them. So, look at. They, they, they couldn't get on a movie. Maybe they were hot for a while. They, they were, they, they, they, a lot of movies. That did the barbarians, that baby sit us one, they did a couple of them. That's one called something big, but look at even look back at his crazy as when Mel Gibson gets drunk. Yeah, Mel Gibson used, Mel Gibson used and used it, got used to talk about the Hollywood elite and the pedophilia or that sort of shit. Right. Anything that Mel did, they wanted to get rid of fucking nuts. Absolutely. It's like he hasn't had a tie rate when they drunk about something, but... Yeah. There's a, there's a, the whole thing too, is you're having to get someone on a joke that was done, you know, there's times of change. Back years and years ago, Blacks couldn't marry white, she had to go to a separate public. You know, things have changed over the years. So back 20 years ago, joke that was accepted, what end? Because people had a sense of humor, hacking your, getting me trouble for it now. And it's like, somebody jokes back down to steal funding now. I watch blazing saddles and some of the monkey Python stuff that's crazy. That's crazy. They're all brought to life. But, you know, you knew what the world was going crazy when shallow how come out. Yep. I love it. And all those fucking obese women were fucking boycotting the movie. But the movie was about him seeing a girl and she looked as hurt. Wait, but then he found out it doesn't matter how they look, but they took it the wrong way out of making fun of fat people. Yeah. And I'm fucking hell really. Go fucking do some cardio bitch. Just like, why get upset? Look, I understand they people some have a thyroid problem. Yes, some take medications and they get fat. They have a 90% of just fucking fat lazy cunts. That's it. So don't get upset and put on your fucking bikini and take a third of it. You're so fucking brave. You're not brave. You're fat. And you just want people to say, oh, she's so wonderful, isn't she? Put on her bikini. Look at her. How? You're a fat fucker mole in a bikini. You're not brave. A firefighter policeman. Some of the go-to-ath gannesty and that's brave. You're just eating fucking twinkies in your fucking bikini rolling around the floor girl. And look at me. I'm a woman of the fucking 2020 millennial fucking white. Free priests, free priests, you're canceled. Cancel body. I was like, hey, the off-beat baby cancel me. Yes, I got remorse. Well, you know, I think the point we're making is that we got to stop taking ourselves so goddamn seriously. I think that the political machine and which is runs Hollywood too in a sense are purposely doing this because they want to control it. They want everyone to be the same. They want to be the sort of what time it is that only do what we're told, we wear masks, we walk around separate from each other so that they can watch us over the overhead and see our facial recognition a little better. It's true. And they're trying to make us all the same. And you know what? That's freaking boring. That's not what it is. It's true. What you said there because everyone, as soon as they put on the Facebook for instance, people read that and go, oh, I can't do that anymore. Or I can't say that anymore. But this is how you know, my joke is this is, you know, how I fucking racist joke first starts, this is how it starts. Did I turn or want to be? Yeah, yeah. Well, let me just check over my shoulder. But it's like people need to just laugh at shit and don't get so offended. Jokes are jokes, you know, there's a big difference between someone being malicious against somebody and stuff like that. It's like, where did our sense of humor go to these days? Anything you do or say, I just don't believe these groups sit there and go through. Everything is like, this whole thing about being offended is what offend you might not offend me because they got to get offended. I might get annoyed like if someone's disrespect for the old people. It doesn't offend me, but I just think that's disrespectful. It makes me angry, but I don't get offended. People can say what they want to be what I have for years. I mean, I get messages a little time on banging your daughter. I'm banging your mother. I'm doing this. I'm doing that. I say, yeah, I know I'm filming. Remember so I just fucking, I've heard it all before. So I just let it go and, he's a thing here. Right now, at least I don't know the cancer culture, but Australia, we're leading the way for the vaccine day if you do notice. I thought they were, I thought, Wuhan is already all vaccinated over there in China. Oh, that big, that big poop party didn't they? Did you see it? Yeah, yeah. It's a thousand people. Give it all a prime minister to day and a half, the guy said it was going to be mandatory. But now he's backtracked and said, no, we're not going to really make it mandatory. But now to put at least on the news today, if you don't get the jab, you don't get you go the payments. You don't get the go to school. You can't travel on planes and out, or if you do travel in the lead to country, you can't come back if you don't get the vaccine. So we're not making that mandatory, but if you don't get it, well, you guys are the original penal colony. So you know, you're in jail. They're already. They don't let you in and have that country anyway. You can't bring anything. You can't take anything. You can't take anything. You're dirty in jail. That's too far to travel anyway from Australia. You should know, come and he takes forever. If you look at set five, you had the virus when you left America. You won't have it by the time you fucking get you. No, you don't. You don't have the virus. I don't have the jab. I can't come home, but get. If you're a terrorist and you go fight for ISIS, we'd let you back in the country. No problem. What's the worst you could do? Speaking of viruses, I want you to know the lead priest power grip is selling really well. Liquid hand chalk. Oh, look at that. 99.99% alcohol sanitizer. Oh, so you sanitize your hand while you're increasing your grip. I like it. Yes, yes, it's two in one. Where could people buy that lead? On my Instagram page, you click the link in the bio. This is just the temporary one, but we're coming out with nice blue tubes of it. Cool. And this is no mess. You put on your hands and there's no mess and it sanitizes. You get this sanitizing film on your hands. That's a very good idea. You know what? It's the gym. Brilliant. Brilliant marketing, Mr. Priest. If you want to buy it in bulk, just email them. But I think in a dead bee in American dollars, it'd be like five, six dollars. Oh, that's nothing. But that's good. For your safety and you put a lot on, look, I'll demonstrate it quickly. Let me say. You got to shake it. Someone's just tuned in right now. Oh, you dirty bastard. Stop thinking. Look, you put a little bit in your hand like this. Oh, you have a good load there. I need a good, good. Thank you. I mentioned that a beta size of a five cent PCR or a dime in America, or if you're from England, if I can toothed it just fell out. Yeah. You're wiping on your hands like this. Woo. Alcohol in it. I can get drunk just smelling it. They wait like 10 seconds doing this. I do do do pushpoint, apple shake the treat. Right. That's a song for people back in the early 80s or 90s. I'm just letting the dry. It's drying now. Leave very alert. You must have a few cups of coffee. I only had one. Look, I'm still drinking the one. And it's drying. Look, see how it's going. Oh, I see. It comes like over a second. Choc. Yeah. Look, it turns into a side to sleep with the light. No, I can see it. I see it. That's awesome. I love it. I think it's a great idea. And you can put it in your little gym bag backpack. Yeah. So you got this chalk on your hands. So you don't need to use straps all the time. If you ever say how to get big forearms, leave, use a new grip. So you get this chalk on your hand. Right. Look, look, least being racist. He's doing fucking white hands. My, my, my, my. Hands well, my, my, my. Hold on, hold on. I got to open the window. As I'll say in Dave, once your hands go white, you've got this film on your hands. And if this chalk, the little bit, look, no mess. Look, there's no chalk on the gym floor. I like it. There you go. So go to the gym floor. Any of these, if any of these chalk gets in the nailing on the bar, a little bit, those come off. That sanitizes the bar. There you go. It's brilliant. Look at that. Really, it's, I think, really. Send me a bite. I'm, I'm, white hands. I'll send you some. When the new bottle comes out into two weeks, I'll send you some of the new bottle. And I'll also got the lead priest muscle and joint spray. Woo. Somewhere. I'm just becoming an entrepreneur. I know. I, I'm, I'm proud of you, man. I, I, pretty good. Look at this. He must want to buy a new car. What's the new car you're trying to buy? Oh, maybe. Audi, I write the camera. I have to mount it. I knew we was looking at a new car. But every once in new car, he always works harder. Look at that. Look there you go, people. Liquid chalk, hands in it. And it's 99.9. Apple hole, so it kills everything. Look at that. It looks like a, my son would say, my son would say, He's a zombie. He's a zombie. I just, I don't know. He's a, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just. He's a, I don't know, Michael Jackson. But is that, is that, Michael Jackson might be a racial joke? I don't know. Is that, or is that unacceptable? That's politically, it's just, let's just, let's just keep it at through cocky with steep black men's. All right. And on that note, we're out of time. I'm day polonbo for Lee Priest. If you want to get that Lee Priest chalky stuff, sanitize or go to his Instagram page. You can buy it there. The Lee Priest power grip. Yes. All right. Thank you. I'm turning, I'm turning wider as we speak. I noticed.

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Romano, Lee, Priest and I, vent off frustrations with the world, and luckily for me today we have all three of us here today on Lee Priest 46th birthday. Happy birthday my friend. Thank you. Happy birthday, Lee. Happy birthday, Lee. My buddy, Chuck's working. Look at that. It's fucking beautiful. This show proves that Ashley Lee is in Australia because you know, they're in the midst of winter there. We have summer here and it's very early in the morning. They're very late in the afternoon here and there's the mood. There is. I was a little disappointed of Lee's telescopic, you know, depicting of it. My Hubble, my Hubble, my Hubble spicy can't stand at the moment. And if I pay this way, look, see that, that's the start of it of sudden coming up behind me. Wow, how beautiful. See that? Yeah. And that. The lead. Get out. As you get older, you get up early. The land down there. You always were in early rising early, right? Yeah. Oh, I see. Always get up early. It's the best part of the morning. Getting up early. The time of the day, you just can't beat it. The problem is I can't get the sleep till four o'clock, they can't get on my work time. Otherwise you got kids, that's your fault. I know. I'm your right. I see that idea. It's the same thing. I think I met you when you were 18. You're Gold's Jim. Wow. Yeah, 19. I was 19. Yeah, I was 40 then, still. I was 40. Yeah. I was 40. Yeah. I think in the 1940s, when you actually think back, you think, where the fuck is that time go? I know. I know. When you're younger, your parents will tell you as you get older, time goes quicker. And you just like, oh fuck off a dozen. That's a pretty like shit. Where is it going? Sure. Sure. Well, we have a bunch of topics to talk about on today's show. One of them is, you know, for the last probably a couple of years has been this picture going around of this bodybuilding competitor in the UK by the name of Bernie Cooper, who everyone plays. My dad is Lee Priest-Dad. And they say, at the time the article first came out, they said he's 71 years old, which would make him possibly, he could be your dad, I guess he was 71. Lee, first of all, I'm clear. I'm glad you're following. And that you're following. Now, we're just really good friends. I'm at Bernie, back in when I was with VPX, when I went to the Arnolded Classic Over there in Spain one year. So I'm heading there. We just became really good friends. We got on really good stuff. I just started calling him my dad. And then I just stuck. So people think he's my dad. And then this guy did a thing once because Bernie was competing over season. He got busted with a little bit of gear on him. He got thrown in jail for a day. So this guy comes on this, I think at his name, he's on some radio shows. Like, for himself, Dr. P. H. D. He's like, of inside breaking news at Lee Priest, could be like his father. His father is a well-known drug dealer. And was jailed. And was jailed. You'll only hear his hear first also. This is father. Is a homosexual as well. So this is breaking news. This guy's gone off his big fucking. I don't know who, I think at his name, is that something that old podcast he goes on. So he wrote the news of my dad. He was a drug dealer and home, a sexual and in jail and all this stuff. But Bernie and I get on really good. Really great guy. He's actually around 72. I saw a post yesterday, playing in here was 96. Yeah. And what that's the thing. They say he's now, he's the oldest body on the world. 96 is us. It isn't that Bernie Cooper who was fully 71. A couple years ago. He's got, he had just in doggy. He's every birthplace. Yeah. I don't like my height. I go from five foot one to five foot to four foot nine to five foot four. But I'm really five foot five and a half. I always add that half. Stop because I'm thinking I want to add a half. But when the doctor mentioned me against the wall, he said five foot five and a half. So really theoretically, you're body building terms on five seven. Yes. This way when you do questions, when leaves rough down for classic physique, you can make the week better. That's why. You know, people always say if they're out on 18 and a half, they're always say 20. They always say that extra inch and a half. And then you got to add the exact amount of body weight too. No. Oh yeah. You never get to true body weight. John and an extra axe to the sweatshirt. The axe. I get mine from China. Five ex hits me. Well, lining teapower, he says that every all body bulls lie about their weight. Oh, the old. Well, remember, Lonnie was always all for having the scale before they walked on. So he got a answer. I had no problems with that. If they want to hop on this scale before we walk on. The two kids, because really like I said, on stage it's an illusion. He cares a lot of people weigh so I don't know why. There's such a big thing. People say, oh, this is not like in case. He could be a hundred, you know, two hundred eighty pounds. But look like a bag is shit when someone like LeBron looks fantastic at 186 pounds. True. Weights are relevant. Yep. Now, John, I don't know if you've heard a flex Lewis announced this week that he was this Olympia. This 2018 Olympia would be his last as a two 12 competitor. Do you think it's anything to do with Lee Priest come back? I think so. I would have to absolutely consider. That's it. You make one little video having fun with a friend saying you come back and he's fucking now. He's fucking the bait's going to go on forever. Who was the best physique? He's taken off now. I just say I'm coming back and there he's retired. I'm used to doing the open. So if you go on there, I'll follow you. That was awesome. That is so good. That's two, that's two, twelve was a little bit hard for him to get down to. But now you go on in the open. Welcome to my world friend. He lays down the bottom. There was a 20 problem. You said that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He lays down the bottom. There was a 20 problem. Yeah. And he said it was going to probably do it in 2020. So that's good. That gives me a little bit more time still. We've got a date flex. I'll see you in 2020. What is next bet? Are you getting surgery in that net? I've been given a few more things. There's a place that they said there's a place in Florida. I think at the name of the CEO of hood of it. They do some pro bodybuilders are gone there and they do stem cell stuff and that they're in Florida. It's like a big training center. They tell me about. I met him when I was in Brazil and they said they might be able to do something like come down there for a week. They said they might be able to get it back to almost. We've had having to do this. You're so I'm looking at options before I think it cutting to the neck again. Yeah. I know a guy who went there and got the stem cells injected in his knee. Yeah. And new cartilage grew back. He didn't need the. He didn't need the replacement. Well, what the the research I tried my shoulders. They were too far gone. I did stem cells twice on him. But what they say is that the articulating surfaces will get a very, very thin layer of cartilage on him. But it's just enough to lubricate it a little bit. So you're not really getting a lot of cartilage growth. But you're getting a little lubrication back there. I think is what it's going to do. Well, it was my we're just going to try and get that little nerve. I'm crushed if it's a stimulation goes back to those things. So anything they can do they say they can try different things to try. Get those muscles firing again. So we'll see what happens. Unfortunately. You know, I think in on a secret. They probably even was one arm I can take in. They're telling. They're telling. Why I'm tied behind my back again. Like currently, I'm bringing in. Well, well, well, well, I mean, now with this arm, what is it? They're these by gender or by binary. I don't associate with whatever class or person, human female. Because one side looks pretty good. The other side's smaller. I can maybe do the main soap and body building and fucking bikini on the other side. They count the night because I'm, you know, I don't associate with my little female. So I'm going to do both. Let me ask you this question. Is your other arm really that much smaller than the good arm? Uh, has had to look at trying. No one's ever seen it, but I'll try to show you. Okay. Oh, no. If I phone will stand up. Here you look. This is good arm. All right. All you muscle worship is that that. It's take note. It's posing. Look at that. That looks fucking good. That's fucking good. It's a problem. This is good arm. This is good arm, right? Okay. Bad arm. It's still looking pretty good. I think the bad one looks better. Bad one doesn't look better. That's the bad arm. That's the bad arm. That by-sips of tiny bit small, but I think the triceps bigger. Yeah. It's actually the triceps that's actually lost the size here. See, if you look, if you look, if you look at the triceps, look, you just arm. There's some. Yeah, a little bit. Yeah. Well, you know it's four arm ones. Four arm ones, there's arms bigger, there's four arms bigger. Look. I think it's looking pretty good. Look at this fucking preview for 2000. 20. Wow. Not bad. Not bad. Not bad. Oh, I'm just too tired. What are you waiting for? Well. I just told 30. 20. Oh, I think I got a cramp. What are you waiting for? Oh, is he listening to us John? He goes up listening. Good plan. I didn't hear him. I can't hear him. You guys, it's too much talking. Oh, yeah. This is like the old amateur out. Hey, John. John, I'm 230, mate. It's just letting me know. I heard you the first time, but. What's that? What do you think about what's what's what happened with Don Long? You see, here that he got sentenced to a year and a half in prison. That's pretty good. I mean, that's why no time for what he was doing. Come on. That's nothing. Yeah. You know. Hey, look, you got to look at it this way. If you're going to go out and take that risk. All right. You know, there's a potential downside to your whole thing. That is an equation that you weigh. It's called risk versus benefit ratio. And you have to assess, okay, if I make $10 million in drug sales over here, and I end up getting caught, spend a million bucks on lawyers and end up with year and a half in jail. And I get to keep seven and a half million. Is that worth it? Yeah. Okay. So. You know, I am. I am. Are you speaking from experience, Dr. I'm. Maybe. So. So, so I mean, you know, if you're always going to make it, I don't know how Don feels about it. I haven't talked about it, but you know, I paid attention to what he was doing, what the reports were of course they're exaggerated whatever. But look, he wasn't in a for-chomp change. Yeah. So, if he was smart and he put any away and he has some work in forum and he's, you know, got in got his, you know, back. His end game put together a year and a half of vacation and clubbed is not bad. Yeah. So, you know, if you if you get to keep your shit. Yeah. So, you know, if you got to pay back $250,000 in restitution, I think, or fines or whatever. That's a shame. That's a shame. That's a shame. That's a shame. Why don't you rest it? It's fine. He was fine. Okay. Like, here's a good bodybuilder back in his day, you know, good physique. And that's really, really, really. You know, it's a shame that somebody built us have to turn that isn't it? Because you're not really here at that in any other pro sports, even the lowest paid in other sports would never have to turn the probably selling drugs on the side to make it fucking loose. Well, you know what the thing was? I'm sure done and his wife are making very good money coaching people. I think what happens is it becomes too easy, you know, you fall into it and you get away with it for so long that you just think, well, it's never going to get quite. Is what would happen? Well, I had friends like that. I just get greedy. I just ran into California like that selling to everybody. He got bigger and bigger used to talk loud about a lot of time. He had 50,000 wards of cash on him at one point. And I'm like, you know, make your friend the moment. I'm going to kick you over to head one day and kick you. I can catch out of your fucking big out of your bum bag. But, you know, he just got too big about it. So, I started talking so loud about it. And then I did it on five years. So it's like, you know, it's like, you got to get to a point where you just got to be satisfied. Then get too big and too greedy and too loud about it. Because there's always someone out there who's going to get the shit. And the friend here who's got turned in once. But this has before steroids were like a big thing. Actually, he had to go to the job. Look, Joe, with the court, the judge, I think he's going to do it again. He said now, and the judge gave his shit back to him. But he got turned in just because some guy wanted it. And he didn't like this guy. So he said, look, I'm looking to sell it to you. So he's Mrs. Scott, the shit's and fucking caught up. Made it complaint so they come out and bust. So he's just saying he's from the lap set person. Yeah, speaking from experience. When you don't sell anymore, it's a great feeling that you never have to feel paranoid about anything. Well, you know, some of us have never, I feel left out. Some of us have never sold. You were smart, that's why we, we always made a legitimate money. That's great. I moved in the manufacturing. I got so sick of this. John stole the one. Right, somebody's not going to do it. I didn't even, I didn't even get to do a guy for pay. I'm fucking right. I'm not going to do it. Everybody else says. I don't know. I wish I did. I wish I didn't want to pay. I heard that you and Bernie Cooper, your dad would do it. And you're doing gay for pay together. Tax driver and son. Far in the father and son. Hey, if you can't have someone, if you can have someone touch your mouth, we'll be your dad. Keep it in the family. You know, you know, my father, when I found out my real father was gay, this was back when I was probably. No, my mom told me to later on, I made a joke to him. I had to get him to find it too. I think he was one of those just having dinner one night. I said, you know what dad, come to think about it. If you never met mom when you did because you know he's to go to church and mom knew he was sort of gay, but you fought the law of them, her could change him, but that didn't work out too well. Did it? He's been with his, he's been with his same partner now over 35 years, but I said to him one day, I said, if you didn't make mom when you did, I said, I could have been wasted on the blow job or up somebody's bum. Woo. He didn't, he didn't find that too. I didn't, you know. It's true. That's true. Imagine if he didn't meet mom when he did, I could be like, please, please go to the state of head on the floor. Okay, now. Or what? What? I could have been up the house. You're the only way, somebody. There you go. What a, what a revelation to make on your birthday, right? Right? Yeah. 46 years. 46 years ago, he found the right hole for once. Oh, I can't, I can't remember man should be quiet back there. We can hear you. Lee, Lee, I just want to wish you a very happy birthday. Have a peaceful day, man. Look, the sun's the sun's almost coming up now. Try to find the right hole when you walk in the front door of the gym, right? It's just a, I think, there it is. Well, gym, the, well, gym. Go in the right, don't go in the window. Go in the, don't go in the back door. Go in the front door. Is that where you go to go? Don't hit mad. That's what I say. You don't want to hit mad. Nope. You always want to come out clean. You don't want to, you don't want to pull out an ever-cooling cone or stuck in the idea. Lee, any final words on your birthday to flex Lewis? No, I've already said enough. I still are giving a bit of way in there. Now he's seen the arms. He's got two years to, you know, keep ahead of me. But like I said, the open doesn't scare me. Yeah. You're coming. You're walking in the my domain. See, that's the point. See, the, the boy was the tell him I'm going to the two, 12, they're making Do the open. He's self-respect. Are you attractive? You're probably all the, uh, negative, uh, double negative items, sort of steep. Look at that. Lee doesn't know anything but the open. That's right. True. He's going to be swimming with the sharks now. See, I'll be 48 then too. So, you know, I hope you start to upset the null guy. It's going to fucking take him now. Hey. That was awesome. I used, I used Galen did it limpier by the way. Someone else asked me that. I, I don't have any answer yet. I'm not sure. To be honest. Like, I'm probably going to flex. I'm probably going to flex. Scallor, so you should. Oh, I'll see if I can do it. We'll see. I gotta see if we get a sponsor. So how flex goes send me out there? That'd be cool. You're telling me I stole the sponsor. I coverage. Have a bet. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's best coverage. It was still flex Lewis. Yeah. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Are you free, Frarté? Well, just, well, just, well, just getting up. Well, I'm ravellum a bit. I'll turn up with 10 on this one. Just stuck with him. Yeah. Do it diaretic. We should pull a dentist Newman and run up on that. That's a really helpful look. We pull a dentist Newman and run up on stage and pull it down again. So right on the Olympia stage. There you go. Yes. No one dentist Newman did that. I don't want to get too much away yet. Oh, yeah. We don't want to give away all these secrets. Oh, I've already showed the arms in the abs this morning. That's a bit much. That is. You're in a good mood. It's your birthday and to new dawn. It's a new day over there in Australia. And enjoy your day. It's getting lighter. Yeah. It is. If you look at your window now, the sun's probably setting off set. That's the same sun that is now appearing over here. If you go ahead and look at it and I look at my sun, we'll be looking at the same sun from different sides of the world. Isn't that beautiful? It is. There we go. The food. Leave a little bit of time. He's like on an airplane flying now. That's not right. I'm fucking super man. You do it. Hold your arm out. Hold your arm out. Like your plane. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. This is what I'm going to get through to that thing. Oh, she's on the ground. Leave. Enjoy your day. That'll take us to the end of another episode of Iron Rage. We'll see you next week. Leave will be a week older. Yeah. But not us. No.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no-nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. You're fine. So if I sit, like I sit, like I sit, be like my tail, or from shit. Welcome back to Iron Ray. I'm Dave Palombo and I'm here with our newest astronaut who's heading to the planet Mars. Come January, he's just trying on his suit that he received in the mail from our 3D printer guy. Lee, when do you guys leave for the planet? I'm complaining on July, July 2nd. So that way we can hope to be in our space and celebrate the 4th of July from our space. We space here allowed the travel as there's no code that in our space so we're allowed to go ahead. Oh, mask, you don't need to wear a mask in other words. I'm just a helmet. Just a helmet when I go on my space walks in case I have to fix up any panels on the SpaceX. But yeah, so I'm just trying it on. You've got to get a feel for it. How it goes. There you go. But yeah. That's what you like, too. Have you tried out any of those anti-gravity, you know, those zero gravity machines with either to the you take it up. They take us up in that plane. Notice known as the vomit comet. What a pity. Yeah, why? Then they drop it down really fast and we float around. Yeah. I just didn't make sure here. And what I got, I got one of these things here. Oh, you got one too, massage it. There you go. Yeah, my friend, can you see how a vibe rates like that? Yeah. I screwed on it. I see it on it. Yeah. And then I got a kiss. It's just like, it's just like simulating title. Right. That's right. You're trying to see if you can handle the vibrations of takeoff. Oh, sorry. Now when you get to the red, I meant the red plant. I said the blue plant. But when you get to the red plant, how are you guys going to survive? Do they have any plans for in terms of setting up like, you know, colonies and domes or anything like that? I'm glad you asked. I'm glad you asked. I'm with had extensive phone calls and talks with Matt Damon. And he's told us to precisely how to use our poop. The, um, make plants and inhabitant. And the food, the food, we've been speaking to, um, cabbries and cabbries just given us thousands and thousands of miles bars. So we're going to, we're going to actually between the miles bars and the milky ways. Yeah. Yeah. Now I understand also that you have to in order to go into space. You have to have perfect vision. So I understand you went underwent your cornea surgery yesterday. It seems like you're doing pretty well one day after surgery. Well, where are you? Where are you? Where are you? Yes. Yes. It's just a little bit. I've got a contact in at the moment. Yeah. They had to do that. But what was that episode of final destination? That's what I was thinking about when I did that. I showed you a final destination. And the labor went straight through their head and their head exploded. Yeah. You know, once I put that metal clip and they wind your eye open and then the laser comes down, you're like, no, don't move your head and you can smell it burn, which is cool. But then I was getting this like anything in my eye when I get tattooed and make something be twitched. So I'm trying to, I'm trying to sneeze like this. Oh, the laser's got to pick it up. If I sneeze, okay, breathe. Right. I have to imagine that it's a, it's a little nerve wracking to have like, a laser blasting your eye. And you have to sit there and kind of say, I hope these guys know what they're doing. I hope they know what they're doing. You know, you know, you're helpful with some of us, you know. Yeah. Well, they're always telling you, you know, they've got a sign that I bet it was that small chain something that could go wrong. He could go blind. Yeah. I think for myself, what are the odds that would happen to me? They're pretty fucking hard. Because I have a cataract in one eye. I have one bad eye because I got hit with a rock when I was a young kid. So I have a cataract luckily it's in the bad eye. It's not in the good eye. But if I had to have the good eye operated on, I would be a little nervous because, you know, I kind of see mostly from the good eye, you know. So, you're basically going to go sailing with your head. You got that in your eye. Did you say, did you say you had a cataract in your eye? I have a cataract in your eye. Yes, I have a cataract. And luckily I have a blue eye. So it's like, you know, I go sailing in the sea. Yeah, the blue sea. So. I spent on having a book about back a wrecking your eye. That's right. Hey, now, so instead, one of our fans said to picture of you to me. And they said, I don't know if you've ever seen this, but it's hanging in my gym. I texted you the picture to be a Facebook. I don't know if you've seen it, but let's put the picture up the Tyler. I don't know. It looks like you got to be about 18 years old here. Do you see the picture? No. It's like you working. You look like a blacksmith almost. I don't know. Let me, let me look at my good eye. You don't see nothing. Is it like a photo shoot picture? It was a photo shoot picture. You have looks of dirt on your face and on your chest. It almost looks like a David Paul, but I don't, it's not a David Paul picture. No, that was from my friend Carl Hintzel. Hands on your hands. The master of muscle photography on his Instagram page. If you check him out, he's got tons of, but that was actually 19. That was over if the doc yards were, what doctorates in Australia and Calcutta. Yeah, Newcastle here with the doc yards where the ships coming in. I mean, that's a great picture of you. It looks like I got a job, doesn't it? Yeah, almost, almost as you got a job. You're really young, but this gives it people an idea of how, I mean, you had a really well-developed physique at 19 years old. It's crazy how much muscle maturity you had at such a young age. No one has that. No, I was ahead of my time. I was from the future. That's why I've spaced out now and gone back to my home planet. Once we get to Mars, we'll hope and see if we can make it the crypt on just a bit further out. There you go, I got you. Also, another fan sent me a picture of you with Paul DeLat, which if you look at that picture, do you know that picture? Put that one up the tile. Is that with my tight zone? Let me see, hold on. I got a little like, yes, yeah, you were tight. You look like you're about 12 years old in that picture. Yes, I would have been 20, that's when I first got to Gold's roughly. That's where Paul's sitting down, he's got his hand there around me. Yeah, yeah. That's when I had him moving off that Adam became the lovers. Ah, I see. Now those, those, those, those, those, those, Pete Taita, those like high skins or what, what were those? That's been. And I would have been hot skin jet and the bum bag. Yeah, bum bag on. You got all the, all the, all the 90s, uh, paraphernalia on there. And my wearing a gold, it's Jim Toppa, who's never totally awesome, shit, similar. I think I got gold. That's the gold, Jim showed private ad currency, you're right. It's got pink riding. See how I'm color-court and they didn't really call it. Yeah. And you notice too, when you wear those tights, you can bum bags that aside, you got a tuck. You got a tuck, you don't have, you don't have this plug. You don't have to go into the side, if you lay in the benches and go, it's saying you don't have to people walking past go. Ooh. Right. I told you that story once did I want to steal the leg curls and I had white tights on you know, probably the worst color to weigh, white so I still have the leg curls and I did. Oh, Lee, stop it, stop it, Lee. I'm like, what? I still have the leg curls in that second room. Yeah. Oh, you turn it on me, I'm late, turn the round. That's Chris, they can, Mister Olympia, more than so. I got hit on by Mr Olympia. Yeah, he's a jack on a rabbit. Yeah, Chris is getting a Chris's game, we have what knows that. But, that's funny. You never wore white tights again after that again. Oh, never, it's not a never got gay for the party, but I got hit on the bit. Oh, that's funny. That's funny. That was just trying to take the band, you got my thinking. We're getting some free out of this going. Was he feeling out, like to see if, you know, You know, testing the waters there. Yeah. Oh, actually, is actually really good seniors in a Chris Dickinson. Great. Very good senior. Actually, I think he said something to me once when I was visiting Gold 2. And I didn't, I didn't get it. But then someone else told me afterwards and he was getting out. Yeah, we're ready on my head. Yeah, I was very nice. I had done the use day when he walked up and said, Dave, I like the fuck you in the house. What did he say? I thought he said, I want to spot you in the, I don't know. I don't know. All right, let's, I want to get your opinion on some things. We had some bodybuilding actually occurring this past week and which is amazing because the season has been so pathetic because of this COVID thing. Nick Walker won the North American Championships at 5 foot 70. It was about 247 pounds on stage. The guys in absolute free. What is your assessment of this video? Do you like this physique? Do you think this guy's going to go far? I know you predicted that Huddle or Brad, I might win the Olympia. Where do you think Nick Walker fits into the scheme of things that 26 years old? I think you look straight. Hey, you look, I said muscle mass wise. You look straight. You still got the good symmetry. You hasn't got that stomach bloated or anything at the moment. So the main thing, the main thing with him, well, I can see is if he just does it smart and doesn't try and push the envelope too fast too quick. He should go far because sadly we've seen a couple of young kids come in looking like that and after a couple of years trying to go too hard to crazy and over a fuck up or die. So I think it does it smart. He's got the great genetics there and everything else in place. So he didn't keep his head on straight and have a few smart people around him and they don't go crazy. He should do well. He's still like, that's sort of different. It's when I think when I was 25, I think I've probably been training since 13. My muscle had a bit more mature look. So once it gets that muscle maturity, I talk about it. Now he's big and freaky but he still doesn't have that real. You know, you get a hold of that mature look to you and a good density mature look. So I think that will come with time. But yeah, I see him, you know, instead of you stays the course and does it the smart way. You know, in a couple of years time there's no reason why he keeps progressing. Why he couldn't be up there in the top freaky Olympia. Yeah, he reminds you almost of a Mike France, why type physique? I mean, just a powerful physique and you know it, the guy lifts low volume heavy weight. He was telling me he can show the press behind the net for 15, a four or five for reps, like six reps or eight reps. I think I could do that. I said, that one is your arm. That's the two four plates behind the net. Did you really? Wow. And now she had I tried it. Oh, this has before my neck operation. I just tried one plate behind the net. Because you know, we always just do everything behind the net. Like crashes behind the net. Who dance behind the net? Yeah. Now he was trying to do a foot heavy behind the net. You can't even, you can't even flex your body into that position. Any hard to get there. He's been to back at the head. Don't. But I never had because people always said I'll do it at the behind. They're doing presses behind you get shoulder problems. I never had a shoulder problem. As soon as I started doing everything to the front, I had fucking shoulder problems. Yeah. You know, it is, I told, I would Nick Walker and I was talking about this. Everyone's body is biomechanically a little different. So for one person, what might be the greatest exercise of all time. For the next person might be the worst exercise. They don't feel it. It hurt. They get injured doing it. I never understood how guys can do front squats. I mean, I had really powerful legs. But when I would put that bar across my shoulders, it just, I had been, it was just two, my shoulders hurt more than my legs hurt. So I couldn't do it. I didn't run any Coleman do 600 pounds, you know, front squats. I got up to five plates front squat. And you had to put on my head with that. Well, as well as doing five plates was more like the breathing. Because because the weights pushing here, it's almost like, yeah. Right. That's what I'm saying to say, I think, to go idea the date, the gym about body mechanics. Because I was doing some legs and there's on the leg, which is like, where should I have my legs, should I have them up and be the whole A here? Here I said, look, as long as you can feel your chords work and put them ways comfortable for you. I said, me, because I'm sure that minor bit lower. You might need your super higher. I said, look, everyone's going to have an opinion like up here. Out here in close to out right. I said, just put them where you feel as long as you're doing the exercise. Correctly, and you feel it in the chords. That's how you do it. It's like, oh, so you see trainers when someone's doing leg curls. Sometimes people, because of their natural body mechanics, like you said, if they're doing leg curls, they'll back my just come up a little bit. They're still working their hands. Right, right, right, right, right. But then I'll see this personal trainer's push down on the back. Yeah, I'm doing down. I think just that sort of compression why they're trying to, because I just, if you're not cheating and you're doing the exercise properly, just let your body go in. It's natural range of motion, you know? So you're 100% right. You've got to find your own groove essentially is what you're saying. Because if you don't, like, you know, I always said that, you know, it's good to switch up exercises and foot positions and something like that. But if you squat on a normal regular basis, 500 pounds for say, and you put your feet wide and you squat normally. And then some guy comes to the gym and says, oh, you should really go an hour or a hour. And then you're going to get more sweep or whatever. And then you try to do the same weight. You're going to hurt yourself because your body's not used to that groove. You've changed the groove. You've got to lighten the weight and build up to that again. So don't, you know, it's good to vary your exercise form and something that, but if you're used to doing things one way and then you decide you're going to change it. Don't go and try to do the same thing that you've been doing for the last six or six. So it's like you said if someone's doing like the squats in there or or stays in some guys all go wide, not they go wide. They're the same weight all of a sudden. They're the fucking order fucking inner part of the thighs and fucking homies get. Yeah, we want to want to. Yeah, absolutely. Now, let's, let's take a step over to the New York pro, which took place in Tampa, Florida. Also this past week in Ian Valier, redeemed himself from the Tampa, lost to Huntel Abrauder and went here. Did you like the, the quality made on Ian winning that show? And what's the take of the other rest of the top five? Uh, in look bed, let me did it the other show. Ian, I'll give him that, but he's 10, he's 10 still looks shitty to me. I don't know what he's using for 10, he needs to switch it up with every second. Yeah, I agree. But then, um, even better than he did before, but still I don't know. I think maybe a year ago, seeing him look better. But I think that Rodriguez and Max Charles got heavily overlooked or something. And it was, yeah, I'm just going by photos and from the comparison photos. Rodriguez was second, wasn't he? Yes. I would have probably had him first. And I know some people come at you, but look at the quads. Look at the quads on Rodriguez. Okay, they're not maybe. Ian's have that bit more flare on the outside, but then when you look down at their foot position, they both stand different, their feet. Ian's a bit more outside, they look more flied, but you know, Rodriguez doesn't have shitty quads. Okay, Ian's might be a little bigger. Well, you know what I've seen guys with bigger quads get second and third. Ian doesn't really have any fucking calves. Rodriguez has a bit of a calf. So he's got one up on him, but when you put all the other poses together, I just think Rodriguez looked better overall and more completely in the lat's spread. Okay, Ian's wide in the lat's spread. But when he's doing it, it's like his chest is very flat and stuff like that, whereas Rodriguez just seen more complete and full and better conditions. So and then Max Charles, I think he looked definitely. He looked like he got over. Look, they would have had. Look at how it have easily had Max up in the top three. Well, I'm going to say, I'm going by third, and see, I'm not there. So I can't see what's happening and stuff. Well, me and I have a meltdown over this because me and I did his diet and I guess in me and I have this stuff about, you know, Max being overlooked and everything, which is, you know, I mean, you can make a case for it. I wasn't there, so it's hard for me to make a ball. Yeah, I'm going to say, well, it does every day, but just going by the photos and I've read a couple of comments from people that were there, you know, all consensus was, look, he and did look great. He looked at that and before, but a lot of people didn't seem to even have Ian winning even though he, okay, he looked good, but yeah, I just think the other guys just look more complete, more polished, just seeing from his previous show, yeah, who's 100% better, but still, I don't think he was at his best. Like, you know, as far as that grainy hardness super, super riploc were as Max Charles, you know, he, he looked really good and stuff and, well, then I don't know what happened to, I saw the photos of, what's his name? What do you think of his name? What's Arthur? He looked good, he looked good, but I think he needs to be a little bit harder. Yeah, he could be a tailor for sure. But what's his name? Oh, every time I look at him, he reminds me of a fucking bulk drop, a muscular line or richie. Patrick Moore, that's him. Patrick Moore, that's where he is. Yeah, you're right. He's like a line or richie, look at him. He's like, he's got muscular. Yeah, but the funny thing was, he looked great, you know, I guess, on Instagram or Facebook, a couple of weeks out, everyone looks fantastic, but I think he looked better a couple of weeks a week or so out, there's an on stage, he looked good, but he just seen the, I don't know, he just looked like he got water, it was the lighting too or not, but he just looked watery from the pictures I saw. He just didn't have that dryness. He had like that picture. What's their picture of him with Chris Cicita? Well, someone would have been the long way where he had his arm out like this. Yeah. And it was all great and fucking, looked fucking messy, even then the day to show you like, whatever. What can fucking do? Right. Chris, what'd you do? It's like, however he looked on that day, fucking putting him in the show like that, don't change shit. That's what I don't understand what his people were going to do this or drop you water or add these things like, don't do fucking shit. Yeah, you're fucking fucking awesome stage. So you got to fucking do some people, you got it, you can dehydrate the hell out of Lee and they just get better and better. And then other guys, if you dehydrate them too much, they lose all that wow, you know. So you got to stay around with work. I think he's really hard, I think he's just a little smaller than these other guys. He's still needs more size. Probably, but he probably should have taken the whole year off and just grown, you know. Yeah, but even if you're smaller, it doesn't matter. I know, I saw some comments too, where people like, well, we've got Regus. You know, he's not as big as Ian, well, yeah, you know, this never think it, but that means shit, if you're in shape and you look great, you know, you should win the best man on the day should win. And I don't want to hear well, some people are probably looking at him thinking, next week or the week after he's going to be a lot better. Well, guess what, this eight, the week after, it's not too weak slater. That's fucking today. Judging Harry looks today and OK, Broderie, this was a little small. I think that means shit, I was one 99 when I won the scene for Ian and Chris was 260, that second, wait, doesn't matter. If someone's in fucking shape, they should win the fucking show. Right. Because I remember even once before when Flex wanted to show, then Lonnie was talking some of the judges and I was listening, they're like, oh, yes, but you know, he'll look better next week. OK, he might look better next week, but fucking today's the eye. Me, he touched him. OK. Not like I'm looking into my crystal ball next week. Oh, he has starations next week and that's OK. We're giving him first today because next week he's going to look good. Right. It's like, but I have next week. And we're ever saying today on the day, it looks the best. Fucking, that's how it should be playing and simple. No, you're right. Yeah, you have to, you have these guidelines, OK, maths, OK. They're like, what are judging for maths? OK, what that is, one of the judging criteria is, and so it's fucking conditioning, so symmetry and all this other shit. You've got to judge on all those things combined. And sadly, it seems like, you know, people say, all glutes, glutes, glutes, and this, and that, and look at their hammies. You ever even noticed, they got, well, look at the quads on him, look at the hammies on him. Have you ever heard anyone say, look at the fucking calves? What's happened to calves? You come to me as well, just fucking city wheelchairs and parks. It's like, you just come out on your knees, stand on your fucking knees. Because now, when's looking from the lower leg down? Look, I don't care if someone had massive quads, like, plats and massive hamstrings, like plats and beautiful up a body, if the guy beside him has a bit smaller quads and hamstrings, a bit of a body, but the guy beside him has got calves. I'm going to give it to him because that's the fucking complete pussy. He got a judge from the calf, sort of way up. If you would mind, I think my theory on the calves, Lee, is that because of COVID, and everyone's been training at the house, no one has a calf machine at the house. So, that unit calf machine, all my best exercises for calves, is on the back step, body weight, hundreds and hundreds of reps. That's the best. I've seen these guys put the fucking weights on the machine. They go, dance, dance, dance, dance, dance. They're not calves like this. I've seen guys who play Chris, eight plates aside, and when they do calves, they do 10 plates, I'm like, oh, you're fucking quads and his feet. Yeah, yeah. And you're a little fucking shins of moving all that way. One of my friends, he never used to weigh it all. He's calves, major 22 inches. They always look like matter arasos in that much else, but he had big calves. And all he ever did was just body weight on a stick. He do a 100 reps, they start burning, shake him, keep going. Because you look back to, when my sister did ballet, there's like, you're a lot of young guys that went to ballet. And all day, what they do on the ball of the toes, on the ball of the toes, just with their body weight, they have funny calves like this, these male ballet dancers, they're not using weight, they're just using their body weight. So, that how excuse to stay, even with COVID, you know, I don't think they got COVID, but I think they got fucking cancer in the calves. Was eating a muscle away, fucking. People are lazy, you know what happens? If I had wings, yeah, it screwed up. Because a lot of guys are lazy because they put so much in the quads, when the time they finish quads to get our calves, what they do, sandwiching the quads, hamstrings, that's why sometimes do your fucking calves first. Do your hammy's right. Do those areas that you need to fucking bring up first, give them a 100% of attention, you know, it's just like, but how hard is it to do it on time, fucking five sets of 100 reps of calves every day and a half. These guys are doing this as pros and they have weak calves. I'd buy a freaking calf machine and put it in my living room. Watch TV and do calves all day long. I mean, if that's what you like, I mean, if that's what you're passionate, you want to be the best bodybuilder, and you have weak calves, put a calf in your living room, you know? Get out, get out, get out, get out the back and get your muscles on your back and do the donkeys on the back. You're the old Arnold, you're the old Arnold Donkey calves. You can do the donkey white with your muscles on the back if you got a fat muscles, even better, extra white. And then you can be standing, standing calves, and then you can do those ones. Remember, plats and everyone used to do what you sort of squat there, like you're sitting and holding on to a pole and you just sort of... I didn't even thought about that. I'm going to try to do those. I forgot that he used to do those. Yeah, so I'm going to bring it back, guys. Bring it back. You squat down just for people who don't know. You pull the pole, like you're doing like a pole dance, and then you just kind of... Yeah. Go up on your toes. Yeah, it's almost like a seated calf just holding onto a pole. Yeah. Yeah, so it's three top exercises I've just given you to do it. Yeah, you got no excuses. No excuses for having shitty calves now. That's a name to just go. The name of this episode is Lees. Calf secrets. Turn your calves into bulls by Lee Prey. Yeah, sure. So you think Ian will do it with the Olympia? Well, we got Phil. We got Brandon. We got Flex. Give me another one. Ruin, buddy. Bonak. And they got a deed in that really embounet. I would imagine they were going to get here. Yeah, this is real. If we got Phil and we got Flex Lewis and we got Ruin, we got Bonak and we got Hunter. This five guys that are going to place ahead of him. Bonak. Yeah, what is six guys that will place ahead of him? If not, we're talking about everyone in top shape. You know, this isn't saying Ian. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Dad. Yeah, absolutely just a small place for a day. What's up these days? Yeah, Sarito? So before the statistics they were colleagues and colleagues, Our퍼textered. It says in shate, yes, there is another one. Like I said, there isn't say, Ian's. Not a good bodybuilder, he is. He is, but I just think these guys in the Moss storms and the I have and the experience in the mature Moss arch has and they are all in shape. Körpery and you know, he might crack top 10. still looks like he's in that learning stage of this and that. I think we put it all together however he's going to be very dangerous. If I took it all together he's got the frame, he's got the muscle, it's just a matter of like I said before at the first show he just looked like he flattened out, this show he looks a bit full but then he's not as that hard crisp gravy looks like. You know body burning is all trial and error you know. He's just got to get it right but it just hope he doesn't think this being the Mr. Olympia. He's got to play some crazy size game and coming bigger and bigger and right. Fuck up coming in too big again so it's like you just got to find that balance and have faith in whoever's helping you and go by that mirror and just be the best you can be. Look you're your main competition who gives a shit how anyone else you stand a look on that day. You can't go by what feels going to look this way. Really is going to look this way. Just look at yourself and be your best and have someone who is honest with you and say hey Ian you look fucking great don't change anything. If you guys well what about it? Feel this and we'll be good. Fuck everyone else just go in the best you can be and just trust in that because I said if you gotta keep comparing yourself that I was in trying to you know twins your body that are trying to feed in somewhere with the other people you got to fuck it up so just be the best you can be in the satisfied. We never satisfied but whoever's helping you just say hey hey you look now don't fucking touch your being just let's stick to how you look now and don't do that like I said that last day or two hocus fucking poke us let's fucking try this and try that and I don't know what it do that it's like you know what it's like they've been dieting 16, 14 weeks your body's used to certain foods the amount of foods whatever drugs you're taking blah blah blah and now all of a sudden you think these last five days I'm going to suddenly switch on my carbs around switch on my salts around I'm going to add in these different drugs and maybe some diarrhea whole body just goes murder yeah and it just fucked up that's why I always think I always do that yeah almost but one of those photos you took David for Chris Lund because I always died at 16 weeks minimum so generally the 12 13 week mark I was in content shape I just had to hold it so any little thing I wanted to do wherever it be the chocolates and see how I look I might sort of cut my water back for the photoshoot a bit and use that photo to prove as the experiment it's like if the unexperiment doing that type of shit getting shaped early and then do it a week or two before see now how it looks because if you're been dieting 16 weeks and you think okay let's try this experiment to see how I look the last day or two before it's shown you fuck it up you'll just fuck that product preparation so try to head at time get ready early and then do it or even if you want if you do the show see how you look even if you could persevere for an extra week and fucking the pleat down a bit after the show and then try something different the week after and see how you look it's just like why you're in shape just try different things but please don't do it in the day or two before because we've seen it over and over when they post-rev pictures and you're like this guy's gonna blow everyone out the park and then zoom on stage you're like the company even blow out a fucking candle right now whatever it looks like to shit you're right very wise words from me very wise man this fucking that's a sense of how can you sound like a fucking guru scientist I was gonna say you're giving so much advice I had nothing to say I'm speechless yeah I've never heard of you give this much advice people ask you all the time what to do when you tell me I just whatever you want and now we'll see you give me a good time I'm gonna start a training program called Nessa Body Building there you go right the programs around it is world well he keeps updated hopefully you'll be able to choose the text message or maybe zoom us from Mars next week and be safe out there and when you take a shit make sure you're making sure you're attached to the toilet apparatus so it doesn't you don't send your poops into space you know if what is comes the worst day but I don't get to Mars oh cool Steve and he said we'll come to your highness okay so whatever whatever works we'll get somewhere okay that's right at least you always have your highness that's a good one I know we've got to bring in Steve people say why do you keep bringing it up because that's funny yeah and if I hit your highness might not see that black hole we're going in and I know that's wise words I'm day full of love for with lead priests for another installment of iron rage

After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. Oh, you're funny. Oh, it's like I say, like I say, like I say, do you like my tailbone for a shoe? Welcome back to Iron Raid. I'm Dave Polumbau here with Lee Priest with his new flat top haircut. What's all that all of that? Well, it's almost a flat top day. When you go in, why is I hate this fucking thing? I'm looking at, I'm crooked or something. Go on the opposite way. That's called old age. I like that. I'm a totally sorry. I can come back out of quarantine. I'm looking this way. Yeah, I went to the bar with a, what I try something different. Again, I'll go back to the old 1998 staff flat top. So I did. You go in there. You have a photo even. I even took a photo. I like, look, I want like this. And this is how you know when you're in trouble in the bar, but has this little bit of smell of alcohol on him? Any, any looks of it like this. Oh, shit. So if he's partly cross side and smells of alcohol, I'm like, oh, this ain't going to turn out good. So he starts cutting and I'm like, no, no, no, no, you got to do a bit more here. I'm glad you teach me. I'm like, you want to come barber and then he's doing this. So he finally get the something. I'm like, why didn't you stop him? I said no, because at this point, and now what I've told him what I wanted and I showed him, I want to see how he's interpreted it. So I want to see what I've said. I want to flat top. He's the photo. I want it like this. Now I want to see what I've told him. I want to see what he heard in his head. So I'm just watching what he's doing. And I'm like, you're really not crooked. Maybe it's your hair that's crooked. Maybe that's the problem. But I think, you know, what is hair grows back in two weeks. I'll go see my normal guy and he'll be like, you'll straighten it all up for me. But I didn't turn it out too, man. Yes, we're doing good. You know, it's funny because you have such a good head of hair. It's such a, you know, an advanced age. I'm kind of a little jealous to be honest with you. But what do I do, sky was going. I was losing it pretty quick. Yeah. I'm looking at the fucking new. I'm like, oh, so when I was done, when I was done, he's like, you have to I'm like, yeah, that's good job, mate. Thank you. So I was like, did your pay him? Yeah, because I didn't pay him. He can't. And what are they charged for? Heck, I know I truly these days. Uh, the place I got out of any charge me 20, but normally it's 30, 35. But oh, really that much. Wow. Yeah, but yeah, but yeah, but in some places, it's always like a tattoo party. Go up in the one barber and one guy will cut it one day. I'll do the same thing. You're saying 20 bucks on the here go. I can go to the same barber if he's not there. I see another barber there. 30 bucks. Oh, but they need to make their own prices these guys. I think so. I think they just like a tattoo. Paula, how much is that? And do you have to tip them? Do you don't tip it on a show? That's why. So I'll get a $15 a heck about. I'll give them $25. So, you know, it comes out. It's the same thing. Well, look, look at your hair now. I got more hair on my balls. But yeah, you know what I have to. When you have no hair, and you have to, you have to make it look good. That's I think way harder than when you have a lot of hair. You can't really go wrong with your hair. I can do your hair for, let's say, 699. I just go to the auto shopping. It's on fucking spray paint. I prefer that actually. I'll just tape your face off with a tape and tape up. 699 out of the door, though. There you go. I'll even cut holes in the paper so I can do your eyebrows. I appreciate it. That was a nice dimension. There you go. I've got a new job on my hand dresser. That's right. That's right. You know, in prison, they got these, the prison here. It kind of guys. The buzz. Yeah, everything's a buzzer there. And it's funny because there's like all the buzzer guys do all the, the guys who, you know, black guys who have like, like the shades and all the different things. And then you got like one white guy cutting here who does all like the white guys. And for just the one. Just the one. Well, actually, as a sit, he actually is allowed to have a scissors. I was going to, I was going to put the white guys. He's just a simple number two. That's it. No, no, no. He actually given the scissors, you know, for the white people here. Oh, the black people get the nasty. Yeah, they got a great. They have a big, they have that look better than they are when they're, when they're out of jail. No, no one did a keep going back for the hate cuts. Exactly. We don't use when you're in jail. There's not much you can do so. Everyone, like, perfect. They're craft. These guys, they got the microwave cookers. You know, they get the kids. They can cook a gourmet meal in the microwave. It's unbelievable. They saw a, they, I mean, you can't get near the, unsadder as you can't get near the microwave. Oh, maybe that's a good case. I want to put that down as a case for more women should go to prison in the learned a fucking cook. Ah, there you go. And then you have the guys who cut hair and then you have the lawn guys, then you have the guys who fix things. I, I can't even believe laundry. What about laundry when they got to do the laundry and follow them? No, laundry, you got to do your, oh, yeah, they do have a laundry mechanism to your right. They do all the uniforms and stuff like that. They're better going to shower and it's so shut. Ah, the name is Stevie B. Oh, he's a special guy. He's a special guy. He's a special guy. Yeah, that was right. But if you haven't, speaking to the cooking women not being able to cook, this is what it may Is, as me, when I watch these TV shows on, you know, get those homes in Beverly Hills and this and that. But every time they walk into house, generally the guy, he's like, isn't this a beautiful house? And she's like, oh, now we need to change that. Always the woman, bitch. Oh, we need to do a renovation on them, covered to this and that. And as soon as they walk into the kitchen, out of the kitchen, to what I go into one kitchen, oh, and it's his beard if a look at the cook tops. Look at the bench. Look at the bench in the middle. I think it's shadow, bitch. You never got a fucking use it. Just look at the fucking microwave. This is fucking microwave. You got to get the fucking microwave. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, and then you want to create ashes. They got like these like 30 million hours. You know, they never used the kitchen unless they have a chef. Maybe it comes in. And if you're seeing the fridge is perfectly packed with order. I'll just be safe. Yeah, and all the day cogs and all the other stuff. I've been doing this for a minute. I've got this fridge in American. I can remember the fridge just came out. What was it? Oh, a couple of years ago. I had the touch screen on the fridge so you can have an iPad. I wanted day one in my wife when we got one. She's like, it's way easier for her. Thank God. She's got someone's got sense in the kitchen. Yeah, it doesn't look cool. But I'm like, why don't you go and do a look at the Facebook. I eat in the kitchen. Yeah. Yeah. But then it's got that fridge too. When you put stuff in it and notify you on your phone. You're getting low on milk or you get us like, what? People become that lazy we can't. But they're absolutely. We can't open the fucking door and look in there. I just saw this add on TV. Now we've got this new fridge here. You're touch it. And the door becomes transparent. So you can see into the fridge. I love it. That's the one I wanted. That's exactly the one I wanted. Why? Because it's still hard to open the door between you and you. No, it's just cool. What do you have in iPhone? Yeah. Why do you have an iPhone? Because it's got to make in the other ones. It's not cool. I'd rather go back to a phone. This is what everyone should do. You want a blackberry? Now just yeah, blackberry. Just where you can text and call and check your emails. Everybody else can go back to computers. Because imagine how good the world would be if people are out walking around smiling and talking to everyone. We're having an all-face book, Instagram. We're not allowed to anywhere. That's the problem. What you can't have it on your computer. That's the only time you can check it on your computer on your phone. Just relax. Yeah. But how hard is it to undo your fridge door now? Look in there. You just got to touch it and see what's in there. Oh, my God. Let me see if I can find this thing. I got it. I'm going to get one for you. I'll wait for something. Watch the world coming to you. Let's see if I can get this thing. What was the thing about that? Watch this. Yes, that refrigerator. I think this is the refrigerator. You were talking about it once. Probably. You've just touched the door and it comes transparent. It's the LG signature. This guy looks like he's never used a fridge. Yeah, I'm not. Yeah. They always get these weird glasses. What's that? Was that a cat? Was that a cat on the floor? They always have these weird people that sell these appliances. You haven't noticed that? I've never met a normal appliance person. Like the vacuum salesman that comes to the door and right-share wife and kills her. That's so nice. Yeah, well, you know, actually in the movies. There it is. You can see it goes. It dims. Yeah. I think the same technology is like, you know, like, this is the first house. There it goes. Here it goes. It's going to touch it. Nice. Oh, look at that. I need to undo the door now. Oh, I can look inside. I think the technology is so much of what, you know, how like when you're looking in your rear view mirror now, it'll dim itself. If you get hit with like someone blasher with the bright minder. What about what about those places? Those fancy clubs that have the toilets when you go in and the glass goes frosted. Oh, they are. That's even cooler. But actually there's a woman sewing one of them because she was actually now doing her business and that I'm thrusted and everyone's standing outside. Look at this. Look at this. The refrigerator opens by itself. Oh, no. I've got a foot pedal to undo the door. No. No, it's not a foot pedal. It's just it automatically sees what your, your foot just has to pass by it. And then that's fine. Well, I got six cats. My fucking fridge will be getting closed. I'm going to make them go to the milk and whatever they want. They're full treats and they're whatever they want. What's it, come with your hold on. The fridge doors do have you to open. Let me just put my foot there. Can you come get the milk out the leaders full. It's very heavy for me to. My, my Mercedes I had before I, I got kids used to be able to just kick your foot underneath the the fender just run, run your foot and the the trunk would open, which is kind of cool if you're a package. I've seen those ones. Oh, yeah. That's another thing to do to the noise. Look, I understand technology, but all these cars with lane guidance and shit. Whatever happened to fucking drive in the car yourself. I'm too lazy now. I don't want to stay in my league pretty soon. There's not going to be any more driving. You're going to have a, you're going to get a chance to car. See, all my life, I can honestly say, I've had how many too many cars. But never once have I used cruise control. Never. No, I don't do it. Even when I drive from like telephone, you're the Texas, I prefer to feel my foot on the extreme. You fall asleep when you put it in cruise control. You don't have to do anything. That's the thing. But now they got these new cars. I saw one, what model was it the other day when you turned the indicator on could have been that key a K 900 or something. You're turned the indicator on and you know where your gauges are on the dash. Yeah. It comes on there a screen so you can see what's beside you because I like that. I don't have a big day if you got it. Oh, my net. I do like the link. I like when it tells you to someone in the blind spot. Do you like that one? Yeah, I still look. It's like he got a look. You can't look anyway, but I'm just saying, at least you sometimes you want to just you think there's no one in the lane, you're bad to turn off. You're cross over and then opposite of the little B. B. Or do you have a thing or something like it? Sometimes I've had different cars. You know, like the A frame pillars or whatever that come down. Sometimes they're so thick when you go look now and say, and it's just blocking a car. Oh yeah. That's why I like that thing never because it kind of, it's like a I also like the one now where if you're getting too close to someone in front of you, like you're not you're not looking at the yeah, if you're not looking straight ahead, you can get too close on someone it'll it'll like it'll hit you would such a loud siren that you own your own. Yeah, I'm a hard attack and don't say you crash. Yeah, you crash anyway. But what is crazy? Like it's just a whole. And remember that video that won't go in the test last. Yeah. As a striper down there. Yeah, yeah, that was good. That was a good. That was a good. All right, so this is why I wanted this is the Ranc today. I know that you're you've mentioned this before, but there's a Jim owner now in New York state who is suing as part of a coalition he's suing. Governor Cuomo in New York state. His name is Charles de Francesco and he's suing because he wants them to open up his gym. I'm an open to gym up. It's a whole coalition of people. Jim owners. What do you think about this? You know, his his argument is hey, look, liquor stores are open. That was a considered essential, but but the one the one institution, the one business that actually people get healthier at working out in the gym is not open. Well, is that just you off? Well, I've mentioned before the so cool got up. There's the exor at you. And the so called government doesn't want people healthy with the scusses because there's much easier to get rid of sick people. And the thing is, it's like here in Australia, same thing happened to Jim's. We're almost the last thing to reopen. We had bars open restaurants open. Yeah. Okay, supermarkets are essential, but how many people go through it, even a shopping mall? How many people go through a mall each day and shopping centers, touching everything? Whereas I know here at the gyms, we have a martial like what they call them. And they're like, covered martial that wears a bright orange vest around. Oh, yeah, and as you walk into Jim, everywhere they got, they got wipes, as you walk into Jim, there's a huge table. And there's probably 50 spray bottles with a whole pack of like wipes. So everyone can take a spray bottle with him and go around. So when you finish spray to bench in that and then someone just goes around to make sure you're not too close to people or you just make sure they clean up. But in our audience, after have that in our and they're open. So why not? Like I said, someone hops on the public transport bus. How many of you hop on the bus? Sit there, pick those, why but on the seat? You get on the bus next and someone's been farting on the seat during whatever. Even those like overweight people or skinny people don't want to fat shame, but people sit on the bus. They sweat on the seat. They don't have someone on the bus wiping down the seat every time. Someone gets on and off. So if a Jim, like I said, you could have it, where you could do this up a schedule, call up what else do you want to train? There's 50 people at these hours and then you get an hour at least if you get an hour's been enough. And you could regulate it, but at least you got somebody there going around cleaning. So I don't see how it could be a bad thing. I've always said that like you said bottle shops are open, but here in Australia bars were open. Clubs are open restaurants are open that Jim's, oh no, you can't go to the gym because that might spread some disease. I'm about to discuss. I just want to run my business. I wanted to just pay my bills. You're putting me out of business. You're putting us all these Jim owners out of business. Think about it. New York State has not opened since the shutdown. You know, that's a lot. That's a long time now. A carrier business and have to raise it. You just don't even have restaurants open. You know what? Well, I'm in Florida. So Florida has everything's open Florida. I think New York restaurants, I think, they believe are open because they consider them essential, but you know, there's limited seating. The best thing ever for their arguments when they go to court, you just pull up videos of the people. The thousands of people, the people, the people, the people, the children of the shoulder. So you're coming to arrest me and close my business down. You want to arrest them. Yeah, and just letting them go have it just shoulder the shoulder, running around, painting, sheet on the roads, doing this, doing that and you do nothing. You just stay in back and let them go. But yes, I open up a business where I can control people coming in and out and sanitize shit. And I'm the fucking bad guy. Look, what I got to do is just get them to put on for your lamb shirts and tea for shirts, whatever. And just as they start coming in to the gym each day, just start yelling like that. Yeah, right. You can be discriminated against. Yeah. What are you trying to do today? Fuck Trump. Fuck Trump. Just train like that every set. Yeah, Trump. Fuck Trump. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. You're racially profiling me. Yeah, yeah. And just throw out fucking whatever the protest is yelling out. Just fucking start throwing it out. That you're squatting heavy. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. So what's going on in here? Oh, you know, they're just protesting. Let them go. And I say go do it. So you just go do the gym and that's what doesn't protest. I'm sorry. I fixed the problem. Now on another note, changing gears a little bit. I saw that Vince Taylor posted on his Instagram. He's doing a good bench. He looks great. He's for 60 years old. It's right. But Vince posted on his Instagram a picture of him in Robby Robinson on stage. The other. Yeah. And he basically was thanking Robby because he said when he was 14 years old, he wrote his first letter ever to a bodybuilder. It was to Robby Robinson and Robby answered a back in game. Some like motivating words of advice. He sent him a bicycle because he wanted to see how to get big arms because I wanted to have arms like Robby Robinson. And Robby wrote them back in work. What you, what you, was that picture of? That was at the 90s. It wasn't early 90s. Yeah. That's kind of be like when Vince was at the moment. Was that the moment? Oh, maybe it was. Mass is a limp of your right. I think you're right. Still look good. Well, we still look good now. No, he's still. Robby's still. It's good right here. I'm even now for what he's 72. He's 72. He's 72. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. He was 70. You're all that's for sure. If only we can get this every day. Even though it's in your young, when I was in my 20s, I'm like, I'm going to die young. But then you're like, I don't care. You get the 30 odd. I'm going to die. I don't care. They get you late 40s 50s. You're like, I want to get the 55. I want to get the 60s. It's almost like a challenge now to keep getting. Yeah. Yeah. He changed. That's why when they always people say, oh, I'm in a deal with the devil. You know, I got to give my soul five years. He's like, yeah, I have a five years forever. You know, but obviously. Obviously. We'll just end up like the picture of Dory and Gray. There you go. Let's keep we will have to hide our age. So back back to your story. He wrote a letter and he gave him an autograph. So yeah, and he's he wanted to thank him. He was just giving him a thank you, you know, for after all these years. For everything you did, you know, kind of motivate him and he's a young body. But that was nice. I think that, you know, not a lot of people. You know, people like to pick on everything that's, you know, wrong with with society. And so people pick on Robbie because Robby's, you know, he's always been a bit of a rebel. You know, he says what's on his mind. You know, he's an old, he's an older guy, you know, and old people complain a lot. I mean, I could just think of my dad. We think I alone. He did a lot of good for the sport, you know, I mean, so why do he, he's a little grumpy old man when he's a little old. Oh, no. Well, I know we got Peter when we used to use buss to not without my even start. I mean, it's that of course you got to get Peter when someone's plastered, you know, your famous like this everywhere and put it to where you just head on it. Yeah, yeah, that's true. I mean, that's really going to get upset. But now when I when I was with Black Skull, Robby come to Brazil once or twice and we've got on great. We got on great at the boost together, Robby and when I see me, we always get on good. Yeah, so yeah, I get along really, really wrong. But some people have a problem. I don't know. I don't know how Robby does business, but you know, people, people want everything for nothing. Well, I think it's like you said, Robby's just one of those people where someone can come up. I know I had a guy, yeah, I'm sure you get it too. Sometimes people say to me, this guy got mad at me once because just given out these nice shakers, you know, there's like shaker, you put your drink in it, shake up. It's really pretty like gold, one ahead or the stuff on leek and I send you on I said, sure, you can send me one no problem, think it's send it to me. And I got it. I got it. I got it. I'm actually in thank you very much. It's a nice shake or you just, oh, can you do a video using it and take some photos? We're better than that. Many of the ads we don't want to do. I said, look, I really appreciate your sending it to me. So, but now you want me to advertise it for you. Now, and true well if I do that, you're going to sell it. So, I get this six dollar shake and they're going to make money. I said, look, it's much as I appreciate it. I can't do that for free. I was like, oh, mate, if I can help us like all week, I'm just starting the new business out. Of course, is it T-shirt? Can you wear it for me and post it for me now? I've had people to just send me shirts, they've got a new shirt. Right, and it's up to you. If you want to go with these shirts. Yeah, look, look, I don't expect anything if you, if they do that approach, I'll generally have it on wear it and take a photo. I do it. Yeah, but as soon as they say, can you do this? Oh, I see right back when I get this, when they say, can you wear it for me? I'm going to say, look, I'm busy right now, but you know, what if you send one to Michael Jordan, he might, he might do it for you. That's like, don't try someone like that. Yeah. Which I understand if you're starting, but still come on, don't just, well, I gave you a free T-shirt. It cost me $5, come on. Everyone wants something for nothing, you know that. But like I said, there's even like we don't do one stuff in one line. So, like give me a shout out, I just ignore it. But if someone says, hello, you know, I see the name I'm like, hi, my hide is, but as soon as you are, it's like, no. That's something I don't blame you. Now, Iris Kyle is coming back officially, you know, she'll be doing this on the screen. That's, that's Kai, that's right. That's right. That's right. Don't try trick. I'm going to say I wrote a morning. I asked, I've been talking about a lot about this on the TV shows. Do you think that they should keep women's physique and bodybuilding separately? If you think they should combine it. I think they should combine it because women's physique, to me is what, almost like classic, if we go back, classic, what bodybuilding used to be a long time ago before they all got the big stomachs and that. And women's physique is pretty much how it used to be before they went into a really big type, you know, bodybuilders. Because remember when I was with Kathy back then I've mentioned that before when the women were getting too big, the judges actually said to them, he's musselose 20% of your muscle. And a lot of the girls did, they conformed to what the judges wanted, but come data show guess what? They gave it to the big girls. So they're like, you've asked us to lose this extra muscle. So we look more feminine again, but now you still reward in the big people. So, you know, again, it came to the judges data ones that ruined women's bodybuilding and ruined the men's bodybuilding. They just didn't stick to the guidelines. Remember, even the men they said if you stomach sticks out, you're going to be deducted. Now, we've got deducted. No. I put it in force. It was what happens. They enforce it like one or two times and then they just say just forget about it. Or they force it on one person and that person. That's right. Or it's like, is barely stuck out a little bit, but yours was just a little bit more, okay. I didn't know that it was a fucking weird to measure. But yeah, I think they should combine it because, you know, women's physique and women's body is borderline because, like I said, Dave, the women's body physique is how body women's bodybuilding should be. But if it's here, if it went back to what, if it went back to the earlier days and you're laying the time, you're not with Dave because he could. They were the easily because they gave it to you. Yeah. Yeah. They all would have been. It wasn't till like maybe Kim and then started getting like really big and big and bigger. I was never before. I was around the physique range. So, I think it'll be good as long as, like I said, I give respect to anyone that gets up there and trains or our soft and stuff. And then who will we because it's like, man, if you're training, you want to get big, you want to get big. So I get to the same with the women when they see their body growing, you know, you can't get to a point and go, when I'm satisfied with that, I'm just going to stop here. Of course you want to get as good as you can. Sure, we know some probably go a little bit too far with not their training, but maybe a supplement side of things. Yeah. You know, when that's someone comes up behind the goes, I think it's Bob and I turn around and I turn around and it's, you know, it's Sherry. You know, just oh, Jesus Christ, you know, it's like a... When you... When you... When you went to Iris Kyle or... She knew Grant. Yeah, I know we got him as part. Well, back in the day, you know, you had separate toilets, but that is the Junior Six toilets. Time to be surprised if a lady staying in the beside you, you're an aiding at the ear and all. Kai does come back to you, live the end of the women's vision. I should have not just skirmit in against me. Would you support male men crossing over into the women's vision and vice versa? Just make a new division. You can't, how many divisions can you have? Why can't the men call? People can't swim in. And why can't they work in the next 10 minutes? How many can we have? Why can't we stop there? Just say, go on. You need pretty soon. It's going to be a week long. Every show is going to be a week long. Because I'm going to be any like... This is what you've been to. What do you... What do you... What do you associate as today's division? Yeah, exactly. Or we're just called at the confused division. Exactly. Now, I think I don't know. Her shapes are really good, you know, which is stains. She reminds me of what you're standing for on on and stuff. She reminds me of the old... You know, because Linda Murray used to say, because Linda Murray, you're for sure, is massive. And in person, she was so small. Now, she's a small girl, yeah. But on stage, just with adults and the way she's tiny waste, the illusion was like, and I think that Shanik's the same as that. You know, when you look at her, just standing there, everything flows so well, so... Who wins? Who wins? Yeah. Look at her. Would you like to see him compete, Valagansi, tell that? I think it would be great. Me personally, as much as I like, ours and what she's done, I think I would go for Shanik's type body and the balance and stuff over ours. Yeah, well, we'll see. But ours can... Our skin dishening's always good. So the show's Shanik's. Yeah. I think we would be a great battle between the two of them. I think people with the fans would love to see it, maybe the less. Maybe the less. Maybe the less. And they would be like, we said, if you're very kind, the mix. Wow. I think those in the mix can be the main division. Where is division? What is that thing about? Climb's a price, he hasn't just started teasing again. There feels coming back. Well, I think it would be a great move on his part to come back and try to win that title. You know, away from Branden Curry, while battling Phil Heath on stage, come on then, that would be a classic classic footage we've got. You know, there would be a fight on stage. Is there still any confirmation of it? Because you know, we've got the list out and it says, We found out Ken Romney and all of these, or whoever. Well, someone told me that Randy may be other come here, because Kuwait is not banned from flying. Only the European countries. So Bonnec would be banned then, would he? Yeah, it would be hard from the other thing. Even now. Let's see, came early. I don't know. Can he go to Kuwait for a couple of weeks and then come to Kuwait? It's a good question. Ken, there's always loopholes way. Can he incubate in Kuwait and then come? Or maybe be better could fly him on a private jet or something like that. No, I don't know. Psycho training, Mexico to wait. Yes. Nice get us some tin and then put him up. You know, a week before the Olympia either jumped the wall or find the tunnel. Yeah, there you go. Put it up. Put it up. Put it backpacks on your back. Come and become a drug meal and just come across. Get out of the get over in the States. Have a baby and tonight. Yeah. Yeah. And I had to very see the note. No pun intended of course. So we're going to wrap this thing up on day polumbar with Lee priest. Let us know your opinion. Would you like to see Iris and Sheneet compete in that same division up on stage and call the winner. Miss Olympia. Let us know in the comments below. I'm day polumbar for Lee priest. We'll see you next week. Thank you.

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show where John Romano, Lee Precenae, event of frustrations with the world. John is off today. God damn, how's the air he ever real job, Lee? Huh? No, it's near a sun hood off. I guess he's sort of somebody in the body building fraternity, having a real job. It's fucking like it beyond the joke. Especially from John Romano, who never had a real job. Oh, it's crazy. It's like the Virgin Mary having a baby without sex. I can't. I can't. I only beat on thirty seconds. I'll just upset the Christians. Huh, you know. Now, Lee, you just had another treatment on your tattoo on your face. How does that feel? You were feeling a little sore today? That look, it's good, isn't it? Look at that eye. You look like Rocky, you got pounding in the face a little bit. Yeah. Now, I'm convinced that you're taking this tattoo off because you've actually run out of space on your body to tattoo and you need more a new canvas, is that true? Well, I've actually got rid of this. Been 13 years on board. I was like, you can do cover up here. Like I said, I thought it was a do like Darth Vader. Like you mentioned the term in A to the. But once it goes, there'll be a little bit less there and a little bit less there. So maybe I'll make something smaller. Maybe like a fucking blown range of masks. I like that. You know what, it's me. You might recognize me because now I'm recognized as the lone range of when he's got that mask on. People like fuck where it's lead. But it's lead. Oh, there is no, no, no, no. Yeah, it's fake myself in the eye. Here's a question for you. Will you a little bit lower lone range of your fan? Did you watch all the shows? Yes. What is, what is chemisabi me? Chemisabi isn't like friends or something. Something like that. I don't know. I thought you'd know. I thought I'd probably probably mean fucking white man took out a link. You can't, that's probably what it means. What did you, did you find I considered? That's racist that show, is it? I heard it was racist, you know. You can't play cowboys in the end of school anymore because, you know, whatever. Everything's politically incorrect. Now, did you see the new lone range of movie that came out a couple years ago with Johnny Depp? Is this time, though? Yeah, and what's his name? I think a few of them and whatever. Yeah, did you like it? Did you think it was good? Well, I wasn't bad. You had a bit of slapstick comedy in it. Johnny Depp sort of had the funny party. That wasn't bad. Yeah. You know. That was pretty good. Yeah. Let's get to today's topic. Today's topic is, who was the toughest Mr. Olympia to be? Okay, that's different than who do we think is the greatest Mr. Olympia. Because I think the greatest Mr. Olympia of all time was Ronnie Coleman. But I wonder who was the toughest to be? And we're going to go back from from Lee Haney to Dorian Yates to Ronnie Coleman to Phil Heath. Now Phil seems like he's the most difficult to me. But who do you think you've competed against the A to and Coleman? Who in your mind was the toughest guy to beat and why? I think Lee Haney probably is six, five, seven times Mr. Olympia. Yeah, so it's like, you know, it's hard to say because we're seeing a few shows where I think Lee Haney probably maybe one show he maybe didn't look like he should have won it. But nearly every other show Haney does no doubt he should have won. I think the one way, didn't they drug test that won the year in Chicago? Yeah, he didn't look at it. It is best. But when he came back for his final show in Florida, he just blew it one away when that stage turned around and he was standing there. So he was a clear winner. So then he had V8, so he just is sheer mass and definition and he's drawing as he was always hard to beat. But then when that last year come up when he tore his bars, if any was a bit bloatling, the stomach and that's there in 1997. And look like he should have got V8. So he's always hard to beat, where he would be because you got that aura of being Mr. Olympia. You're going to come in so much bed, let them the really blow the chair away, which has happened before. But like you said, it's hard to do some time. You know, dexter's coming in and one again and you know, J coming and took it off for already so it can be done. So you know, the ones that probably haven't been beat would be the hardest. So you got Yates and you got Colman dig at beat that one year with Fing and then J was a great mission. But J, he did you get beat by Phil. So a couple of him have been beat. So to say the hardest to beat would probably be Yates and Hayne because they never did get beat. Right. Right. When Hayne was competing, he was so much bigger than everyone else. And the funny thing was he wasn't even really that big with today's comparisons. You know, but I think they like to 35 or something. Yeah. He looked gigantic compared to everyone else back in the day though. They were all like middle way to like heavyweight competing against him. There were no real big freaky guys until Yates came along. And a lot of people thought Yates was going to win that that 19, what was it, 91 Olympia. And Hayne came unbelievable, which I'm sure he knew Yates was going to be there. You know, I think Yates that you just looked a little bit, you know, looked a little flat. Like he was really drawn into face like he was never kidding before. But then what about the transformation from that year to the following year when you come back. Yeah. Yeah. Like, remember, those black and white pictures that Chris Lugge, from before, that it ended Jim with the socks on, it's like, the difference is like, now one was going to beat him. And there he had a feel to it's like, you know, there's played that one when Kai was there. You know, people thought it could have gotten either way with Kai and Phil, but it's like, you know, it's like we've said, unless you can come in so spectacular, you've got to really have, it's got to be like, clear cup when you walk out on stage. You can't, I'm an R. I'm just going to be solid, Mr. Olympia. It has to be, oh, he's got a beating because if you just got maybe, maybe he can maybe kind of close and I'm going to happen so, Jim, he always goes to the champ. My belief is that it was Yates was the hardest to beat. And I'll tell you why. Because when he was competing in the night, you had Flex Wheeler, you had NASA, you had Cormear, you had Sean Ray, you had Lee Priest, you had NASA. NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, NASA, thank you. Yes, yes. No, but I'm saying, you guys were all so good. And, you know, every year people were saying, I live Roni, everyone's saying, that's Yates is never going to win again. And this guy was so mentally tough. He was just blocked everything out and he would come in, like, peeled beyond imagination and he would beat these guys. Guys that genetically probably should have beat him. That's why he was so, he was, he was, and if you ask Yates himself, he said no one can train harder or prepare more for a show than I could. So, I knew that there's no way these guys weren't a beat me. And even Flex Wheeler admitted to saying that he goes, I, I saw Yates is undetable in my mind. So, how do you beat a guy with who, who you, you believe you can't beat, even though you have better tools than he does? That to me is the most difficult guy to beat. The guy who never, ever, ever, you know, comes and off. And the thing is, too, it's like, all I showed is, with Yates, it wasn't like anyone, you know, deserve the real life in that top six or even the top ten because, you know, not taking enough in away from today's guys, but today you might have maybe the top five or even great condition. And you have a lot of people a little bit off a little bit smooth, but back then, it was like, from the top six, even the top eight. Everyone was at their best. It wasn't anyone that looked like he's a bit off. He's not going to do it. Everyone, like I said, came in trying to beat the champ. It wasn't like I said, some days, they might have just the top four in the best condition. And the others are his little bit smooth here, a bit smooth there. But everyone coming to ask them, they're the best condition that try to beat Yates. I mean, they got there was a normal classic back then because at least that was a show where people were like, all right, let's see, it was going to win this year because it's not a foregone conclusion, but the Olympia, those couple years that Yates was just, you know, it was untouchable. And even when he got injured, he was unbeatable because he still would find a way to come in at his absolute best and beat these guys, both physically and mentally. And I mean, that's just to me, that's a guy who's just unbeatable. You know, really COVID-19. A lot of shows because he was just so big and great, but I don't necessarily think that Ronnie was a great poser. I think that Ronnie, you know, made a lot of mistakes, but he despite the mistakes he won because he was so big. But Yates just did leave any detail unturned. Well, I think the good thing of Yates was, too, because he lived overseas. Nobody would see him. Get everybody in America. If on you see it's gold, Jim or Jim somewhere else, but he stayed overseas. When they even see a picture of it, or if your duty was covered up in his jumper and pants, that he's trimming the dungeon. And then maybe we want to week or so or two, we come out and go to bed and, you know, Jim up there and once he's there, they might take a photo and put on line. He's during getting ready and he'll just be still covered up with a big jumper on. So you can never see what he looked like to the day to show. So I think that's fucked with a lot of people's minds too, because it's like, well, how's he really looking, but back then, you knew he was in shape, because back then he's face would be an extra one in and another. He's doing a face. So you're like, change your sort of cheek range like, oh well, we're going to be fucked again, I guess. Now, Phil, he's very difficult to be, too, which is, which is weird, because you see us physique, and you're like, well, here's a guy who's not the biggest guy on stage. He's usually one of the hardest, yeah, I'll give him that. But he's not the widest. He doesn't have the craziest structure. And you're like, but get the guy camping beaten. He's going for eight wins this year. He'll probably get eight, maybe he'll go for nine and ten. You know, it's hard to say, but here's a guy who knows how to win shows. But there's no real specific reason why he's winning the shows, but he just shows up better than everyone else. So that makes the tough guy, too, to be. When you have to evaluate who's the toughest to be, Phil's got to be right up there. But I think you feel his, too, like he said, well, if he's seen Phil look better, and then people say, well, maybe last year, he's been, you know, you're going to be good enough feeling the other people to win it. And they've said things like, when Kai was there and there's a few people there, like, road and all these people there, I feel you guys here with great physics, who if they came in at their best could really push feel and maybe go for the win. But to me, it just seems like, I don't know, some of these guys, but I try to play the size, and come in two big, and then when they come in two big, the sacrificing that condition, and then when you stand beside Phil, if he's in condition, you're going to look a bit off. So, you know, there are some guys there, I think, could really push feel and go for the win, if they came in there best, you know, to me, Mr. Consistency Dexter Jackson, you can never count him out, but then it's where, you know, he has got the size feel, has but to me, he's always looked so consistent and looks, comes in great condition, and a little bit of muscle he makes is, you know, a big change on his frame. So, you know, you can never count somebody like Dexter, and that, like I always said, if Kai could have come in with that conditioning and that the door in the eights, he would have been right up there, though, easily take a win. Well, you know what the funny thing is, Phil might be the blockiest, Mr. Olympia, of all time, because he just is always at the right place to the right time, and has just enough to beat these guys. He's lucky Kai comes in off at the Olympia every single time he was doing it. This one isn't at his best on the year that Phil was, there was a couple of years Phil was off a little bit, but the guys just, they just couldn't step up to the plate and take it away from him. And I really, I don't think there was anyone here that he really didn't squeak by these guys, pulled off at the night show, whatever. So, he might, I don't know if he's the most difficult to beat, I think he's the luckiest guy in the sense that he just never shows up when he's at his most vulnerable. You know? Well, like, it feels a great mystery Olympia, but when he walks out on stage, like when he's to come out next to Kai, and that you'd be like, okay, we've away here and here, but like you said, with Yates when he walked out on stage, you're like, yep, he's won, okay, let's just walk on that next people and see if he's going to get second-third of all because, sometimes it's like, it's like, if we've had him when he walked down, still there in that relaxed podium, like, yep, like, a Hades won. You know, there's no question about it, same with Yates, but we've felt, sometimes you think, okay, well, maybe this guy's going to push him or, you know, this and that, but yeah, but now we're seeing all the pictures coming out as we normally do of people in the gym, still in their poses before the Mr. Olympia, looking great under the lighting stand, the bite themselves, and it's like I said, that all looks fine and dandy, but you know, you still got what seven, eight weeks, what is it to the Mr. Olympia? I was like, you can look great now, but only counts on that one day and sadly we've seen so many people. You remember some of the shots you'd see of Dennis James back in the day at his gym when he was in Thailand, you're like, this guy's going to be top-free for sure, then they walk out on stage like that. What happened? It's like, so we've seen all these pictures coming out of the ground, coming out now, the guy looks speaking that, but, you know, to me, it's like that when you had to act on all breks and markers for us and that massive guys who've massive amounts of muscle, but then when they stand on stage with someone who just says those nice lines and that, they just doesn't flow and, you know, never got all these much bigger, you should have one, but you know, it's just not all about size and sadly, like, you know, Ramy's got that size and even now he needs that conditioning, he hates having any might be out with a push, push feel a bit, but you know, sadly, that don't seem to have that anymore that conditioning's. So to be unbeatable, Leigh, do you have to have that mindset that just will never give up will never give an inch will never show up unless the investor will never, ever, you know, relent because by his own admission, Dory and said he did nothing but think about body building, do body building and focus on body building and he no one could have outworked him. And I believe when he says that because, you know, he lived the light, he lived like a monk. I don't think a lot of these guys are willing to make those sacrifices. Yeah, that's the way he got a baby, you got a train on that. You know, I think back in the day two, I said, darn, this, I don't know, I don't know, we've seen people at these people, but one day she gets there a few people just could go on and walk after that trough out there and go, you've done eight walks with that there, that's something you've done with them and they've built a sharing pool to find them but they were like, I think, they got a long day there, they gave me thatINE me and nothing like that. After that, I've passed over the calendar in and that a firehouse just like a nice day out walking in the sun having a laugh. So, you know, you can't have that mindset when you're in the gym, but you know, he was pretty much full on and, you know, I had that mindset day, but I just to get beat a lot. I don't think during the 8th Kentucky Freight Chicken in the Opsies, and they really doubt that week. Right? How do I know that you ain't stuck pretty heavy in the Opsies? Yeah, it's not really cool. There's eaten something. Not for me, not for me, Kentucky Freight Chicken. What was your biggest Kentucky Freight Chicken purchase back in the day? I just buy the bucket at the bucket. I think it's like 21 pieces. Oh my, guys, 21 pieces, one thing? Yes to sit in Max muscle and eat it there, and then just to be when my friends got used to work, they were at this wall in Max muscle. If you ever saw this, they'd be like to Kentucky chicken bucket on the wall by sign that beats a box outside there. Turas would come in and ask, but they buy these, whatever I ain't jump food wise with the sign of, they're not box side of, put it on the wall. Max muscle, so. You missed those days. Leave, don't you remember when Venice Gold was like back in the day? Venice Beach was like, they had just strips of one street or two streets where they all they had was stores. Lining, Main Street there, with all the clothing stores and supplements. We had like, what body alive? Yeah, George's LA over. Jelly, fitness is still there. George, that's a me's cousin runs that because some of you still have LA urban cowboy next door, but now just a big store, he's still there. You had hot skins there, you had body alive somewhere there. Just stand from the firehouse and then you'll know that you've been hit the fire. How should you go across need to cook a room on the corner? Good room, right? So yeah, they were good old days and there's a lot of air on the floor. That's when Gary's striding lift across the road above, cook a room, but he drives his car from there to the fire. I asked him to do one of the walk. Did he really do that? He really drove him to that? Yeah, it drove. He was literally, he was a craftsman street, really across the street. Yeah, okay. That's top in the Gary not long ago on Facebook and that, so he's doing pretty good. Yeah, he's thought it's right, too. Did you ever go to a van goes ear in the middle of the night? Yeah, none of the middle of the night, just after training some days, but wasn't really fast enough. That was more like the, you could type vegan type, sort of place that they're like, there's the firehouse which was healthy, but then van goes ear seen more like the healthy place for the artsy, artsy types. So they were up in 24 hours, that was not way a lot of people went there. I think so yeah, then I actually had these eggs in that one day with some egg. And on it, I actually thought they served me fucking van goes ear by the look of it. I didn't look too tasty to think they gave me, but yeah, my friend Kurt Miller and I always go it wasn't bad, but then we used to go to Aunt Kisses kitchen there over at Marina Del Rey, just near Van Supermarket. Right. They had a cookie over there as well. And then you probably do remember Arnold's building there on Main Street, where Charles Restaurant was there. They used to be sparkies, you know, get there, do you ever go in there? Yeah, that's right. So I see on Main was right? Yeah, then I've just had the front there, the little Asian guy used to run it. Yeah, Arnold had chaxes. Was it a Hungarian food or Austrian food or something? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's pretty good. Yeah, but the frozen yogurt place was the hang out there. So that's when all that low fat sugar free yogurt. Yeah, everyone thought it was really healthy. It was all, yeah. Thank you, shit, you're playing it. It's basically eating it. Eat it by the tub for, yeah, we go and healthy here. And I would have a good time back then. And actually I just saw a picture on Instagram, um, Jim that does what a card detail. And he was detailing cows when I was a, he just put up a picture of any jewelry iron, he trained for him in the morning at Gold's Jim there. Oh wow. I got him. Show what time you got his great. What a great personality. This the thing is funny when you go into Gold sometimes and you still, oh shit, I just grabbed that, but hopefully I'm gonna get to go in when I get to go in here. But let's go to see some time you see some of the same people that are there still. Oh, I'm sure that's what he is later. Yeah. What about you ever go to Johnny's coffee roster? I was at Lincoln on the Washington. I'm watching him. I'm watching him. I more of towards Brandon Del Ray area. Yeah, I love that place. And I like, um, we're on the right. But see if it, Brandon, but see if it goes always a good one. That's a bad cafe, right? And there. Yeah. Yeah, that was a good one. That's where Gary would always have breakfast in every one of his breakfast there. Mickey rope was always there. But yeah, that was like the pancakes there. I think everybody went full. So yeah. People don't really think they would have what's called the bodybuilder breakfast. It would be like, oh, like pancakes and eggs and oatmeal and and chicken breasts. It would be like, there would be like so much food and it would be like eight bucks. It was like so cheap. Maybe even less than that. Like an even if you built like that and skinny, if you like that, you were a fucking bodybuilder. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But the funny thing was there was probably that 12 spots to sit in this Venice cafe was so small and it was it was like a who's who of bodybuilders, pro bodybuilders. It was unbelievable how many pro bodybuilders would be in there at one time. I couldn't believe it when I came and visited the first time. I thought I was in like Disney land, you know. And you then have all the German tourists because out of the way state the hotel and come down there and I got there. Yeah, you're right. Guys, guys, guys that are trying to become bodybuilders from Germany or stuff or you get the German tourists that would come over and bring their special supplements for the bodybuilders would stay there down there in the cafe with their little briefcases. When there was in that. Is that what they would do? I didn't know that. Yeah. Oh, you know that. I can't wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. We don't leave. We knew you used my drugs and you told us. Never know. It was like I said that was the good times but again, especially like I said that cafe was always always packed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. You want to still have the firehouse now, but you see pictures that. But I said could you imagine back then, we didn't have the social media over like the cameras now. Imagine some of the photos that would have been popping up back then. Oh, I want to blow it around because at the time you saw it like the pros and golds, Jim was if Jerry Fritchrick's Adi Zeller or someone with a camera took photos. Imagine if you had cell phones back in the 90s. Someone would have had that. Oh my god. So I was like, I was the case. I don't think that the goal is managed would have, I think it would have remained what it is what it was then today because I think people would have wanted to continue being in that environment there and I think people would have stayed. But you know, again, maybe not because you know, once the magazine's kind of folded, it didn't end social media became some of you can do in your house. You didn't have to be in Venice anymore to be seen. You know? No, I was like, did you have to have a normal camera? That was the back in the day you take a photo in the gym and I have to go down the Von Suu. I didn't feel too so I want prints to come out. You know, I've got a great picture of me and Dory and when you get it back, there's me and Dory and Olivia's fucking finger across it like that. Well, I think he said. You know, there's no taking other pictures. Like everyone does some of those exposures and took photographs and the picture was blurry or you think just covering the lens and you should out a lot to make sure. And it was so exciting to take a picture back there because you never knew what you got. It was like, go to the, you know, get it developed yet a weight like a week and then you were so excited to get the pictures back, you know. I'm not saying people now it's funny because back then because you only see the guys in the magazine so if you're lucky enough to train the jeans, like I said, people go those exposures or even seminars and wake for every get a phone on that. And I've seen people now these new age, whatever they call type of people, they're into the fitness. I've been legs pose now where you'll have someone like a flex or a Dory and like a fee bound that and these young kids come by the ones that are just into the fitness he type with their string of tank tops on. I've seen them walk. There'd been a group of four or five of their walk I saw like Dory and someone said, do you want to get a picture there like and like what the fuck is like the openings of change? It's like if you're in a song back then you're like, oh yeah it's just staying there and I'll see back in the day that you'd stand there just watching sign photograss for a fucking half an hour. Oh yeah, it's a little watching a sign, it's like, wow it's like watching these red beasts that you haven't seen be like bringing dinosaurs back in Jurassic Park you're just staying there in an an amazement out of it now. Well you said these junkies walk passing out. Yeah, leaving to me I was at a thing and I had a big line up some guys get like obviously a priest never's got you know you too it because we're too accessible now online it's not a big deal anymore like when I would go see someone guess pose at a local like New Jersey or New York show it was a huge event because how often did you get up close because when people would compete and chose you really didn't get close to them but at these guest pose they would do you be able to interact with them and talk to them at their booth it was like a huge big thing nowadays you can just freaking text them or you can you can Facebook or Instagram them and get an instantaneous response who cares when you see them in person it's even people don't think about it today people don't even care about person the person interaction that he more matter fact most people don't even want to talk to anyone anymore they only want to text. That's the thing but buddy I've got that to sort of appreciate even though you know it's not Martin Lv's biggest sport in baseball and basketball and stuff but you can still get up close to bodybuilders at the Mr. Olympia exposed and at the Arnold Expos and stuff I said try go on to some of these baseball events or basketball events and try get up close to LeBron drains for a photo and stuff like that and I'm not going to get close to them but now get where is it accessible and you give the fans that and some just let whatever what's your time thing and back in the day two that walk up and they'll be like shaken some still do shake and shake your hand but some are scraped and meet you and they talk really nice now it's like oh they have been a fan of yours then they what do you think I should take what drugs and shy they can think of. I'm like what the fuck you know Lee it goes back to the question I said in the beginning of the show who was the toughest Mr. Olympia to be well back in the day it was the guy you didn't see at all because you didn't know what was coming at you nowadays that guy makes zero money if he's not on social media he makes nothing because no one cares about him and relevance today seems to be the guy who is the most popular on Facebook YouTube Instagram who really is a brave new world in bodybuilder. And then I said like I said there you go that he exposed and like yeah it's the popular ones on Instagram and YouTube the ones that have ever even competed or I've never heard of you know they look like a fucking dog walker and they're fucking got the biggest line up out there so it's crazy. Yeah the bodybuilding world has certainly changed but look guys if you enjoy all this region and talk and topics of debate we do here on the show put in the comments below topics that you'd like us to rage about in the future I have a lot of guys who sometimes give me great ideas because Lee wants good topics we want to be able to bitch complain he doesn't like these topics we'll read a great too much so put him in the topic in the comments below and maybe John Ramad will even rejoin the show and take a few minutes off of his very busy job Lee what's the next tattoo you're getting? That's what I'm having in cup of tea. I like that coffee cup very very artistic. Oh super mean with my camera there is. You going too fast and getting blurs you still have you something in rings on huh? I thought you had given up on Superman for a while now you're back to Superman again? No that is just probably I think from the same you know fame still like given me superman stuff. But you got the Superman rings on too though again. No got rid of him. I've only got this rings. Look at that engagement rings. Oh ring ring from the industry. Are you a game? Oh you know that and then this one the night's 10 plus. Wow. I like it. Are you going out? It's pretty early I mean did you wear those rings all the time? Yeah I never take a walk of a thing as a fat look to have to get off of it. You probably can't even get him off those fingers here. Right five five five five seven This one can come off well I know about that one. I'm not coming off. Can you see that one? Yeah that's not coming off. But yes the show I stood asking the things that they want me to do you got to come up with something up the camera? Well yeah I know you're just starting your day. Have a good workout at the gym if you're going to be there and we'll talk to you next week. So in the final in the final word who's your toughest Mr. Olympia to beat? So V8's like you said like I said I knew it was good not but like I said with the Hates you know so where me always can you look and great. But I put it down the H and I need because now I never beat them really. Yeah and then again you if we went back big further we got Arnold who was tough to beat because the one the 1980 when he didn't look there. It's pretty. It's always good it's always going you politically have a lot of cloud too because you're in the movies you know. I never had that I never had a little cloud. You weren't a movie now right these are like criminal recently in a movie? Yeah but still they give me cloud computing I hate like you know political cloud or what kind of studies I've been looking all over the agencies one for this that prickly Chris fucking shit like that I'm talking shit magazines. Well yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah life and time so we'll have to do a biography on you one of these days. All right that's it guys if you have any like I said topics put them on the in the in the comments below make sure you hit subscribe turn on you know notifications. I'm Dave Palumba with Lee Priest for another episode of Iron Rage.

After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm Dave Polumbau and I'm joined as always by Lee Priest and the Tampa Pro went off lease. So I guess we are having some pro shows this year. Yes, it did. Yes, I'm like prediction come true. I'm like a pro. I told the bro. Did you? What did you say? Well, now the pressure is on him. Yeah, in the Olympia. Well, you know, evidently flex real time the same thing. He said he couldn't win the Olympia. So I saw even on Nick's strength. I think Dennis James even mentioned that in Nick's like, I didn't even think it at that's very thing. I think I come on. I said that's James. I was ahead of my time. Yeah. I think I think Nick's watching our show because then Nick put up about E and saying how he didn't look happy and look tired and stuff. Exactly what I said. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he looked like he was good. Yeah. Evidently from what because I interviewed, I interviewed, puntal, a broader. And Hunter told me that he talked to Ian came to his room after they were going to be together. Evidently Ian couldn't his wife couldn't come with him or his trainer couldn't come with him because his wife has to work. And she couldn't afford to, you know, quarantine for two weeks after. So I made it with all the press from that and plus he's. And again, that can issue up if you'll have, if you'll have that support 24 seven leading up to a contest. If I remember a lot of pro shows you guys, if you'd have your training partner or see your wife or someone that's weekly 24 seven, get ready for a show. And then you'd get to a pro show and they say, you can't have anyone backstage. And yet, get these random people you don't know to help put TN on put or online and pump you up. And you know, when you backstage, that's when you want someone to calm you down, just talk to you, keep your relax. Yeah. If no one's there because I remember you couldn't have anyone backstage at some pro shows, but you'd get these fucking doofers. People working backstage, bringing in all the fucking friends back. Luke, you have a photo of him, can you have a photo of him? I'm like, what? So can't bring my fucking wife back. And every time this fucking Harry backstage of a photo with me, I see it's so fucking pissed off. It's like just one person, just let somebody have their own person back there. Right, right. But I will say one thing, the people who always worked backstage were always super helpful, like they just, they just, I think they like being back there. So they were always like, they did. You know, we're not going to mention names, though, but somewhere more than helpful ways. Yeah. They saw that a full lot of people back in their room to help them with their teen way. And they said, you've got some really good glute oiling back in your day. And from Steve, yeah, I'm talking, I'm talking about the female oilers back there. Ah, nice nice, a little, a half the end. Yeah, some of those female oilers would come backstage and they're looking like a minstrel with all these friends stuff around their mouth. I sort of realized the point you found, Dation. Yeah, you know, it was really funny. Have you ever seen like a competitor like a girl on stage, like the two days before the show they look great. And then on stage their tans like all messed up, it's like rubbed off. And you know what she was doing that I have to do. Not that tans, right? That's for sure. In different areas, yeah. Then you might see an oiler backstage or a judge that has some smudges on them. They weren't competing. Exactly. He's got on his hands and just on the front of his thighs. What happened there? Oh, I've got that on what's that disease Michael Jackson. I'm telling you, my skin changes colors in certain areas. That's right. Well, one of the things before we go on there is some very breaking news. I've not thought about it. It's not about laughing on and stuff like that, but I've just come on that I've computed it here. And just be with me from home because it's hard to read. Yeah. Breed, believe, breathe. It's hard to get out. Court, Nick, our dash in. Yeah. I don't know how you can do it. We've got a K. Yeah. She's not OK right now. After her son, Rain, had his long hair shaved off. So it was that upsetting day, black me. I'm here to go. You left me. You left me Davos at upsetting. I'll hold your hand. I won't leave. You left because it was at upsetting. Yeah. Yeah. I never got the tissues. Yeah. Can you believe it? She's not OK after his long hair was shaved off. Oh. Now in a world of COVID and bombing going off and people murdered, this is terrible news today. You have to go to psychiatry. I'm going to go to bed. Good day. Can probably go with Conny. Yeah. Yeah. They can get like a family's back and feel. You know, actually I saw, um, speaking of, um, that whole weed family. What's the name Caitlin was on TV the other day? Oh, she's so round her. Yes. Bruce Caitlin, whoever. Yeah, but she was on there and she looked in like you had more work done. Looking a little bit prettier if that's possible. But she was on their saying how much she loves Conny. I in this and this and that and how he always supported her. So she's sort of going to support him. Yeah, I'll just be houses. You can just see it now. He's that fucking mental next thing. She, he's going to leave Kim and end up with fucking Caitlin. There you go. That's what a story that I don't mean. They can have their own reality show. That's probably what it would be. And then we're like, Conny and I want to have a baby. Yeah. Who would carry the baby? That's for sure. We want to be the baby. And they would say they probably pay for his generous, the mother to carry the baby, right? And she probably would because she's a nice case too. Well, this would be more content for the TV show probably. We want to make some little trendy for she's for the baby. So Bruce would be the mother technically. And then you would be the father. But Chris would be the arrogant mother, right? Yeah. She'd be very complicated. So what would the kid call Chris like? And or mom? I don't know. And I think the kid would just call her a mess like everybody else. But look, as funny as that is, it's not that far fetched when it comes to that pain. Oh, no, no, no. That probably do it for another couple of hundred million fucking episodes. Absolutely. You'd probably do it too for a couple hundred million bucks. I'd shut up. He'd shut up there. He's embryo in this. I'm not my ass. I could develop it. For a couple hundred million. I'll see if we can grow in. That's right. That's right. That's right. In fact, it a topic that we're talking about. I don't remember where we were going to talk about it. Anyway, Tampa Bay plays this past week. LeBrona won as we know. But what we found was that all the international guys that wanted to compete weren't able to come in and do the job because there was quarantines and all kinds of crazy stuff. Now, the reality of the situation is that we have the Olympia at the end of the year coming up, obviously. And this probably more than half of people who are qualified for the Olympia are international guys, like really winkler and William Bonack and big rammy who actually bigger than I call. They ain't coming. Alright. Well, given the fact that they may not be up now, if I said earlier on my ass day to evening show that if I was those guys, I'd be moving to the US now establishing myself here so that when the Olympia comes around, I'm not like scrambling at the last minute trying to get a visa. I can get over here now, just stay here until being went there. But whatever the case may be, whatever the strategy may be, I want to know, we pre-stop five pick for the 2020 Olympia. Imagine the odds makers and vagas. It's almost impossible to handicap this show because you don't know who's going to show up. First of all, you don't know if like, Kai or Phil may take a special invite. We'll road and be in jail or not from the rape charge. It's such a difficult show to figure out. The only people we know who are in the show for sure, assuming they don't get injured, is branding curry, hunt a labrata and flex lower. Yeah. Who do you think is going to be top five? If you had a million bucks online, who would you bet on? What's your top five pick? Ooh, I think, well, go by the, if Brandon, labrata and flex Lewis, you know, because I like flex lower's body type. If they're all in the best shape, I'd probably put flex first. Interesting, okay. And then we've Brandon and labrata. Maybe Brandon, because he has that still probably a bit more mature muscle than labrata. But he and they labrata won the Tampa. I still don't think we've seen him at his best, like, you know, coming in dry as they can. I think he can come in condition more. So even seeing labrata hunter with a bit more conditioning, because we're on the what conditioning can do as far as illusions go on stage. So he could. Yeah, it's hard to say, but then sure, like, is it wasn't that think we're sure on any way of that right case being? I don't know. That's good. That's anyone's yes. No one's talking, no one's saying a word. Obviously if he beats the case, he'll be, that'll be a big story. You know, he'll, him on that. I'll let you say it. What if he doesn't, doesn't it piss you off, though? It's like, look at the money he's missed out on over the last not doing last year's Olympia because he could probably could have won it. Right. Or because of an accusation, and to me, it's like, you know, when when the come forward and start these accusations, it whether it's like someone like Sean or it's a movie star or someone famous, their name straight away boom in the media and everyone just over lose their job. They get stepped down. They get this. They get that. And it's just an accusation, but yet nothing happens to her, but he's lives ruined. He's a hero too later comes out. She lied and he's lost all these money. He's things being ruined. People of, well, we don't want to touch him or go near him because of this accusation that someone made up. Whatever the innocent to prove and guilty, God's sake. First of all, I think your cookies have done in the oven because you're, I hear your timer going on. That's right. That's a watch. I got a few watch this day. I don't know. Secondly, you know, the sand part about the whole road and things. If you get accused of something like that, it's going to affect your ability to make a living and drive. You should be, you should be at least get a speedy trial. You know what I mean? Now, you know what? Initially, they per his side probably delayed a little bit to the repair for the truck. But once COVID comes around now, it's almost like not fair because now he's the guy, how's the guy supposed to make a living, you know? But I didn't even see why. I don't even see why when it does happen, like say, a few more goes to the police or even says, look, I got this thing. I've been right above, I've like, I say, who was it. And they find out who it is. Why is his name released and why don't they just say, okay, this is an accusation. We haven't got proof yet. But they had it, but he was indicted though. So in other words, a grand jury heard the testimony. He felt there was enough evidence that they should be charged. But still he's not found guilty, even though he didn't get it. No, right. Until he's actually found guilty, then he really sees name. But until that point, that's more still. She said he said, tighten it. So it's like, you know, don't put his name out. If he's found guilty, okay, Sean wrote and found guilty of right. But until then, don't release his name. Because how many like we said, people's careers and lives are being ruined. Because their name gets out. Right. For violent crimes like that, they should make the first of the trials should be within three months. I think it should automatically be, look, we got to sell this thing quickly because, you know, it's affecting both sides. Now, if it's rodents sides, the one who postponed everything, then you really can't blame it on. But still it's still a just annoying way to people in the industry. It's sort of who you sure took a step back and went, oh, we don't want to go near him now. It's like, come on now. Where's your fucking loyalty? You know, you know, the type of guy is, and if you don't believe he's a rapist, why fall in for all this shit, you know, wait till he out come. And then if it's found out he is, then go, I can't believe it. I can't believe he did this for until then. He's still the Sean we're on you. So you know, why if this was 10 years ago, would be different, we live in such a weird time when everyone is so afraid to say anything that's politically incorrect, doing anything that's politically incorrect because for fear of backlash, you know, and he, you know what he should have done? And I think he say, he should have just said, you know what I'm being discriminating because of my race. If you were to done that, if you were to go to lawyer's screaming that in the press, they probably would have done a lot of do anything you want to, you know. Right? Just you want to say, hey, you're not letting me compete because I'm black, you know, if I was a white guy to be competing, if he would have gone nuts, and that's not Sean style, because Sean's a like a hot, you know, he's a good guy and he's like very hard. I would have just, I would have just said, look, I never touched him because I'm black and I'm a train section. Yeah, it's like, it's just a gay. Yeah, it would be like, if you're thrown it out, they just throw everything out there. Yeah, it's a shame that they're taking this long. I hope, look, I hope they settled before. Look, if he's guilty, he should go to jail. If he's not guilty, he should be exonerated and this would be a lot of, I'm sorry, it's coming out of white people's mouth. Well, if he's not, if he's innocent and he's not guilty, then she should go to jail. I fully believe if women accuse men it is, they should get what time the man was going to get because, you know, you're ruined someone's career for a while. It's like this stigma against him. And so it's like, but they just get a slap on the racing out. Okay, you know, that didn't work. Let me try again. Where'd it go here in Australia? Try it with a football player. Same sort of thing, City rate, different than it comes out. She's tried it three times before we've other men that's like good thing. And she just goes on to you these smiling at like one of these that wants to be famous on Instagram and That's it. That's one of those. He took it back to the room. They had consensual sex and stuff. And then it was like, ah, we're, you know, it's almost like that. I'm wearing crashes. I'll find you. Yeah, yeah, the crazy. Yeah, yeah, you have the we had six and now we're dating. And that's just the one night scene. Oh, one night scene. Wasn't all show you. Yeah. Well, you know, like I said, the just eventually be served. I don't know when the trial is because I know I thought it was supposed to be in June originally. They probably obviously postponed it again and we'll find out. And like, get on, get on judge duty. She'll fix it up in the comments. Yeah, she'll be like, she'll look at them. She'll like, Sean. Sean. What's that? Look at me. Look at me. Look at me. Right. I am ready. I have ready. I have ready. I know. I can read my, I read minds. What's her friends name? The one that's the bailiff there. Oh, yeah. I don't watch it. I don't watch it that often. What are you saying? Did you see the amount of money she got paid for that show? Oh, my gosh. She's like, oh, you know how long that show's been running. That's like one of the most like popular long running shows around. And now it's changing out of scoring from judge duty. There's a, I've got a new name now. It's like a show this shot. Anyway, getting back to your top five. You haven't been able to even name five people who are doing the Olympia. Yeah. Well, we got flex. We got Brandon and we got Hunter. Now those, well, I'm assuming Ian's probably going to do another show with you. The qualifier. Yeah. I think it'll qualify for the Olympia. Well, I think any of you. I think any of you guys in this episode, maybe top five considering who's going to be. Because I'm sure he'll come back in better condition than he did for Tampa. He'll come back fuller and with his mind in the mall. So he could throw him in the top five there. And then I'm trying to think from last year. Because we won't have, you know, we wouldn't have, Rahmi. We wouldn't have, I wouldn't have, we wouldn't have Bonak. Yes, who's qualified. I'll give you the list. Who's qualified for the Olympia? Branding story. And why on the list? No. William Bonak, Heidi Schouppen, or Dexagex and McCabee at the end. Yeah. Really, Wayne Kler. So he, who probably won't show up. Segic Mcmillan is qualified Nathan Deasher, who probably won't be able to make it from the UK. One morale and flex looks. Well, you can never count Dex there out. Dex doesn't shave. He could easily be top five. No matter what. He could win. He could win. No matter what. Yeah. Yeah. He could even, yeah, come, he hits his peak right and some of those are off. And then what was it? One morale can be. Well, Segic, Segic, said, Segic's always a, you can never count him out. Yeah. Because if he's on his own, but if he's off his off. So it's one day, it's never an in between with Segic. So yeah, that's the, it'd be really hard to actually say, like, as a, if you're a betting person, nothing is just going to come down to whoever hit their peak and gets it 100% on the day. Yeah. That's, that's going to be wide open again. Because as much as I like Brandon too, he doesn't seem, you know, when you had, you know, nothing away from Brandon. When you had Dorian or Ronnie, there was just a dominance about and where it's just like, hey, if they come in at 100% now, one's touching him, simply like that, where Brandon, I think it's still, he's got a great physique, but he hasn't had that dominance like Yates and. Right. But I think when Brandon, if Brandon comes in at 100% even that, and he wasn't the Olympia when he won the last year, I don't think it, I don't think they'll take it away from him, you know. No, I don't, that's anyone that, that's not the only thing that keeps it. Because, you know, we've seen a few mysterious, but I could be that little bit off that cause they're a mystery Olympia, whoever comes in is going to have to be so much exceptionally like, wow, that the, you know, they're going to dominate him. It's almost got, even the 100% someone's got to be 110% if he's on the beating. Right. But if he's that little bit off, the door's going to be wide open again. So that's when Daxa slips in when's the one they're right. Yeah, well, it could happen. That's like, no, if this is going to, if this is going to be his last Olympia, who knows, he might want to go out with a big, the bang. I say the Daxa won't retire. Now that this whole COVID thing's here, and as people can't get over here from Europe, why would Daxa retire? It's like screw this. I'm, I'm keep, I'm going to keep going, you know. What do you say, the head a little bit of a rest now, train, just stuff like that. If you want to, if you want to have your last year competing, you don't want to go out due to, that being able to compete due to COVID, you want at least to say, okay, this is my last year, right, many shows as you can. You know, go out in a positive way, not just like a retired now. How many shows you do, did you only one? I don't know, everything else got canceled, but. Exactly. That would be interesting, but like I said, how many people would actually be in the show, didn't just be in Americans like 10 to 12, would that be the lineup? I don't know. I don't even, they don't even have 10 people here. They're going to have to give out some special windbikes. I don't, but I don't even know who to invite, who do we, you know, have in the lineup that we really want, you know. I said, the, well, like I said, if you feel, if you came back in shape, well, that's a good story. Yeah. And then even if you're doing it, come back and come back and come back in, but then you're going to have people because like, guys, everyone's a love hate relationship with Kai. I mean, I was like, yeah, I'm a lovey, more you're hating. It's like, I was talking shit again. But if you come in, this is what's happening. If you've got a special invite, no, everyone's going to complain. Oh, why did he get in invite? First daddy should really go to invite. Then if you, then if you won, he shouldn't be there. He shouldn't have won it. Maybe he'll do the miscellaneous. You know, they get the miscellaneous, you know, you can dress up with a Geraldine there. Like he was. Well, he could do both. You have to do it. You're only allowed to do one class. No, but if you're, if you're this cross-kind type thing, you might get there. They can't hold it against you, Dave, because it's, you know, discrimination. That's right. Exactly. Exactly. So, and they're on different days. They're on a different day. So, you know, Friday, pre-judging here, he identifies as a woman from Saturday. He identifies as a man. Exactly. You know, he can be, over the first ever miscellaneous, or combined in the world. We might even find out that one of the women's body has been chile along, masquerading. He thought chile wasn't competing, but he's actually known as stage after all. So, What is time to say, do you think, and she looks like kind? She really was kind. You never know. All right. You're just being stupid. Why? I try and keep this show here. When you come on, I just try to keep it. I try to keep it. Yeah. Look at me. Look at me. I'm all wrong up there. It's only free degrees here. Is it really that cold? Yep. I was training the other day outside. I thought it doesn't get that cold when you are. Dave, come on. Learn some geography, mate. You're almost Northern Australia, aren't you? Yeah, about a still snow, not far for me, but I'm middle. And then just down south. We've got some of the biggest snow fields in the world. You know what it's all to do. But you're not south. I'm south. You know, it gets so cold outside. You know, when you're holed up cold bar and it just burned your hands. Yeah. Look at my fingers at that dry, always the camera. Okay. You're training in your garage. Yeah. Look at that. No, my fingers are split open. Yeah. Mine are two from getting bit by snakes. Well, you're an idiot. Please, please. Please, please. When I play with my snake, it's got no teeth. Ah, they can't just spit at me. All right. Yeah. Now we're in the toilet bowl. Yeah. I'm hanging up on you. I love you. We pre-start five. Give me the top five and then I'm hanging up on you. Not in any order. Okay. Just top five. Brandon Hunter Flex Lewis. Decks the Jackson. And I'm an e-in or sadrick. Okay. They go pre-start five. I'll empty it. Selection. I'll be able to follow them. Definitely not be a final peanut probably. Stay out there. Another interesting addition of iron rage. We'll see you next week guys. And I think I did about Courtney. Courtney's life matters KLM. Maybe he should donate some of your hair to the cause. Maybe he can make a wee that of it. Yeah, clear. Courtney's life matters KLM. Kayling

Old school body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. How welcome back to Iron Ray. I'm Dave Plumbo and I'm feeling very weird because I have just taken a dose of big lanyan Rob Zill's weird energy. People are worried about taking the vaccine and you just took that. What would be worse if vaccine will take and that coming from big ground out. You want to know what the flavor is? Zoom in that flavor. Come drop. It's pretty close. Poor internet punch. Oh, I gotta say it's trendy something. Trendy. Trendy, change your name. That's it. We just had a press conference with Mr. G and Big Lany. They were in the same room. I told just fight it out right now. Get it over with the radio. I haven't watched it but I could see it here on the latest subscriptions on YouTube. We waited too long to put it up live but it was actually pretty missed to G standing. Like you said, they should have just punched on there and could be never in the room. I said, you could have just let's just end this all thing or just fucking fight that already. And we got it on camera here. What do we need to do a fight? Just do it now. Get it over with. You guys can make some of them. Exactly. They can go break little biscuits. Now, I'll tell you. I went for my second coach on the rest of the time. Now, hold on. We got to stop people for a second because you're the only person I believe now on the planet who has actually gotten three COVID vaccines as opposed to two. Most people go for two or the one you actually have gotten three. You always got to overdo it. It's like the drugs you got overdo it. Don't be builders. You're trying to fact that. I need three or four. I'm a one. Two's good. Four is better. Right. So, but he's the funny thing right ago. I go down and go to get it. And she does it because they ask you questions. Have you had any other ones before? I said no. Because my doctor said it doesn't matter because I had it so long ago. Well, long ago April, April 6. But because I wasn't continuing that on, they get like your vaccination. It's not possible. But just to show you, you had it down. You got it to it at the same. So I got it. And she goes, okay. I think then she asked me some questions. I said, oh, yeah, I had the AstraZeneca first. And that's going to be, you would have swears like a deer in the headlights. I'm like, what are you crazy? You had. And she's sort of Asians. So, you know, it's hard to, I could not tell she's talking about the vaccine or order and my chicken-chown mane. But she started talking and I'm like, huh? Okay, yeah, she got you had it. I said, yeah, but that was April. And this is a long time later. Because I'm going overseas. I didn't want to have the AstraZeneca one. I waited for him flying due to blood clot. So my doctor caught up to COVID hotline. He was on there. I was on hold for like an hour or so. And so I was he, they went through everybody again. Can't see why not. And that hold on. She walks to the side of the wall, pushes his bison. Rrr, it's time to flash in. Oh, I know. I know. I like this being a fucking outbreak or something in the bloody thing. Like they're going to, the walls are going to come down. They're going to get a lot of, you know, really fucking gas. And people are looking at me under a sitting there. These are the two like people in their doctors things come over. And she tells them the whole story. Go for it all store it. Them. No way to hit the alarm again. Nenshe's on the phone. Yes. What immunization, all the justies on today? Yes, yes. Can you send them over please? Oh, it's not. It's not. It's been a trouble. You're always getting a trouble. No matter where you go, you try to do the right thing. No, I wasn't in trouble. I wasn't in trouble. I was just like, now they get over and it says, okay. So you've had to AstraZeneca. Yes. And I had to fire. They're going to get the food when they go, oh. We should have done that. I said, why not? They go, well, you only meant to have two. Even though you had to AstraZeneca, then you had to fire so the five is like the booster. We've never done it for. I said, you're the only person in the entire world who's gotten three freaking COVID shots. And then I started talking to said, yes, I saw an England that doing the fires at AstraZeneca first. And that he goes, oh, yes. Yes, I'm being a doing that in England. It's getting great results with the immunity. Having two separate ones. He's actually working better than getting two at a time. I said, oh, well, I guess I can be your case experiment in Australia. You guys are tell you right there. It wouldn't be more than a handful of people than I had both. I said, so if I get phone calls tonight, yes, I'm doing all tomorrow, you call me. You need blood tests and stuff. Do I have to come here because the government wants to see me? Yes, I had that one. And that one, they're not full. We've never had this. And then they start panicking. Ah, so you had one in that one. I said, yes, I said, but you look at the test. Is it all you've been following all the testing in England? It's working well. I have two separate ones. So it's not like what people have had like the one, the first shot of one and then the first shot of another. So to have two separate ones instead of getting two of the same, you've actually had one and then you had two of another. So you've actually had three doses where no one's had it. Now, what the question is, will you have a better antibody response? That's the question. Well, they were showing with the AstraZeneca and Pfizer, because they're made differently in England who they tested on so far. They've been getting good actually better. Like the immune system is almost super charged. They said they haven't two separate. So it's almost like, I got this one and this one and then my third one is like a boost to your might have to get in the years. Oh, I got it now. Why don't you go get a, what, go get to Johnson and Johnson too? May as well. I'm waiting for it and the dinner comes out. I'm going to get them all. Yeah, right. My name. Maybe you'll maybe you're at an inch to your arm or something like that. You know? I told you, when I took in that first time, I sort of got great amps and put on a healer two weeks. You know, the funny thing is people complain about how sick they get after the second dose and you're on the third dose and you're doing the show the next day and you're fine, right? Yeah, like, okay. I maybe I feel I don't sure it's the hot coffee or I got the heater on. But I feel like just a little flush, but nothing. Nothing, great. Yeah, it's not as sweet. You're feeling flush because of the weird energy you just took. From a big lighting and Rob Zillard. Again, as funny, you're about the friends that still give me the bleed, you're putting poison in your body with the vaccine as they stand there. Drinking, smoking, fuel lines of cocaine. Drinking. It's like, yeah, Lee, how do you put that poison in your body? You're going to see me get. You know, Lee, I want to thank you both by the way, you're shirt. Yeah, because I'm washing it. But I got your T shirt in the mail. Thank you very much all the way through Australia. I also got your T shirt. I got a shirt. Oh, I'm sure in the mail. I think it's from Chris Cormier. I mean, it is him on the shirt. It's the only person that would have thought would have put a T shirt with a pink T shirt would be. What's it say on it? What's it say? I don't know. It says C3 TV. I guess that's Chris. Maybe that's something his Chris Cormier. Oh, I see C3 TV's to TV people. It did he's documentary in that to do a mine you want. Oh, so maybe they sent me the Chris one in addition to yours. I got it two separate packages though. What's the other shirt look like? No, I got this one and then I got your shirt that's the lead pre- Yeah, whatever. Just one. I said it's lead pre-st on it. Yeah, it says lead pre-st something another. Catelle. Carcale. Carcale. That's in the Catelle day. Actually, I actually liked your shirt. I don't like the smell of new shirts. I don't like the washroom first before I wear them. Well, I wore yours around the two. That's like smell segues. Ah, yeah. I was wondering. I think I'm going to sell it around. I'm going to sell it around the things in official body scent of lead pre-st. Yeah, I rolled around the yard. Yeah. Just like a dog. I'm just like, you know. If you wear that now it's going to soak in. Hey, if you wear my shirt, my anti-bodies were so good. You need to get the vaccine. Yeah, that's right. Your shirt's going to be like one of those things that just repels the virus. There you go. I'd rather wear that. They have to get injected with anything. Every time I find it, you're going to get a number and I recognize it. I'll be thinking it's the government, hello. Yeah, we need you to come in. We're going to try to run some tests. Yeah, yeah. You know, that, you know, you're way for your superpowers to come, right? For a walk out in the front, there's like just black cars sitting out there. If you're thinking, we're going to those follow- Yeah. Either lead pre-stays going to start flying in about a month or he's going to fucking be dead in about a month. It's going to work with what's going to happen from it. And when I die, I let them make the coffin weach shape because I've that third and fourth leg ground. Yeah, I'm sure that's absolutely right. I'm going to just say. So a lot of people have been contacting me in there because, you know, you've been doing all these videos with boxing and stuff like that. Everyone's trying to like match you up with someone who you can fight. I mean, is there anyone in the industry you'd like to fight? You know, it's only ever been shown because you love me so much. And I think it would be a nice fun thing for charity, Sean and I. But I don't think you let it. Sorry, you said he won't do it. So would you, would you if if you offered a million dollars, would you fight what's his name for like Mayweather like Logan Paul did? Of course I would. I get knocked out. But who cares? A million dollars. You take you would take made a punishment for a million bucks. Of course. I wouldn't. But I don't know. You can get hurt, you know. I don't know if anyone really wants to get punched out, you know, by anyone. I'm helping the ring with Tyson for two million. Like Mayweather. Of course I'd be like here. And so I think I have still heard it to get you in the right spot in the picture. But you know, it's one of these baddest Tyson. If the Tyson on the two million because 800 thousands going to my medical bills. And they have a 1.2 million. I can buy a nice house. Do you think did you, I don't know if you watched that fight, if you play man, whether or Mother watched it. Yeah, did you think it was fixed or do you think that there was a legitimate fight? It seemed a bit fixed. Could you could you have had how fast Mayweather is? It seems like he could have just gone. If you wanted to, you know. Well, he's also 44 years old. He's not a young guy anymore, you know. Yeah, but when I saw him spar and he was spar and a lot of kids in the money was back. He was an exhibition. Now he's a smart man. Like he was talking about the money he makes just where he's boxing trunks. He makes 30 million just from the sponsors on the. Oh, really? Yeah. I'll watch an interview after you guys. 30 million for his fingers. I'm a smart guy. He has I can draw my money now because I managed myself here. But he goes, whatever box it today is making 30 million just from where they are in their trunks. And then like I said, he got like, what guarantee 10 million plus a percentage of the pay per view. So why not who cares what people say? He even like, you know, I don't really like that slogan for that. Never have from me who's going to do that slap and contest back in the day. But hey, you got to you got to give him credit for getting up there and doing it. And like I said, and making money like crazy amounts of money is almost like, you know, you might hate those guys that go to the body, but you're an exposed similar thing. Yeah. They'll get all the people around them, just making tons of money. And I know a lot of the boxes didn't like it because you've had guys fight in the whole lives coming up through the ranks and they never get a shot of the purse like that or a shot at me over. So everything and we've done it the hard way. It is YouTube. Who you can't blame the YouTube? You can blame the maybe boxing Federation, whatever. But hey, you've got money there to do it. That's true. I don't like it. But it's true. What he says, you can do anything you want to be. You think pretty much you want to be if you just do it. It's like his truth, you know, getting the ring with me wherever in the short amount of time and the followers he's got. And now he's making millions of dollars. You know, I don't really like the guy. But you're going to give him credit for being smart when it comes to marketing and stuff. He's an idiot. Yeah. I mean, he's a great marketer of himself. There's no doubt about it. I mean, how could you even you have to respect that? I mean, I don't care what you're like. Well, look, how did Tim Kardashian make all her money initially? Yeah. And my friend. I'm a porn video. She did, right? And then a whole family. It's like the whole family's done nothing. Then all the sisters just jumped on the bean, wagon. And now sisters had books. The sisters had that show where I'll get in. I'll get in. Put 300 million to hold the family got. The mother would break it up being in the manager. But yeah, just all the stuff they got there. And then the daughters in the modeling and makeup. And just amazing. Just from that show from being nothing. Just the internet. These influencers. It's just crazy. And you know, it turned out that they actually did have some talent after all. That's done. Especially was kind of like a job. I think Logan Logan got an pretty good shape compared to his first fight. You could tell like, even. Yeah. Even though it's an exhibition. You know, may whoever's he's not one of those guys. That let's you know, take a break. So if they eat rounds still, you've got to be cardio fit through that. Just even though even though it wasn't full on, just the adrenaline and he was Logan was moving a fair bit. So go away. It rounds. You've got to have somewhat know what you do in a bit because he was blocking a few punches. There any landed a couple on May, wherever and stuff. And I think if you've made whoever went full force, he could probably could have. Yeah, whatever. You know, hey, I think even they were said, I'm not going out the get hurt or do this or do that. So he goes, if I can make this money and not get hurt. That's why I go crazy. Logan Paul, Nadia, you're not. Yeah. To me, I could still say yes because it's like, you know, he's like, I just had that chunky sort of a secret. He could tell someone trained and then as soon as they die at down, they look a lot better. So as soon as they die at down, you see, muscles be the guy. He's on the steroids and stuff like that. You know, he looked pretty big to me. I mean, I don't know. He's because of his height, but kind of gives big muscular. Why is it just looks like someone that, like I said, died at down. And when you see the muscle, people just look bigger. Yeah. Well, I don't think they got drug tested because it was an exclamation match. So I mean, if I went to my when I used to get in fucking Maywell, then wouldn't you? No, I'm probably in the classroom. I would. I'd be back in 10 fucking backsy shots. Yeah. But I watched, but you were watching. You think Tyson was juicing against, you know, the fake he had against. What's his name, Roy Jones? No. I don't think so. No. No. No. You can tell you, yes, didn't have that look, but I'm sure. I'm sure. I'm actually surprised that you mentioned this slogan that you're not. There is, and I, someone's done the YouTube yet is Logan Paul. No, I didn't even know that. Yeah. But you know, I always do those nanny or not. So if everybody. I'm sure. What's his name, probably, did it? It was the case. Yeah, I'm sure. I can't remember. Oh, they're always doing. Yeah, but I'm sure it will be up soon. I don't think it would have been. Yeah. I'm sure Greg just said probably did something on that. You know, you would think, right? I'm sure it'll be coming up soon. Give him a couple of days, but I don't know what you're watching. I'm actually not like a lot of stuff. I don't like a lot of stuff. I don't think you're a Tyler of a Logan Paul. So I can find a thing. Yeah, I think he's like I said, is it a bit nanny, but who isn't nanny, but, you know, just some of the main. I think he was. I feel sorry for the body, but I mean, the boxes that have trained the whole lives and they sit back on. Oh, no, he's going to make him. He's going to think Logan Paul's going to like that. I don't know if he's watching the face. Before the me way to fight, the guy who's really good. I don't know as good. That was good. That one. And he took that one guy took the fight on one day's notice, you know. Yeah, actually, actually, even though one before, that was pretty good. That was pretty much punch on on. Yeah. It wasn't heard in somebody else or something. Yeah, yeah. He's going to go on at it. It was pretty good. Yeah, I enjoyed the first. I haven't watched fighting in a while, boxing in a while. It was enjoyable. Yeah. That one before it was going to get in trouble for hanging on. That chill out sworn. Yeah. Well, that guy, you know, that guy, that's the guy who took the fight on one day's notice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what? The other guy, the reason why he had to take it on one day's notice is because the original opponent failed the drug test. He caused it for a four steroids. It's something like that. Not even one. Four. And look at him. See, now if you look at him, you would, if you could see, you wouldn't think that he was on steroids. If you look, then it was especially for you. I would. You know what? At that level, when you're at the top, come on. You're going to try to get away with anything in a way with because you'd be crazy. I think I got, you'd be crazy. I'm just feeling a lot of no is like, you know, the NFL and the baseball on that or what is major teams that are making billions, they got special doctors and stuff. You would be crazy to get into the ring without enhancement. If you can do it and not get caught, of course. Obviously, you don't want it. If you know it's not direct test, you're, I'll be more worried that someone like Logan Paul wouldn't come up for his steroids, but they'll like come up with cocaine. Yes. Well, they don't, you know, if we're an exhibition by, I don't think they would be in test, so it didn't matter. They couldn't have done whatever they wanted to. I like how to fight. He's like, that's it. Now, the animal Christians are going to go get fucked up. I want, you know what, even though it was an exhibition match, I mean, they were hitting each other. I wonder what it feels like for a Logan Paul guy. You know, we're just not used to boxing that much. You know, wake up the next morning at the hit, you know, by Mayweather, like, you know, like 100 times. Yeah, he's getting that little mouth. There he's eye already saying that. There's where he got in that thing. He went out over the right and just clicked him when he was in close. Actually, well, almost that fight. It's got to hurt. I don't know. I don't know. Was it the second fight or the night or the one when that guy was really good, but he's really good at fighting in close. Yeah. I always liked last three fights. I didn't see him before that. I don't know. I just had one better. This guy was so good at fighting in close to this guy. It was just all over the guy. Good fighting. Get him off him. Yeah. That was interesting. Why didn't the fucking big lady and Mr. Ggo down to that in Florida? They're in Florida. And they could just turn up and got in. I think that you remember the butterbeen who used to fight to go butterbeen? Yeah, with the American shorts on. I'd like to see butterbeen fight like Tyson or butterbeen fight like a boyman, whether I'd watch that. I think he's still going. Did butterbeen didn't he fight Tyson once or a foreman? I don't. I don't. Maybe foreman. I think I have. So you've tolerated a look at that butterbeen. I know he fought one of the big names once it was one of them. I think he got his ass kicked out, right? If I went up. He always got his ass kicked. No, he was pretty good. He'd be some good guys. You know, you would think the guy couldn't move. He had good endurance. And he had a good punching power. It just looked like someone like to come a bar. You know, someone sitting at the bar, you get into a bar. He got a butterbeen. That's why they called them the butterbeen. You know, and the funny thing is you think the guy when he was successful would start losing weight and getting better shape, but he never did. Remember when you were see first started, you said that what's his name is the fighting bar. It's a lot tank Abbott. I mean, yeah. From helping us from redundant beat, you're hunting the beach area. Yeah. He was a tough one. He's to come up the gold. The other thing was, you don't want to get to the third forefathers. Just gas out. But if you got you in the first one or two, as he just come at your luck. But the original and then they guys were very tough. And then when they went, when they went, they got into the whole Getsu thing and then making it a science. Those tough guys got destroyed because they got tapped out a lot of those guys, you know. Oh yeah. On board. I think Abbott would take Abbott one of the graces. We're getting him and that was like. Yeah, but that used to be fun. Remember when the first start days be fucking someone on the ground, there would be elbows to the face of the face of the face of the face. There's no room to stoop it. There was no rules. Yeah, remember the first couple fights. There was like zero rules. Yeah. Had a survived basically. I know. It's like the five or times in the same night. Do you remember? Yeah. Remember the guy was almost like unconscious. He could hear his out of it. And the guy still panicked. And I was just. Good all days. Good all days. We're men. We're mad. They're good all days. They're good all days. They're good all days. They're my tell you. That was great. You ever seen a Roman soldier naked Dave? I tell you. They were the good all days. Big lady was talking. Why do you want this to the after. I was talking about the trains and how it's happened. How a track was. Good man who can look like a good woman is. What? I haven't seen any that Mr. G. likes look like a woman yet. No. No. I said this is Mr. G. He was afraid that Big lady would try to like hump him or something like that during the fight. You know, but he wasn't worried about it. And it's like Mr. G. Shade. He's a little pitchy. He was all clean clean cut. Oh my god. He's getting all out. You know, he's at this point, you know, there's no turning back. Mr. G. Mr. G. Everyone's like, how can you being so nice to Lenny? He brought him cookies. He got him supplements. He brought him a t-shirt and posters. I said because he's afraid. Big Lenny may drop out of the fight. He's put so much time to prepare for the fight. He's got to make sure Lenny actually shows up now. So what's that behind? I can see Lenny did Lenny actually get a post tonight. He's a post. He made a post for both of them. Yeah. He did all the artwork. Oh, I can't help. He should get issue call up Logan. Paul, what the moment. See, you think and this guy's got a lot of work. Can fight the winner of Mr. G. Big Lenny? I don't know. Maybe Logan can just come and referee. So I get some viewers. Yeah. Yeah. Logan. Now Logan Paul's at a different level. He can't. Yeah. He's not going to be fighting any internet bombs anymore. You know. But the exact thing is probably five eight years ago. Logan Paul was doing that type of stuff. He was really stuck. He wasn't 63 years old. Mr. G. 20, 20, 20, 40 years old. I look. May we're the guy in the ring at 44. It's hope for any bad thing. That's right. That's right. Look, I'm sure there's, look, Tyson's back. What is he 54? Isn't he got a, I heard someone said he's going to fight Holyfield things. Well, they were trying to originally set that up. And for some reason, they didn't work out. And then they wound up, I think Holyfield wanted to move. And then they did to be right on the junior. Yeah. He could be back on that. We probably failed. Yeah. You know what? It's like these old singers that sing these old like synoptis songs. Like everyone's in a while. They'll be looking at like an nostalgia phase that will come out. And everyone wants to hear guy singing like synoptrin. And for like a year or something like that. All these old crew and his old comeback. They're going on cruises that make him money and stuff like that. We're in this year and now we're pretty much anyone can live Sheem anything. And the internet is where it's that. And followers and likes. And you know, we have our heroes, right? The Tyson's and the Holyfield's old. We've got to grow up. We want to see them fighting each other. So let him fight each other like old men. I'm the internet. You know, it's like, what is all boxes? Or these old boxes coming back. That's right. Or these old fucking bodybuilders coming back. That's right. I want to see old old folkies like, you know, Lee Priest and Sean Ray, you know, fucking slug it out in the right now. Coming out on our walk is on the stage. Here we go. I love you, funny. I'm trying to think of like, like, like, who's some of the, like, I'd like to see quorum here. Fight a few people quorum here as a tough dude. And then eat a lot of wrestling too, Chris. So yeah, maybe like quorum here like verse like, Or you know who's also tough guy? What about my Christian? My Christians old, you know, let's try my Christian and the ring again someone, you know, like Victor Richards is something like that. Let them fight it out. He just, it was like, just like the most before him in the ring. Well, I know they had a run in the old days and go, Jim, so maybe we can get Victor in the, and my Christian A fight with something like that for charity. Right. He has shit because they had different stories. Did they on who walked the way and who said what? The difference is that no one in the Biden world is going to put up the good money for that. Whereas these boxes in the boxing world, they could raise money from anyone to fight, you know, sir. I know. And much, much as Mr. G raised yet, but he's, who the heck knows? You know, as power eight power eight come on board, who's come on board? Maybe Ed Conners can get like a flush find go. We can get some of the old time body balls to fight each other, you know? Everybody, everybody, everybody. Everybody, everybody, everybody, everybody, everybody. Body balls will do anything for money, you know that. You can probably put a $10,000 prize up there and you'll get pretty much anyone will fight each other for that, you know. Well, you might be a good side of it, but you should have the pro show so you can sit around. I don't even want to see these guys, I don't want to see the old guys posing on stage because then I can look good, but I do want to see him fight each other. That would be good. If only one, especially when the good thing is sometimes two when people aren't really good fighters, because it just like the hey makers come out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't even care if they train for it. I just want to see them slug it out. Yeah, exactly. But I just grab a hold of each other and lay down. I was going to let go first. I'm going to be like, actually, Mr. Lennie will like it, because it would be like they just dry him, but on the mat. But be like, I mean, would you love to see Arnold fight, Louis, you know, just like for charity or something like that? That would be cool, right? Yeah. That would be interesting. I think Louis might take it. Louis is a little younger though than Arnold. But Arnold would trick him probably. You know, Arnold would like to talk over there. I know, I would be like, I'll lead a smart one and Louis would just be, I think Louis just says that when you're looking at some thought that I've seen him get angry, not on the hoax TV show, but I've actually seen him get angry. He just seems to have like that crazy person strength. You know, he's just people got drugs. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I don't could get mad, but Louis just says that like, you know, it's snap and go crazy. Well, Louis is probably very strong still. He's in very good shape. I'd love, but I, you know, imagine that fight for charity. Even it, you know what? I don't even care if they fix it and they make it up in choreographed or something. I wouldn't just want to see it because it would be historically funny. Right. They finally sort out the link. Right. And then Louis, Louis lost it so many times when he should have won. Like, once is for a lot of loop-wrig number. So I'm just saying, you're in the ring. They probably read millions for charity. Yeah. As you remember when that time he was going to do the South Africa one then says you break turned up and Louis got third. Of course. And then when this master's being come along, Louis's got finally, I'm going to get a limpia trophy. Robbie Robinson popped up out and they were. Yeah, they got a lot of Tim buck too. They got, they found Ryan Robinson and brought him in. Yeah. And he popped up on a fucking mountain somewhere in Egypt. I don't know any mountains in Egypt, like you Sarah. I think I think it was like, whatever. I think they should. But like I said, this is a bigger decision is funny thing with Lenny and Mr. G. But it's like a trade that's so long the other side. But it's just corn. Yeah. Now yeah. It's like home to find out right now. I said, let's just get in over with the ready and move on. Yeah. Like, one of the needs to do something to piss the other off the revive this. Right. You know, Lenny, Lenny older 66 Mr. J. again or something. Get him. You know what? Well, there I don't think Lenny ordered the 66. I think the people who ordered the 66 ordered the 66. Those guys actually don't even like Lenny. There I know Lenny and Rob Ziller are fighting with those guys. So there's multi factions now. You got to keep up with the. Oh, I'm going on here. You know. That's like like Star Wars, the roll fuck and old branch and off in the rebel forces. But you got to look at those people ever ever. Check that Lenny's pay and Lenny's being and then sometimes. Just look at the people that make the comments. I mean, fuck if you want to see a side show freaks. Just just look at somebody's people's profile features. You think you think that you put it this way. If Lenny was a drag queen and had the sex change and could have children and the toxic Avenger had a baby. These are the people that follow their their off. Yeah. You know, you see the hills have eyes. Yeah, you're right. Some of those guys looked at me were probably starring that movie. Yeah. Oh, no one's from the high up in the Appalachians. Now if it's the people in the Appalachians, but there's been a few movies made about the area down there. It's like Tasmania here. Yeah. Yeah, brother. Brother and sister, your mother and father and stuff like that. But hey. Keep your family circle closed. That's right. That's right. All right. Well, you know, what are you traveling now? Are you getting on an airplane, sir? I don't know. I'll probably get the apple. You know, it'll be the proof to leave. I'll probably get the apple now. It'll be like, woo, woo. Hold him. Buy our heads that he said three shots. Yeah. You might actually might be ready to act in by now. Who the heck knows what they put into them? They might not let me leave. The countenance guy. He's like, got the hope of the world in his hands. He's carrying the kill. Yeah. I was going to say, they're going to harness your blood. They're going to like, leech you all the blood out of you and make it back. He's going to be like, I'm going to be like, we'll sniff in. I'm going to be like, this, that we follow. They're going to be following me around. The government's going to be following me everywhere. Tyler and I went to my friend Tom Crutchfields in Homsford, he's got like a whole room of just cobras. And they built the cobras for the venom. You know, so they can develop, you know, the antidotes for it. That's going to be you. They're going to like lock you in a room and just draining your blood like 24, 7, like that. And put me on one of those massage tables and just milk you. You all, you all wish they were doing that to you, my friend. I got to be like a snake when I put their fangs in the glass. That's right. And they buy it for the accident. Actually, what might happen to my head, head, head, head of my cock in a beaker like that. Just now. This is what they're going to actually have you in a room tied down with it. Get the loob at it. And then big lady's going to walk in. He's going to milk you. Ah, from the frost date. I think I'm going to cross. It's going to milk your frost. Yeah. I probably will be. That's it. You know, I probably will be taking a body. So when you don't see him in her from me for a while, I will be probably tied up on a table. Choose. Take his plasma. Take that part of his blood. Take that bit. There we go. All right. I got to wrap this up. I got to wrap this up. I got to wrap this up. I got to wrap this up. If anything happens to you like, just have your wife let us know. So we, you know, we can start to go find me. Can't thank you. Yeah. I'll probably get one that I was on Tania's human combustion. Remember those, but I just. Yeah, it was kind of like right on fire, you know. That's amazing. Isn't even what those shows and books on it. Like the whole body's burnt, but they burn that quick and fast. They close the building. Yeah. It's just like. Yeah, I never really understood the mechanism behind that, but I, I've seen, you know, I've heard of it, where people to spontaneously combust from whatever reason I don't know. It much dnp. It must be the, the, the flatter theory that the Jimmy, the bowl was talking about. I was saying that from above, you know. Greg and he's girlfriend were a wife, but it was message of me yesterday, because they just said they watched the documentary on the abats in Australia. They got those bats at a, they call them flying foxes. Because if you google flying fox, google a flying fox, it's got a head like a fox, but the wing spins like five feet or more. You Americans have, you Americans have little bats like this. So he couldn't believe it. So I went out the back of every night. Hundreds of them fly over. The one night I got Greg on the phone. None fucking fly. Not one. Normally there's hundreds. So it's going to film and pouring. But home, here. There's a big, wow. See it? That's a big picture. That's a back. Everything's big and deadly down. Now I know why they call them flying foxes. Because they're fucking foxes with wings. Holy shit. And they wrap themselves up like the batman move it. They wrap themselves up. The wings are so thin. You can see through their wings. They're like, or the big veins run through their wings. But when they open up like that, they're really five foot long. I haven't said they're Australia. Definitely still has some dinosaurs left from pre-historic times. There's no doubt about it. You're looking at, you're looking at one mother. What do you go with those? What do they call cassowaries? Cassowaries? Oh yeah. But you're seeing the feet on them. The claws. Oh, they're looking at the feet. They got a big, big thing on their head too. Yeah. If they're up in the forest, they sign. Stange it. That's a fun idea. That's a modern day dinosaur that somehow made it through the meat. What a, what a fucking, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a, what a picture. So people can see it. The cassowary. But it's like, what does cassow, like, how fucking they do? And imagine, but imagine someone saying, how did he die? Oh, I fucking bird kill. What, you know what? I saw an e-mue at Demo. He went to Crutchfield to the, you saw that Tyler. The thing was scary. And I got news to you. Those cassowaries are a way, way, way, way, way, way. It's way, way, way, way. Cassowary. Cass, C.A. W.L. Cassowary. And then it just W. It should come up. Then she's preferred. Yes. There it is. There it is. Yeah. Those look like it's like a palatable. Like a palatable. Like a palatable. It's like a colorful ostrich with a fucking blade on its head up. But it's the, it's the feet. Like they told us about the, the feet are, we will gut you in two seconds. Oh, yeah. That's how the kangaroos do it to a kangaroo of its fight. Yeah. They lean back on their tail. And then they take their back legs and just rip. Oh, they do. Great. Yeah. You got too many dangerous animals over there. And I'll show you. I'm glad you guys don't let any of them out of there. So that's good. There you go. Look at that. Look at that. That's a freaking, that's a raptor. You might buy the same one. That's a one. And then when it comes to really doesn't it with the, with the, with the thing on its head and Sheet it doesn't look hot for loss or after that. Imagine that to add had to die on her boot. Because cute boy a boot. Yeah, you'll never. That's that a bird. That's a fucking dinosaur. I'm sorry. Look, I got a raptor. So I love you man. I hope nothing happens from the vaccine. Keep us updated in, uh, we'll see you next week. I guess. Fine. I'll be trying to, I'll be trying to, I'll be trying to, I'll be trying to, Oh my god, we're dying to, I've been trying to hold it, they give a finished show to you. Yeah. Clay Poles moment feeling very weird here on this Tuesday afternoon. We'll see you next week.

Welcome back to Ironraise. The show where John Romano-Lee preached and I have vent our frustrations with the world. The boys are all back in town today. We got the full crew. John and Lee today's topic is, when is it time to quit? John, you and I were talking and Lee before the show. And you mentioned the announcement that Julie and I am not defending her women's physique Olympia title this year. After four years of winning it, she is decided to call it quits. And people are given her flag for it. Is it a good decision, bad decision? What's your opinion? It's a great decision. And it's a smart decision. And I'll tell you why. The art of war, Sunsu says, never fight it battle you cannot win. And that's the whole thing right there. She's looking, but Julie Ann is looking at Sheneika and the other competition up there. Looking at her ten inch waist and realizing holy shit, this girl's from Mars, I can't beat her. And I've had a good run. I've done exceptionally well for myself during my competitive career. Why not leave with just all wins under my belt and you know, go out of champion. And not fight the battle you can't win. She's smart. She knows she can't beat Sheneika, period and of story. That's reality. So say what you will about that, but that's reality. So she knows that and she's going out on top. And there's absolutely everything right about that. And anybody that's given her grief about it, I think you're in it. Khalid, what do you think about that? Is it right? Did she make the right decision? And we don't even know if that's the reason she left. Or should as a great champion, she tried to go and battle the best of the best. Well, she has battle the best of the best when she is on stage. Just because you know, someone else is coming along to hook straight who she might not beat. But it's like a set. There's a no win situation. If you keep going and you're winning, you're going to get beat. Then people say you should have retired or then you can win five times. You get beat once people call your losers. So it's pretty much the internet trolls are just going to talk shit or never be on stage. And I'm pretty impressed that John's quoting the art of war and stuff. Let me quote someone. Dr. Suce, green eggs and ham I am. Sam I am. Yeah. So if she doesn't like green eggs and ham, she can quit and I do it. It's pretty much the same thing as John said. Just moving on and have poached eggs. I'm. I'm not a Grasina. She stepped down last year. Her last win at the fitness Olympia. So there'll be a new champion crown this year as well. You know, I've signed has been so dominant that no one seems to be able to beat her. She stepped down. I don't know what are reasons why, but I think she felt she had nothing left to prove. Because she could have kept winning John. Yeah, I mean to some people, I mean that's a luffer ready. I mean, how many times do you have to win? Do one of the same thing for you to get it. Okay. Oxant. She's the best period. Okay. That's we got it. We how many more times do you have to prove it? And if she's tired or wants to do something else, I mean, there's nothing in it for what? What is there in it for women's fitness? Nothing. It's a tiny as small as class there is. No one gets it. It's that these girls have nowhere to go. Right, but there is an entertainment factor, John. And she and she was making money when in the Olympia. I mean, it might not have had a ton of money, but she wasn't making money. Yeah, but she's not made. I mean, who's hiring her? I mean, like there's there's not a big market for the fitness competitors. They're just too few of them. I mean, they're great. What they do is amazing. I mean, don't get me wrong. But, um, you know, in Oxantra as Oxantra has the most incredible routines. And so, you know, are, artistically put together and choreographed. And it's just beautiful. And she's by far the best. I don't think anybody's going to come along for a long time to rival her. Right. So what do you got left to prove? She, if she could probably make, a really good living doing something like on Broadway or somewhat something more, you know, mainstream. Cirque-to-sole, or some shit like that. There's way more for her than there ever will be in women's fitness Leave the thing of the man the man too. I think the man that look at their side where Some of the stuff that we know men do you gotta come down to your health and that too because It's like John said you gotta get bored after while and going after that same title There's only a few guys who can have that drive to keep going and keep going and push themselves and then the health Expect to have pushing your body here after a year after year You don't what you have to do to be that champion is it really worth it You know sure to man make a bit more money with endorsements and get into travel But if you want to limp your one-saw twice with the right marketing you can you know live off that for the rest of your life From yourself as Mr. Olympian stuff, you know Whether you have six seven eight or nine It's like even Phil you might be the one to get ten but really in the scheme of things ten times Mr. Olympia outside of body building Who really knows who you are? That's the thing Like you could you could be the home run winner and baseball and everyone's gonna know your name and history for the rest of your life Right ten times Mr. Olympia putting your body free or hell now. Got you know So you know, you know, least you do think that Ronnie should have quit after winning eight knowing that he had that injury to his back And he kind of pushed it another year and then he actually tried to come back a year after that and went back to Thailand And now obviously wasn't successful I think so like I said there are many gloves training. He's like you know He's one of those guys that loves doing it, but it comes a time where okay You can you know quick the competing so if you can still train you can still travel to seminars See to think it and stuff like that but pushing itself in contest trainings at total novel level I think the same we've done here and you know Would he have torn that by sip and done whatever and come back looking like he did in that last Mr. Olympia because look how great he looked But then a lot of the times of people talk about Dorian There was talk about his last Olympia if the blow to gut the torn by sip They forget how great a cheap and he was before that same with some me But no look at him when he won the Mr. Olympia Shredded at a bone in eighty free he tried to make a few comebacks and then look as good and now people remember Samir is losing the Olympia looking bad not looking how he did when he wanted so you got to know when to step away Or if like me gets suspended and you got no choice you can't come back John is it is it hard as a champion to say you know what? I'm done and walk away. I think it almost like it seems like a lot of these guys have to just lose I mean Dorian snuck out that last Olympia 97 But then he quit he couldn't come back. He was thinking about it He was trying and he just felt that he wouldn't be the best he could be And certainly in 98 he would have gotten slaughtered probably unless you know with the injuries he had in such you know Smart to sit there was you know there were Dynamic changes once Dorian stepped down and you know the battle was between flex and and Ronnie But you know There's there's a where you just got to say You know, okay, I mean and it's it depends on what level you're at who I mean I hear guys saying well, you know, I was Mr You know Midwestern gold gold gold County classic champion 17 years in a row Who gives a fuck mean what that was obviously a really easy show if you were the champion 17 years at row and never went So you know you found your niche but I mean that that kind of stuff aside I mean there's There's a level that you should feel confident Going out at and it's not only bodybuilding. We look at formula one Michael shoe marker. He went out world champion You know There's nothing and he almost killed himself skiing so I mean you never know So there's You should you should I think you have the right as a champion to determine how you want to leave Your sport if if you are the champion if you're Mr Olympia Mr World Champion Mr whatever the top of the top It is your right as that champion to be able to say okay This is what I'm leaving this is how I'm leaving these are my terms and I'm leaving under my terms because I'm the best And I get to make the terms so that's that that is completely within the realm of of what is appropriate As far as you know champions from bodybuilding through Formula one racing motorcycles baseball boxing whatever it should solve the same Lean Actually The thing is a thing is like John with shoe marker and as always the watch the formula one when he was always winning and Get out of the championship wrapped up with five races to go sometimes, but if it went everyone he retired People gave him respect he went out on top of him and respected him just seems bodybuilding Hence the worst fucking internet trolls in all the history of sport. I know how the sports have they people put him down and it fell and all that sort of stuff But so some reason the people who are losing bodybuilding seem to outnumber any other fucking Yeah, so I like it said, well, if you go to quit this sport doesn't matter You go to champion they're gonna bag yeah you keep competing you get beat they're gonna bag yes, so Probably so you got to do what's best for you. Do what's best for you family? Have a family and stuff and who cares? What do these people say because like I said half the one saying it and they're even stepped on stage Never even stepped into a Probably contest to watch it. They just sit on their little keep or was and type away so you got to do what's best for you Now, Lee you you kind of left the sport on top you won the iron man in the IPB then you left and you you left Organizations you won a couple titles and another argument that you left and then you did another organization You want a title so technically you've always left when you're on top You've never lost in the last I don't know how many years it's been was that was that or For sure that I'm perfect so was that just by accident? Now I'm smart it's like you got away on top like John says It's like over and after I came back after it's seven year later for one to universe people like Lee you got back for the universe again next year I said black no I'm like I want to Miss the world that we're all saying like that you know when something different but if you went to universe You leave it go back because like I said if you went to the universe if I had to go and back in got second I'll eat in the universe. Oh, you remember you got second. They always remember your last friggin show So just keep win them if you went at once move on keep moving on so you know You know the one guy at the little spray it still keeps going his next That he's one to the Olympic but it keeps going back he's consistent So here are some people at the who do out that will power in the mental power to keep on going and still looking good But look I said you know I sort of went out on top and like I said I was not winning some of the big Pro shows in the alphabet. I want to feel like the San Francisco the Iron Man and what that sort of stuff But you know those 16 years just competing in the Pro shows in the Olympia and you know Like I said it wasn't a few that are the R people just that after 16 years I'd had enough of competing with the same guys on stage in the same faces the same judges That when Wayne did studies new thing and what would it be different that is sort of a real light smile I can go back and feel against different guys different judging type things So what's happening you and then when I sort of was suspended I just put those years off of what well Let me try and have it and never spread a whole lot of different guys from Europe and I sort of stuff I'll give that a go so it's just like it's something different to do something it give me more excitement Because doing the same thing year after year after the year It just gets a bit monotonous sometimes you know like oh I got to go through it again and that's You know I just need a break and I do and like you say go out on top You know I want to bring up a top. I didn't want to bring it up I don't want to give any any any any credibility or any I didn't want to I wanted the energy to just die of the topic But it was kind of annoying me You know I'm in having this back and forth with Nick Trigilli and you know He's trying to like bad mad me now because he's mad that I bad math some product that he was selling That was kind of like a snake oil product So he's like trying to say that I'm not a good coach and that I use cookie cutter You know diets and templates I give everyone the same diet and you know I've done I've done the rant about the fact that you know look there's only so many diets You can give out the people you know once you have an established diet that works You give it out and then you tweak it and change it according to the people you work But I mean and that and that's just obvious, you know There's a lot but I actually had a guy who he killed who texted me today He was a former client of mine who was complaining that he wanted his that he he was implying He didn't ask for it. He was implying that he wanted his money back because he he felt that I was giving He's obviously a Nick Trigilli disciple now that I was that he was giving that I gave him a I didn't give a customized diet and That um What else did he say? I didn't give a customized diet and then I had a team of my people working and doing his updates What's obviously you guys know is not true. I knew all of updates myself and so I went back and I started getting like you know I said well I wonder if this guy had bad results with me So I went back and I looked at my text message train and I saw that he won his show when I helped and he got He was He was complimenting me about how Brady looked and how happy he was so I said to my said Isn't the job of a coach to help you win your shows and Why would you be unhappy you said to me you were super happy with the way the prep work that he goes I was happy He's like but that but you didn't give me a custom diet Nick Trigilli's Cost of I Mean what's got what's happened to society? What's wrong with people John? Am I not what's the why it's not am I doing here if you want something custom to them the guy won't keep my fucking rod I'm the thing is they give someone a diet everyone does if you're got a new client to begin with You don't know what their body's like so you pretty much gonna give him a standard diet with proteins and carbs and fat And all this have a monitor a few weeks. See how they respond and then they get to then you start tweaking it taking foods out putting foods in You make it suit their body, but generally the start of my foot generally all around the same type of diet Because you can't just customize it from the word go for fuck's sake So maybe because anybody's pro card is upset because he should have been a pro I don't know why he's blaming you the guy should look in the mirror and blame his fuck He wanted Charles he won the show So no, I got a quote out as he says blame you for you got a pro card It's your father's telling me that he's the blame his parents should have been spent on the floor So if you wanted to give him five ounces of chicken You should have got to get five point two ounces So his is point two ounces different with then then the one you made the net the next guy right with 16 P's as opposed to 18 P's I give the next guy, right? Exactly, I mean what would I mean for the entire shoe nuts? Do get 14 almonds you get 15 almonds you get 16 that all cost But what the different Different customs you get no 16 almonds No, no Two people get six I'm gonna give him that roll him broccoli and this guy cauliflower So the make sure no one has the same vegetables too. Well, go go go back a few years I had Neil Hill just wrote me up a diet to have a look at when you my diet had in the morning Have my oatmeal with 14 blueberries 14 I said I said you sure I can have fucking 16 blueberries or 17 would have like blood a whole thing And when I was telling when I told Flex Lills of Adity's like what? He gives you fucking blueberries. I can't have blueberries. I said yes. I get 14 blueberries I'm gonna tell me I'll do it why can't I have blueberry so I did have a customized diet sheet I got blueberries Lexington and get blueberries and what if the blueberries are a little bigger than some of the other blueberries? You know they're not on a set of blueberries So what do I do there if I have the bigger blueberries to only have eight and not the 14 it's a medium side? I'm so fucking confusing it's like the one do I fucking quit the sport? It's just too much for my brain John I'll give you red Ruby oranges and I'll give Lee Valenciar Yes, custom Very But you ought to do now people are complaining about that It's like one it's like one two people you know because jumping on his bandwagon But you know I once again I just I when I see ridiculousness in our industry Doesn't it just argue? I mean we've been in this this is a long time when I see people doing petty stuff like that And trying to pretend that did there something special about what they're doing That's the people you want to run away from because those people are trying to sell you something They're not selling the truth Crunch my gears and gets my goat Dave Columbus really does and actually that night you see a nitriot chili That's like bringing up fucking tood and comments name heaven fucking heard of nitriot chili for a long time Get the blood of dust off that one shit. I mean, but wasn't he like some young champion back when fucking Adam and Eve around Equipment from the tree He's been a well since I heard of that name Nick the funny thing is I really had no I have no problem with him But he he took it personally when I put you in that product that he was selling you didn't Yeah, so I have a problem well, yeah now it's now that I hurt my business so yeah, but that's a given in publicity now yeah These people realize that they're not paying for the diet. They're paying for the coaching No, they don't understand that John some most people do but these people don't because that's what I explained I said the bottom line is you won the show. That's my job as a coach the diet's online for free Yeah, thank you It you need somebody to coach you to have to use the diet Manage It's Custom custom custom Ortean almonds that'll solve the problem right there Don't ever give two people You know, I'm gonna put a custom diet online. I'm gonna I'm gonna go to the supermarket and I'm gonna find the most exotic Vegetables and and Certain you know Indian grains of rice with certain I have heard expices and and I'm gonna I'm gonna design Four thousand diets with different variations in each one I will cherry pick the diet Each particular mix count the race Count the race the first and the folic is yeah, first and the folic out there I'm gonna give a secret now ten legumes 50 50 grains of white rice mix with 47 grains of brown rice One bell pepper and a bit of capsicum or mixed in Our six ounces of lean steak and in that steak I want two ounces of lean beef One ounce of lamb and two ounces of a little bit of pork now That will not the this is a custom diet for the American Christians and she was Fantastic on now, and then other people are who are on Vegetarians they can have like that stuff corn or whatever and I'm tofu mix it with tofu and add some gold Scrotem in there because they hear it's good for testosterone levels yeah, raises testarone For sports for sports that now there's somebody who wants custom diets context. Steve He's got some of the most far out eating planes of ever fucking dirty That's not custom I don't know what is And he I think he's fucking diet planes from fucking E.T. I told me Brian hard, Brian hard I keep telling these guys I keep telling them Brian hard, right? I keep telling them Yeah, but that wasn't that wasn't about contest that's how we liked the fucking Ben O I just say Steve that's not right here I Like drawing hard takes the skin off Steve anymore Six to my posing trunks when it's healing And on that note I'm Dave Palombo for John Romano Lee priest with another episode of Iron Ridge Where does he come out with his ship? I don't know You can't beat that

Today full-umbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition Lighter Products, we use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition Products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with Brostie Right, Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a good friend of the show. And I'm very proud to actually announce that he is the 2020 New York Pro Classic Physique Champion, a good friend, Logan Franklin, welcome back. Let's go on, man. Thanks for having me on. What a journey you've had, man, over the last couple years. And I can't even believe how big you are now, compared to when I first interviewed you. I don't even remember how many years ago it was when you were doing men's physique. It's like the transformation is mind-boggling. Yeah, I remember we actually did my very first interview together after I won the overall the 2014 NPC Nationals. We were, yeah, you were interviewing me and then you asked me to hit a few shots. And I did a side try set shot and you were like, what? I showed you my legs. I mean, you were just saying, what are you doing, men's physique? Yeah, because I saw the potential there. You just weren't that big back then. You had a nice structure, but I can see if you had added, if you were able to put the muscle on, which a lot of guys can, I said, if you put the muscle on, you're going to be dangerous, you know? Thank you. Let me ask you a question. How tall are you, first of all? I'm six foot, but it seems like I keep getting measured right under six foot, like five, 11. I got measured at five, 11, three, quarters and 10, relax. Oh, really? You've got to stretch yourself. You've got to hang from like a bar every day and get yourself. Yeah, I think that, yeah, I think that whenever you get a super dry, also like the solos you're feet thin down, everything just slightly in. You know, I think it has something to do with it, but yeah, I probably should get one of those things that you can hang upside down from and let my spine. Yeah, you know what? You can press. Yeah, you know what? That's going to be the new thing in class. Because they can have guys and the girls wear those like way shapeers to get their way smaller. Now, guys are going to like be, they're going to go in the, get these stretching machines to like make themselves like taller, so they can weigh more for class. I mean, right? Right? Big sense, man. Especially if you're, especially if you're right on the, oh, yeah. You know, huge difference. What's your weight cut off for your height? Well, if they measure me at six foot, it's 230. Right. If they measure me just under it like they did again this weekend, I believe it's 225. What did you weigh on stage in New York? 214. Really, you look so much bigger, holy macro. 214. That's it. 214 pounds. Look at you. 230. That's what, uh, that's what a lot of people say when they, when they see me in person, you know, but the funny thing about that is, you know, I have so much, you know, people that don't appreciate my physique, I guess, would say or people that, no, it's going to be haters no matter why you know that. Yeah, yeah, these, these people that are saying that I'm too small and all this and that, but I, I really don't look small. And it's because I get in such crazy conditioning and dryness and hardness and I guess the flow and symmetry of my physique and the way that I flare up and, and poses helps, you know, make me look bigger as well. Yeah, you know why people don't, the, the, the, the, the, the dash you because because because you're too confident yourself, which is good, obviously for competing because you, you guarantee that you were going to, you know, do this a couple of years ago and and people thought, well, yeah, whatever, you know, and now you did it and so people like they're jealous of the fact that you actually able to produce what you predicted you were going to do, you know, it's like the Andre Ferguson Andre Ferguson's always predicting victory and people can't wait to lose his, but you never loses, you know, yeah, people need to understand, you know, it's, it's not, arrogance whenever someone says they're set out to do something, you know, sure, a lot of this is manifestation, you know, I got to, I got to have this profound belief in myself, you know, in order to make, you know, my dream come to life and people, you know, need to understand that that's something that you have to do, that's a mindset you have to have in order to, you know, even have a chance at, you know, reaching your full potential and wherever that's going to take you, maybe one day be a great body builder or a champion body builder or whatever or it doesn't even have to be in body building, you can be in any career path that you have, you know, but mindset, you know, it truly is everything because if you don't have a, if you're not powerful and you're mind about your vision, you know, you don't have that full passion, you're not going to give it everything you've got and that's just what I truly believe. Well, the interesting thing is that you don't, I've never seen you bash anyone, you don't bash other people, you just talk confidently about yourself, there's a big difference there, you're, you're focusing on what you want to create, you're not like trying to play down what other people are and I think that there's a huge difference. I've seen other guys that they have bashing everyone saying, oh, I should have beat this guy, he sucks, this one does not this, you just talk about yourself and that that's a huge separation and I think a lot of people have to really understand that if you want to, like you said, if you want to create something special about your physique, then you have to focus on yourself and not worry about what the other people are doing. Exactly. This is exactly right. And you know, going back to that, you know, as the late, you know, a lot of people have been trying to, you know, make this beef between Chris Bum said and I out of, out of thin air, out of nothing and it was all, it all started because someone commented on one of my posts, I posted a front double by step that I ended up deleting just because I was leading up to the New York pro and I wanted to start going dark anyway and I was tired of comments and all this and that but someone asked me if I thought that, you know, I could hang with Chris and I believe that I can, you know, or if Chris was beatable and I said, yeah, why not use beatable? You know, he's got beat by Brianna, you know, I mean, in previous years, everyone's beatable, you know, at some point. And you know, this is what I said and then all this sudden now, everyone before this was before the New York pro. Yeah. And that's how I responded and then all of a sudden, you know, people are saying, all Logan thinks he's going to come in and just dominate everybody with the Olympia and it's like, no, hold up back up. I never said any of that. Like the salt, the all are taking this way out of context. Yeah. Well, you know, it's funny, this when Jake Houghtler was, you know, battling it out with Ronnie Coleman, I've never heard, I never heard Jay Badmout Ronnie at all, but he did say I can beat him and he always believed that. And I think a lot of people thought that Ronnie was unbeatable. I thought he was unbeatable. I said, he won't lose until he beats himself. But Jay always believed that he can beat him. And you know, I don't think there was ever a moment if you asked him, hey, can you beat Ronnie? He would always say, yes. And so that was his single mind that goal. And he did beat him, obviously, you know, more than one. That's how I feel, man, I truly feel that, you know, if I do everything necessary, you know, and I have a, you know, an outstanding preparation, you know, for the Mr. Olympia, my body responds well. And, you know, I make the certain adjustments in my training that I'm going to make, you know, improve on the certain, you know, things that I've been, you know, envisioning in my head to work towards a certain physique that I have in mind, you know, as long as I do these things, I think that I have a strong chance. And, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to keep that belief inside of me as strong as I can because I'm going to do everything that I can to make it a reality. The crazy thing, though, is you still got 11 pounds, you can, you can gain of muscle and still make that classic physique cutoff, if that's incredible. And when you think about it, I, that's why I think the tall guys have an advantage because you can't hold more muscle on your body. And obviously, your bones must be hollow or something like that. I don't know how you look so big and you're not, you're not, you're only way to 14. But on stage, you know, you also have mastered. And I don't know if you got this maybe from, from men's physique, which helped you. Obviously, because that's where you got your start. Obviously, that's where you were a pro and you did well there, one shows. You have very good stage presence. And you really have a good body awareness, much, you know, I wish I had your body awareness when I was competing because you, you know where you are at all times on stage and in space. And it really shows when you hit that Arnold pose. You know, I know you, I know you put that comparison up on your Instagram, maybe tell you, you pulled that up of you verse. You and Arnold hit in that same twisting back shot. I love it. I mean, that's, that's a hard post to hit. People don't realize that I guarantee you, you must have practiced that a thousand times. But I've been, oh, man, I put so much work in my posing, you know, over the last 12 months, 13 months because, I mean, I just switched to classic physique from men's physique, you know, as everybody is probably aware of that, that knows why I am. Last year, I did the Tampa Pro and I was actually winning the show and I faded into my posing and I got placed third, you know, because I wasn't, I didn't prepare myself properly and didn't practice my posing the way, you know, I should have, you know, and, and I didn't have a very good routine at all, you know, super awkward. I was not confident in the way that my routine was set up or any of that. And it definitely showed on stage. And on top of that, you know, stepping on stage for the first time in a different division and underwear, it seemed like at the time, you know, it was a bunch of a bunch of nerves going to the same time, you know, I had some anxiety go on. Yeah, most people don't do their first bodybuilding show when they're in as a pro, you know, they do it as like, yeah, an amateur, you know, and on top of that, you know, already having the name that I've built, you know, in the mid-spezique division and, you know, it was like all eyes on me whenever I made that switch to, you know, that show and it was a lot of pressure and I cracked a little bit, but it's all right, after that show, you know, I needed that adversity. I needed that that in my eyes, that failure for me to never allow to happen again. And it never will happen again. You know, I've made a complete 180 and like I said, you know, my posing was so heavily criticized after that show that made me go, you know what? Like, I know I'm a good poser because I was a really good poser and it's a great, great, we were not hitting shots, but I knew that I had flow. I knew that I could, I could put together a combination of what I thought was my better shots and make them and make it look sequential and nice, you know, and, you know, it just took me, you know, you know, my pristine focus to really just buckle down and give it everything that I had and that's what I did and I did everything but gave up, you know, and I prepared to my ultimate, you know, best of my ability and it paid off, man. It really did. I'm super happy with how my posing routine and how my posing on stage turned out. Like I said, man, I put so much work into it and it just, it shows and it paid off and, and, man, I've been on cloud nine since Saturday, like no joke, man. I mean, you're the most, you got to think you're the most successful guy in terms of being able to transition from men's physique to classic, I think and, you know, a lot of people think, you know, it can't be done because a lot of the men's physique guys have no legs. I knew I always knew you had legs because I saw him when you said that first time you, you, uh, I interviewed you, but a lot of these guys have no legs, so it's very hard for them to catch their legs up. You have, you see to be very well balanced, upper and lower. I, to be honest with you, when I look at your physique, I don't see any flaws like in the sense of like, oh, he's he's lacking here, lacking there. Which means you have good harmony with your physique and that's, that's, I think, one of the reasons why the created classic physique was for guys like you that necessarily won't be the mass monster, but that you have such good flow to your physique that it's, it's actually not, it's enjoyable to watch you on stage, you know. Thank you, man. It feels really good to hear things like this, you know, I've gotten, I've gotten so many great, you know, you know, like people saying great things about me, like you just said recently, especially after my performance, and it feels really good, man. Like I said, I've worked so hard and, and it feels amazing that people are starting to see what what I've been seeing for so long in myself and, and, uh, man, I'm just, I'm just excited for, you know, the future and the trajectory of my career and, and where things are going to go, because, you know, this is, this is just the beginning. I, I, I just now started having this vision of, of how I wanted my physique to shape, you know, about a year and a half two years ago, in terms of how I needed to look to, in certain poses, you know, how I needed to train, you know, what muscle groups needed to come up and, and, uh, in having that vision of, like I said earlier, a vision of a certain specific shape that I want to have of, you know, you know, someone back in the old, the old school days, you know, like something that I'm working towards and just keeping that, that shape in my mind and, and working for it. And that's what I'm doing and, and, uh, you're doing it right. Let me ask you a question. How does it feel to be a father? Feels great, man. It feels, it's life, my life has been changed instantly. I know, believe me. I, I, I experienced it too recently. So I, I just want to know how is it like as a head of your, you know, because I, I know, look, young kids don't sleep and it's like it changes your whole schedule around, too. Yeah, it, it, it definitely, uh, presented challenges, you know, stress and, and, uh, you know, annoyances whenever he was like screaming all day, he had colleagues or, uh, just teasing now and, and just doing this for the first time and trying to, you know, balance being a father and, and being a family man and at the same time, you know, you know, giving everything to my passion and, and making sure that, you know, I was going to come in at the, at my very best and, and, uh, have a redemption performance from the last time that I've set on stage. So like I said, it was, it definitely brought some challenges, but at the same time, you know, it gave me energy, it gave me, it gave me strength and, and, you know, it, it changed my whole, it changed my whole, like, wavelength of thinking and, and how it, it wasn't, this whole thing wasn't just for fun anymore. This is what my son is going to, this is who my son is going to know. He has my dad's, uh, this guy, you know, he can see me and how I, I'm living my life and, and, and see how I, I'm giving it all towards something and he can apply the same, whatever he gets older, you know, so, uh, that's where, that's where I'm at now, man. It's just trying to set a, uh, as best of an example for my son and, that I can and, and go with it, man, and try to, try to go all the way. Yeah, and, uh, you've been, you've been a, you've been a bank baby mom in there because, uh, I'm sure she picked up a lot of slack while you were dieting, right? Yeah, yeah, man. She, she's been so, so great, you know, I'm definitely blessed to have such a strong woman, you know, in my life, you know, someone that was able to, you know, take over whenever I couldn't, you know, take over the night shifts, whenever I need to sleep, she allowed me to just sleep and recover and yeah, and it was just such a blessing and, and, uh, man, she, she's a great teammate, you know, great partner, you know, future spouse, and, and, uh, it's just exciting, man. It's exciting because I'm exactly where I want to be in it, and, and, and, you know, life is starting to feel like life, you know, you know, you know, you work so hard to get to a certain point, and then you kind of get to a point where you say, okay, you know what, I've achieved the level of success that I actually feel good about, and now I could take that and I could run with that, but, you know, and you, if you get how hard it was leading up to that point, but, you know, you have a, you have a tremendous social media following, I mean, what, I like to ask guys because I, everyone has a different answer to this question, so why do you think that, you know, you have so many people who follow you and who want to know every little nuance of everything that you do during the day? What, what is it about Logan Franklin that makes you appealing to the, to the, to the mass, uh, people? Man, I mean, I guess, I guess part of it is just because, you know, I'm a go-getter, you know, I, uh, I mean, some, some people like the, the confidence, you know, in the belief and they, they translated to their themselves, you know, that's really what I do it for, you know, or why I speak, how I speak, you know, on social media, whenever I'm like, I'm gonna do this, you know, and I'm gonna show you guys that I'm gonna do this, you know, and, and have that mindset, you know, it's, it's not just for me, it's for, it's for me to show people out there that it's okay to have this, to have belief in yourself, it's okay to have, to have passion, you know, and, and, and to work hard and say that you're gonna do something and, and it's, especially if you're actually trying, especially if you're actually giving it your all to make it happen, and, instead of just not just saying something and not doing and thinking about what you're trying to say and trying to back it up, you know, so maybe, you know, part of that has something to do with it, maybe it's because I'm a, I'm a veteran and people have some, some type of respect for that, I mean, I don't know, I don't know, I just try to be, you know, as good of a man as I can be and, and, you know, let my presence flow naturally and organically will, you know, it'll grow the following, you know, grow, you know, a fan base, people that support me too, and it also make people dislike me, I mean, I have a lot of people that don't want to see me succeed as well. I had a lot of, a lot of people wanted me to not win this week and in hoping that I was gonna show up out of shape and, and look terrible in my posing and I knew all these things, you know, but you know, at the same time, I know that I have even more people that support me, and, but one thing that I've learned, especially the last, you know, a few years as I've gotten older and matured up a little bit is just, you know, it doesn't matter what anybody has to say, whether that's, whether that's positive energy that people are given me or negative energy, you know, I don't, you know, I've tried not to listen to any of it, you know, I've tried to just silence all of the noise and, and just focus on what I believe and what I'm set out to do. That's a, first of all, that's a very healthy attitude because you know what, I was, you know, I've talked to Ian Valier about this after Tampa and he was really, you know, mentally, you know, it was not in a good place and he seemed to be mentally in a better place. Also in New York, he wins obviously, but he took a lot of flack, you know, wait more than you took, a lot of people thought he shouldn't have won. I thought he did enough to win, but you know, a lot of people thought he shouldn't have and they took a lot of criticism and it's really, it's bothering him a lot now and I know that he, he didn't really want to interview because he feels that this, to how much hate out there and I think that he could take a, almost like a little bit of some words of wisdom that you're saying here, which is don't worry about what anyone thinks. Who cares? You got the win on in five years or now, no one's going to know or no one's going to even did I get to remember the show that he's going to see you won the show and think that the, if you can convince the judges to give you the win, then you did something right up there, energetically speaking, physique wise, you know, whether it was a small margin win or a big margin, it doesn't matter. A win is a win and that's what people have to understand. Not everyone's going to agree with everything you do or say or achieve and that's a lot of it's jealousy and I think that people have to just get, you know, it's hard to wrap your head around that because everyone wants everyone to love them. It's bodybuilders, we want love and adoration from the crowd and from the fans and from social media, but you're not going to get that from everyone. I look, I post a video and I get more just as much criticism as I get positives in the comments and I don't remove a single comment ever unless it's against my family or something like that, but because I don't care, it doesn't make, it doesn't alter my life one I owe to. I know what I want to achieve and what I want to do and my creative processes and I don't let anything get in the way of that and I see you're very similar to that. And that's why I think you have a level of success that's so impressive at this point and I think why you're so confident in yourself because you don't let the good opinion of others influence how you feel. Yeah, like I said, good or bad, you know. I mean, you know, it's just as detrimental to your mindset in my opinion, you know, listening to all the good positivity because that can make you get complacent and make you really believe that you're good enough yet and I don't think that I'm good enough. I don't think that I'm, I'm always going to have things that I'm going to want to improve on it. And I'm hungry man, I mean, I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to just get to hear and then do this. You know, I'm trying to just continue, you know, and every time I step on stage, you're all going to bring something, you know, crazier than the previous one and just consistently, you know, bring something amazing for this photo body building and the fans of body building to witness and and man, that's what I'm about. Well, I'm just, you, you're, you're doing it, you're doing it right. You got some good sponsorship through Dragon Farm. I know they're supporting you. It's big company. They also, they have rammy under contract as well and a couple of the big athletes. So that's going to make you feel good. It gives you some financial security. So, I mean, it, you're at a stage where you actually are making a living from body building. That's got to feel good. I would think. Oh, yeah. I mean, I've been, I've been making a living for a body building since 2015. I've been living solely, wow, you know, off of fitness and, and, and doing this man and, and it's just hard work. You know, it's, it's hard work and not, you know, not settling for anything less than my best of myself, you know? Yeah. And, and I, I mean, I think I'm doing all right, man. Yeah, you're doing great. Well, I want to just once again congratulate you on that big win in New York and, of course, good luck on your prep for the Olympia that's going to be taking place in December. Obviously, in Las Vegas, you'll be up on that stage battling and out with the best of the best. And that's got to feel good and, you know, once again, congratulations on becoming a new father and, uh, and on your entire career. Thank you, man. I appreciate that so much. All right. You guys are having me on. No problem. And, uh, you want to thank anyone before we let you go? Oh, yeah, just, you know, everyone that's supporting me all my fans here out there. Like I said, thank you guys all, you know, continuously supporting me, uh, my coach, you know, being so passionate about his job as well. Who's your coach? I mentioned. AJ Sims. Yep. Yep. Submit factory. Okay. Yeah. So, uh, amazing coach, amazing, amazing, amazing Christian man. Uh, you know, obviously my partner, Marissa, thank you, you know, she's doing so much for me, my, my manager, all this stuff. So, yeah, man. Look, you got it right. You got the whole, you got the whole, uh, the whole support team and the whole crew behind me there. It's not a one man show as we all know. And, uh, you know, once again, congratulations on all your success. Guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with Brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Dave Palavo and today is Wednesday June 27, 2018. I'll look find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again. Welcome back to our Axe Muscle's world class recap Wednesday. And without further ado, let's get right into this week's action. Starting off on the other side of the pond at the UK Pro Championships. In the men's physique division, the win went to Swiss import David Wachelka, who clenched his first Olympia birth in the process. Coming in second with Spain's Andriano Moreno and closing off the top-reelist Frenchman Maxim E. Parisi. In the bikini division, Christobolina Paharez brought her best of the season on her way to being awarded with the win as she held off a solid effort from the hometown girl, Phoebe Hagen, and represents you the red white and blue for this other strong effort was third place's Francesco Lauren. Now we come way back down state side all the way down to one of my favorite places on the planet. Norlyn, Louisiana where we had one hell of a battle on Bourbon Street at this year's edition of the greater Gulf States Pro. In the men's physique division, former NPC National Champ Roman Miranda popped up from out of nowhere to grab the win. Second place went to rookie Kathy Jackson, who now has back to back top three finishes to start his career. And closing out third with his best effort of the season was Culli Alfornley. In the bikini division, it was business as usual for Marcec on Cubs, who was the clear winner from the mid-it-she stepped out on stage. Unfortunately for her, Natasha Coleman was relegated his second despite putting together one of her better looks of the year. And closing out the top-reelist was the only athlete in the division with a name so nice you have to say it twice. Cheeto. If you're like me and you love great food, great people, and great competition, then there was no better place to be on the planet last weekend than just water lahara Mexico. Because there was plenty to see and do down at the Mexico Super Show, including some more action in the men's physique division. There might have been a little bit of home town cooking. First place went to Mexico native, Ishmai Alda Mingez, as he edged out rookie extraordinaire, a came Scott for the win. finishing second was the surging Tonelle Rodriguez who managed to hold off an eventual fourth place finisher, Colombia in Fernando, Shala, and wrapping up a very international top five was Venezuela native Victor Ramirez. One of the coolest things about sports is that they give you a real chance to experience some pretty incredible comeback stories, a hundred times better than anything you'll ever see in Hollywood. And two weeks from now, we'll get to see another one of those first-hand. When former men's physique Olympian Michael Anderson makes his way back to the stage after undergoing 22 surgeries over the course of 13 months, that eventually led to the loss of his leg. Anderson is only a few days away from stepping onto an IFB stage for the first time since 2015. From my personal experience, I can tell you that Anderson was always one of the truly great guys in the industry. So I hope when he gets out on that Chicago pro stage that the fans recognize what they're seeing and give a misunderstanding oldation. Because there's anyone out there who deserves it. It's Michael Anderson. If you're one of those people who made it your summer mission, to put a few more stamps on your passport, then it might not be a bad idea to board a plane and hit up Vancouver two weeks from now to check out some of the pro leagues best going to work. And while you're up there, don't forget to stop by and check out our old friend, Lucas Oslo. Last week, the longtime veteran made the announcement that he was planning to make his presence felt at the Vancouver pro. But the hope of scoring a few points to mount a late-season push towards an Olympia bid. From a conditioning standpoint, you could always count on Lucas to be one of the top two or three guys in the entire field. But with the level of talent that we're anticipating at this lineup, it'll really take one hell of an effort from to be able to close some of those gaps and come out there with a win in his pocket. And that does it to yet another addition of muscle in the morning. On daypalombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Welcome back to live with Brought You by Stacey Nutrition. Visit staceynutrition.com. I'm Dave Palamba. And today's guest, Luke Carroll, is our 2018 NPC USA Heavyweight champ and new IFB Pro. Congratulations. Thank you. Big win for you. Yeah. I was really excited. You know, it's funny. I hate to talk about the negative aspect of it because everything you did was positive. It came in. You dominated that heavyweight class. You won. Convincingly. But I know that you were not happy with the outcome of the overall. Talk to me a little bit about that. Yeah. We were definitely shooting for the overall. And I was a little surprised on stage when I didn't hear my name called. So, but the heavyweight chain he was, he was peeled man. I think I beat him on on shape, but he just was peeled. And he has that like dense muscle. So, yeah. Shainseter, we talked him before. He's grainy, granity hard. You obviously, a lot of people felt you were going to win that because I think when they played you guys up. So, the overall they had you in the middle, right? Yeah, they put me in the middle. And I was standing in the box and I was like, I'm shit. This is happening. Yeah. And they put Henry on my right and Shane was on my left. And I was like, I'm standing right in the middle. And you know, it just went Shane's way. So, I'd like to see the scorecard and see how it did stack up with that. They're probably pretty close. You know, it's funny. But thinking about back to when I was competing had this been in the 1990s or even the early 2000s, you wouldn't have got a pro card. They only gave the pro card to the overall winner. So, think about how cool that is now that all the way class went and get them, you know? Yeah. Because I got a fact of Chris. Chris Cook, if you remember that name, one of the USA heavy, a super heavyweight championships twice. Two years in a row and didn't get a pro card. That's pretty real good. Yeah, that's right. That's very rough. And actually, back when he was doing it, they would gave two pro cards per class. A per for the overall. And he still didn't get it. So, he didn't get the first or second in the overalls got the third. Yeah, that would definitely be a kick in the teeth. That's tough. It's a tough, it's a tough loss today. But I thought my loss was worse because I came in second behind him. So, you know, who knows? The bottom line is you got the pro card. Let's talk about your body building career because everyone starts out differently. Where does you get your start? What, who introduced you to body building and had you get bit by the Iron Bug, so to speak? You know, I got bit by the Iron Bug just from the very beginning at 13 years old. I had to petition my high school to let me into a senior weightlifting class as a freshman. And the principal said, yeah, okay. And I went in there and just, you know, obviously did the same thing that everyone does. He's trying to lift and grow. And then one of the coaches in there was a Olympic weightlifting coach. And he said, let's try these, you know, snatches, clean and jerk. So he did that and I just took to it right away and then we spent a couple of years really training on that. And I ended up winning state a few times, grow several state records and then state that I lived in. And then when I got out of high school, you know, I just kind of jumped into a job, manual labor kind of stuff. And then I lifted, you know, as much as I could, I actually cleaned a gym so that they would give me a membership. Help my girl, try and go through college. So they give me like this spray bottle and I was right down the showers and wipe down the equipment and stuff. And then a couple years later, I got introduced to ALR, author L. Ray. He saw me in the gym, he just lived in the same town and he said, oh, you got some pretty good genetics like lunch start coming to the gym with me. So I went to the gym with him. That's a good impression, by the way, I'm very good. What's that? That was a very good impression of him too. Yeah. May he rest on peace because he's no longer with us yet. Yeah, they have rest on peace. And so he ended up taking me to the Alipia for security for his booth. I'm that year. I think I was about 22 or 23 years old. And then after that, he said, you want to work for my company and I said, you know what? I got a job. I'm good. And then about three days later, I said, I called him back and I said, hey, and I take that and he said, no, we hired somebody and all right, he called me the next day and said, start coming to the gym with me and come into work on Monday. So just bodybuilding kind of got, you know, went from there. I didn't really know a whole lot before that. I was just, you know, Olympic lifting and stuff. And then he really put my foundation of bodybuilding. Were you with him when I, when he was sponsoring all our art muscle coverage? I'm trying to remember who you were. Yeah, yeah, I was there. That was like right when you left MD. Okay. I was working in the, I was doing a shipping and then I was doing in, in how sales. Okay. I'm doing, I'm kind of just everything there. That was a small company at the time. Yeah. So he was, he did well though. He had a good run there, you know. Yeah, he had that venom hyperdrive and that stuff, which is everyone loved that stuff for a few years there. And then they got into the bodybuilding shop. There's still a company I think high tech owns the now. Yeah, high tech owned the bottom out. Yeah. Now, interestingly enough, because I always say that, you know, bodybuilds got to find their niche and make sure you found your niche because from working with him, you kind of took the knowledge you got and you kind of started your own business. Tell us a little bit about what you do. Yeah. I own a Nutraceutical Manufacturer. I don't do that manufacturing. I just help, like stores make their own in-house brands. You like a broker, essentially, right? Well, you know, I want to make a like a fat burner or like a in-house creatine or something like that. And I kind of facilitate just every step of the way, you know, whether I order the raws, you know, domestically or internationally and then having shipped to a manufacturer. Have the label created with a graphic artist and it's of the label maker. Just every step of the way. So they give me a check and then I give them product. That's awesome. That's it. You enjoy doing that? Yeah, I really do. It's something I can kind of just do a lot from my phones. So it affords me the time to go for the gym and eat and everything. So it's a good job for a bodybuilder. Yeah, but it is a little stressful because you got to deal with all the headaches and stuff and compliance and things passing inspections and all that stuff. You know what? I really don't have a whole lot because I had to deal with the GNP facilities. So I kind of just started once before the GNP. I just kind of ordered stuff myself. But now I just have the manufacturer. That's easy. That's what it is. It's all just kind of like streamlines. So you're essentially a supplement broker is what you are. Yeah, pretty much. Which is good. I use one because you know what? I don't have time to do all this. The running around stuff. And I have a big company. So you guys are tremendously, you know, I guess you could say useful. And they sent you, you say people a lot of time. And that's what I think the best benefit of using a broker is because otherwise you have to have a full staff of people doing all this stuff. You know, and who wants that? I don't want to be bothered about that. Yeah, for sure. Talk to me a little bit about, you know, what your future goals are now. Now that you've got the pro card obviously, a lot of guys are jumping right into competing. I think you're going to fall right into that little, that little cup of tea as well. Yeah, we're actually in Tampa right now. We flew in. See yesterday morning and we kind of been training over at Ben Pocoski's MIT 40 gym. Nice. Getting the water off me and resting me enough. So we're actually going to be in the men's open class on Saturday. I was going to say you look very big. Yeah, I thought initially we're going to suck down to the to 12 class, but you're going open, huh? No, yeah, we, I started a week out from the USA is about 2.35. And then we've cut me down to 224 for way in. Right. And that was, that was a hard cut. I was already in and pretty dry. So 11 pounds is not, not happy to take off. And then we already filled back out. So I was about 241 this morning. So we'll see once we play a little bit of water and film me out a little bit more. It might be around 235 to 38 on stage. You look big now. Give us a double bicep pose. Let's see those arms. You look a lot bigger than you. You're a lot bigger than you are than you are saying. That's for sure. Yeah, yeah, we really had to suck me down. I didn't end up beating for about 20 hours. And that was, that was a pretty rough, pretty rough one. I threw the end because the day's leading in do it. I was very low fat, just white fish and veggies. So I was not not happy to be around for that week. Yeah, you know what the guys you suffered the most like that. Those are the guys that win and that's new fall to that category. So congratulations on that. Yeah, I was going to happy. My ways got got real tiny on stage. So that that empty now ended up working well for me. You know, you got to do what you got to do. Some people are not willing to go through that uncomfortable place of suffering and pain and stuff like that. But you know, I always used to think of it in my hand. I'm sure you do the same thing. You say to yourself, well, the guy who's next to me on stage might be suffering more than me. So I can't allow that to happen. Yep, yeah, I was, you know, I was watching, you know, all those, bodybuilding pages on Instagram and I'd see the guys getting more shredded, more shredded. And I would just push myself harder and harder and harder. So I got lined up with Phil Viz in March and he coached me for the USA's. And he, he knew when to, you know, pull back and give me a cheat meal and push harder. So we kept him really close contact throughout the whole prep. You know, Phil did good. I, obviously, you and he had Henry in the super. Yeah, yeah, I was in great show for him. For our team. Now, you pretty much have stuck to, you know, local shows up until last year. We wanted these guys to just like, you didn't want to get onto the national stage until you're ready. Yeah, I spent a long time, you know, bodybuilding. I got on stage. I think the first time when I was about 24 when I was still working for ALRI. And then I was, you know, I was small back then. And then, you know, everybody got to start somewhere. And then I spent two years off and I did, uh, oh, eight, the board of states and I ended up winning the novice overall. And putting it up rich, Fiona actually won the overall and then, and that's where I met him. He was a few as cool guy. We were kind of chatting backstage. Just wait before he was a, you know, YouTube. Yeah. And then I ended up going to college after that and taking a little bit of time off. But I was still still nothing hard just when I would have exams and hard classes in college. I would, you know, stick stick to that instead of training. So my way, we kind of go like this. So it's definitely, you know, five, ten pounds a year, but not not too fast. And then when I got out, I decided I want to get a little more serious. So I spent about two years kind of just more living the harder lifestyle on body building. And then jumped on stage in 2016 and I ended up winning the overall at the, um, the count. Yeah, you know, I give you credit because you know what? A lot of guys, myself included. Once I got into it, I was obsessed. I never put it's not given 100% at that point. You took eight years off between competing in, in 08 to 2016. That's a long time for a body building who's passionate and who loves what he's doing. So I mean, that's very mature. Much more mature than most body bulls would be to put school first and really not worry about competing until you kind of done with that and ready to move on. Was that, was that a difficult decision on your part? Sorry, what was that? Was it difficult for you to like wait eight years between competing? I knew I would get back on stage and I just wanted to develop my body to the point where I knew I could win before, you know, I didn't feel like jumping on stage and maybe getting a second or third. I just wanted to be far and away, you know, higher quality athlete. But I always, you know, I always train hard when I was when I was in college and it just, you know, the time that it would be in right. So I wasn't, I wasn't in a rush. I'm saying it's very mature to do that. Most guys couldn't wait that long. Most guys want to get on stage and want to do it. They want to see how they look. They want to test themselves out. They want to constantly, you know, push as hard as they can. You kind of really took a mature attitude about it and it worked out for you, obviously. Well, I, um, I like competing, but I love training more. If I stopped competing right now, I would still still train and eat, you know, the same way that I do because I just enjoy it. I, I, I go off diet and I'll eat pizza and stuff for about three or four days and then I'll just be like, Oh, my body doesn't feel good. I'm ready to, ready to start cleaning it up and get back to it. Right. Well, you, you, you, you certainly showed off to the world that your game plan was a smart one and you almost walked away with the overall, but you got that IFB pro card. We're going to see you on stage in the open in Tampa this week. Hopefully you'll, you'll shock a lot of people. How do you, how do you think you'll do? Do you have any expectations on yourself? Uh, we, um, we game plan to definitely win the, uh, the USA's and we were looking at Tampa for our, our plan. And, uh, honestly, I would be really happy with the top 10 finish that'd be like, you know, at my first pro show and I'm just kind of, no expectations, uh, going to get feedback from the, uh, from the judges and then be able to take this next year and, you know, implement what they say. So it's kind of, uh, kind of a learning experience and, uh, just exciting overall. Congratulations Luke on the big win and, and enjoy it and, uh, good luck in Tampa. Ah, thank you very much Dave. I want to shout out my sponsors, uh, granted supplements and I'll, uh, I'll, there you go. That'll take us to the end of another episode of live with Brought to you by Species Nutrition, visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Pulumbo, we'll see you next time. Thanks, guys.

As we sit here at the last supper, we must take the Lord and take pause. Jesus, what's the matter? We let you down? He was betrayed by Jewish Anthony, Shalom and a good adage. No, with the magazine Jews. They want to put him on a cross. Shut up! This is serious. Jesus is upset. What are you crazy? Jesus, Jesus, Jesus! Jesus, are you angry? Why don't you try to roast the Lord? I don't know how to handle the disciples. Let's be the one. Shalom, Jewish. It's time for the heavy Lord of Shalom. Welcome back to After Outwards. I'm the full moon. I'm joined as always by my cohort prime, John Uemano. I'm just beautiful August 4th, 2020, afternoon and it's nice to have no whack packers with us, but they will be joining us later as always. The Alentino is back this week. I think Jimmy the Bulls back, full force. He remember last week he had a problem. He did. He had a problem connecting. No, last week he had the kidney stuff. I was at home to leave. That's right. He had two kidney stones that he won a passing. Unfortunately, he sent me a picture and I really kind of grossed me out. He went nuts in the hospital, evidently. He was tearing apart the emergency room and they were trying to talk them down. He was at the Veterans Hospital. He used to deal with people that sometimes lose their cool. He wouldn't let them put an IV in his arm and he was dehydrated. If you're dehydrated, passing a kidney stone is almost impossible. Absolutely impossible. They tried to talk some lodging and he must have just been out of his mind. He was a pain. He was very sick. He said it was very bad. He was walking around with his hearing and he was a patient and a trainer. He was blinding. He was like, my dad kidney stones. He was a couple times. Here's the guy who drank a teaspoon of water every three days. That's why he'd probably out of him. He never blamed that. Did he blame one of those companies that was given him free and he brought Tina some like that. He felt like they were not going to die. He would tell him if they were ready did, that's trying to blame the protein. It was like nature's way or one of those companies he used to do. They found too much cows. They'd be cowards. I don't know how to play cowards. I don't know how to play cowards. He was walking around with that trainer. It was a terrible... That's the bad. I don't know. From what I understand, and like I said, my friend Charlie Armstrong is probably the toughest guy I know. He said it's the worst pain he's ever experienced. I've had teeth drilled with no no bikini. It's not even close to that pain. That's a lot of pain. That's a lot of pain. Yeah, it is. That's a pain. What you take on this whole... I think something from Luke Sando's family posted on Instagram this past week saying that you know, trying to correct a commonly acknowledged cause of death. It was suicide. For my heart, it was suicide. Unfortunately, we lost a really good guy. Now they came out and they posted that it wasn't. It was a hard attack. It's kind of weird that it's like, so like, so many like, where does a couple of months later? When did Luke die? So why don't we couple months now? It's kind of weird that like, you know, the coming out of a sudden, I don't know. What should take on the whole thing? Usually I have a good read on these things. No. These detailed questions are the things that Tyler, the creator, should be looking up for. I just pulled them. Yeah, I just pulled them to post. Yeah. I'm probably the one telling the creators and this is flight from Minnesota. So I'm the Tyler. I'm the creator of the creator today. Hey, the creator. Okay. Then I take that back. So it's rather large and sparety, you know, hard to get. So it's a attack suicide. I mean, you know, at very conflicting, I know, nurse sources were extremely tight. So I was stupid at least. Yeah. I mean, you know, person that was there. So why the family would be doing that is probably a couple of reasons I could think of. I mean, obviously the most obvious is to say face, I suppose. I thought they wanted to make it like, you know, like almost like, give some suicide awareness. That sort of seemed like it was coming out right off the bat. I mean, which was great, you know. Yeah. I mean, you would think, I mean, suicide is a big cause of death in America. I mean, I mean, I think of veteran kills himself every 20 minutes in America, you know, it's bad. So I thought suicide awareness, depression by polar or whatever it would have been, you know, awareness would have been a very positive way for him to think for him to have left. But to now conflict that months later with this heart attack thing, it's kind of curious. And I just can't really understand why the family would do that. And is this supported by an autopsy report? I mean, do we have that? Is that the weird thing? That's the weird thing. The last thing they wrote on this post is please, we ask all of you to look after yourselves, the shitty even more relevant with the knowledge that we lost Luke to heart failure, not suicide. Now, let's, let's read into this a little bit because that's what we did, right? Why did he have heart failure? Or he was experiencing heart issues and maybe the doctors told him, hey, you really can't body-bulge. He was so depressed over that, that he killed himself. I mean, is that a possible scenario so that theoretically, you know, the heart, you know, the heart failure might have ultimately been the real reason, you know, that he, you know, that led to what transpired. But you know what I mean, they could have been both things going on at the same time as what I'm saying. Well, one causing the depression of the other, you know, because Luke admittedly was depressed. He was on flu at Abbey-Aldge show, you know, and they talked about the fact that he was, you know, seeking, you know, help and trying to get medication for his depression, but he couldn't get to the hospital because of the cold COVID thing. You know, they weren't seeing patients. And so is a possible one thing John led to the other? Well, certainly that's possible. The question then becomes the manner in which he created a cardiac event that was lethal. I mean, but all types he's going to show obviously isn't bodybuilder is going to show a certain amount of cardio on my opportunity. So maybe they could, maybe they could blame that. Maybe that's where that's coming from. Well, I'm just wondering, you know, what I'm saying is maybe he was in heart failure or maybe, you know, there's different levels of this. You know, if you have like congestive heart failure, it doesn't mean you're dying tomorrow. It just means your heart is on the strain and maybe being that big is not good for it. And what's in this is total speculation here. I'm just trying to figure out why this came out like this. You tell a bodybuilder in the midst of, you know, after placing third at the normal classic and the midst of this, you know, potentially becoming a Mr. Olympia, you can't do this anymore because your heart can't handle it. It's a depressing thought, depressing reality, you know, and for people who can't deal with maybe something that severe emotionally because they have to alter who they are and change you know, some people that's unacceptable to, I don't want to be alive, you know, they've, in their head they think that even though it's a worked way of thinking, but I can understand you take away, you know, everything that this person has become identity wise and maybe that isn't a reason you get suicidal, you know. Well, I think there's also exist a perfect storm of conditions that could have exacerbated some kind of the, you know, ideology suicidal ideology at the moment. I mean, you've got the COVID thing, the gyms are closed, the contest will be in canceling. So, you know, all this stuff was piling up and then he gets potentially speculatively gets the news that, you know, his heart condition is is requiring him to step away from competing altogether when he sees maybe there's light at the end of the tunnel and I got one more shot and then you get the will, the rug pulled out. Family, this is all speculation. Yeah, of course, we just want to try to figure out what happened to one of our brothers. Yeah, and you know, this is like a guy that I don't think I've ever heard anyone say a bad thing or bad. Oh, no, so I mean, this hurts the whole industry and we, you know, we want to know why and so the question then becomes is if the heart, if there was underlying heart condition, what did he do to facilitate his own death that you could attribute to his heart condition? Maybe we're talking about it. When over those here, we talked about, you know, cardiac strain, what could he have done? I'm not sure. That would have facilitated a cardiac event that would have chilled on enough to the degree that the family would say that his cause of death originally reported is not true. All right, now here's another part of the statement that I want you to analyze is because you're a good analyzer. They said Luke was an upcoming star expected by many to become Mr. Olympian the coming years, the body building industries and enormously successful and financially rewarding one. In other sports, it is a requirement that athletes maintain exceptional health and that the promoters, sponsors and organizers actively assist in this. However, we found have found no evidence of this. It has become immensely disappointing to come to the realization that Luke was perhaps a little more than a business opportunity. So who would they refering to do think in this respect? I mean, clearly they're referring to the federation is in the federation. If you're going to accept the analogy to other sports that those are people content with their players' health, which you really can make that as a valid comparator. And because we're talking about individual privateeers competing among other privateeers, this is not a team sport. Nas cars and panning attention to NAS car drivers' health, they're just expected to take care of themselves. Body building, because of its inherent dependency on chemicals and the knowledge of how to use them becomes a little more suspect when these things happen. But I can't imagine you can, in any way, shape or form, conflate Luke sand out of any kind of business arrangement that was going to profit the federation off of hearing back and not reward him. I don't see that happening. I don't think any Mr. Olympia would contest that that would contend that that's what happened to them. So I don't know what that's coming from. I think this is really unfortunate because Luke did kill himself. It behoots all of us to know why. And maybe it could prevent one of us from no or enable one of us who know somebody else and exhibiting the exact same stuff to go over somebody's house one night not going to dorm and say, you know, oh, you okay, man? Let's not an hour and a half of beer. You know, I think these things can be avoided if you know really really what I just see. I just can't see with what's been posted. How the family is now months later denouncing the suicide cause of death and inserting heart disease. But I think it's another damn thing they wrote on the original part of the post. Luke's unexpected death said shock waves throughout the body building fraternity. No official cause of death was released, which resulted in unfounded speculation in rumor. We can only assume this was the reason for the inaccurate post, according to know how Luke lost his life. Such post discussions and comments of course as additional and unnecessary suffering. So I mean, do you think that they just got the autopsy report back? I mean, is that what why you think this was posted now? And that's why why it's a thing listed it? Or I mean, I don't know, it's so hard to say, you know, and obviously only the family really knows. And I guess it's disrespectful, but it's at the same time he was a public figure and people just wanted to know and there was so many fans who just loved him. So everyone wants to just an answer. I'm sure as much as the family does. Well, plus he's one of us, you know, we all do the same thing. So if you're just tired of it, we need to know why, how would Luke, you know? I mean, that just part of the deal of being a mummess. You know, long time for them to release this statement too. I mean, I mean, when Dallas and MacArthur died, we had a cause of death, right? Like a week later, I think. Yeah, autopsy results take less than a week, usually in a couple of days. Unless the toxicology report, you know, pain there in, which might take another few days or a week, but this is months later. And that's just, I have no explanation for no one's calling me up and saying, hey, man, what happened? I'm speculating, purely on what's in front of me. You have it. You had a very much closer contact to someone close to him. And that's what they told you. So why now the question is going to be running around our whole industry? Why now, months later, is the family changing the story? Or at least, at least releasing the story. I really just releasing the story. You know, I'm not with the initial story, you know, because it was an accurate. I would have, I would have made a statement right away. I mean, right? You know, it could have given me the statement. I would have read it on the air. I mean, I'm done it for unfortunately for too many other, you know, bodypos that have passed their families of content. I mean, I still talk to Rich Piano's mom. I mean, older time. So it's, you know, it's sad, you know, but obviously this was, this was the anniversary of his birthday, I guess recently, it would have been 32, which is shame. And how come you know, a lot of celebrities join and both Hollywood and sports. A lot of people died 32, 33. You notice that? I think we are, it's like a kind of an eerie like age like that people do the blue sheet died at 33. I think, uh, farly died at 33. What do you think there is about, like, that 32, 33 age? I think it's like, you know, is it like people who live too hard and it kind of catches up to them? Derek Anthony was in that 31, 32, you know, your herds, every time. Yeah, more. I think it was 31. Yeah, I mean, pollution was doing speedballs in the fricking right here. That's different story, right? Exactly. I mean, yeah, that's living life a little hard. So yeah, it kind of seems like if you, well, you know, 30, 35 was the original lifespan of man back in the day. We could just say our natural life, you know, the ones who make it the 80, your bucket of system. So, um, you know, and I think it's one of those things my dad just said, tell me, look, if you make it to 30, you're probably going to make it to 50. If you make it to 50, you're probably going to make it to 60. And if you make it to 60, you're probably making it to 80. So, you know, you're making it to 80, and that's good. Oh, yeah, maybe I forgot a few months to go. But um, I don't know where you got that logic from, but it's it seems we worked for him, work for you're probably the statistics that are out there. I'm sure. I'm using this session. Now my dad, I mean, you know, well, how old was sell? 80, 48, 88, my dad, 84. So, you know, they made it, they won. A lot of guys do, you know, yeah, you know, the thing about, you got to look at it this way, about 280,000 people die a day in America. A lot of ads, a lot of them. So, you know, that's where bound to know a few of them here in there. I mean, and you think about it, that seems like an awfully big number, 280,000 people, maybe 180,000, but it's one of the two. Either way, a big number, okay? So, so you would think with the number being that big, it sort of gives perspective to how many people, 330 million are living in the country because if we lose an over 100,000, 200,000 a day, I don't know, did you hear of anybody dying in the last week? You know, I mean, I get to your answer, every saying, it's also means that the funeral of business is booming. Well, it's going to, it's, it's inevitable. I mean, you got to do something with people, whether or not, so, you know, it's a great business to get into because you're waiting for a business in the funeral of business. You can't go wrong with people. Well, yeah, well, I was here because the light is facilitating all that. That's exactly that. So, yeah, I don't know, man. Sometimes, sometimes people get, it's like these Joe Biden moments, you know, you like, you just forget everything around, you know, what the fuck am I doing? I don't know. On a better note, I'm like, I feel good note. I'm going to be actually, I actually get you to help interview this guy. I don't know. Did you see the guy who won the NPC men's open body building and classic physique overall in Tampa? No, did you see this guy? I did not. I thought you were a hunter hunter or a brother. Now, we'll talk about hunter in a second. We already did that. This is my more, this is way more impressive than hunter or brother. This guy. Oh, you guys, that's like Dean Tornevin. Yeah. He hacked his 4th or 5. He's front Puerto Rico. So, I don't know how well good his English is, but I'm going to get him I'm going to get him on an interview. And so, I think maybe I should get you just to taste. I get translate. Yeah, it's I'm saying in case like, I, you know, there's a lost in translation type thing. But he's awesome. This guy was told by doc. There's like John that he would never be able to walk that he should get a wheelchair, that he shouldn't work out because he got brutal bones. And he just said F U basically. Yeah. Yeah. He's got to be the most proportioned 4 foot 5 guy I've ever seen, right? I mean, he's teetering on a door right there. I mean, so he definitely has, you know, he has some kind of dysplasia, you know, syndrome. You can see it in his, in his quad. But he looks really good. I mean, he looks, I mean, like I say is I'll show you some of the shots on his Instagram. I mean, he's got really good symmetry. Look at this kid. I'd like to see a post down between him and Flavio back in. Yeah. He, I got used to your Flavio. It looks like Lou Ferrigno compared to this guy. Look at him. He has him with Angela Daymad teen. Look, they're on their knees. And they've almost begun. But he's right. Good. Look at his calves. He's got every double lethal. Yeah. He's just, Mike, Mike, Mike, Mike can sign him. Look at him. Look at that. You got to see why. Wait, but I shaved this picture of him next to to Brandon Curry. You're going to think Brandon Curry's check. He'll own you. Oh, you're so cool. Blackman would hang him off his rear rear mirror. Hello, with that picture with the brand. There's a picture. Oh, here it is. Here it is. Look at that. Brandon looks like she killed on you, right? It's bad. I would say, shack. So, 12. I mean, the, the fact that he's wearing a plaid suit also makes him look three times. Yeah. Yeah. Can you imagine shack was in that picture too? How fun. I think shack's footed might be big of an emperor. This guy is proportioned. Look at this. Look at this. Look at this. Look at this. He's very proportioned. Look at that. Look at that. He's waist. Yeah. He's got a good structure. He looks five, three there. Yeah. Yeah. John's like, it's at least five, three there. Look at this. Yeah. What? Blackman would definitely get my contract with his back in the day. Anyway, congratulations. I love to, I love to see feel good stories like that because you know what? There's not enough feel good stories out there. I think John stuck. We got him, uh, John is frozen there. Let's, let's see if we can get him back here. So look, you know, there's so much craziness in the world going on right now. But I am, yeah. You know, I told this like, I want to see good will stories coming out. I love to see the hunt of the broadest story which John I'll talk about with humans. I love to see this guy's story. You know, I hate to see terrible stuff come out, you know, because it's depressing enough what's going on in the world that we can't communicate with each other. But, you know, at least when we have stories like this, feel good stories. I mean, that makes it a little worth it. It makes it like, well, all right, you know what? It's that we're not so bad after all. We're, you know, we got some good stuff going on. The Olympia is still planned, you know, for the end of the, that's great. New York pros seems to be, you know, going to go off this year. Although, I think, like, I think you're becoming from Florida. You have to quarantine for 14 days. There's some crazy laws. The thing I feel bad about is that the international competitors can't come in. I think you're all, I was just saying how the, it's a shame that like international guys can't come and compete now because they can't get into the US. You know, there's all these quarantines and then they're strictly flights and everything like that. But oh, Logan's here. We're right. Come on, little camera. Come on, little camera. Here's my big boy. I don't do what are you doing? He's discovered face time. He knows face that he face times grandma all day long, even with his insane houses are very lucky. What's that video? Who's on a tape? Who's on what's up? What's he got there? He's got my old phone so it's like a clone of my phone, basically. So every time it rings he answers it now, there's Mr. G. Hey, what's up, guys? Get him. Who's this old guy here? He's broken Blundbell. It's the the boss. Logan. No, baby, Logan. Logan, shut the face time. Oh, oh, no. Hey, Logan, I hear you. Logan, you like where wills? He loves where wills. Can you give a house, Mr. G, do a where will? How? Yeah, do a where will foul. All right. It's a part. It's a part. It's a part where will. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Where are you? Where are you? Yeah, yeah. You mean here for a kid, over. All right, we're going to do it now. No wonder he's not answering us. Oh, no. Oh, you're, I do your where will. Oh, oh, oh, oh. What do you, I'm, how about you, you, I'm. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Hey, hey. He's at the aliens now. He sees this off of where will. It's on the aliens. He's all aliens are way better than where will. I don't know. He go real fair. No, no, no, no. I got to do a shout here. Take this. I got to put this on here. This is what happened here. Okay. Hey Dave, can we chaos? Just like life. Yep. Yeah. Okay. I want to miss you. You want Mr. G to see this? He said, all right. You want to show you his phone down. His self-stud. Yeah. Did you like Mr. G's cookies? You ate his cookies? Oh yeah. You had the the Oreo cookie ones? Yeah. I did. You did. He liked him. He said he liked him. Oh, he did. He'll go play grandma. Yeah. Mr. G, I got the cookies. They were great. Thank you. I got more. I got other things. The issue is it's so hot now. We do the ones that we, well, it's the most companies don't do a short. I mean, short. Any chocolate dip, there or anything now? Like, Bellymaw is this stuff? You can't get them during. Oh, he'll jump left. What happened? Yeah. He's wrapped up here. Like Bellymaw said they sell in the stores. You don't, yeah. During the summer, you can't get them. Well, the chocolate dip, like, does he? What does he have? I'm filling the Oreo filling you have in there. And the cookies. The Oreo filling is a, is a, a, grass fed butter. The carry gold butter, right? We use with, with powdered sugar. And the species vanilla way protein in there. I think it's too thick. I think you should make it thinner. I don't think you need to, I don't think you need to thick layer of it. Oh, that's pretty old. Yeah, I can make it as thin as thick as I want, you know. You actually use the, uh, protolize pudding. Protege in that. You want to be thicker. It'll be thicker. And you know, you probably won't need to put as much sugar in there. Either. Here he is. He's back. Hold on. You want me to put that in? Yeah, use the, try the protolize and with the, uh, for the filling for the Oreo, vanilla stuff in there. If it will happen, if I use that, if you use that, then, uh, the, the powdered sugar is, is, is real, has a lot of, uh, air volume to it. Yeah. And that's what gives it a vibe. If I use that, it's going to be, it's a bigger, but I think it's better than the wave isolate because I think you're going to get a, it's going to be thicker. And you don't have to use as much. I think it's, it's too much in there. You probably spending, Mr. G doesn't spare any expense making these cookies. But I bet they're pretty expensive because that's filling is there's a lot of that filling. I don't think you need as much. All right. I mean, look, I'm trying to make a high grade, uh, probably, it's a high grade. I got it. I mean, no, because I don't get it. The sample. So I have to get it. I have to get it. I mean, you know, what you're talking or how I could help and use my money. Can you call your, your people down there in Mexico and get a few guys to move up here to the side. They can for Mr. G. I could help them immensely, but you know, I'm really, highly, highly American citizens with their American citizens. And then they, then they work. It's not, no, not that it. Not the work. But it won't. That's what I was. I see him. That's what I'm so object. I don't have it. I'm comfortable with this of the situation here that he knows that he's not sending me any cookies. Ah, no. Now it's all right. John. John, I'll, I'll. No wait. Here you are. Here you are within issue. Okay. I have 50 years of culinary experience in my, in my Cache that you could have free access to anywhere you walk is your my brother. And, and, and, and, and, and, and you know, I could help you out here, but, you know, you're not, you're not sending me any cookies. Why don't I do what the fuck you're doing? Ah, you're doing it. It's a bit of a little hot. I was getting it. I'll say, I'll, the only reason why, because I'm not a student. Because I know they're on the racks, they're cooling. That's why you have a set. No, I get the, I have to, hold on. Hold on. I'm just feeling the other one is for you. All right, you, you, you fill his order. We held, held his breath. But while you send those orders, Mr. Dick. I'll send it to him. Before we lose Jimmy, because we always have him for like five minutes, I got to hit the story of it. Oh, we were in the rain. Come on, Jimmy. Let's go. One two three, ran. First of all, the first one is the first one. The candy stones are passed, correct? Yes. So what happened was, first of all, I want to thank everybody. Because you posted that on, yeah, I don't know, the media somehow. Right? So I was getting full close to my house, saying, I hope you're right. Texas, Jimmy, I'm like, wow, how does everybody know? I had fucking goodness stones, right? And I'm getting, I'm getting all my friends. I'm like, hey, so one, one, my friends, I said, you know, he said they posted it on the show. So then I was getting a lot of, you know, comments on your post. And I just want to, you know, I really want to thank everybody. Because I really, I was touched by all the people concerned about me in the hospital, you know, with the stones. So that was very nice. I have to say it touched my heart. We have very good. I got a shirt on there. It's coming to the mail. Okay. Coming to the, let me, I had no one. Yeah. You know, Jimmy, to bull on it and everything. You know, I got a stand up. I can't see it. You're too fast. Yeah. It says hit the gym muscle mobster dot com. Jimmy, the bull. Jimmy the bull. Yeah. Did you put it back? Get his brother, make that. Bobby, Bobby, Bobby, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've put some hats. I'm not a hat guy, but I got the hats coming, you know, I'll take the colors and black and, you know, on the, on the, on the, very nice. So it's all about, you know, muscle master and, you know, my trash, I hope things are going to come soon. It's gonna come soon. Now, you know, I had no idea what you should do. You day was not gonna send you a couple of shirts. Huh? Where? What was that? What idea? Where? No, we can't see you. We can hear you though. Jimmy. No, they're nice. They killed the shirts. They're nice, right? Do you hear me? Yeah, no idea what? I had no idea you went through the, you know, you could go in. I had to, I had to, I had to, I can't, we can hear everyone else can hear John fine. What's that? What's that? He was going through this game. I think he should. I mean, I hear it. See him, but I don't. Yeah, we can see it. Hold on. Let's get Greg's problems say settled. Jimmy, hold on one second. Hold on one second. Greg, you got to turn the little camera icon. We go through every single time. Yeah. You can never go. Where could go? Yeah. Something popped up in the screen, but it's not you. That's for sure. Looks like it's a circle. And so I'm, it's a cartoon of him and middle. Yeah. I don't fucking see this shit. I didn't even know. I got it. What about you, Grumpy All Men, we are? Yeah. Jimmy, what, Jimmy, what did you give him? You'll fall now. So, I can't hear you. Well, Greg's getting his camera going. Can you just, can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? Can you? I don't do it with him only or he should be only comes in. You know what? I'm not kidding. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to give you. Jimmy, I'm going to kick you out of the studio. You're like, I can't hit him. I'll kick him out. He's getting nice. We want to record. We want to send the recording of this to stream your own. Yeah. Let's just tell you fucked up system. Okay. We go through this every fucking week. It's a game that I can't. It's a game that I can't hear nothing. It's not us. It's got to be them. It's got to be the top. It's got to be the top. No, Greg is using 34-year-old technology. This is his girlfriend's phone, though. Okay. No, it's like laptop. We can't even want to phone. Do you have a webcam when you laptop? Yeah. I get a good webcam. It's the one I use all the time. What I'm going to do is this is what I'm going to do. Greg, I'm going to kick you out of here. And when you re-sign in, make sure you choose the right webcam. You actually have an option before you actually tell him. You probably picked the wrong webcam or you didn't pick any webcam. All right. We got rid of them. I'll come back. So, Mr. J. Can you turn your camera sideways, Mr. G.C. you like the rest of us? Thank you. Yeah, I mean, we got to be sure. I'm all about seeing you. I'm all about symmetry. Yes. Yeah, we had the storm yesterday. You got it today. On event pool. We had nothing on the west coast here. That was good. My pool is cool. It leaves, though. I got to clean that out. Oh, you don't have electricity? No, I meant the train station. She waited for me. I sure. Oh, he can't. What? You know, we're going to be used to tomorrow. Now you sound like you're in a tin can. Can you sit in here us now? I can't you. Only me. Jimmy. Jimmy. I should have shot. I'm going to shoot you. I got it. You have this beautiful came up. I see everybody. But only here. Turn the phone side. I'm shooting. Did you hear John say that to you? No, I saw him. Did you hear John say that to you? Why did you and Greg have problems with this? And there's even Mr. G. He can understand. Has no problem with this. I, you look. You gave me the. You gave me the app. I, I hit on the app. It came on beautifully. Had no problem. But it's the sounds messed up. I don't know. I don't know. I'm going to. I'm going to. I hear you. No problem. All right. Can you can you just talk? They don't have to. You don't have to hear them. We hit. Oh, let's get right in here. Can you. It's great. Good job. Hey, great. Have to show us. I've got to. We've looked in. All right. Here we go. Jimmy's going to tell the story now about what happened. What is, what is, uh, what is, uh, give us the whole story. Oh, that's what all story was. You know, I, I basically, I get these fucking things like every year. Dave, I don't understand. It's like I didn't know that. I didn't know that about you. Yeah, like the last four years. I don't understand it. You know, so every time I go. What's your question? Oh, now we lost it. But I'm a quarter. How much water do you drink a day? How much water do you drink a day? Well, I'm not really. Now he hears you. He hears you. He just gave it. He just gave it. He said, you like, couldn't you hear you before, right? Steve Blackburn would say it's not the water. It's, it's, it's vitamin C says the man who walks around with a strain or pee and he'll be fucking out. He's a blackman carries around a little strain. Well, just not. No, I mean, when he's got me, I hear you. I don't see you though. Yeah, you're, you're, what do you think? You're video feed. Really? Yeah, you video disappeared. It was kind of. You must be hit at what it's done. I don't think I'm now. I'll kick you out again. You come back, guys. I kicked you out again. Here we go. Where can I say something? Yes. Well, you can. I was in a, uh, C side height. George, I was going to call you, but I didn't have much time. I had to go in and go out. It's, I stopped at a gas station and if a guy named Mike at Speedway, I think it's called was like, oh, my God. Oh, he's, he was freaking out. He goes, I love you guys. I watched the after I was shown. Did you hear what Mr. J? And I said, no, I didn't have time because I only went down there. They, it did get my niece to come back. You know what I mean? I was with my girlfriend. And he said, oh, fuck. I watched that. Oh, I see after I was show. So Mike at Speedway in Tom's river. There you go. Mike. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He loves George. He's right up to New的时候 and generally make his meal a shredblo or a shred on our steamed meal, we just heard Greg. And we sell it from from from Star Trek, it's a great to teach yourHayrow Dragon game. Who are eminning, Geoff. Come back in. Hmm. Another personal partings. I'm telling you a big tape to stream yours, you got to do it. I don't think credit the problem. I never had problems. Normally, I get another Things Take to lets talk about. Listen, I'm in fucking Walmart down there and some fucking guy stands at the top of the aisle It's a second time. It's happening in middle of the aisle. Some guy stands at the top of the aisle And he goes, hey, make this an attorney look and he goes, you know is because I have I have a face mask, right? And it's a flag face mask. It's sometimes it's loose Sometimes my nose doesn't come all the way out like this, but it'll be like loose So it goes to me get your fucking mask on Wow, right and I said to what the fuck are you talking to bro? And it goes to me, you know nose is setting it out your mask and I said Listen, I don't have no coronavirus. I told him and he goes, yeah nobody's got coronavirus It's all hoaxed because you must be a fucking Trump supporter guy damn it Oh So I got pissed I'm like my girlfriend will tell you so I started fucking running in front You get all scared and you ran down in exile, right? I go and fuck in there. There's no black people and I'm like fuck Trump fuck the Democrats Not Trump. I said fuck Joe Biden. He's a fucking dead body. I fucking support Trump Fuck you you sort of flag mask get ill because that's all yet He had to balls because he sort of flag mask because you're all you have like American flag on your face Yeah, but what the fuck is he it's different because door comes up to you and she's excuse me sir You know you can you just put that up But I don't need no customer and we did it all nasty and like a coward. He waited till I was in the middle of the aisle And he's top of the eye So when you ran after what he do he ran away? I was like starting to snap you know what I mean? I was gonna start full fucking kids off the aisle It's all mad I mean shit. I was getting really mad my girlfriend calm me down But the people who are laughing because I could say Joe Joe Biden's a third body nobody's a fucking I was freaking because I didn't like that. I felt like I don't like a coward bro. I hate a coward Yeah, well that I'm surprised he said you were an in person He probably wanted you to put your feet and soon Yeah, but I was fucking He's at the top of the aisle. I was in the middle of the aisle But what dude you really changed you know he must have saw me going on the eyes You really say but just because the nausea was a kind of hanging a little bit like that People and that's that's the same person Greg that will you know during Nazi Germany would it turn you into the the gas shop Yeah, right that's the problem I would have turned the mint Two magic so lady on the news took a couple hot coffee and doing it guys face because you didn't have a mask on Yeah, it's all of it. It's all of it a fucking is this right I was in the 7 11 Greg same thing at the 7 11 I walked the 7 11 I was in the truck. I forgot the mask You know saying yeah Turn it around and walk on the back of the truck. I said oh fuck it. I'll just go buy a mask into the 7 11 Well, I'm there you know, I don't pick deal You open the door to count as right there to free feed away I go in there. I go to get the American come online behind this lady I don't know if I tell you the story Dave. I'm not so in the ladies she's got there, you know the the fucking Filta mask on the fucking of the gloves I'm not Yeah, yeah, they were up to here the fucking I'm standing a seven long gone. All right, you know, she's a little fucked up with the virus. I understand you know You know, you know, you know, I put your credit card or thing and she hits the fucking number like this She hits the number and then backs away like that Then he's back up so we're gonna backs away It's the number backs away and I'm looking at it. I'm going with the fuck is this lady though? I says man What's wrong, man? Look at you? She said no mask no gloves you're all over the place You're in the screen. I said you're taking it easy come down They got a man's behind me. I'm gonna fuck the mess you know mask it I should you know, I get the virus in three seconds lady as you ran I go around here to sign up like my coffee and I'm starting the burn up now because I can't think this fucking What the virus is doing to me look at the Over this fucking Oh Stop All right, so I make it a coffee on the other side of the counter and the fuck I also like just all losing it Right, I'm going to notice I make my coffee on the other you know this is it was like eight nine Guys in the store like union work is a shade So I turn around I go get all what this is bullshit. I think this mask is bullshit Oh, this whole thing is both I said you're all shit Every fuck nobody is looking at you Everybody just put their fucking head down Nobody would say what I was fucking losing it at the coffee machine We're laughing they were laughing I was black people crazy people in the store and I would do a laughing They they were like yeah, you know because I couldn't stop I was I snap bro, I Let's take the ball you don't find the dead body, nobody should vote for that man nobody would nobody was laughing Or when I was doing it I was fucking kidding It was coming out of my mouth. I was like so fucking agabell That was the beginning of the That's got me mental look I even got my motorcycle fucking count on top Now I know where to go find the team he brought the camera Everything kind of squeeze a word in here two things they send them some fiber lies because that fucking toilet paper that much Yeah Thing is my my motorcycle Jimmy held up my motorcycle my motorcycle that I'm stopped at a light Look To the park next to me there's a lady when a mask on she's in the car by herself Runger rolled up She's it's 300 degrees out She's got the mask on and the face shield That's a new it's done that the new thing they want to make you a god She's got the mask the face shield Yeah, when does the road up she's in the car buyer stuff her hands around his fear and will is a fucking cigarettes picking out Crazy This virus got people They are so scared These people are so fucking scared I refuse to wear that fucking mask I won't wear it anywhere Yeah, the hearing So The only place anybody said something was Walmart and you said you she said you got to have a mask I said I have a medical condition I can't wear one she was well, and we can make an appointment for you to come in before everybody I was like, oh no thank you, I'm right I'm good and I can't think you're going to work You're lucky in a court In yeah in New York, man you can't do it. They don't fucking it, but you can't even enter that building without a fucking The call of the cop you call the cops like You don't have to do it You're a medical doctor You say you don't have to worry about the cops in New York George the people attack you You know how to do it Yeah I know It's in New York I I tell me six feet six feet because I went around the corner and he went around the corner You know I got a face Go be here I hope people listen the fact that someone would say something like that to Jimmy or to Greg They don't look like wimpy guys like you know They look like tough bad ass like I wouldn't have the audacity if I was a regular guy to like just you start like Spouting out you know, you know, you know rules to you guys and putting you down I mean you could pull gun out and blow their fucking brains out. I mean people are crazy It's coming it's coming. I'm telling you somebody's gonna do something. Yep It's people today are taking it upon themselves You know why because you got people like made the blos you'll say and you know Snitches gets stitches will not in this case snitches get props, you know, I mean like it's on really is out there saying Yeah, oh, yeah It's not a germany again. I'm telling you what a party here. The call of cops on you mean while the blosio locked up all of Caronipations and the nursing homes This is how this is how people want to know how how did not he germany happen how did all these people Give up all the and it because that's what happens they become they come Braves Just look at what you go slow how that was the most recent look at you I saw that that woman who did that video Yeah, it was pretty interesting she basically said it was exactly the same they did create the same scenario and that's that's how they wound up in You know with all their issues there Exactly, you gotta have rats stone. That's how it works. There's always rats. Do you know that? Those fucking Nazi kids and all that shit. I know that I was a hitler you know and he tells you those Those kids were very washed those kids were fine work, but I'm talking about the people who who just decided People of rainwark these people of rainwark these people of rainwark they really believe that this virus is so Fucking it's like that's floating in the air You know that's what they believe it's floating in the air. I think it's I think it's floating in Jimmy's urinary tract. That's what happened Well now I know Toyle paper crisis Jimmy had to pee out the fucking coronavirus Jimmy tell the story about the hospital By the way guys, here's one of these This was the small one, too I don't know how we got it at it's a little sharp Jimmy tell us what you tell us Here's the other one. You only read the table of the two kidney stones he peed out Black ones with a little bigger than this one You'll be reading you can pat the whole that side just because you used to do that actually You can wet towel that's right where he's Tell him what that He used to hang out he's to hang a metal I'm having a major scotch taper it's paper a rack from his penis and try to lift it up What's that called shame way hey I was there I spotted I'm gonna be forced I wasn't gonna want to respond and then with that all right, so when did the pain start you my Jimmy when you're gonna Again, he can't hear us this guy can you hear me All right, I mean I can't Yeah, yeah, maybe Greg can travel I'm taking a man again. He and you know, I'm driving crazy every time I can't come out too This is gonna be texting me. I can't see you it's his phone it has nothing to do with with with with the stream here I guarantee it well Yeah, probably So Tell the story about when at the hospital when they tried to put the IV in them No, they're waiting for are we waiting for the story every time we you know he comes back He he he distracts you Just tell one two three go Jimmy yeah, right No, Greg is the only one He can only hear Greg so Greg what's what's going on with you in the throw everything good? Yeah, you know, I still have to go do all these checkups and everything so so far so good But I'm still healing I got scar tissue physically got two fingers down my throat all the time right I mean But you know You alternative is better I mean well, you'll turn wait you'll turn it as worse You know and so yeah, I call you back Tomorrow I become officially 60 years old so Oh, wow August fifth huh August fifth You're glad you have your birthday man. Wow. I don't really celebrate my birthday Yeah, it's let me do I do I but but when you can I am right behind your brother and October That's crazy. I can't believe both of you guys What was it you already 60 right and so is Jimmy the bull yeah, yeah, I'm 62 I'll be the young guy How how how old are you? 52 Oh Back What here we go one two three go tell them the kid destroy the kid he's done story Okay, yeah, I mean I'm in a middle of a tropical storm 80 mile an hour winds up I just tell the story don't don't delay looking away right now I a big bridge of a tree just flew by my window don't delay help the story Anybody right you saw some fucking broad on a broom Miss golf Do you know Can't stand this anyway When you text that Monday you said you bump the show up instead of two say right of all the fucking days I get up in a morning I got I got like a pain down in my lower tests this over here Right, but my penis right so I'm back or shit. I'm feeling the pain I go I'm out please lord. I hope I hope that him with that thick of his because I had so many of them ready I know what it is now. I see you know okay. So yeah, so I'm I You don't even know it all day if you know so anyway, you know as as the hours were passed a mile like 10 11 was getting really bad. I I had I call my friend Jake I said yo you got to come tell me to the fucking hospital I said I'm going to I'm going to be a pain. I was on my knees and the kitchen You know just The shower tried to shower to relieve the pain and everything and so he came over he threw me in a car I'm laying in the fucking car my feet all over the dashboard I was so good pain then he goes down to the beach drops me off and he's he's weights outside the bird's room Like I go in and I I start yelling at her Please, I'm in the extreme pain And when you got to check in so I see check in I says I can't even stay up on my fucking you mean check it That's my dad. That's my dad right there In the service here. Yeah, I want it. Yeah, it's the I like I'm it's fucking extreme pain, Dave So I got you guys coming go to the tree. I got a tree so I go in some fucking old guy All right, I got a sit down and chair and I'm all fucked up I'm fucking I'm in pain. I'm on a chair like this. I'm like I see us we all these questions and she had he was having been out of the country Like I said I just got a complete I said Because it's how we got the blood pressure and he goes oh my god I Right so then they had cool Jake because he was outside just you gotta calm your friend down And he's fucking his I think Country Like I'm fucking You're asking me if I was out of the state Are you kidding so finally they'll come out in the very cave into the fucking version I'm going to go in here. I'm all over the country. I got my feet up all right here I'm fucking all I'm all over the fucking dirty And I'm the fucking nice comes over she says come down It's just come down. It's a you can't be because we got to give you an IV I ain't getting what I mean I don't know why they Well, I think give it to you just the case. I don't need I need a catch-in I want to know what I'm on in it That's why I said I don't have a fucking IV I'm telling you I got a learned this game around it. I was like six-thirds right now just no spoke over to me And she's got I'm on the fucking gunney Dave like this, right? You have your mask on Jimmy no mask right? So I'm on the gunning the lady comes along and she stopped pressing on my stomach like this This is I'm I'm I looked at Jake because he was standing like I said this is hard I just let me because you see me I need it this I'm I can't even see straight and also finally I think they took your nasty It put me in the casket. I was squirming the guys tell me they still the casket I couldn't even stay still in the casket. I'm fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking I'm fucking ring I'm doing everything right so fine. What on Jimmy Jimmy Jimmy? What would you what would you like compare the pain to like what kind of pain would it be? Holy shrapnel. Okay, I'm burnt. It would it would feel like a somebody took one of those Roter-rooted things. Yeah, shove that up my ass and held it That's what I felt because you got a piss and shit constantly So real imagine you're you yeah because it's in it's in the lower and send me your dad's coming down the tube It's in the Tesla you've got a shit Pete same time. I'm constantly on the ball I couldn't even go to the bathroom anyway. I'd not the left You know, I'm out of here exactly So they give me back in here and I have to wait wait wait So the lady finally gave me some pain killers, you know or lay a token and I'm waiting nation Then they come back up with the fucking the results that the casket says yeah She says you you know you got it you got a kidney stone. I says well, that's good Because the one guy there knows he thought I would have a fucking heart attack This guy's having the heart of that was a male mercy. I said a heart attack I said the pays are my balls not my chest You see me bent on the whole and they shit like this walking around What the fuck the fuck the fuck the nut down here That's what you got to watch those fucking asses man. Go there. No, you know what's gonna happen So she can't back up to go down listen, now this is around. I don't know for me if the room She says you go home. She says to good news is that we'll see any more stones in there There's the last one. I said thank God. It's four years now. I get him over here Come she says it's possible she said three four centimeters whatever So I go home. I was in pain poppin pain killers Trigger be a drinking water fucking everything I could possibly try to flush this shit out I fucking had those I pain all night to fucking 12 One two to morning I'm sitting on a ball and try to poop by cutting it off as the pain so bad I mean my hands started swollen up. I said you know what I'm not even gonna make it true to fucking night I just know why I said I can't take the pay I was praying to God It's a boy, please stop this this is because I said eight this morning. It's two in the morning I can't I can't hell in the more I can't you know So finally six seven in a morning I get up and I'm like I don't feel the pain I'm like holy shit. Okay, maybe it's the painkiller maybe it ain't I don't know let me go piss You know so I get on the fucking toilet I piss and then I feel I think come out of that shoot like a fucking like a you know You know, come right here I was like oh Shit and I look at the toilet and there it is this fucking stone I said it about the I thought you passed to them now. I thought you passed to me. Oh, and I was one that was one big one Dave I had a I went to toilet I took it out and I put it on a counter It's split and yeah, I had to get it out because they didn't feel the V8 So the only way to get it. I was not gonna stick my hand in it So I said it to my doctor. Did you put a glove on at least? No, I just went right away That's Three here from black me I was gonna send one to blackman to one to you. So anyway I said it's a trainer in his bag you could have handed you the strainer Actually, you would have held it for you. You know this one you could one you put that thing on the Put it in the store and he back I bet he still I bet he sells it. Yeah, but someone in the fanzel by it Well somebody on buy it. No, anyway I when I left the V8 John they give you a stack of papers like this You know, and then they give you those fucking paint cups, you know with the screen looks like a you know We just clean paint or whatever Suppose to piss you that I could you piss to that I'm on the fucking ball and we fucking five minutes Sorry, I took out the V8. I true right in the fucking garbage man talk Thank God I said it might so I said the picture of my doc. I said it to you two day So I said it to me now My doctor goes Jimmy if you could pay a stat you could pass anything don't worry Yeah, I was gonna say most people probably what I needed surgery to pass that it's going Printed their picture out and now he hasn't on a wall on a frame Yeah, when people come home and have to think it's a meteorite from space I said it man He gets them all the time too when I said him a picture and he was like how to hell that you passed that Because he gets more like little like little ones. I could grain a suit a little bigger God I thought the stone I got those stones were big when I saw them now I am when I hear that that was two stones were one stone. I'm hard To my dick her tear in that It was almost the size of an eraser head a little bullet an eraser now when you pass when you pass a stone like that Jimmy, are you instantly out of pain? Is it like all of a sudden now you feel great? Dave like just instant fucking relief You know There's any a dick hurt from that thing going through there with all the Manges I'll tell you what hurts John. It's not the penis Because you know I blew so many loads of my life. I got a nice canal Yeah, it's just I got a nice you know I got a nice such canal. So anyway, where it hurts is when it comes down the the uterus You know into the lower I don't think you have the uterus I know Like having a fucking baby what's the difference? So the year What is it called? ETR No, I think it's a year later is there was the real pain It comes out of the kidney into the urnir and then it goes into the urnir Then it goes out Yeah, maybe it may be it is the urethra but it's probably the part that you know the the small part You know Right, where is the pain occurring is the pain occurring in your rearthra or in the urnir Well the urnir Like you said it's after the urnir blatter is the stone in your bladder or was the stone in your kidney the kid The guests the the first two which is what it does your ever your ear You're gonna comes down out and then it goes into the bladder and you got like a little release for pain at that moment because it's in the bladder And then it comes down that second you know Yeah, that's so that the it's not the bladder that it went at her it's or in the kidney It's when it's coming down that pipeline. That's the husband has a feeling you are it What's this like down like almost ready to come out? You know, you don't really feel it you know, I mean like it's when it's right ready to shoot out. It's only coming down that pipe. It's a it's a son of a bit man And so so you're so my answer your the answer to your question is no my penis thing so the the pipe is sore from it scraping its way through that there You know, I never I never did so I just but I'll be sore for a couple days. You could feel like in the kidney area, you know, you could feel like you're sore because it you know, it's just supposed to have a A meteorite traveling through you're fucking reading it. I mean, so it was this bad man is for you. You're so Hey, guys, so people get there's the right so as your your physiology so the top part of your kidneys You see it goes from the kidneys those that long tube as your your reader down into your your bladder and they goes out of your your reach. There you are exactly I'm fixing my dick right now. Just hearing you So day, what did you make it? Well, you know, you probably probably eating hot dogs doesn't help. I'm sure right. No, they they told me it's calcium deposits, but I don't drink water, you know, so the nurse you know when I was leaving the the emergency was she said, I think some James you have the At least three bottles of day at least minimum. She says, you know, what are you going to be games James James. What's your call your James. Yeah Well, that's my that's my birthday. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. Anybody ever in my life call you James. I know I know I don't know if you're much I have a couple friends that call me James. Yeah, yeah, and Yeah, my ask your officers show call me. He's a better diver. Oh, it's not stuff that's a great diagram. What I didn't know that Jimmy you you Jimmy the books. Whoever know you was. I know yeah, well, it's you know, my my that's what my birthday was James. I'm right up until my father started losing consciousness. He always would have you know, always would ask me, how's your friend to bull. What was one of the hot of. I never knew he never knew he likes but they give me a name there is that that's a better picture. Oh, not to better picture guys. So yeah, he's up there and then you can see the your your owner here, which is usually where the stones occur, but then they can also occur outside of the bladder when you're going through the whole system. You might have had the ones you're there for the year or something like that. Well, no, it was in the kidney because they were had to work as we took the cask in a sort and that too. Right. So it was in there. Yeah, so the thing is that the fuck the thing is if you don't you know if it's too big and it gets caught in that too. You're in serious trouble. Who happens to the urine starts to the back up and then might be right kidney was already swollen. They told me it was swollen already. Just from that stone, but I didn't have the urine blockage, but that can happen and that's that's dangerous. No, what are they doing? They can be going that big. He used the old I think black man had it done right the ultrasound. They would be break it up with weight with sound waves. And my only one that could still see get fucking kidney. Yeah, so they break it up all like the the last time I had it when I was standing in the hallway dying in the fucking pain. The male nurse came over to me and he said that you know we got to take them down for a CAT scan. They wheel me down the wheelchair because I was all over the fucking place. And then when they came back up and they finally got the results, I was standing still standing in the hallway because they didn't go into the virtual room inside the room. And then comes over to me goes James, I got some some news. I said yeah, what's up please? I'm fucking a lot of pain, you know. Because you don't know could be in appendix, you don't you don't know. You don't know. So you have to you have to get a check. So I'm standing there and I go what's up man. Just just spit it out. What the fuck what? Tell me. He's here. Well, it's a kidney star and it's okay. Good. He goes, but it's a little big. He goes, you might have to go in and get it. I said, what do you fucking mean going in get it? I'm thinking ultrasound. He goes, I don't know if he was gay or what? I got he goes, no, we gotta go inside the penis. Oh, I said this, the fuck the way on this green out. Now you're going up my penis to get that fucking stone. I said you better do that. To get that, I don't know if you've cut me open. I don't even, you ain't the fucking stick and net it up my cock. But the fucker, I said get the fuck out of my face right now with that fucking shit. I also had the nurse came on up. She's like, take it easy, Jen. She's in look. He says, no, it's as if it was man. I said, what is my fucking shit? It's gonna go like penis on. Just don't know. No, no, she said you could pass it. Holy shit. I think I know what? You know what, Jimmy? That nurse must have heard about, he must have heard about the towel exercise. Yeah. I'm gonna ask you to suck it out for you, Jimmy. No, no, no. No, John, I tried that exercise, did it today, man. We're right down the towel and right down. You're weak. I got a little washcloth on you. I got a little washcloth. Hey, John, it's so bad. That's fine. You believe me? You believe me? It's been no time. Yeah. I'm taking on a good now, thank God, man. I said, you know, that's fine. That's fine. And I want to thank you two day for, you know, text him. No, yeah, I was worried about you, man. I don't want to see anyone in pain, man. Right. You know, no. I'm afraid he would get a little bad. That was nice. You know, my friend John, he was scared. She didn't know what to do for me. He's the one who texted me. John texted me and said, Jimmy's losing his mind in the emergency room. I'm like, what does he do to me emergency room? He's got a kidney stone. I love his wet hair and even his hair. He doesn't want<|cy|>'s. You know what? Jordan Mason said, Viva �henneyas has frozen his hand. You got no Helena Crow. These berries. Black-proud. Even Nick Neaver. Excuse me. Why mahdoll wants to come, wrong? Okay. I don't think I'll be arresting you again. Nor will I be casted in our depots. The No One can come here. Get to my boss, because you lost it. Okay. Why do you need another job to do that? Look, I'm just hoping, you know, don't get into prison there. They've got it. I'm definitely not caught in forgiven books. one of your kids had to have even the most simplest thing. I don't care. That's just they won't let you or your wife sit there and you got little kids. And when I'm there or dad there forget it. My wife will be in there with her. Trust me if they can't grab. They might take me. I'm gonna take her out. I can't hear the word. No way. No, but you know what I mean? The crazy like. Like if Jimmy was a state of knock Jimmy out, he doesn't have anybody there. Right. He needs water, put a pillow under. He'd be buying something. It's really bad now. Which for the people in the hospital is probably way worse not to have someone there with Jimmy because he'd be way easier to handle with someone there. I wouldn't want to be a staff member with him dealing Jimmy alone. Well, that's why he went out and got John and he was outside the version. You know, he was supposed to call in there. They're like we got to break the law because we got to break the rules because we can't handle the fucking guy. He's got a tear-puff. I think I got to go get we got to get his friend to the hole because he's not fucking he's not you know, I wasn't performing the nothing. I was all alone to place all of our true to fucking. Can you imagine this was 20 years ago, John? What if Jimmy was. Oh my god. Like 14 adagirls a day. You know, he would have brainwashed him. He would have been like incredible. He would have been like incredible. He would be watching him just start to talk to the fucking rock with a shot out like a bullet. Yeah, I don't know. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. Get out of your own. My joke buddy was actually. Jimmy, Jimmy would have shot that. That the kid needs to know like like someone's shooting a pelin gun and so on. Yeah. I'm the one. I'm the one who would have a right you to fucking shoot rock. I'm the one who's gonna hit the guy. It's the guy in the car. Yeah. We're back to Mark's. Can you imagine who was Georgia and Bobby was trying to keep Bobby at it in the hospital? Oh my god. He should have got a white coat on. I'll fix this myself. Yeah, he's sneaking. He's sneaking. All right. So before we go, Mr. G, what's the latest the latest the latest and greatest flavor from the jumbo like cookies that people can buy? With the Oreo Oreo cream Oreo cream. I have them. They're delicious. My kids would devour him. They're a little crumbly but they taste unbelievable. So good job. I wouldn't know. You guys will get them. All right. John, I'm getting them. I'm going to make them today. Mr. Potts protein.net and Jimmy, one of your straps coming out. Soon. I'll keep you updated on the whole thing. I got the straps. I got new wraps, elbow wraps. I'm going to do the whole thing. And where are those going to be available? You're going to have a website. Well, they're going to do that little commercial is going to be on the whole X. And then I'm going to have the website. Yeah. I'm going to have the website. I'm going to have an instructional video. How to use the straps. You actually got the URL muscle mods to.com. Yeah, we bought it. So good job. I have straps. But you made right now with your name on it. It's going to say, jump a pull-up. I love it. It's going to fit your wrist. Yeah. You're going to be going to be awesome. I'm going to do it all the way. I'm going to put it down. Well, you might have to have a line at the top now. Not everyone wants Jimmy the boast straps. They want to jump a pull-up strap. So you should sell both. Yeah. I'm going to have that. I'm going to have a rambling freakbo strap too. Yeah. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I got the guy to do it at the resources. We've had the Ramonov strap and all that. All right. And Greg, what's going on with you now? Anything that we should be updated on? No, same shit. You know, doing a shit with game-faced. Did everyone's promoting me with that trope experiment? But I got to tell you guys, Jimmy, Guy, and George, all of us guys, is a guy from Speedway, Mike, in Tom's River. Okay. George, if you ever went up there, it's on 37 past, right past Howard Johnson's, you know. I'm going to go there right now. Go there now. And I'm going to look what I got my hand. I got a lot of people coming here. Yeah, I got a lot of my book. Yes, I've been brought in with Big Jumbo. There you go. Load him up with 100 cookies. He's a great dude. He's crazy about you. He asked me about you. Jimmy, Dave, he said he's never missed an R.H. show. That's really hard. Probably sell Mr. G's stuff now. I'm sure he will. He loves you. He loves you. Mike, his name is Mike from Speedway. Okay. Mike's in his own place. Or does he just pump gas? No, he would just work there. But I'm telling you, he's freaking out. Like, don't fucking wait. You know, maybe you can get a something. You guys down there. Yeah. That's the last Monday when you called me. I was down there. John, when's the next lifestyle show with you in Gasparia? Fitness fame in fortune in Gasparia. What is that show next one? We just put up our legal brada. We got a little part of play. And then at the end of the week, we're going to post just rich in me talking about the evolution and the industry and the salt. That is, how does the Lee feel about the fact that Hunter is now a bona fide pro who won his first pro show, just like Lee did. We actually talk about that in the episode. Lee gave his son some great advice in his son took it. And things have played out rather well. I mean, I think you looked pretty amazing. But they see like the fact that he's a bodybuilder. I see discouraging or encouraging it. I asked him exactly that question. And you'll have to listen to the show. Hey, what about you? Would you want your son to be a bodybuilder? No. But if that's what he wanted to do, then I would certainly make sure that he did it the right way. Absolutely. I wouldn't encourage him to do it. But like if he said that, that's what I want to be. I want to be a pro bodybuilder. I want to do this. And if he says to me, I'm going to give it 100% then I'm going to definitely help him, obviously. I'm not going to let him stand. What you backed that up, but what you say you're going to do is. He probably will do everything in her power to discourage him from doing that. But at the end of the day, kids do what they want. So if he's in the gym and I have a gym in my house and he's trained like a maniac and he's eaten because that's what he loves to do. How do you tell kid no he can't do that? No, but all the chemicals in shit that the guys take. I mean, initially it doesn't start like that. I think I remember interviewing Lee and what Lee said to me was, I don't get involved in that part of it. So he doesn't even want to know from that. He knows obviously that Hunter's using, you know, gear. But he doesn't, that's not his stick. That's he helps him with it. I don't know who is his trainer, John, you know. I know he trains with another guy. I don't think he's got a guru. Oh, he doesn't have a guru doing this. That's course Lee doesn't want to be responsible for that stuff. That's right. Well, you know, he's the parry. He doesn't want to get involved with it. No, I like to leave it. I can find it hard to believe your father's. You're such a good a bit. No, that's the only IFBB pro father son pro do a. If you want, if you're well in a live because sir, you're junior. Right. I'm not sure you know, that's just, start your, you're not a wife. Sir, he is dead. Yeah. So a living father son, IFBB pro family, the only one in existence. Okay, what Dave, I got you got the eye. I know what I think. Right. What do you take? Who's, I know he's still young and he's not fully developed. He's totally different kind of build in his father. I think his father goes down as one of the greatest body. Because who would you, they would wouldn't in a contest as, you know, young. I think he's, I think he's potentially better than this father, because he's taller and he's bigger. And I think he actually has a, and a reward. You're, I think he's remarkably similar to his father. Very, very much like him on stage. Yeah, he looks like, I think he looks more like Rich Gospari than. Give me, you know what, you look pretty young. When I was with the brother was at my house for three days down in 1987, just 88 before the, 88, Mr. Olympia. Right. And he was Robin. And I remember, and now for the, I love Leo Barnes, a great guy. And he taught me a lot of shit mentally. But I remember he was peeling the fucking, his two weeks before the Olympia. And he was peeling like fucking hard-billed eggs in eat. And then he was kind of bitching about it. And his wife was like, listen, if you're going to, this is what you chose to do. You know, I don't, you know, I go, I kind of don't want to hear it. You don't want to do it, don't do it. You know, because everybody else is over there. We can go the deals and get it. You know, and I took his whole family out to dinner. So it's whole family. Right. It's fed the top, I have to be pros of the 80s and 90s. And it's now. Well, I mean, I mean, it shows that I, Leo, I got pictures right here on the other side. Yeah, you got the, the old program probably. I think it's been five years. My mother used to make Lee Haney spaghetti and meatballs when he stayed here. I think he had Eugene Sandow in his house for dinner. Oh, thanks. Give it back. Yeah. My role of crowed and over it. It's Steve Rezos is like a trading bar. Back in the 60s. He was born in Greg's bathtub. No, that I just find it. It's just fine. It's only house. It was the only house in that warm water. And they're pretty expensive. And it's a TV and a black away TV. My son. All right, guys. Thank you for those great stories. Jimmy I've played. You feel better and, you know, you know, tonight. No more drinking up drinking three bottles of water every day. Please. And have that be less than ever as you drink three bowls. Are you going to wind up with like Jimmy and an emergency room with tini stones on day, pull them up. I'm going to make them. I want to meet him next week and bring him a cool. With filled with a cool gift. Cool, with Gary, I don't know what you're talking about. You're making a set of questions, exactly. You should make a kidney stone cookie. I was a young one. Yeah, the anti kidney stone cookie. Prevents kidney. Put it on a top, mix it up. Yes. Oh, yeah, make your right. Make chocolate chip. I don't know what it's like. It's like, yeah, it's that. It's like a hot froth. I put it on a golden Anthony's cake. It's a golden Anthony's cake. I think it's a global congenre, my homestoggy. Reg valentino and the buyer both came in the bowl. We'll see you next time. Thank you.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Nooo! Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday, September 24th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Back in the 70s, the Rolling Stones released a song called Time Wates for no one. On there, it's only rock and roll album, which is still a classic just for the record. But now, almost five decades after the original release date of that track, we have athletes like Dexter Jackson and Mike Tyson turning back the clock well into their 50s, which we saw up close and personal when these two legends linked up last weekend. Both Dexter and Mike were out in California teaming up with the recently retired Brad Rowe, who's out there working as a match to help these two get ready for their big events later in the air. For athletes who've been at the absolute apex of their sports, the way Dexter and Tyson have to still be doing it at such a high level, this deep into their careers, makes you realize how truly special and gifted these guys are. So we should all enjoy it while it lasts. Because at some point, the ride will come to an end, but when it does, it will be on their own terms. I know people say there's a fine line between reasons and excuses, but when you see someone who's overcome as much as Flex Wheeler has in his life, and career, it makes you realize that excuses and reasons don't matter. They're both just explanations for how we deal with our problems, and Flex has always been the type of person who faced his head on. On Monday there was a clip circulating of Flex, killing the battle ropes during a cardio session. Where it looked like he was pouring everything he had into that 30 second burst. The same way he did back in the day when he was competing for Olympic titles. There's no reason. No excuse, just work. He shows up and gets the job done. Because that's the only way he knows how to do it. So if there's one lesson to be learned here, I think that's it. Show up and get the job done because that's the only thing that really matters. Do you remember a few weeks ago when we did a segment on Nick Walker right after we won the overall to North American Championships? On that show, we said we thought he was good enough to step in right now and make an impact at the pro level, and apparently Nick and his team thinks so too. This week they went on the record to announce that Nick is planning to compete at the Chicago Pro, which is scheduled to take place just over four weeks from now. And looking at progress photos, Nick's camp released. One thing that immediately jumps out as how he's managed to fill out and get more separated since his big win a few weeks ago. So far, it seems like the Chicago Pro lineup will have a solid group of athletes all vying for one of the last few Olympic qualifications. But I see Nick competing in this show as playing with House Money. He has nothing to lose in everything to gain. So if the cards end up being dealt in his favor, who's to say that he doesn't secure a top three spot and potentially push for a last-minute qualification. I won't turn this into a ran, but it does drive me crazy when I hear people talk about equality and fairness and sports. There's no such thing as fair. Level playing fields don't exist because some people just flat out built differently. Larry Wheels is a perfect example. A few days ago, I saw a video of Larry doing incline dumbbell presses with 484 pound dumbbells. For reps, let me repeat that. He did three reps with 484 pound dumbbells in each hand, which means that he just did a dumbbell press for reps with weights that's probably more than a lot of people's max squat. That should be impossible. And all intents and purposes, it is impossible unless you're Larry. Now, is that fair? Nope. Probably not. But everything in life and sports isn't supposed to be fair. That's just the way it goes. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the A.P.Lumbo Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Welcome back to Iron Rage. This week we got a special show for you. I got of course, Lee Priz here with us, but we also have another crazy Aussie here with us. Take a lot of this. Welcome to the show. And you got your ears because we got you out of it. I'm going to talk about it. Yeah, awesome. Thanks for having me on the show. Can I say that's the first time I made Bright Dave, I've heard you pronounce it. Last year you pronounced it. This year you've pronounced it wrong. Made me sound like some kind of undiscovered dinosaur. I heard him say it 20 times, you've got a show start and just they get it right. All you great guys, you always shorten your names too. It's usually like Jake Nico or something like that. You know, you'll be... Yeah, maybe I should change it to Jake Nico. I heard last time that you said it, Lee actually corrected you and he said, no, Nico Lopolis and you go, yeah, yeah, Nico Lopolis. You can't actually keep on you. I was taking this Lopago silence in my head, you know, like a tortoise is on the mind, you know. Go towards the tortoise. Great. Well, thank you for joining us today. Lee, you know, you seem to be the hot commodity lately. Your people are putting you in documentaries. How did the Jake documentary come about? Does anyone know how it all started? Yeah, so I can answer that. So Lee and I, oh, Jesus. The whole documentary came on after I won the Arnold Basic here in Australia when I got my pro card in 2019. Great. The guys behind the documentary, I don't know if you're familiar with them. I think you know Gary Phillips. Yes. So Gary Phillips has his own company, muscle vision and he's done the Chris Columbia documentary. He's also done the, yeah, the Flex Wheel of Documentary and he's working on Lee's documentaries as well. From I. Am I allowed to drop that? Yeah, but it's kind of, they want to all the world Jake being Lee's documentary. That's the question. Yeah, we're filming for that in like a fortnight. Oh, good. Yeah. So he worked with another filmmaker, Darren Petty, Darren Petty films on from I documentary. And it was after the 2019 they both know me as well. Gary's known me since I was like 17 years old. The first competition I ever did. He photographed me at his, at his house. Nothing, kinky, Lee. Just living here without there. Just a normal photo. Yeah. I've got to say all these things. No, you know, my sister Lee is. My sister Lee is. My sister Lee. You didn't, you didn't tie your penis to like a coffee table or anything like that. No, I posed in drugs around. No penis tied up for anything. There was no, not since my penis, everything was just normal. No, normal photoshoot. Boring. Boring in les, in les books. That's a boring. You guys are shooting. Why are doing lines of cocaine? Tie your genitalia to moving cars or anything like that. Just put on a, join a premise. Join through my documentary here. It only goes to doing it. Mike and a fucking drug addict. Just, I thought, just put all the charges to the documentary. Just because I take my creatine different to you, Dave. That's a nice cocaine. Yeah. So, yeah, no, I'm Gary for a long time. He's known me since I was a kid. And after the, and Darren as well, he competed with the never when I did and we traveled together to Germany in 2008. I think so there's a bit of history with both of them. And then, yeah, after the show, they approached me and said, hey, we think it'd be a really cool idea to do a documentary. And the first thing that kind of went into my head is who the fuck's going to want to watch a documentary on someone that hasn't achieved anything. As an IFPV pro yet. But once they kind of explained to me what the purpose of the documentary was, it was more just a story telling of, you know, as a kid, where I came from, all the childhood stuff and actually getting the pro cut. So it wasn't so much as, hey, look at this guy, how much is the chief as an IFPV pro. So I haven't even done a fucking show yet as an IFPV pro because everything's been done. Yeah, since COVID. But that was pretty much the approach with the idea, then Dave, they said, I have about we tell the story and interview all the people that have played a part in your journey with Lee Priest, Samline 80s. It was a never champion family members, friends, all, all everyone that kind of had some kind of input into where I am now. And then especially lead, that's the whole, you know, raising one. So I fucked up. That lead. My glad to help. Why did you agree to do that? Well, the why did you participate in this whole thing? The documentary of what I'm saying. Right. Well, well, Graham Lange, feel the use to run the neighbor back then. He approached me, said about this young kid, Jake and I occasionally help people then, like, sometimes you help people and they don't listen, they do this and do that. And Graham was on me for a while, and I was very dedicated to this. That's I said, OK, I'll help him. So that's when Jake was getting ready for the world. So he went over there in one of the worlds. But yeah, I just, you know, we started helping me. I reckon you started helping me in 2011, I reckon. Right. Was it? Yeah, because I remember that I, I, you, I guess, you did see a few thousand in ten. You guess, post, had Graham show and I meet you backstage and you didn't give a fuck about who I was. And I was going to see, these advice would consist of, like, don't be a pussy just fucking or train. What do you mean tell me? Yeah, I think you were telling me that's how it was. I think you're exactly. I think they have not one of those fucking generic sign features day. I've got it on the wall here just says two Jake dreams come true, train hard. And by the way, he's got 400 of those in his house, like preprinted just gives him out to the people. OK, I think I'm, thank you, everyone. The doctor mentioned you talk about when you get ready for the show and I'm not most helping him. Please, that's what makes me just stamp it, like, please. Jake would send me a message like, hey, Lee, this and that, not feeling too good. And I'll point it just in back and message suck it up. Yeah. 100%. That's what you always did. It was actually hard to, to make it happen today because he didn't want anything to do with me. Really, I remember I sent him a couple of messages at start and he didn't want to know about it. And I literally said to him, because he was in Newcastle. I mean Melbourne. It's about, I don't know, an hour or so, right away. And I remember I pretty much forced myself and I said, hey, I'm going to fly to Newcastle. I'm going to put myself up in a combination. What gym do you train at? Like, what area should I train in? And Lee gave me the, um, told me like, what area to say. I said, we'll gym, Queensland. And no shit. I think we trained to get it, um, like two times. And I could tell that Lee thought that I was just going to be like, any other young bodybuilder just thought it was all about fucking drugs. And, you know, he was no use helping me because I already just didn't want to be able to do that. And I wanted to know about the hard training or the dieting and waking up to all cardio. But as much as Lee doesn't want to admit it, I think that you actually put up an Instagram, a Facebook post the second day after we trained together. And you were like, so refreshing, you know, these young guys. Yeah. And I, you didn't say it was about me because you're, that's just you. You don't fucking get credit to anybody. But I knew that it was a, well, that's a bad thing. That's about me. I hope that it was about me. Yeah, I rang everyone. I rang everybody. I was back. I was back. I actually asked Lee to see it. I said, was that about Jackie goes, no, it's too bad another guy. But I'll let him believe it was about him. That's about my mum. That's about my mum. And literally, I think about two days after me staying in the hotel, Lee was like, all right, he goes, just move all your stuff into my place. So then I ended up moved in with Lee and stayed with him. And we just trained every day and we hung out every day. So I think Lee finally after a couple of days worked out that I wasn't one of those typical fuck-wit bodybuilders. Who gave me down? He broke me down. He broke me down. Jake's got a, I got to give credit to Jake. Who screwed up who more did Lee, did you get more fucked up by hanging out with Jake? Did Jake get more fucked up by hanging out with you? How did he like that? How did I get him? How did I get him? How did I get him? How did I get him? How did I get my money back from the bills for more of therapy since I met Lee? Like, fuck it, how? I'm the one that's in trouble. I'm working on the competition. Now, most of the time I got fucked up, he's in the fucking long sleep straight check-up. Kevin, you've seen the videos Jake posted of us dressed up as Ben, members in his house and Reppin is made and clean, Reppin put him in the cupboard with a kitchen knife for when he's murdered. I've got to do this. They were all Lee's ideas and we didn't even take drugs. That's a scary place. So many people like, oh, you guys rock, you know, that's just this brain. I'm nothing, I'm arjunous. Yeah, we were sitting in the kitchen and Lee was just like, oh, what's in the garage? I'm like, what do you mean? He's like, oh, if he got, what kind of clothes or what gear have you got in the garage? And I'm like, oh, Dad's got like, oh, he's motorcyclical, I have fed him. We've got some weeds and things like that. And Lee's like, oh, let's go. Lee, we're just trying on all these things. That's right. Before the show, Lee was put in on his wear wolf mask, because my kid likes wear wolf, and my son came with his wear wolf mask. Oh, really? Lee, yeah. Well, yeah, Lee knows that. He's connected with the youth of our nation. For rock, yeah. I love Jake. Love Dr. Sine. Jake and Cynthia, those videos, Dave, after the show, they might be able to add them to show you because, oh, they do, he's. Oh, everything, every single thing that we did was a fucking laugh. I've never laughed so much. Even just going to the supermarket, if he's at with Lee, everything was just hilarious. But when I was on prep leading, you know, fuck, like we would go to the movies. I'd be eating like chicken out of the container with lettuce, and Lee would be getting chopped up ice cream on the ground, like, multi-sister's and chocolate. Were they filming all this stuff with you guys? Well, while you were with him, nah, there were so many things that we didn't film. Because it was back in 2012. There was so much shit that didn't get on camera. Well, you've been filming this since 2012? No, no, all these little things that I had though. So it all looked a little candid videos that I took a big and I think it's at home, and all that stuff, like there's edited all of that stuff in. But they started filming 2019. Right. You know what? I'll tell you, they did a great job on Cormea too. Cormea told me that he goes, I don't even know where it happened these videos they got in the film were from. I've never even seen him. Like, Cormea was being filmed by people for 10 years, you know, going to parties and shit, hanging out in hotel rooms. He didn't even know the footage existed until he watched the documentary. Yeah, yeah, man. Oh, and Cormea's documentary was awesome. That's how the reason why I really wanted Gary working on buying those like both. You don't really want someone to release the documentary and call it a documentary on yourself and it comes out and it's fucking shit. Lee, you know all about that, right? I know that's what generation I am. No, but I'm not, Lee, Lee's documentary is going to be amazing. Can you play some parts of it? I'll send you your scripts for what you got to say. What? People want to see this documentary. You know, you're better than the Shinbees. And where people want to see the documentary? Where is it? So just YouTube, Jake Nicolopoulos, if just asked Dave to had it's ballot first. Nicolopoulos? Yeah, I think we have a documentary. Jake Nicolopoulos documentary. We're going to put the link up to it, Jake. Yeah, thanks very much. I watched it. It was very good. It was very well done. Yeah, the link to it with the way they did it. As I said, for most people that watch it, it's more don't expect like, oh, why is this guy going to documentary? Has it done anything appropriate? It's more that journey, just to see. I know what junk I got. I started watching it. I also, because they sent me the link. I'm like, you know what, I don't want to watch. I don't even know who this guy is. And you know what, I got sucked into it because they did a good job. It's good. Right into it, right from the beginning. And I said, I couldn't stop watching it. This is the Czechos game we're grabbing. Because they had money in it too. Everyone will come. Yeah, we actually were actually rerunned it for me. If you were, if you were left, I mean, I don't know. I'm not a lot better. Also, come and create. Yeah, I do. Oh, yeah, I just stopped singing and fucking with the band and had Zanado on the background and stuff. And at the very end, you see, I'm on. You know what, you're on the top. I'll tell you why it was for Jake's because I didn't know anyone in there. That's why I liked it. It was like, yeah, well, it was a different perspective on bodybuilding for me. Well, we kind of wanted to do it day without making it look like it was super fucking scripted and real cheesy. We just wanted to make it real. And that's why when they interviewed some of the, like, my mates from, from back in the day, none of them are even into bodybuilding. That ain't even trying to do it. But they also, you, you, you, all see guys have a much better personality. Just, if they would have done this on an American guy, I would have probably fallen asleep watching him because they're, they're boring. They would have tried to make a two straight lace. They would have said, these guys would have tried to be too proper on film. You just, you know, you didn't go. Yeah. And that's, and that's what we tried to avoid. And then especially having lay-offs, well, that just box up everything. Any kind of chance of having some kind of serious documentaries. Can't so culture, can't so culture is real. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I thought it was very good. Guys, check it out. It is for free on YouTube right now. The Jake and Nicolapula's documentary. And Lee Priest is featured throughout that documentary. Now, I think when you, when you're competing next straight, oh, no, I was just, he wouldn't make a pro to debut. Oh, well, we're still waiting to, so we kind of even get out of the country yet. So I'm, I'm just like, every, just like everybody. Right. Yeah. Thanks with Jake, Stephen Lockdown, he made all the, you've got to think Jake's like, all the wildlife is there. And they, they don't let anything out of it. And you're in Australia. And now you guys, now you guys a lot down. So I think the thing on Lee, Lee, Lee, he traveled, because he's had three COVID vaccines. Yeah. Yeah. I think they've been in Jake. They've been in Jake. I think there's only vaccines. Yeah, I know. I hear you go for number four. Because you really, you want to make sure, you know, that's true. I think there has been a few pros here try to apply for like exemptions. To travel, you don't think that they're not giving, they're not giving anybody. Did you get one? I got one. Yeah, because he got three COVID vaccines. He's like the posted boy for COVID. I, I had my, I had my, I had my exemption for about seven months. I really, I think I think they just want to get, I just want to get, yeah, I have a country and then not you let that get. I think I think that's it because it is hard. It is hard to get back into one of these for me to get. So I can't leave go to England and then try to come back in when I went out and you're back. All right. Yeah, but that's, that's, that's all I'm waiting for today. I'm just trying to just say like, we're not going to actually get out of the country and kick a show to make a pro debut. Because as soon as I literally, the last show I got ready for, It was a week before. That was a great time. Tony, Tony, Tony, you just said this. Yeah, yeah. That's like fucking hell. Hopefully hopefully we'll have something over there. Now let me ask you guys this question. I got to change. I got to change subjects for a minute. The document is great. But we got the arm of plastic list came out. I want you first impression. I'll have Tyler put it up there. Men's open. You saw the list. I think it's a pretty damn good lineup, right? I think it's a good list. I'm happy to see Ian's doing the, and the team. And when I watched your interview with Sergio, the other day I thought it was great. And I actually got excited listening to Sergio saying, why don't we all do it. Nick Walker, and that, you know, I don't want to be like, I want to say back in mind. Well, he's going out there and he's going to explain it online. Yeah, I'm going to. Yeah, by that. That's right. As you remember, back in the 90s and early 2000s, the Arnold Classic lineup used to be pretty much the Olympia lineup just minus Mr Olympia apart from when Ronnie did it. I think once or twice, but it'd be great to see. Being that close to the Olympia, why would you do it to me? He talked to most of these pros. They say the Arnold is a better show than the Olympia, but the Olympia has the name, but the Arnold is a prestige, the money, the title. Why not do it as, as Sergio said, the Olympia sometimes the four go on, conclude. You know who the top two may be top three might be, but all these new guys do in the Arnold would be fantastic because you haven't really got a clue who's going to place where and yes, I see some guys get upset that there he goes, someone might get feet, but if you get feet at the Arnold who cares in a couple of weeks time, you might beat that person at the Olympia. But the great for the fairs would be great for the promoter. What Sergio said is, everyone should do it. It'd be great. Everyone's so scared of losing or not placing while these days, like they should just compete. But you don't have to win every time. If everyone just competed, it would make it such a great watch for all of the fans. But I think everyone's just so worried about I, if I lose, what are people going to say about me or if I'm a little bit off, it gives a fuck. If you're afraid to be a bodybuilder, that's the bottom line. Well, especially if most of these guys do, that's all that they do. But I've got a normal job. We've got a business. We work at an hour and nine to five, well a lot longer, actually, because it's our business. But if most of these guys, if they just eat and sleeping and training and just living the bodybuilding dream, fuck, they should be wanting to compete all the time. You know, I can't say you're wrong. I mean, I don't know what, I think guys just get scared. If you're going to do the Olympia, you shouldn't be afraid. You should be able to do any show out there and feel like, hey, I could win it. Guys like, guys like, guys like the Olympics, we're going to win the Olympics. The Arnold, what, twice now? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's going to do it. People don't really want to compete. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Olympia, the year that you know, carry one of the Olympians. So, I mean, any day, anyone could be in anyone. I don't even know why. I'm not going to carry. He should be on those. And that's what I always, Lee, you've always said that too. It's like sometimes the God that beats you, you come back a few weeks later in a different show and then you beat him. That's, that's what he's doing. So, you're doing it. Like someone always found you good, whatever. And I always found too, when shows that together like in the beginning of the year, we used to do the Iron Man, the Arnold, the San friend, the longer you're stating, shape with the posing and photoshoot, seem between or doing the social media now, the longer I state in shape, the better I got for each show. So, whoever these guys now are, you want too many crazy chemicals or whatever it is before to show that they can only speak for one show. I don't understand they can only speak for one show. And all you have to do is eat, sleep and train. It's not the chemicals, Lee. It's like, it's the brain. Yeah, it's like, what the fuck are you doing that is so bad that you have to do a show and take a whole year off. Oh, I've got to take videos for my social media. I just can't compete so much. Just like, they like, they like, they like the wrong. They like what we're on doing the first game in a year and say, see you guys, I see the finals. I see the end of the year. And we're like, what? It's like, how do you, yeah, man, tap 3th year, and see a limpia. I'm doing the oral, if it's a month before because that's an easy double. And that you can make some serious bank too. I mean, that's exactly. Exactly. So you're going to be like, who are we thinking is going to be top 3 for this show. You'd have Bonak Bonak up there. A came possibly a came in Sergio. Oh, no, no, the top 3 is going to be a came. I think you never know about Tetra and McMillan. Maybe he shows up looking at him and put that list. If centric, if centric's on, you can't can't he mat. So if I was to go with top 5, any top 5 I'd have Bonak. They came Ian Sergio and Sidrick, but then you can't please leave Steve Cookler out of that list. Because I'm just going to say, you know, I'm going to say, you're good, but Steve too. I think he's like Sidrick sometimes. Sometimes he nails it that sometimes. There's some for some reason people like Sidrick or Clupa, they're just a little bit off. They look a lot off. Yeah, I'm going to strike you that little bit off. Who closed been really good the last couple of times we've seen him? I haven't seen him work in a couple of shows. He's been really, he's hunting the bride and doing the show. He's a good day. No, I don't think so. He should have. Hunter and Nick, Matthew, from Desafine, so you can say his invitation. I think this year, due to COVID, no one to crack, they should let a few more do it. So they should throw in Hunter and we can see. I think that we're going to be lucky. I think by had he put his name on that list. Hunters do in Tampa, I think, and then he's done. Remember the problem is that the Arnold is not a qualified for this year's Olympic. It's for the next year. Because it's too late. So I think the guy's going to just qualify. That's a quality of the good to see. Some of you, thank you. If you're good to see someone like Hardy, I'm throwing his name in it too. I think I didn't get it. Yeah, I mean, if he's in town, why shouldn't he do it? I mean, he would have been a perfect showman to do. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. And I want people to dismiss this drug thing too. And I want people to think drugs a lot of drugs a lot of drugs. Because I can honestly say when I was helping Jake get ready and Jake get asked me about a cycle. I've just heard what I'm not a doctor. I can show you what I took and I see him in email. I said, look, maybe follow it is. I guarantee they would have been five minutes. It's takes it. Maybe about a decade ago. Are you fucking with me? I said, no, I said, that's the little bit I take. He's like fuck off. That's bullshit. That's a great work. I said, I said, no, no, no, no, no, no. Nothing. Nothing. Yeah. I still tell people to this day leader. That was the best thing that ever happened was me getting to know Sam. I need his when I was young and you. Because I was only when I when I was 22, 23, a little bit older. And that was the best thing because yeah, there was so many different coaches in Australia. There's so much information out there and all these guys are doing a pushing massive amounts of drugs. And there were plenty of young guys when I was coming up that I was like, fuck why they so much bigger than me. And then when you hear what they're doing, I'm just happy that I had someone like you lead to tell me that to train hard. Because I remember for like so many times you're like, no growthful man. I said, no, that way better. You still get it. No, you're not. You're not. You're not. The less you use in the early in your career, the better it works later in your career when you actually use the stuff. And that's that's a well known fact. So, you know, lead. Yeah. Try to advice young guys should use the mid. Nothing as long as they can. And then minimal stuff until you actually really need it. And then it'll push you over the top, you know. You can't start out of the gate using a ton of stuff because then what happens when that doesn't work anymore, you know. Oh, they all do. I don't know. It's probably it's obviously the same. It doesn't matter what country you're in. But yeah, so many even when I had my gym opened to personal training. I was meeting a lot of young guys coming through. Oh, geez. The cycles that they were. They were going over. It was just, it was just crazy what people were doing. And here I am thinking five. I'm still able to grow and do what I'm doing. And sometimes using a small amount, you just, you still feel like, oh, shit, you know, is it too much. And then you hear what these other guys are doing. It's like, you know, it's absolutely insane. What are they? What are they doing? I'm a little press for a day before we go. Before we go, Dave, what's your, you didn't give a short top 3D Arnold day of those names? Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm torn. I, I really, but you know, we didn't talk about Justin Rodriguez. It's also who's really, really good. Oh, yeah. And you know, it's Justin Rodriguez. Great. I have to believe Justin Rodriguez just we bone act is the highest place in God. I have to give bone act to the nod. I, I, I have Sergio, lever in my top 3 and I have Ian Valier and, and a team Williams. I got my top 4. I guess you know what? It's going to be a great show. I'm going to be a great show. But I like a team. I love Ian. I think Ian structurally is, is, is huge bone act is the most pleasant. And Sergio is the wild card. And I think that's what he asked you a question because you've worked with, we've worked with the cane. Yeah. Watching the cane at the, at the Olympic, he literally to me watching him. He seemed like one of the craziest guys on stage. How come you think he doesn't place like, because it seems like his condition is the best up there? He will. He will. You know what? His back was a little weak and it's still not as strong as body part. He has good width, but he has the density issue in the back. Yeah. But I think it's been improving every year. I think this year he's going to make an in for himself. I think he's going to move into the top five this year. And it seems like he has pretty much all the tools like he's just the monster and he's condition is crazy. Yeah. He's got very, I think I've fixed him. It's been getting better and better every year. But the back was always holding him back. I think this year he's going to finally, you know, be dead. I think that's what makes, I think that's what makes the out of classic good dishes. Because all those names we mentioned, anyone at him can win it is just going to come down to who hits it on the day, which is, Yeah. It could be the craziest out of classic. I don't know if that's going to go all in that. Well, you know, that guy is super. I think he's going to be tough to beat. Yeah. I'm a thank you. Yes. Yes. All right. I love you guys. But I got to wrap it up. I got to pick my daughter up from school. Jake, thank you. Check out the Jake Nicolopolis documentary that is featuring Lee Priest. Oh, that's twice. He got to fight. And now. What do you say? You got his name right. What's I got? I got. I got. I'm a slow learner. I remember for one time. So, Nick, thank you Jake. God, a lot of the kiss. Put your, put your wolf man mask on there, Daly. My wolf mask is up in the cloud. I would never mind. All right. I love you. I got to go. I'll see you next week. Well, I'm going to bring you on the show. We'll see you next time. Thanks very much. Thanks. I think you're talking to us. I'll see you next time.

Oh, you're funny. Oh, you're funny. So like I say, like I say, like I say, like I say, do you like my tail or my first shoe? Well, I'll come back to another episode of Iron Rage. I'm here with Cookie Monster and Lee Priest. And in that we're right now. Are we right now? You got the Mike Lodge from your anus and we're right the guy. Major film was lodged in my anal fisher and it wasn't the other one. Unfortunately. What is that saying? You're shirt there. But man. More. Hutsman's fitness. Hutsman. Oh, but the big. Yeah, the buttsman. He's actually an Australian comedian. He lives in Newcastle. He does. He's got a YouTube channel where he talks about stuff on there. It's pretty funny. He talks about this woman. Vegan, vegan, booty. His t-shirt says eat pussy, not meat, nor do you sort of stuff. She's a nut job. She's got to only fiends page. But if you check out the buttsman on Instagram or YouTube is pretty funny. Because he gets little stories from the news and he makes fun of them and stuff. And he's actually a comedian that when he goes around the different places here. You know, the people trying kids. So they're because he fat change and stuff like that. You know, we win one day. Is that his real name? But I think the thing. I think it would be his last name, buttsman. You know, I love to think about, you know, how people have these last names. Because, you know, at some point in time when they were creating names, I don't have a thousand years to go. Someone in his family tree, you know, had, it was a but man. He maybe he was grabbing girls, butts in the town square. And they, they named a buttsman, you know. Is that like, is that like the Indian joke about two equals soaring and all these sort of stuff and wild river? And why you asked me this question, two dogs fucking? Is that? Is that? Like, a lot of means pigeons were dubbed. So we were obviously the Columbus and Italy were probably, you know, either the breeders of dubs and pigeons or we probably slaughtered them. One of the other. I think we were, uh, breeders of them, however, because I'm an animal. So if you're like coming from the streets and your mother was a prostitute in your name, Sally Cox, like, I'd you get that name. I see. I see it all in Tyler. Tyler. I see his, his relatives were, were worked on the beach somewhere. You know, in the background. Oh, maybe, oh, maybe every time someone asked him a question, they went, She'll. I get that. She'll. Oh, I read that. So I, there was somebody coming from the sea shell. I'm going to say that. Oh, does you know, does you know Sally who sells sea shells? Yes. Yes, he does. Oh, that's just. I agree. Probably came from, you know, he probably was, you know, just, he was, you know, all about, you know, conservation of the forest is relative somewhere, you know, down the road. I think they had the, I don't think they had that term green spectrum. And I think they had just I ate a lot of greens. So, you know, okay, there was no conservation of everything that's chopped shit down. Speaking of Kai Green, what do you think about the video the Kai set me set me two videos, actually, maybe we could pull those up, asking me, you know, what I thought about him, what the way looked and should he do the Olympia? I mean, would you, what would you recommend the Kai? I gave him my opinion. I said he sent me the same video and I recommended a couple of plants and a rug in the river, but it was really nice. The room was looking very big. Oh, it's done. I didn't get time to send you a video, but I'll do it now. Just say you can see. Okay. You got the moves, too. Yeah, just like it. It's uncanny. I don't know if I'm watching Kai Green early, please. That really hit me too many poses though. There you go. All right. What do you think should I do the Olympia? I think you should. Oh, sure. I just make a fruit salad. What are you reckon? Oh, that's that nice. Portage. What? I did just pick out one food. I was in Clusey. Thank you very much. You got to be in Clusey. From what Kai implied to me, too, he was on very, very light. A supplementation. So this is a good look for him. I mean, can he get a chance? I think you can ship it ten weeks. Easy. Easy. Where are you? Now, of course, you could do it. I'm sure, you know, if he gets into his proper eating and gets on the proper supplementation and the whole ten weeks of getting in that mind frame too can change your body just if you know training for something and you're getting that contest mode of mind frame ten weeks is a long time. Especially starting from there. It's not like he's starting from bulk, double starting from being died at the end like you see Kevin in the days would do. So he's starting from the point where some of the guys do in the Olympia, I'm even at that box of your right. You're right. Now, you know, what's interesting is, you know, I was, I was trying to analyze the whole Kai Green myself, which is sometimes a difficult thing to do. I was doing study on it. And I've seen him myself. So a lot of people, we comment on this. Why didn't Kai come back after the title was vacated when Sean Rodin couldn't defend his title in Brandi Curry. Because that would have been his right. That would have been probably the most vulnerable time in Olympia level where Kai could have just stepped in and probably easily won. But then I said to myself, Kai Green would never do anything that easy because you know what Kai's lean is a drama person. He's about art and the story and the whole build up to what he does. The best, you know, storyline or the ending to his story would be to beat Big Ramey, right? Who's the most dominant Mr. Olympia right now in the last how many years because of his size, it is mass. I mean, imagine Kai coming into the Olympia and going up against, you know, the final two-collar. When the grandmothers. When not even, we're not even not even beating Big Ramey, but beating Bonak and Heidi, you know what he's up to guys. And all the newer people that have come into it, you know, if he's right, so they're about. Yeah, because it's like what's happening happened the brand new. If Kai had a step in a one that, or would have been, would he beat? He didn't beat anyone. Feel wasn't there, such and such wasn't there. So it would have won the Olympia. Then people would have made it like we didn't beat anyone. Feel good, so it's like, yeah. I mean, it would have been nice from the comeback last year when Phil was in the show so we could have seen those two go head to head. But I think having an established Mr. Olympia like Big Ramey who's very dominant and Kai coming in almost as the underdog in a sense, it's Kai that dramatic need or that dramatic reason to get up on that stage and bring his best. I think so. And as like as people say, why didn't they do it before, but you know what it's like, you know, people can say to the chaos, come home or you should do it. You look great. You look great. But if you're not 100% focused on doing it, there's no point, even if you're 98%. There's no point going up. The even though he looked great, if you haven't even 100% focused on that well, you know, that's like, and speaking of 100% focused, it also means by also makes my buy on duck gets sick in the stomach. I messed up my little thing. I'm going to pull out because I got mental problems. And then the team came out today saying, we're not here for gold medals. We're already winners in our heart. Fuck off. Look at that bullshit. Did they go then? Let somebody go who wants to win a medal? Why go to the Olympics? You cannot go on for gold. We're just here because we're champions in our heart. We're coming to sink, Kumbai, Yarn Roller, and on the fucking max. Well, no, they're only saying that lead because they didn't leave the gold medal. They only got the silver medal. Oh no. That's like it's like now, because everyone's been coddled or, you know, everyone gets an award. Everyone gets a trophy or winners. You know, it's like when you used to play a video game by yourself. They used to do it to you and play a game. So you got five lives. And if you start within 10 seconds, you get killed or start again. I can't see the analogy. I can see the analogy. I was my wife. So that's what Kaiser is doing. The dream of video game. It's where do you use the same analogy? It is because it's like, but there you can't start again. There you go. Or I know what. I got the latest trend. I got mental problems. That's the latest get out of jail. Three card. We become it murder. Whether you do anything. The mental problem is. They bring up. She got right. There are no skills got right. Then they still went on. She got right before when she went and got mental. But you still managed to get through. But now all of a sudden, who just came up with me, I was going over the whole course. When I went over the whole course. I'm just talking. That sounds back on for me. I've got something to ask. No, I think what happened is you know, what happened with in gymnastics. If you get your head too much, when you're flipping, you lose track of where you are in the air. It can be very unnerving because especially that happens over and over again. Because then what happens is now you start to get afraid and scared. And I think this is why a lot of times we don't see these gymnasts competing into their late 20s. It's like teens, maybe early 20s and then they're out. Like 24, which is what some of them buy us. This is old for a gymnast. And I don't think it's because they don't have the skill level. I think it's because you get too smart when you get all the wrong ones. You start saying, what the fuck am I doing? If I land on my head, I'm going to break my neck. You know, once you have that in your head, there's no way you can be your best anymore. You have to be. I know. But like that in any sport, you know, some race car drives a crash a car. It's got that feeding going into a certain corner or even body building. You know, if you tear a muscle on a leg press, when you go back to that leg press and you start loading it up again, that feeling and memory of your legs snapping, coming down, all comes back. So you're sort of getting a bit more cautious. But you know, you're there at the Olympic Games. You went through water training. But she must've known as like, you fuck up. It's like, okay, if you can't get back on it, then just let make up excuses. Yeah, the problem is that the coaches, she hires her coaches. So these coaches can't even say like when I was on a team in high school, if I was screwing up the coach, you grabbed me over the side, you'd be like, you know, he would tell me, get that in that game. You're not going to drop out. You know, and I don't deserve it. And I'd go in. Now she's giving commands to the coaches because she's a celebrity. So what does a coach say to her? If I was the coach, I would've been like, let's get your ass into a gym. We're going to go over this vault 6,000 times until you get in the back. And then you're going to compete tomorrow because there is no quitting, you know. But we'll have to get all, even get a one-loaded like motivation coach. Just to help you more mentally and physically because physically she didn't do anything. Let me see over there, right? Ah, oh my god. I was also green with John on the last show. And John, you used to see word beautifully. I've got to go get 10 out of 10 for that. But the whole I grew of John, this fucking fights bullshit. Stop talking about, I told Mr. Gears on live yesterday. I said, giving two weeks notice, go it out and just flog. Let's see what it is. I said, I don't give you giving four months, six months a year. He's not going to improve on his fighting skills or his fitness. So it's all fancy could be dead. So just go down and fight it out now because it's just going on and on and on. And I have a headache actually when they talk about it. I can't say just as the show pictures when they start talking about that now. Yeah, but I like the photo too. I'm the soccer team when the what's the name that white girl on the American soccer team with the purple. Here, whatever they said, you look like an idiot when you're taking a knee, but the black players are standing up for the year having been saw. She's telling my taken a knee and the black players are standing up for the end. I don't know what all these. You know, like you said it, if you don't like the country you live in, then get the freak out. You know, that's all there is to it. I mean, I mean, what is what I don't understand. What I think is so if you're going to compete for like Bob'sburg, about competing for yourself, make a statement. But your day you've had all the opportunities given to you, probably got your scholarship and you got your endorsement, the usually making millions of dollars because you can beat for America. The American team is flown, you know, representing America and the flag of the country. And then you want to turn you back on it, that gave you opportunity to beat it and make what is money. If you don't like it, get out of the team and go do your little protests on your, that's what I don't get. Why don't they do these protests on their own time? After these people, a big name sports stars. They could probably ring up any station and get an interview or do some podcast and stuff and do this to hold time. But you don't hear it now. It's like this whole when the BL and first started and everybody put up a black square that bring awareness to racism. But if racism still going on, why don't you put that black square up once a week to keep it out there? It's like breast cancer. If I see another pink f**k in ribbon everywhere I go, they keep that in your face all the time. Sporting events and shit. But that's where it's all these black squares going now. Crickets until the next big thing happens to like, let's jump on the bandwagon. Let's put up something so that we'll be like, people will as cheaply. You know, it's funny. Back in the day when I was having trouble getting a pro card when there wasn't really many opportunities. You knew that. Once it was like three pro cards given per year or something like that. And what the American National. And when the overall in the North Americans in USA and nationals was a weight class. But so I wanted to suggest it to me this and why don't you go back, you know, you're half Jewish. You can go to Israel and get a pro card because you know, your mother is Jewish. You're considered Jewish and you can go and live in Israel. That's the policy there. And they should go compete there. You'll win the Mr. Israel and you can get a pro card. And I say, I am from the United States. That's my country. I'm proud of it, you know. And so, you know, I don't know why people take for granted all these freedom. Go overseas and see how they live in some of these countries. You want to go there. They haven't got a clue when they talk about being a press. And this is what I hate to when people like the big stars, LeBron, Oprah and these talk about being an oppressed. Yes. Yes. I'm sure Oprah experience racism being a black female woman coming up. And I'm sure the industry she went into, you know, you're going into a male dominated TV networking type thing where it's made. You may all talk show hosts and male people in the, oh, industry. I'm sure she experienced sexism too, but rather than say, this is an oppressive country when you're a billionaire, why don't you say, look, I got a hundred knockbacks, but I cut perseverance. I get cushioned forward. I had all these shit against me, but they kept moving forward. I look where I'm today, rather than say, you're not going to get anywhere because of the white man. The white man is going to keep you back. They're going to use people at a multi millionaires who are of color. Why don't they talk about what they went through to get there and let people know you can get there. You just got a persevere, stop looking for people to blame and shit. So speaking of Jewish, just brought up that ever to do the time, I had that like, I was selling homes and shit because you know, used to being the real estate. I didn't know that. I didn't last long. It didn't last long because of people like you. I was showing this family through the house. I didn't know that I was Jewish and we need the kitchen and that said, I hope it's not electric style. I was not electric. I said, no, no, it's a big gas oven and not through for the whole family. Oh, God. And little did I know that. I said, I'm day and they got so mad at me. I'm like, I can't do this price. I can't say anything wrong, so I quit. If you get that attitude, I'm just going to go along with this. So we go upstairs and I'm showing them the button. Sorry. True story. I said, go, he there. Look at the shower. There's a one day looking at the shower. I turned the line up and I went, oh, you're terrible. And I got fired. I got fired from the job. You're figured out. I don't know why. You're making it up. I don't know. True story. It was a good story. I thought it was good. See, I quick, I can think of things when you just brought up the word Jewish. I just went to the real estate selling homes and I guess. I got a fact of how does my mind work. Yeah, I could play that. I could play mental illness. I'm going to tell you something. I took a road trip. You know the grams. You know the grams. They would run the body building, you know, in the Australian, in Australia. Anyway, the gram, Paul Graham Jr. took me on a car. He had it right me to something. I don't, it wasn't when I went to, when I went to the original. He took me somewhere. I was doing a tour of Australia to all the stores. He drove me someplace. I don't even remember where it was. We were in the car for three hours together. I never laughed so hard for three hours straight. You lost these. You have got the best sense of humor. And people are so tight. Like, Americans would never understand your sense of humor. But he said to me, the reason why people like you and Australia Davis. Because you've got the same sense of humor. You don't take yourself seriously. And nothing bothers you. And because you guys will tell the college under the seaward left and right. And it's not offensive. It's like a funny thing. I laughed so hard for that three hours. And you know what? I wish the Americans had the osteosense of humor. We'd have a much better country. Well, you're still, I think you used it. Because when you started like the comedians out like Richard prior and George Carl and some of these people, back then before the Woken Cancer culture come along, you could tell and joke about that people. People of color religion. Anything because people in different between a joke. Right. And then they're actually vilifying someone and being outright racist. People in new to different. It's like, I remember back in day. I had so many friends of color where they were Mexican black whatever. They love blazing saddles. And how how races were that movie. Yeah, you're starting to get it. But they, everybody laughed at it because they played on stereotype. They played on this. Everyone knew the difference. But now you can't say, when they start getting down when it started coming in, they can't use the word blackberry. You can't use the word blackboard because the word blacks. And they're like, they're like, I can't use the cup wood black. All of a sudden be racist. And it's like when shit's like that started happening. And then they were going back through comedians, hosts from 10, 15 years ago. And wanting them to apologize for shit they said back then. It's like, this is just fucking ridiculous. It's like, you know, there's so many things that they're somebody to find it. It's jokes. They made on stereotypes. They made on things that are that of color. You're laughing because in the real world, or make you cry and upset. So you like to escape from that and you're laughing because you're not so bad. And I was like, that Jim Jeff is at that. That make jokes about right now. If you're talking about right, it's not a funny subject. Some of somebody's comedians still in a way where you sort of laugh. You're like, oh, fuck that is funny, but it's still bad. But you know, that's what you're going to do. You got to laugh at yourself. That's the good thing Australians, we laugh at ourselves as well. It's like, we don't take anything serious. As long as you said, as long as you're not doing it in malice, you're just telling a joke. It's like, you can tell a joke about something. You could have made jokes before I'm like, say something about, you know, down syndrome and stuff like this. Or, you know, if someone's like, they said before about if someone's got a twin there lose their twin and they're all upset. I said, we're just fucking lying. How's we mirror the bastard's there every day? You're still, you're still feeling people like, look, I lost the twin brother on that. I'm not fucking talking about you again. It's like, I'm sorry you lost your brother better. So whatever, it's like, you're talking about me. I have what I even know. You know, people need to just sit back and have a laugh at themselves. Because when you look at what's going on around the world, you go, have a laugh. Well, look at, look at bodybuilding, take bodybuilding, for instance, I mean, there are stereotypes in bodybuilding, right? Because we know, most black guys don't have break abs, right? I mean, that's, well, known, most white guys don't have break arms. You say that, you say that, you say that, now that's racist, that's racist. And we've got to treat us. Asian guys have amazing abs. We know that Asian women don't have a lot of butt, right? They have flat butts. I mean, there's certain stereotypes because, because genetically speaking, that's, you know, unless there's mixed blood, you know, like, I'm a mutt. I mean, so I have a Asian, Asian, Asian, Asian, Asian's can't dry. That's like, we don't have that. But the thing is, I got Asian friends and he had a crash, and I'm gonna go, I said, you're crashing, you know, we're shit dry, but so it's like, they can make fun of themselves. And like, there's all these stereotypes, like I said, bodybuilders, wolf, like these bodybuilders have small nuts, small dicks. And it's just like, we laugh at it because it's just my point. Yeah, that we laugh as bodybuilders at the stereotypes, because we actually know they're true. And no one takes it personally because we're just trying to make our bodies as perfect as we can do it. And we know what we all know. If you don't want your weaknesses, I know what my weaknesses are. It's not, so when people point it out, I never took it like, you know, I never took it like personally, I laughed at it because we know what we need to work on. I mean, come on. What is like, it's like saying a lot of genius paper when you really look at it through Tesla along the famous painters, everyone that's some sort of genius, a fucking nuts. That's what I'm saying. That's that's what I'm saying. Anyway, that's probably genius because I'm fucking nuts. I don't know where the genius part kicks in here, but it's coming. It's coming. Just one. Some of the most talented musicians, they die young, like, you know, because they drug addicts in there, they've got mental problems because they're so brilliant. They have such ability to channel whatever they channel to produce their art. That I think it, you have to be a little wacky. No one or the people don't do amazing things. That's just the way it is, you know? And it's like there's a joke I've never looked at, but it's a better than comedians like you, they get to be like Robert Williams and all these funniest people in the world who really outside of that, they're depressed or they're unhappy, but that makes them happy to see other people laugh, because they're sad, and there's it's like they try and make other people have to make up for what's missing from their lives, but when they're alone, they're all, you know, I'm going to kill myself, but what they're performing, making people laugh, they feel alive and stuff. So, yes, I'm just going to wait for my, whatever it is, my calling, they're coming along. I've got the fucking idiot nutty part there, and I just got to wait for the change. So, so, so, Kairine might come back into the Olympia, so the question is, Lee Priest, 2022, what show will we see him at? I, I just showed you my move, stay, are you going to... I don't call me. I don't think you can be ready for the Olympia in 10 weeks, though, that's the only problem. No, no, I don't think I'll give her anything. Miss early, dear. I'm so unfair, man. How about the New Yorker? I'm not. I don't know about the New Yorker. I don't know. He's at it Florida, isn't it? Yes, yes. He's at home. I don't think she has yet, as you, we would have heard about it. That, um, female male pal, if doesn't compete at yet, the Olympics have their boys, it probably wouldn't be. I know, yeah, I'll be the weightlifting, it's going to be. I'm waiting for weightlifting and track and field, but they're not letting it in. I know one, I know one weightlifting did, but it was a light of division, because it was a woman from a tail end, right? Yeah, first gold medal. And how's this, right? This is how other countries, like some of these people in the measure, I think, was a tail end, tail end or Indonesia, one of those countries where it's sort of poor, we send money to them. Yeah. How is, I don't know what America gets, but our athletes, if you win a goal, would you get $20,000 bonus when you come home, silver gets 15, that weightlifting lady from tail end or Indonesia. Right. She gets equivalent to $970,000 Australian dollars and a house, when she goes home. Really? Wow. Yeah. So maybe we should get, maybe you should become a female weightlifting, and move to a tail end. Is there a good operations, there are some of those lady boys? Yeah. Yeah. I'm at a scared level, I look too good about the two of these, you fucking, myself, all day. Yeah. But people say go fuck yourself up, I'm like, oh, I'll be right back. I'm about to keep my hands up, and you just see the Pfizer vaccine too, it's a big story. I said. It was under, just making ladies, boobies bigger. I wouldn't, I didn't see that. I didn't see that. You did? No. A lot of these women are saying they, one woman went from an A cup, there was C cup, and they're saying that some women actually started because a couple of days after they got it, some women would get like little lumps in their breast, so it was making them panic thinking that might be causing breast cancer. Yeah. So if you look at up on that, where they call it the Pfizer boob job or something now, that's the nickname, because so many women have been coming out saying they're actual breast size as grown since they got the Pfizer. That's a good way to get women to take the vaccine, right? I'm a two-astro, I'm a two-astro, I'm a two-astro, Sanica and one-fiser. You should see my car. Yeah, tell men their penis is going to get bigger and tell women their boobs are going to be vaccinated, right? That's fantastic. That's how pathetic our culture is, yeah. It's a big story about London News. First of all, I heard on the radar being able to see four-sheets, someone's just saying that for that reason, they may come and run out and get it, but you know? But it's actually a thing. I've said, you know, I think there's a woman walking around like, dentistry, we only fuck vaccinated men, you know, that's the thing to have to walk around the streets, you know? On a day, that don't want to get COVID that mix with their age and STDs and what do you have stuff? You know what it's like when you've got going to read your in a yeast infection and you get COVID on top of that day? You know what? Come on. I think they combine COVID vaccine with like an anti-AIDS vaccine and it's thrown a couple of other goodies in there as well. So at least it's not just one shot you get, you get in a couple of vaccines in one, like the, when you're the MMR vaccine and you're a kid that give you measle, mom's and Rubel are in a shot. Yeah. So you get the country that we have, but it aids and hepatitis isn't like that, you know? Why don't they just do it like a flu? I'm sure the COVID vaccine must be similar to a flu shock because it's a similar type of virus. So don't be on your get shot out, believe me, trust me. I've already had my boost, but here in Australia, because the gyms in Sydney, where my daughter is, she's probably got to pull out of a contest because they keep moving the contest because she gives you a lock down. That's right. They've been in lock down five weeks. Gyms have been shot for five weeks, now they've just extended it to the end of August. So another four weeks, all the gyms are shot. And you've got to wear a mask now when you go into the gyms and go into shopping centers and you go here and go there. And then you've got to, you don't have the skinings in America, do you? The barcode, where you've got to skinny. If you go into a store, you've got to skinny and the taste of the government website. So it tells them what time you went into the store and what time you left. That's so in case you get it, they can trace where your feet and say, no, if you're a super-super guy. Well, big brothers watching you guys way more than he's watching us over here in the US. He's watching me and he's recording because I've got some of those porn sites. So they can give him back to me. I have a client in mind, he's a good bodybuilder, he lives in Australia. He said he's in lockdown, whatever. I said, you have far you from where Lee Priest lives. He's like, maybe 30, 40 minutes. I'm probably maybe you can come and train with him. He's a UKing me. We can't even go out. If we get quite going out, it's a $5,000 fine. Yeah, because he must be in that hot zone here. It's like from SID up to the central coast. He must be central coast. He goes, that's like 40 minutes from me. Yeah, but you can only go like five kilometers or 10 kilometers from that house. That's from the house. If we get caught outside, that you get like a $1,000 fine. And this and that and the point of the infection rate haven't even gone down. From all this stuff, they're doing. It's actually gone up yesterday. There was a 100 and it doesn't sound a lot compared to other countries. There were 177 cases in SID, the 46th were out in the community while in pictures. It's an out of extended at another month and now it's like you've got to go to grocery store. Only one person from your household can go to the grocery store. And they've started to think for singles now where if you're alone in your single person, you're allowed to nominate someone to be in your single bubble. So say you want to go for and you can nominate her. But that's the only person you can see. You can't change the person once you've got. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. I bet you see Blokler would choose you. Probably over his wife, right? I honestly leave. Lee Priest I want to go side. He's my guy. But he'd be like, play with me. He's locked down for five weeks and he glutes still out. I'm trying to. I should have picked Kai. Here he died. You're not trained in that squeezing when you're in the gym. You got to squeeze. I've waited for him. I've been locked in this room to give a leave. I thought you would have left by now. You know after Blokler watched that video that I put up the Kai set me, you know, we probably texting Kai. Kai, you look great. We want to put y'all in the cover and make you a star. Can you send me one of these videos? P.S. Mine is the pants. Could you imagine? Yeah. I would be great. Like I was surprised that time was two years ago when I was at the Olympic or when he came over to Spockney. Yeah. I was funny. I was like, you know, I didn't drop it. I think he knew how to grow for him. It's like he saw me. I don't know, but I'll hear we got his conversation. He was so happy. You know, I always stuck up for you. I always supported you. I was always there. I always supported you after I got you in trouble for writing that article. Yeah. You didn't want to. And then fought and you didn't find it because they told me to. It's like, but I've always been there for you. I said, he'd be great. I guess he'd be great to have on the show just to interview. Oh, yeah. That's like he must know everything that we say about it. And here we are again, just in fun. It's like just for fun. It's not serious. It's like if he called you off and show you to talk fine doing. Absolutely. John said he wouldn't. John said he had turned back off. Yeah. But John's probably with him. But I would get him on the show and interview him in a second because I would be a great interview because I know all his I knew well. All his dream when he's done, you know, and it's pretty impressive. And that's the thing. You're not going to bring up anything nasty. You'll talk nasty. It just be a good interview. I just started off with why does the magazine suck down. No. You know. I don't even see here in a straight up. The lights are gone out. Lights are gone out. Last dream, last call. Last thing. All right. In the city. Grab your part. Not. That's the. You have to go. Letting us know that it's time to wrap up the show. Oh, look. Tyler's running the show. They're giving the fucking camera in a microphone. He's like, takes up with that fucking start. Oh, yeah. It's a flashy light. It's a nice drive. Yeah. It's a blue. They said that the blue like you stayed up. Flash the lights. A last song at a night. Brad. That's right. How am I going to. Last song at a night. Grab your partner and give her a finger pop before you go. Oh, oh. Did you get that side to do? Scouts. I remember Michelle. That's Michelle. Oh, the show. The show. It's a sense of creativity and somehow I don't know how it's. Well, you turned the lights off. I got the news that you don't know. Sorry. Well, you're looking sexy next to my way. I got into the car green moves. Oh, yeah. Well, send it to me on video. I'll just play it over. I'll let you know what you think. I should make me come back. What's that? All right. You keep doing that. All right. I'm wrapping this up. I'm there. I can't even hate it. I can't even hate it. Now, with the lead priest, we'll see you next week. Don't blame me. I told you it's even fun to miss enough. I'm sure you should come on you back. Ha ha ha.

Welcome back to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio. Hi, I'm Dr. Paul Fajillo. Oh, that's cool. My birthday is tomorrow at a six a July, which is a bigger celebration. And now it's technically... It's a second. I was actually... See how good I am, I was actually at the gym. I just trained for now, 45. I said, you know what? I'll do some treadmill. I just turned the treadmill on and got it to the scene. Can you do the show? So I drove home to do the show. Oh, I didn't know you'd drum up. And that's very nice here. I appreciate that. You still fucking like you said, 15, 20 minutes, just 20 minutes. I went downstairs. I went downstairs, the biggest mistake is going to my snake room. I was going in for 30 seconds. My wife's like... That's an hour. She's like, yeah. She was like, yeah. She was like, yeah, yeah. She was like, one of my snakes actually had a litter. I actually had a malle. I didn't even know she was even pregnant. I just walked in there and I'm trying to just change some paper towels that were really dirty and I'm like, It's really dirty in this tub. up and the things trying to fight my hand off and they never, they know. And so usually the only time they get that defensive is when they have a litter. So I see, you know, I'm going to lift up the sidewalks. I lifted up. There's like a bunch of like there's like 10 babies under there. So I'll look at that. Well, congratulations. Warren on the floor of the joint. There we go. Everyone's going to go. We do have some birthdays in the Palombo household. I'm going to put on the tent of them. Yeah. 10 little mouths to see it again. And it's like three, uh, three wonderful kids are ready. So let me ask you this question. I'm always curious to other countries acknowledge when America has holidays more so than we, I know we don't acknowledge when anyone else has holidays, but do you guys acknowledge our holidays? I'm sure you doesn't acknowledge fucking anyone else. No, we don't get to do that. They're totally selfish, really care about ourselves. What is on the country? They're on the one. What is that? Yeah. I know that's all the Canadians have been wishing me what you've fought about, you know, happy fought July and that's pretty nice to them. They also that they shouldn't really affect them at all. Well, I get a lot of Americans wish you may have you full with July even though. When you live here for quite a while, so I guess you were. Yeah. I think when you get back to Jimmy the flat earth figure, I'm surprised that Americans even discuss it because America is probably just think there's America and nothing else. There's no earth. There's nothing. Just an ice cream. Right. Just somehow the bacteria. So I'm having Mexican people get over the ice wall, but no one else can. I don't know how to do that. America's just like an asteroid, fighting for the universe, just one country. So all of these. Oh, boy, well, we have the NPC team universe or they call it now the NPC universe. This week and where we had a lot of pro cards given that you know, I wanted to ask you about this now, you won the Navi universe, which is the original title of the universe, the one that I'm one. And now, you know, they've been, they used to have a show called the NPC team universe, which would feel the team that would go to the universe in Europe. Obviously now we don't, we don't, because when Rafi also in頭 has split with Germain, and there's no more universe. But so they just call this show now the NPC universe. And they give pro cards there and everything like that. Now, some people take offense to that because they said that it's not really the universe, but I don't think it really matters. What does you take on that? As a former Navi universe winner, you know. Well, it's not really the universe, you know, they can call it that, but it's not really the universe. It's like when they have, don't people put on the natural mystery, or limp your and call it the natural mystery, limp your, it's not really the mystery, limp your body. We don't really miss the Olympia right, exactly. Yeah, but people say I'm Mr. Olympia, it's just like you see some people walk around who are looking like not even top classic guys saying I'm Mr. Universe, people go, oh, really? It's like, wow, standards dropped. So the wellness girls are a, I'm, I'm Mr. Universe, too, right? So exactly. So people are in the no, no, but the general public done, I guess if you're, if you have one one that knows and it's not the real one, you can say you're Mr. Olympia, you are the universal people go, well, congratulations. Yeah, that's exactly. It's like a, what a pro cards are to give an out there too. Like I got nothing against it if they want to make money, but back in our day, they can people go to say, oh, fuck here, we got back in your day. When someone, when you went somewhere or you saw someone, you could go into a gym and go, that guy's a pro, just by looking at him, you knew that'll professional now, people come up the, you're, you're probably had a people come and make a highly, I'm such and such. I got a pro card, I'm like, oh, well, that's because of that, I, if I can go snooker or something, poor table, but it's like, oh, it's like I said, dude, when you're going to come online, face, spoke or whatever, and you're going to put, say, Jeremy Smith, I F. B. Pro, when you're going to tell someone you're a fucking pro, it's time to get out of the fucking sport. It's like, I got to put in my name, so everybody knows. Because they got, I've been saying this for for one. They got to make something that's like a little above a pro, like, like, maybe like, if you place like top 10 of the Olympia, you get another title, I don't know what you would call it, but, you know, like, it's a pre-prower, something like that. It's a pre-roller, it's not, it's not like a, is that like a pizza, is it? Yeah, yeah, it's, you're a pro plus. Right, right, you're like, you're like a higher level pro, you know, like the major league minor leagues, you know, minor leagues and baseball is still pro baseball, but it's not really, you know, you're not, you know, being, you know, early on TV or I thought you're like a pro with a triple eye writing or something, if you got to have us. You know, I've seen guys win pro cards at Masters or girls, win men, and then they go on and they actually wind up on the Olympia stage, you know, and they open and they do well. And so you never know, I mean, so, you know, I've to oiled with this thing in my head with the, is our more pros, the better or worse, and you know what, the sport has evolved and changed. So I embrace that change because I think that more business for the, I think business is important for the sport. If there's no business model behind around the sport and people can't make money from the sport, I'm not talking, because the elite guys will always make money with prize money, but that's only like 10 guys in the world. So if everyone else around the sport can make more money because now there's more pros, there's more people competing, so they need more coaches and more posing, you know, people spray 10 them and more people to do makeup and hair and more people to, you know, to train people on the gym, I see it's good for business and it's good for the sport and it's healthy for the sport. Don't you? Well, I think, I think, you know, that should be called internet pros rather than competitive pros, because there's probably out of 40 amount of pro cards that are given out. I probably only what 50% ever competing the pro ranks. A lot of them get their pro card just so they can put on their business card or put on their Facebook page. Right. And they never competing the pro ranks where there's been a lot of great images on those, so I'm here in Australia that never took a pro card and if made more money, they actually be an amateur then actually, because if they went into the pro ranks, they would get lost in the lineups and stuff that they'd never get a call out and the money that I'd have to spend to getting ready for pros shows, the better I'll stay and be in a top amateur. Right. Or, you know, what they do in boxing is if you want to fight as an amateur, if you want to turn pro, you turn pro. You can just do it on your own. You don't have to win anything to turn pro in other words. So, let's just get a pay for your pro card and I'll figure out. Right. Because you know what? I know in our sport earning a pro card is like almost like at the ploma, like from college or something like that. But in essence, for a lot of people, it's really a death toll because you've got a pro card, but then when you go, you've got to compete with all these people that you can't beat anymore. But it's almost like your better offstay as an amateur. Perfect example was Jose Raymond could have earned his pro card probably five years before he actually took the pro card because like, Newy wasn't ready. So, he said, you know, he won the lightweight class. I forget where the nationals are something like that. And then he turned it down. And then he won the the band away class and he turned it down. And then he won the middleweight class. And then I think he finally took a put, you know, I think he earned like three or four, you know, pro, you know, pro qualifying then. But he was smart. He was like, I'm not ready yet. So I'm going to take it and then finally agree to take it and then I think the two 12 class came out with two perfect. So, you know, it is what it is. I think people just take it now. Once you don't compete, they just take it like I said, more for the, if they like you see, they've got to be coaches that they've got to training. Sure. Think it the gym just so they can say the professional now and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. It definitely is a job. It's a 50 dollars. But you know, and also if there's more ability to turn pro, more people will compete because people are, they're like, status mongers. You know that. They want status. They want to be validated. So to say I got a pro card, even though they may never, ever do anything as a pro, it doesn't matter, at least they can wave it in people's faces and say, here, where you want to, you know, you don't want to quit $50,000 in applications and travel and they're in spray tanning, but I got a pro card at least out of it. You don't want to compete in the lay priest classic way, you know, the win, it could get a pro card, but that's up to me because the thing is, I decide, or the people decide the committee can decide because let's just say you have a whole heap of people up there. And the overall winner can get a pro card. But if that overall winner, if I look at them, go and listen, if this is our pro from Australia, we sent him that a professional universal professional world and he's not good enough. What's the point of sending him where if he just gets there and he just looks like a lucky kind of thing standing up there's like, you want to send someone, that's why even in America, when they give out pro cards, it should be, you could get a pro card at the show, but the judges have to determine looking at the person on stage, is he going to make it as a pro or maybe giving another year, giving another two years and then giving pro cards. And I said, if you want to go into the pro ranks, if you love committing, you want to be competitive, you just want to go out and stand there on stage. And like I said, all that time money and effort that goes into it, the whole training aspect could just be a waste of time. Well, that was the way it was back in the 90s or early 2000s. I mean, that if it was about, where you're ready to be a pro and are you ready to go to the next level? Now it's not about that anymore. Like I said, the sport has changed and let's face it. Changes, it bothers people who are from the old system because they feel like, well, I got cheated in some, because people always ask me, you could have definitely got a pro card at it. If the way it worked, operated today, operated in the 90s, you would have had a pro card easy. And I said, I did like, is that Bobby, I said, no, because when I competed, my place things actually carried more weight even though I didn't get a pro card because it was so hard. And so, you know, you got to just accept the time you're from and that the fact that the sport is going to change and evolve and that it's good, you know, it's good for business and it's good for us, you know, what we're doing now. Imagine if they did it in other sports or professional sports where they just gave about, we have the Olympic games and the fans and Rita. And here he comes, this is one of the five minute six. Yeah. Palambo, right. Palambo one is pro card somewhere else. Two hours later. Yeah. The difference is that, you know, if you run, if you run 11 seconds in the 100 and the guys winning the 100 meters are running 95, 4, whatever they're running, you know, you're going to be like at the starting line when they're done, you know, I got to mention this just because we've been talking a lot about Olympics more so with the, with the trip, we've been talking more about the transgender, but sharp, sharp, sharp, heri Richardson who won the 100 meters at the Olympic trials and you know, seems to be she reminds you of the perfect. Yeah. She's like the Florence Grove, the joiner of like New Year. Is she fell face to the set? Health doesn't help the piece on her arm when she's running. I think it's just a style statement like her hair is, but you know, and I like her look. I think it's, it's guy, you know, it's the first person I can remember since the flow Joe and back in the day, you know, who really stuck out and you know what, she's got to look at this. Yes, she got to touch. And she's like, just like, you know, here I am, this is who I am. But you know, you, I heard, you know, you get the news, she fell to drug tests. I'm thinking, oh man, what a dummy. What if she fell for, you know, a wind stroll or anivar? So I'm trying to think of like what she fell for and it's like pot, like marijuana. And I'm thinking of myself, how stupid this is for a heart of G, okay? She's just won the Olympic trials, okay? She's going to the Olympics. She's got the best chance of winning an American, a gold medal for America. She's got everything going for her. She knows the rules. She beat obviously whatever's the right test or she beat. She goes and smokes a joint. I mean, it's on the top of the list. It's not whether, you know, everyone's saying, I get these petitions in my email to sign because she's from Oregon and in Oregon, pot is illegal. Marijuana's illegal. But in running is not, and she knows that. Why, you know, and I know she, I watched an interview with her. She didn't, she said that she, she was doing an interview with some reporter and he told her, she found that from the reporter that on the air that her biological mother, who she really wasn't close with, had passed away. And she was so just strawed afterwards. And she took her right, she didn't, she took responsibility for what she did. She felt that that was the way she needed to relieve her stress. And she did it and she knew she did it. But I'm thinking of myself, you know, you're not like a regular person. You're going to be Olympic. That's place. You sat on ice everything. You're like training everything. Everything. You know, it's like the guy going to Mr. Olympia and he goes to the, the buffet, the Chinese buffet, like the night before I mean, come on. Well, you think, yes, it would have been sad finding out about your mother, but you figure if the salary a month away, go and did Olympics win and go and winning that gold for your mother, that sort of thing would have been. Right. You did it. Keep the win. Exactly. We've been a bit, but even the whole thing from Oregon's and she said, be like, people that come to America and start selling pot and shit, saying, well, originally from ants, the ants, the damn we're allowed to sell. If I can pot over there, it's like, I didn't know the rules. You didn't ask Biden. Yeah, I'm surprised Biden even the fruit was going on. So I saw AOC, AOC, you know, caught KZ that fucking weird. I looked like an alien. She's trying to play the race card with it. I'm like, really, you're going to pull the race card on this. Yeah. Like only black people smoke marijuana, right? I mean, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, me, come on. It's, there's no originally, but back in, even. But that can even play the race card in the Olympics, like the other one, the turn, the back when they go on about races and win. And not, I'm not sure what it is, but come on, at least when I watch the Olympics, it's almost like 70% of the American team, African American. So he can't, if America is such a racist country, it would be pick a black, black, but a representative. It's going to be like, hit the back in the day when he had the Olympics, pick an order juice, the representative. Yeah. It's like, he like, shut the fuck up. Well, yeah, it's like, come on. Look, they know the rules. If you smoke a joint, okay, and you felt marijuana, okay? And it's funny because the, the, the, the suspension is only a month. I don't know why marijuana is not as bad as steroids, but it's only a month, but obviously, the Olympics are coming up. So she's going to miss it. Now, they asked Biden, president Biden about the whole thing, and you think it's fair. Yeah, the realize, even though he's, he's out of his mind, the guy, he's the guy who back in 1990, and it was endorsing the whole, the steroid, which hunt that they went on. Yeah, because I interviewed Aaron Baker. I forgot this, but Aaron said the reason why they drug tested the Olympia and the, USA, the year he won it, 1990 was the cost Biden was putting the pressure on everyone. I said drug testing, you know, and that's why Vince McMahon, obviously, got into all that uh, regular role with the drug testing, the W, W, E, Ressler's, no, that stuff because it was Biden. He was a senator at the time, and he was the one pushing that bill, ironically enough. So they asked him, what did they see thinking about the, uh, shark, uh, Richardson's, well, the drug, he's like, I feel bad for her, but that's the rules, you know, where, where, what are you going to say? Uh, so probably you think that all sharks, sharks are very dangerous. I think it's swimming swimming in the ocean. Right. It shows like I like pot, pot's very good. It relaxes the little kids, it relaxes the children. Yeah, it, it is kind of weird though, because in this country now, I mean, look, she could have gone out and gotten drunk off her ass, and she would have been fine, you know, because that's not illegal. Now, it's like anything, it's like jobs, you know, you've got jobs here in Australia, you're a truck driver, you're in a thought that if you, if you can't, they get drug test to the bit because they're driving on distance into trucks and stuff, and if you fail a drug test, you lose your truck as a license and stuff like that. So you should drop it. It's like, you just know, why do you think all police officers drink? Because it's legal. They know they can't smoke pot and snort cocaine because it's, it's, it's, it's a, it'll lose their jobs. So if they want to go out and relax, they have alcohol, because that's legal. Now, the question is, if it would be interesting, you know, if they make marijuana legal, it will almost legal, but let's say it's legal everywhere. And the IOC changes their rule because now, marijuana is considered legal because obviously doesn't have any performance enhancing, you know, a bill is, it's not like a major or better run. I can't smoke. I can't get out of sleep with three or nine. So, but I mean, so if they change the rule, I mean, that's a different story, but the IOC right now, that's the rule. So, you don't, so when you're depressed and you want to want to let go or you want to relax a little bit, you go out and have a couple shots of awkward or a couple glasses of wine and you're fine. So, I, you know, it, that's too pity drives me crazy. You know, and I don't, I think she's accepting it. She's accepted responsible. I'm not trying to say she's making excuses and, you know, it's saying, you know, calling you know, I think from what I think from what I've seen, she's accepted a federal and half the other people. Yeah, yeah, yeah, people. Because she knows. And the work, and the work, create the work, create scenes to be firing up all these bullshit and stuff about. She's like, look, I accept what I did and that's so. Right. And I thought that was very mature for, but for some reason, it bothers me so much that this girl who is amazing, and that she obviously dedicated a tremendous amount of her life to this, had this amazing ability, this gift to go to the Olympics. She's running the best, you know, races of her life now. And now she can't go for some stupid things she did. It's like, it's like my son, we want to take him to an out to eat. And it's the last minute as a temperatureman blows it for himself and now we can't know, you don't get to go out to eat. I feel the same way. Like, it's like, you know, I'm sure they didn't want to take it away from her, but you have to, because you know, you have a rule in place and you have to have to enforce the law. You know, and that's the way it goes. I know. Maybe she'll get lucky and now I'll postpone the game so we could two days ago. There you go. Maybe someone can release another strand of COVID out there in the same or, you know, exactly. Yeah, so could happen. Speaking about people you don't expect to compete. What have you been fond of this whole kind of green thing? Oh, yeah. So I brought that up before. Remember, on the last show we did. Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, now he's, you know, it's interesting because I did know, I, why didn't realize maybe it's about a, it's a better thing than that guy. And I saw this because George Farre posted on his Twitter, a picture that we just, you know, we just, you know, we just started rap, we just thought, I think he put like something to the degree of we just started, we just started, perhaps something like that for Ty Green. Let me see if I could pull this up there. Oh, but that could be prep for anything. Prep for a movie, prep for a movie. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And George is implying that they're prepping for something. So I don't know. Let's see. Hold on. Sit. I stole a Nick string from power. So he said, you got a baddie, where you got a set of baddie, what's up, make it. What happened? I don't watch the child. What did next pet should have been power out of it? And he said that Ty caught him out on something, but he wasn't going to reply on his station. So he did it on his vlog station. Oh, my god. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and these guy, he's got it. I'm not going to reply that he's, but I am replying to it. But I'm, yeah, I'm not going to reply here. So you got to join my other side too, to watch it. Now, but George, you know, posted this, you know, and that's a nice out feed. He's got nothing. Yeah, it is. He looks like he's going to be in the next edition of Game of Thrones. No, but George posted we started back four weeks ago in Kaiser, already looking freaky. You're great. I don't know why Kai would start working with George if he wasn't planning to get ready for something. Now, is he getting ready for a movie or is he getting ready to maybe compete again? I don't know. What do you think? I mean, now that I see this, that's different than Kai teasing it. Now you got George teasing it, too. You know? I'm still thinking maybe when he saw the red cone. Maybe in there there was a thing that he had to defeat, but I know people are complaining and talking about he should get an invite. So if he gets an invite, people are going to be pissed about that. So they're saying he should have to compete to qualify. So you've been in the right kind of pissed people off. Yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, Tyler Manniam said something last year to that degree that it wouldn't be handy. Heading out, it's special invite so easily this year. And so I don't know, that plays the Kai because Kai is kind of a special case. But I mean, he only has a couple of options to qualify. Right? We got Tampa coming up and what else? There's only like one other show I think. There's something like that. Yeah, because your Arnold's, the Arnold's not like maybe he's got to be Arnold. Even though maybe it was in the Arnold's. Right. Right. Now what do you do? Let's say Kai jumped in the Arnold's. Kai jumps in the Arnold's. He connects Laura and Laura and Vites him. He does the arm and he wins. Now if you're the Olympia people, don't you have to almost invite Kai to the Olympia? I mean, special invite him at that point if he's in the audience. He's like, yeah, I want to do it. I would then because even though it's not a qualified, he's beat a lot of people in the Arnold who are doing the Olympia. So to me, that would make okay of qualified. So he goes. But then those people who are in the Arnold who are qualified for Olympia, who we beat, they are going to be pissed if he goes to Olympia because they'd be like, that's not a qualifying show. You should be allowed to come to the Olympia. Well, what happened to the other person? Well, I think that's the given. They'd have to give a special invite as what would happen now. So I think at that point, if he actually put on the posing, Trump's got on stage one legitimately and then wanted actually to go to the Olympia because those are a lot of what if you know for Kai, you know, to have to get through a lot of hurdles that you got to jump through. But assuming that's what happened, you have to give the guy an invite. I mean, you'd be, you'd be, then would be crazy not to petition for an invite there because that thing is going to blow that Olympia up if he would show up, obviously. I don't know. Well, I said, you'd have a lot of happy people, a lot of unhappy people. So I would be like, well, looking at what it looked like. Looking at how it probably looked like. What do you think? I mean, do you think the Kai could, could win the Arnold? I mean, is he started the tool set? Well, I can't buy that for it. It's hard to say, but it still looks like he's got the thickness and stuff. And like I said, I'm sure, you know, he hasn't been, I'm sure he's probably been, I can't really say it. But you know, I'm sure he's probably been using a little bit, but I'm sure he's not going to the degree. A little bit. He looks pretty, you know, George said they started four weeks ago. I'm assuming that means that they're, you know, I can't. But I look at Kai for the last, Kai for the last few years, I was still pretty freaky and fickened, full. And I couldn't see him go on crazy on order supplements, just if he's not competing. So I'm sure he's just using a little bit of a mischievous, but maybe he wants to. That's a legitimate, you know, recent picture. That's not like Kai, he's a Kai claim to be crazy. He's already 17. Did you read this? Yeah, three. Hi, saying he's already 17. What's Kai? He's only five. No, I need to follow Nate. Five, nine. Yeah, I don't think he's three, 17, do you? Yeah, if that heavy bones. What was the lot of weight for a night five foot eight or nine person, right? And what's his heavy, you speak in post about two of my fan, off at six degrees. I got the fan going on the big car hold on. All right. Well, I mean, I think Kai used to compete about two, 55 when it was all said and done. You know, when he would suck out, he would start, you know, pretty high and then he would come down. I don't think he's ever been three, you know, three, 15, however. What's his contest white snowed me when he lost competed? I think he's in the 255 range in there. Yeah, so if he's two, 17, I mean, three, 17, look at that. Yeah, it looks like he's even put on a lot of muscle, or he's holding his shitload of water. I don't know what the case may be. I'm sure he's not that hard from behind. Yeah, but free 17 there. You know, they say it'd be on stage at two, 80 when you're so. No, I know. I mean, I thought you'd assume, right? I mean, I don't know unless he's, I think he's jacking up the weight. I don't think I think he's probably maybe three hundred there. Maybe, you know, maybe two, 90. Maybe I meant two, 71. They got their bit dyslexicus. Yeah, I bet you never know. Never know. But that's I'll say anything the cause talk, you know, we're talking about it. Okay, three, seven, eight. Wow. Well, I mean, you have to talk about it. If someone else would have left your officer on me, what's your army in the off season when he's not competing? I think they said he was three, four, any other day, but, you know, who knows? You know, let me get a free, hundred. It's a lot. Yeah. I asked the seat of this question, you know, a couple of weeks ago when he said that the ramming would not be, if he, if he couldn't be a ramming, but what do you think? Can, can, can, can, can, can I beat ramming? I think so. I think, yeah, cause like I said, ramming is big in areas and he's got the whip and muscle mass, but even when you look at someone even like Heidi, you've had he come in super shreddlandry, even though he's short, I think he could push Rami. There's a few people I think could push Rami, cause like I said, Rami's a big guy and that's what a big guy. But I think a really, really, really winkler in Christ condition could push Rami because they've really got that thickness everywhere and looks more like a complete bodybuilder. Like feel he fit his best could easily beat Rami. So it's like, you know, Rami's just big guy and he's impressive, but when you get someone that's just more complete and flows better, I think anyone could give him anyone like Kai or Roli or if and like I said, the little Bonak shredded, yeah, cause you're sure they probably would give it to him, but he looks more complete than me. Where's I said, Rami's a big guy, but I think some other people look more complete when they're in shape and shredded. What do you think about this picture, although when we pull this up, hold on. Probably not really winkler since we were talking about him. Look at this freak shot. That's that magic lighting again, I mean that same spot. I don't care, imagine getting anything. I mean, Kai is pretty freaking hard in that picture too. I mean, I don't think you're giving that higher on stage, was he? That's what I mean, how he looks, if he just tamed up and kind of little bit of water, I could walk on stage like that, you think you'd win it, it'd be top three easy. I mean, right? Unless I don't know if that picture is super filtered right now, but I mean, it looks to me, it's pretty freaking bad. Look at any of that, you'd think that's a classic winner there if he comes in like that. Yeah, who could beat him? I mean, he's like a crazy guy. So, a lot of what ifs, though, that's where we're finding out. The speculation is nice, but you know what, I want to bite the Kai green cookie, but I had to, at the same time, he's done this every single year for what for the last five years, dangling that little cookie in front of our face right before the Olympic. He always does it right before the Olympic, too. I would be more likely to believe it if it was a little earlier, but there's really not that much time left here. If he's to re-19, we have the fric is he going to get in shape, you know, to do a qualifier, you know. And the thing is, too, the Kai can get attention just being Kai, it's not like he's an easy attention. If you get a do it, just say you got to fucking do it. It's like, I'm sure to promote it, what you're going to do it now, so people can get excited and buy tickets or whatever. So, if you're going to do it, just say you're doing it, stop the speculation, you know, and it's because like, you know, Kai puts up a pizza, he's going to get attention. Kai puts up a video, he's going to get attention. So, you know, it doesn't need to say he's going to compete and get attention. I think that puts turns people off, they just start hating him. So, just say you're going to do the fucking show, just do it. You're in. You're in. I've spoken on the fore for July. The threat. I did see, I did see some people complaining about the fore for July about saying it wasn't good and that they're playing the race card again day, but you know what I think? When I lived in America, it's like, you've had a black president, you got black me, you got black people in movies, you got black people who are top athletes making millions. Look, if you're a black person, why does Spanish whatever, you can do anything you want in America today. You got the same opportunity, you lose the only thing holding your back, you think? That's it. If anyone's going to complain in America and they want to hold rallies and they want to have peaceful protests right. So, I mean, would be the naiky for American Indians. Why aren't they out there fucking boon and eluding and doing shit because they fucking had shit taken from them and we killed them all off. Is that enough in a month? That's what the problem is. They're too busy playing blackjacket that you see. You know, so we started. That's right. We gave them some casinos to keep them quiet for the ones that are still around. We were smart. You guys are going to have to do that to be the average. You guys are going to have to give the average and you can see now's over there. If anyone's kind of complaining in America, it should be the 90th American Indians, more than the black people because you black people have a 10 times better than the 90th American Indians. Shut the fuck up. I want to ask before you drive, take all your drive money from the downtown, and go to fight the casinos and support the 90th American Indians. That's right. Before we start talking about some of the thousands of times, I want to ask you more more questions about their European Union. Bill Cosmy, release from prison. What do you think about that? Good. I think it's great. And you're calling people to call in America a racist country. Yeah. Look at the bill. Think I want to privilege it in the. I still know why they released the bill. And you know the exact reason. Yeah, they said that the prosecutor before there was some deal done where it couldn't go to try or something. But really, look at Bill. And then the woman who said he raped this, she was at basketball or a stuff. She looked like a lesbian. Right. So really, if I was going to rape her, I would have to take the fucking drugs. Not give them the money because there was a lot of women that came forward. Also, you know, they're jumping on the bank. They're just jumping on the hunts the bullfane wagon. They're just jumping on the duck. I'll say this. I'm going to go and say this on the record. If Cosmy's out of jail now, if Sean Rodin gets the. It's putting prison. Yeah, I'm going to. The people should be outraged by that because I haven't seen one woman come forward. Other than the, the accuser. You know, well, when next week, it should be okay. We should see Cosmy and O.J. playing golf together. Hi, so I think you have. Yeah, he should. Yeah, oh, I know. Yeah, Rodin should hire a Cosmy's lawyer because Cosmy's lawyer obviously was pretty down. I'm going to be got about it. Yeah, there's something to do with that. It was never meant to have. I mean, I think that's something deal done before. So, you know, he did what it did to against it. No, I don't even know. O.J. and Cosmy should go live together. They should put him in a half way house together. I'm going to do a TV show to get a reality show. The juice, the juice and the drink. Yeah, exactly. I'm unbelievable. We live in such an insane society. There's no, there's no evenness across the board. Everyone's got their own little, you know, I know this first. I got that one. I'm going to get out of here. I got a bit of lawyer. I get money. Definitely helps get your office. It's like, no doubt. There's no white, there's no white privileges. Money, privilege. It's money, privilege. It's money, privilege. That's exactly what it is. You called it a matter. It doesn't matter what color you are. If you've got the money and you're white, you can put your kids in the best schools. You took out the money in your black. Your kids are going to the best schools. That's right. Money, that's not fair. No one has a question. It doesn't care about what color you are. You move into white neighborhood in your multi-millionaire. Welcome. Come on in. They don't care. Look at where you look around and order people to live in. White neighborhoods, but they say it's racist, but they don't care because they got order money. So that's a money thing, not the fucking privilege when it comes to the skin color. That's right. It's always good. But if you don't have money, forget about it. When I was in federal prison, I was in a very low, obviously I was in a camp. It was like summer camp. But there were guys in there that when you, let's say you get sentenced to 10 years in prison. When you're down to like only like a year or two left, they'll put you in a, if you're behavior yourself in your nonviolent criminal, they'll put you in a lower security prison. So I had a couple of guys in prison with me that were finishing out of 10 years sentence. And what are the guys was, when I first got there was sharing the bunk, he was like, I was on the top, he was on the bottom bunk. And I said to myself, you know, you're not really supposed to ask people, but you wine a basket of them. So what did you do to get here? Did you see him again? I was a black guy, you know, and he's like, you know, I sold like two bags of like crack or something like that, you know, and then washing, first of all, watching the DC is not really a state. So it's considered federal fence if you do anything there. The guy got 10 years, especially on like two bags of fucking crack cocaine. I mean, he had no money, he had a public defender, they took a deal and yeah, he got sentenced because it was like his second offense or something like that. But the point is, the guy was was not violent. He was a guy, he had a family, you know, he just, you know, he was taking the leg, he was lazy. That's all he was one of the so drugs to make money. I mean, it wasn't the right thing to do. But did he deserve 10 years in prison? No, no. You wouldn't think too. He would have looked at cash. He wouldn't have never done it in prison. I imagine if that was like Beyonce or Jayce, he's son, he got caught selling crack or little probation, you know. I'm not saying he would have been a slug. You would have seen him on the side with the, you know, picking up the garbage of the guys, you would have done like 20 hours of community service, he would have been done. And then he would have gone to reality show after that about it. Yeah, 10 years is like punishment should fit the crime of all I suppose. But the other, the other reason it should be 10 years would be like if he's done it before and done it before and he said some other robbery charges, you know, if you've got a little bit of violent different story, if you've got to list this long and they're like, look, mate, you've had this many chances. And this is the tenth time we've arrested you go on a way, but image of first, the fences like some of those ones that get put in there for selling marijuana and people like I said sadly, we'll black people get put in jail, but like I said, it comes down to an economic thing. They can't get good lawyers, defendants and all this sort of shit, whereas the white preppy kid that's going to a nice college and he gets caught selling marijuana long comes that who's probably in the turn anyway pays the right people is out. So it doesn't come down to privileges. It comes down what you said before, the almighty dollar. You call that you said it and that's exactly right. Right. Lee, please, that's good. On 24. What's that fucking Australian even doing talking on July 4th? It's not even American. That's right, not even American all there. All right, I wanted to just, I wanted to just briefly mention the Dallas Europa show is this past weekend. You remember when the Dallas Europa pro used to be like a big man's open body, you know? And that was one of the biggest numbers. I don't know why they got rid of open body building. I just don't. I just want to pay the price money. I saw a fight out of Ed and Betty still still doing the show. They've been doing that since. No, how long? Hell on there. They've started a long time ago. You remember, you started to use to be called the Southwest Pro show and then they then the Dallas, then the Europa distribution company teamed up with them and sponsored all their shows and they have Dallas or Lando. I don't know if they have any other ones. They used to have like one of Connecticut and then they moved, remember they had one year they had it in Atlantic City. But it was always men's open and it was like the big shows of the year. And I guess they just got sick of, you know, forking out that cash for the price money because they felt like the competitors were not appreciating it. But they still have it. They had the men's physique. This pair of baby, baby, too. It's a kind of a great shape that you can do. Most musculoskelet matter are as well as stick a tongue out. Yeah, I bet. Yeah, you know, Daddy, people don't realize. Betty competed well into our 50s and she was awesome. It wasn't like she was just going to win the show. Yeah, she was winning the show. Yeah, she was winning the show. Let me see. I don't think it's some reason this is not popped up. Let me see. Oh, it's going to be poem, baby. Don't know what. Yeah. I got, I took the bill cause me all, all of you get informed. I'm just going on. You know, you get, you get ads for rupees. Yeah. I have a trouble sleeping. Exactly. Oh, my God. You're funny. All right. All right. Ramp's. Let me see if I can get it. Not getting late enough to get to Viagra and free some of next. Thank you. Hard and key person. Yeah. Ramsey Ram's. What a name. Yeah. Last name is, if you guys look so nice, guys, I haven't really talked about it. Last name is Rams. Why would your parents name your Rams Rams? Rams. Well, I know some people are dying to like, pay to pay to say, I'm thinking, well, what when you come up with a different name that I'm going to pay you to say. You know, my, my, my, my, my, my, an ants name is Patty and, you know, Patricia. Lisa, so she was Patty Palombo. She said she got torch and school P.P. You know. So, so what I named my kids, I was very careful. I don't think that's an idea of the many names where there was the, you know, could be nicknames that were torch. Yeah, you did it. You did it on the polling polling polling polling polling polling voting for. Yeah, no, no two peas. You know nothing. Yeah. But it's not even, it's not even the two peas. It's just like when your first name is almost identical to your last name. Right. Really. Well, silly isn't they seen Ramses. If I'm pronouncing his first name, right? One here really, the guys had a really good physique. You know, men's physique, I just don't think gets the credit. It deserves because, you know, I think guys, I think people still think of it as like, all right. Well, it's not really, you're not really showing legs. I think if they want it, they were going to change the vision out there that they should put these guys in some kind of trunks. We can. In a straight into an assort of where almost like classic, we know where they were like the right. We got Arnold, the big Arnold posing trunks when they sort of like, in between shorts and posing trunks. Why not? They're not hitting poses, but they're at least, I want to see their legs and I want to see their legs flex in the standing relax position. I think that would bring a better, you know, because I saw a picture. I got to see if I could find a Brandon Hendrickson who's there. You know what, you know what would help them, too, is if they stop doing this. But yeah, some of the stuff on stage. Yeah, I'm just putting your arm at the side, but when they go twirly twirly, when they're doing fancy movements in the girls and that leg out to the side and the hand and the hand like this looks like a hook around sunset waiting for a trick to come down. So it's just like, look at me boys, I got my hand down boys, look at me. Look at me. That's what I mean, stop, stop doing that. Let me, let me show this is what I, this, I mean, this is why I think they got the right to winpier champion there, but imagine if you had Brandon Hendrickson. Okay, on stage with actually, you know, I mean, look, you guys got legs. He's the Olympia Champion, men's physique. He's got legs. Imagine if they caught him, Henry Hendrickson. Yeah, no, so just those little black, I said, you remember the little black hop skin shorts were true. I know, he's got legs. He's got legs. You should have legs, there's no reason why you shouldn't have legs. It's a good, but that's a little bit too deep. Yeah, if he had black tarts on you still see it, it'll taste, but not closing drums, just those little black shorts. Right, but I'm saying you do understand like he has now he has a complete physique. I think that's a much more number one marketable look. Number two, I think it would encourage more people and I think the, the division would be taking more seriously because you'd be like, Holy macro, that's what I want to look like. I don't want to look like a guy with a play, you know. Hey, you've just got rid of 50% of the gym, say, you know, I'm a little bit more expert. Am I, am I limiting the division league? If you just lost half of it. I just lost half of it. But he looks like it, it ends like he could do a good in class. Even. No, well, he, you know, he talked to me originally when I had interviewed him a few years ago. He was saying he wanted to go to the open eventually, but I think he would be a great class guy. If he wins the Olympia again this year, he should move up the classic just the proof. Because no, I don't think there's there's been no one to win right to divisions the Olympia and two divisions. I don't even know why they don't have like, when you see him in their board shorts that come that are knees, I'd say 80% don't have car up. So why don't they just wear like jeans. Right, they're right. They're like, as well, you may as well wear a long stand-ex pants or anything like that. I don't know what's up with that skinny jeans. They can wear those skinny jeans or like when you go to big Ford 250 truck and you put little ties on. That's what it looks like when they're skinny jeans on that of a big upper body and these little legs. It's just like when people have a big truck with little ties. Looks ridiculous. I don't know why they won't show them. They're, you know, change it so they can see legs on stage. I'm telling you, I think you'd be because they don't have legs, they just like if you're in a locker room in a sec. Oh, they don't let them let them make it to the in need legs. You know, I think that's the way to fix the division. Not that it needs to be fixed, but I mean, you couldn't hurt. If you don't have them, you're not going to show it. If you're in the locker room and you've got a porn star cocky, you're just going to rip your pants. But if it's cold and you've got to stack a quarter's, you're not taking your pants off in the change. I guess. I don't know. You never know. I just think that I think that we can add another level of like acceptance and a sport to the division. I really do. I mean, it's the only division in any of the division's men or women that we don't show the whole body. I mean, come on. Something's got to be something wrong with that. Something's thing. Yeah, they might have just let us head where the skinny jeans because the boys, short-skilled them, they use it half and don't have calves. So think of their money, they'd say, they've got a tank, they've got a tank, they've got a tank, yeah, for body then, you can say, I'm running. Look, she's having a legs. You know, I'm very impressed. I want to bring something. We don't usually talk about the women that much on the show. Unfortunately, because you only have so much time. But Jessica Padilla, first of all, I don't even have any show. She's one, but she's one so many figure shows over the last couple of years. I mean, this girl has got such, she can do women's physique easily if she wanted to. Right. She wins another show. She wins a European here again. I mean, this girl is kind of like what Milo's was to demand's by, she just competes over and over and over again. And she's always in shape and she wins shows. And, you know, she's clean and up this girl. I think it's, I mean, she's one of the few that are not afraid to get out there. And compete several times a year. And I wouldn't be surprised if she might even be a limpia champion. At some point, I'm not around about this year, but you know, she couldn't. She couldn't win the Olympia, you know. It's actually like, if you enjoy competing and you love to sport and women, women, you know, some do in the body building, but not I think women like her. They wouldn't be pushing any hard substances. So it's like, you could compete over and over. It just comes down to your mental strength and if you love doing it, if you love doing it like some women do, I've do it. They love getting out there because let's face it. A lot of women stay in shape, more than the men do. So if it's in preparing for a show, it would taste easier, but you know, then that much weight theory is to lose like some men do when they bulk up. So a lot of women prefer to stay in shape all year round. So if you can compete and do it, do it. She might become like the decks, the Jackson and the win or the titles. I think it's you, she's smart. I think that I don't know, I just think that a lot of people are not realizing that they have an opportunity if you're good to actually make some money. You know, and I just, I don't know. I think the mist is about, I really do, but you know, what do I know? All right, I want to talk about, there was also the NPC team, the University of Bethesda, who we mentioned earlier in the broadcast. And I'm not going to go through all the winter because there's a million winners and there's a million winners and there's a million people who got further. I just want to say congratulations, yeah, bro, because there was some great talent. I helped a lot of people in that show and I was been looking at pictures all week and long and people been sending me videos. And I was very impressed with the level of what was happening. I mean, you can peddle us. I mean, you can peddle us. I loved it. They have hundreds, hundreds. They might be a bit of a thousand. I don't know. But they moved the show. The most show was in South Carolina. It wasn't in New Jersey like it's then. They went down South Carolina because I think it's a little more lean down. But could a separate mind? They're reported on it. I know. I know. It was an impossible show to report on because there was so many people at it. But I'll say this, you know, bodybuilders could give a shit about holidays. You could hold these shows on Christmas weekend. And I guarantee you will not have one less. You might have more people because people all more work. I could do the show. You know, it's amazing how bodybuilders do that care. I remember when I did the junior USA in I think it was 1994 for the first time. It was in Chicago and it was on Easter Sunday weekend. And everyone's going to be going to be knowing there. And I'm telling you everyone showed up. It was a stack line up and you know, people went on. I actually wound up getting stuck. I don't know why I couldn't get a flight on Sunday. I left on Monday. And I remember the only thing open in Chicago was was McDonald's. They got because you know, I loved McDonald's. Yeah. After a show, you know, you want to eat. I must have eaten in McDonald's about six times. You know, you could have eaten Easterings. Well, I can now. It's not like a huge, I don't think so here. But on July 4th, the muscle to beach down at Venice. It always had a lot of competitors. Great crowd down there because you got tourists. You got the people that want to come see it. And it's always packed out the muscle beach. July 4th. Sure. And stuff and it's always great. So yeah. I just been. Yeah, you understand what I'm talking about. Bodybuilders, you could ask a bodybuilder. Oh, what's the heart? They wouldn't even know. I didn't even know when the holidays would fall. I was in my own little world. I was like, I'm going to the gym and you know it. And I always made sure I worked out of a babes gym here on long Island. I was on long Island. I was on long Island because he never closed the gym. His gym was open on Christmas. I, you know, I never went on Christmas. But, you know, sometimes I think I might have a couple times. You know, bodybuilders do not care what's going on around them. They, if they're on the world, if they have it off day, and they can sink it up with a holiday, then great. If not, they go into the gym in the morning before they go into the relatives. Especially on the works. I'll run the contati. If I was a promoter, I'd run the contests on July food. Some of the entry money that people paid in giving the next day. I have a seminar somewhere and I have a big July fourth bar because we've all to competitors. There comes a lot. Yeah, that's not a bad idea. Back in the day, Craig Kaiterson, Coach Kelly Ryan, was also the after fighting. People definitely showed up for those. That's for sure. Craig Kaiterson, did you show up? There was a lot of my bad accused of my place. Oh, did they really? Yeah. Yeah, you were, you were, Lee wasn't a party here, but he would definitely, there was a, there was an occasion where there was food being served. He showed up. That's for sure. I think I never went there. And the only after parties I went to were the ones that we had to go to. Like the VIP one off the stage. The VIP one off the stage. You know, like Wayne the Millionaire. Yeah. I don't wait to just leave the show go to the hotel. I'll have a quiet dinner. Lee won and I read the movie. They built back to the room and read the movie. Yeah, I think. Well, let me tell my guest post. Promote is what always. Frankly, because I'd go somewhere to get suppose. And it's like, hey, Lee after the guest post. You want to do one duty. You want to go out here and eat. You want to go to Strip Club. I said, no, I have to go back to my room. They were like, oh, great. That's so great. I can go home tomorrow. I want to. When we had such, when we had such and such here and such and such here. We had to go to Strip Club's right the floor in the morning. That's what I was going to do. They thought, they thought I was great. Oh, did you just take the way back to the hotel? Sometimes I didn't want to. Because I was not really for going out. So I might just if they say to what restaurant do you want to go to? I just like the hotel is going to restaurant. Let's just eat there. I'm close to my room. I can just go. Yeah, you're home. I can go on to the room. Yeah, you were smart. You were smart. Captain Trouble too. But I do want to mention one person just because you know, it's a good story. You know, I helped this girl Donna Sterling back in 1995. She won the NPC Junior USA Women's Body Building all rolling. If you remember, back then there was only body building. So it was a big show. And she went to the US. What? And she's still competing tonight. Well, let's just know, she went to the USA after actually placed top five and then, and then, you know, life happened. She had triplets, you know, she, I mean, life, she just didn't have time. She quit body building basically and didn't compete for 25 years. I don't even know if she, why don't think she even worked out. She was doing like a robust class. She was teaching and stuff like that. But she was, you know, she was taking care of her kids and raising her kids. 20 years late, 25 years later, you know, or was really 20 years later, she kind of contacted me. Said, I really want to get back to the competing. She wanted to do a figure show. I'm like, oh, god, she had no muscle left whatsoever. And, you know, I helped her because I had helped her before. And I was friends with her. And, you know, I was, I was, I wanted to, you know, inspire her. And she, and so every year she would compete. And she started adding back muscle and I said, you know, you're not a figure competitive. You're a women's physique competitor. You always were. If they would have had that division back then, you would have been a pro. I said, because she's all along the smaller side of women's bodybuilding. And so, you know, finally I convinced her to stop doing these stupid figure shows that she wasn't placing it. And she started doing women's physique and she was doing well, you know. And this year she turned 50. So she got to do the 50 and over division. And I knew, I just knew, I knew this was her year. So I said, there's no 50 year olds in the theater. And she won her pro card and it's a great story because I mean, she, she was a single mom. She got divorced from her husband. She had, she raised triplets in herself essentially. They just all graduated this past year. And it's a good feel good story, you know, the kind of end the show with the, the, the take home message here guys is never quit. Never give up your dream. It's never too late to accomplish what you really want to accomplish in life. And I'm sure, for a, of show for a woman to a guy make it a comeback because we have testosterone. We can pump the Gary mole. I'm sure it's so amazing. But if you're a woman like you said, you've been going through child birth with three kids and raised them. Just your female hormones and stuff. I'm sure it's a lot harder for a woman to make a comeback after 20 years. And you're struggling imagine what triplets do to your midsection, don't leave. Please imagine what triplet study of fucking minds. And the great thing is her kids were all there with it. And then she says to me after the show, she's like, I think my daughter wants to compete. You're going to have to help her. Next generation. The next generation's coming up and what once again, feel good story and it just lets you, you know, just goes to show you, you know, never like all of your dreams. Because even life happens and stuff gets in the way. Always keep in the back of your head what you ultimately want to do it. And you can get back to it, you know, obviously it's. It didn't come back to her the way she thought it was going to happen, but she got back to it. And the funny thing is it took her a while to put that muscle back on like you said muscle doesn't come back so easily when you're older. But I mean you're going through that now with the you know with the surgery you had and trying to get that right side of your body up to par with the left side, which by the way, before I end the show. Everyone's been asked me. I've been answering questions on ass day will leave pre-spean on stage in 2022. Who that is? You want, I've been telling people you want to do it. I'm going to, I'm going to people, I'm going to have people hate me like, can I agree? That fuck is just keep saying. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but you've got to start putting some shots up for yourself now. You've got to say taking some crazy posing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What I can. Hang the, hang the Mr. G cookie out there for those. Hang it. Oh, I don't reminds me. I got to go do a Mr. G eating the chocolate video for him. Oh, yeah, he, he, especially after the, what's going on with him in big learning now, which we'll talk about and after hours. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, tomorrow on Tuesday night. I'll choose that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, anyway. I'll have to come on and off the hour show one day still. Yeah, if you can get you up early enough. Well, you, you always wake up. You know, I got to say if I tell Lee we're going to do a show, he'll wake up at one in the morning and do it. You're, you're pretty good like that. But I don't know if I would have given up my sleep. So, so generously, as you do. Oh, you know. But you know, you're from that school of thought. You, when you were in California, you would get up at like probably four, five in the morning anyway. I was in the morning anyway. I was in the world, Jim, at five. Yeah, yeah, so you're used to that. You like that. I still want to do video. I said, the only ones you had to bid are right now. I'm being the criminals. We know it. I've gotten up early. I've been getting up a lot early because my kids now are in school and everything like that. And I will say this, you get a lot more done earlier. You start you, you know what to stay up to three in the morning, like I normally do since you get all my work done. I can, I get up at four. I'll get up at breakfast, take the wash to work. I'll try and I'll do laundry or clean the house that I sit there. I'm like, oh fuck, it's only 10 o'clock. What up? That, but I understand, I understand what you're coming from being a doge. And you can go to sleep in a normal time assuming that, you know, you know, I don't want to scream kids in the house. I start, I start those and off about eight, thirty, nine watching TV. Don't just go to bed. Yeah. I'm looking forward to the open-to-new crunch fitness here in the Kate Coral. So we're going to sign up for that. Now, all my kids will be in school officially starting at the end of August. So once that happens, we're going to take turns my wife and I going to actually going to a real gym and training. And if I get my training done early in the day, then that's another thing I don't have to do in loving a clock. I can't wait to offer hours and two months time or date. Welcome to our expressel. I got a ring. My wife and I have just joined crunch fitness. I've been there for a week. And I got fucking COVID. I got so fucking time. First time out in the house, like I back to a gym and I got tired of it. You know, I'm the kind of person that I do like to talk to people, but I don't go, I'm not like, I'm not a, like, I'm not like, When I go to the gym, I try to stay away from everyone. Do people come up to me and ask me questions, I'm sure that I've asked you to, but I don't socialize with a lot of people at the gym. I go to work out and I love that. And that's, you know, if you start hanging out with people and, you know, for two, three hours, yeah, of course you're around, you know, you, you, you yourself open to, you know, a bigger risk, but I'm just, I'm in and out. I don't even want to, to be honest with you, I don't even want to go to the gym. If I had all that equipment in my house, I would never, even leave my, I would never put it to every month. Exactly. That's a possibility later down the road, but right, I'm not really going to get there. But anyway, we're running out of time. Lee, I want to thank you for taking time on your, I can say, well, hopefully your Monday, so it's not really just something. I don't feel too guilty of taking away you weekend, but Happy Monday, where are you? I know you're a transplant. And thank you. I expect, I expect to have you birthday tomorrow when it's your birthday. I start your birthday yet. So, morning, when you maybe should come on to, after hours, you birthday. Would be my birthday when after hours is on one. Yeah, so when you come on for after hours, you're birthday. I want Mr. Judy to have a cake. You can have a little birthday cake for you. How old are you going to be? 49. 49. Well, next year's the big one. So, you can do master's national. I don't know. I'm going to marry up in a 50. You actually might have to actually recall fighting your pro car who knows, right? I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I got to wrap this up guys. I hope you have a great great point. The July of my, I'm very patriotic today. Here, Lee's very patriotic with his shirt on. And as we say every week here at heavy muscle radio with heavy muscle radio. The truth. I'm sorry. Yeah, sorry guys. You're not going to. Let's break.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. What's up with that Dave? I want to know. People who have been oppressed for a long period of time, they deserve, don't it's have never been oppressed? They've always been championed as being the greatest food of all time. Don't hurt those who are killed more people with cholesterol, fat, and ate, and so don't hurt them. Get a whole month. That might be true, but we still glorify them. And it's true, it's true. It's true. I've done fat checking on that. I've done some experimental research yourself on that. I have. I've been totally, I've been the fouls of donuts and maybe suck two cups. I'm almost balanced in the out. I suck it through and don't not hold two. I had the no sugar in the morning. I'm sure you're good at this with the cream filling. I know that black men have a cream filling for you, right? I'm so small like any clay. All right, I got to bend to a couple of things because number one, we bought this bunk bed for my son, but two weeks ago. We're in the rooms to go and we found the bunk bed. He wanted whatever, and we ordered it. I'm like, when are they going to be able to deliver us? Well, we can deliver tomorrow. I'm like, wow, what's up? Of course, it comes the next day and one of the pieces is broken. So they can't put the bunk bed together because obviously it's scratched and it dented. It looks like someone must have dropped the box. What are you going to do, right? So I used to find they said, oh yeah, we'll put the request in and they'll deliver another one. We have to wait two weeks. Two weeks to a kid five years old was like two years, right? They have a concept. So he's been driving us crazy. Everybody's the bunk bed coming. Finally, today it was supposed to be delivered. He's in school now. The bunk bed comes. My wife goes out there and they give it deliver it. It's not in the box. They have it shrink wrapped with plastics. So I'm assuming, you know what, it must have just, you know, in the factory taken it out of the box, right? And inspected it because they figured, well, you know, the last one they had on the store. I don't know what it was. They take the plate. My wife says before they even take the plastic off the guys on the truck like, oh, and she's like, it's like wobbling already. Like, haven't even taken it out of the plastic yet. It's wobbling already. And so she takes out, of course, it's damaged in like a million places. And so we call that, we call up rooms to go. And we're like, you know, nothing, nothing. My son's sleeping on a mattress on the floor. You guys told us one day, now we're going to go on another two weeks. You have to deliver another one. And I said, what the freak's going on here? Oh, we're sorry. I'm like, why would you put something? It's not even in a box. Can't someone in the warehouse take a look at the thing to see if it's damaged, especially it just set one already that was damaged. I don't know. No one knows. No one knows what the problem is. It's unbelievable how crap. If the bed's at wobbly, scrap, they start play at East Fidja. Whatever trouble you need to sacrifice for a lawsuit at them sleep on the bottom. That was an uncracking day. That was an uncracking day. You know, thinking of my meat, you can own rooms to go whatever it is. You know what the problem is? No one gives a crap anymore about anything. Yeah, they don't. It's like the, you know, this is what people ask me, date, how can you not have a warehouse for your species, nutritious products? I said, you know why I don't want to deal with dumb people who have to work in the warehouse. And now I'm not saying all people work in the warehouse. It's a dumb. There's plenty of very smart people in this very adept. I don't want to deal with these people because it would drive me crazy if someone's sending out damage product to other people or they're not inspecting things. Because no one cares about the job. They just kind of throw it in the truck. And that's it. And so that's why I have a fulfillment warehouse. This way they send out something that's damaged. What did they do a lot? I can scream at them because it's not my responsibility. You know, I can simply talk to you. No one, you know. And they have to pay for it. Anyway, that's so I feel bad for my son, you know. Well, nobody, but it's true. Nobody does what I work anymore. I went down to get my code that shot and Sidney. He had a job right at busy street in Sidney. And you know, the traffic control is at the have. I see it on the top of you to go into the department store or just normal stores. The man in a young kids working, you don't want to work. They're on their bloody cell phones and shit. This woman's controlling traffic on the main business street. As I walk past that, as she's got the sign control. She's like, okay, yeah, then I'll meet you at the bar about eight o'clock. And then they get the girls together. She's ever in a private conversation. Why she's controlling traffic on the busier streets and Sidney? I think it was you. Where's your focus at? Am I just like the car dashed? She's like those girls all done up? I'm just like this and they're like, I'm actually like the hair on the gun. It looks like she's ready to go straight from work that a bloody bar. But I think you're never going to have to have private conversations in more cows and shit like that. You see it all the time. You walk into a store. I've seen the kids on their phone. You walk into this, look up in your. It's just like, may I help you or come and give you service? They just like, okay, thanks. But I've yet to want to where you actually have been. Even at the gym once. I'm waiting for a priority that we get a priority in drink. And the girl on the camera is talking about something she can do on the weekend. So I can hear it's a private phone call she has to go. I've always been a minute. Okay, yeah. Well, how do we go here? Yeah, there will meet there too, on the gun. You're fucking work. I ain't got to throw the phone call and come and fucking serve me. So fucking rude. Yeah, no, it's terrible. But yeah, if you say anything, you want to fucking ruin the day. Right, right. I had to build a nut Tyler. So I'm leaving out of this guy. I've had employees who used to watch porn, you know, in between doing TV shows. I had to be like, I just get this. Why we made it. Any TV? Who we edit the TV show, please. He's turning the porn off, you know. I don't know what you're looking at toilet, but I could hear you breathing. It. Tyler only has Tyler brings his new puppy into work. Which, who's very, who's very well behaved. They're much okay. Bring stuff puppy and okay, that's what you want to call. Listen to. All right, dude, what I really want to talk about today, the thing I really want to rant about, not about the broken bunk beds or anything like that, I want to go crazy a little bit about this whole Olympic situation. And I don't know if anyone's been following. So I'm going to kind of present the case as if no one knows. But there's a sprinter. She's an 800 meter runner that's two times around the track. It's a half mile called her name is Caster Semagna. She's from South Africa. And she's the Olympic champion at the 800 meters. And she has an interesting, I guess you could say, a genetic disorder. She's an biological female. So she has an XX chromosome, but she produces high levels of testosterone. It's called hyperangeneamier, something like that. And she just happens to produce higher levels of testosterone in her body. But she is, you know, female in every way. Now, she looks a little masculine, okay. And so I think a lot of people, that's why they got suspicious of her. Hey, she's winning all these races. She looks like a guy. I think most female athletes, they talk female athletes. They most sports, they prefer to be even fighting. And then if you look at them, a lot of them, even like weightlifting, the ones that are female, doing a lot of masculinity. Because the hormones are probably higher. Right. And that goes, you know, sports, even some of the top Olympic runners, like you said, but even some of the pole volatars and shit like that, they have a lot of masculine type features in them. If you say to hit that, they can almost look like a... And Lee, that's why a lot of these athletes are better than everyone else because their bodies genetically are better. They're just like a bodybuilding. Is it unfair that, you know, that Jay Kotlin had shoulders out here or that Ronnie Coleman had, you know, arms, you 20 and charms before he even started training? No, I mean, that's just genetics. That's, that's why some athletes are better than others. It's not a, it's not a level play. Well, in bodybuilding, they should have done their tests because I have naturally high test shots, right? So if you get me or you have Ronnie, they say, your test is too high, okay. So in the off season, your only allowed to take 200 milligrams to see. Right, well, let's say, let's say, drug testing in bodybuilding. And would it be unfair for someone like you or Ronnie who has high test shots thrown to compete? No, I mean, that's, you're not. You know, well, when I did, when I was younger, I had to do the world championships because it's drug testing. I actually had a letter from my doctor saying my testosterone was higher. And that's why my mother, when she started training, her testosterone was higher. She had to take estrogen to keep it in my whole level down. Wow. When she started training with whites, she stopped the estrogen and we've eight months. She wanted her shirt and she wanted the cup of sweat. She needs her. So funny. Please, a liar. He's just juicing. He's trying to make up excuses. Why, you know, and then I got my mom on the juice. Yeah, I mean, we should do it in 13, you know, a family that juices to give her stays together. So anyway, think of the kind of exchange. Maybe it was with your mom. That's right. That's right. That's right. To get back to the story. So what they rule that if she wants to compete in the Olympics again as a woman, she has to take angstrom blockers to lower her levels of testosterone. Which is to me ludicrous because that's her genetics. But, and then here's the rub. She can compete, they said, at distance races. Why they felt that the high testosterone is more of an advantage in the sprint races. But not in the distance races. I have no idea. The reason they said that was because obviously she's a sprinter. And I know she's tried to actually qualify for the Olympics at the 5,000 meters, which is 3.1 miles on the track. And I'll tell you something. She's a sprinter. Her time, her best time, which was 15 minutes and 32 seconds, is pretty much my best time. When I was a runner in college, that's pretty impressive that she's still that good. And I, you know, most men are much better than women. So she's still good, but she's not good enough to be an Olympic champion. Obviously it's 5,000 meters. So the question is why would they make heart take angstrom blockers? But yet they have this Olympic lifter, Laurel Hubbard from New Zealand, who was a man up until a company strategy. And now at 43 years old, this male power or Olympic lifter is now a woman, Olympic lifter, and it's going to be able to enter her first Olympics. And obviously probably when because she's beaten really much everyone else. I mean, because let's face it. We have a lot of people out because we get done in the New Zealand's close to us. We get done in the New Zealand. A lot of people are actually talking about boycotting somebody. Other women wait lists of talk about boycotting it because now she's coming. Well, he who's now a sheet coming has broken all these records that have been set by women for years. This man now comes in, says he's a woman, and he's plastered all these records. And now he's actually, I think, going to the Olympics, but yet he stopped an actual female from taking that spot and going to the Olympics. So there's an actual female, so it's ridiculous. And, you know, he can take estrogen blockers, whatever. But it's still like, he takes estrogen. He's still been locked 40 odd years of man, so he's got the muscle days, he's got the ball and the density is totally different. It's tendons. It's the male, the male make up, it's different. So in the matter of what he takes, he's still going to be stronger, sadly than the actual female. I can't help people. That can take out. When bodybuilders, you know, when you go off a cycle after a showly, and you know, sometimes you go for testing and you'll, your testosterone levels will be like, like, 10. There'll be like a woman's, right? Because your body crashed and it hasn't turned itself back on, sometimes it never does. And I don't see these guys. They're still lifting the same weight that you're maybe they're going to weight drop 10 pounds, right? Exactly. You might just cry a little more while you're lifting the weight, but, you know, he got emotional. But apart from the strength wise, it doesn't really go anyway. Oh, or do you have a little more daily reaching for something? I'm reaching for my pistol. No, the point is, no, for the cocky. The point is that how they could feel that this is ach. In other words, they think because the levels of testosterone in their body at that moment when they're going to be tested are below a certain amount. That that makes the two of these athletes equal. And you and I know that that is so ludicrous. It's such an arbitrary way to decide who competes with a woman who competes with a man. It's almost like it's insulting to the intelligence of the athletes and to the fans, I think. I won't get to you, she's got a good court case because a lot of the testing is raining. So let's just say there's 20 people who are in her running divisions. Well, let's say it is like more in the 100 meters 200 or once she can't do. She says she wanted to do 100 and the 200 and the 400 or 300. But she can't do it because they say a hormones are so high. They haven't tested every other woman in those divisions. They know some of them women don't have higher hormones as well. It's like if you're going to be a legal hurry, you should test everybody. That's the point that you can do it. Because they don't test what they do is they test for synthetic steroids, which they look from a tabloid to the urine. And then they don't do blood testing and then they test for the ratio. So in other words, if you took a shot of testosterone exoginously, your epit testosterone and testosterone ratio would be off. That was the only thing that they'd be able to tell. So they could tell someone was taking his eye on his testosterone. But if there's another woman like her who produces excess testosterone, maybe just not as good as her and she's coming in second and third place, she's still fine. Because they're not, if you're going to tell her that she's got to go for testing, just because she looks a little masculine and people question whether she was a woman or not. We know she is a biological woman by the way. You've got to test everyone. Otherwise it's not fair. Because they could be other women like her with hyper-engineeringemia. But that we just don't know because they're not as good and athlete as she is. Exactly. So that's like it's stopping someone. They're like, naturalized in a village. Like look at, I'd be just looking at the makeup because they're strong in their quick. Look at the serenas, this is the me. They're hormones are probably, when you look at the question they're looking at. So what's the tennis plays, they say well excuse me, you can't play tennis because your hormone level is a naturally high degree. I mean the other girls playing. Exactly. We've got to take your titles back and stuff like that. That's ridiculous. It's like what you can't put a damn for having the natural ability. Look, you know and I know and let's call it like it is, Ely. If this woman, okay, had glamped herself up with hair extensions and makeup before they were no one would have seen, people would have thought, oh she's beautiful. She's got nice feet and she just doesn't, you know, she doesn't really do much with herself. And she looks a little masculine because she doesn't have long hair and she doesn't put a lot of makeup on her face. But if she did all that glam, no one would question it whatsoever. You know that. I was like, what's the name too? I'm sure, hopefully, there are a whole bunch of higher. When you used to watch from Ronda Razzy fight, she was very manny, she's in the face and stuff. But then when you see around the event when she's glant, luckily she's actually a very attractive girl. But when she had fight and hair was just put on her face, she looked like a very... Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, she had very manly features. You know, to stop a natural woman from competing like that, she'd have to have some sort of lawsuit against them. Because that's just ridiculous. Like, or you're almost too good because of your genetic ability, we have to, you can't do this. But yet, this guy that used to be a guy who's now a female, you can go compete with the women. Like, how stupid is the world becoming? I would like to put it out there because I don't have time to do this. But I want to tell big ladies, people out there, you guys are watching. Get landing and put away the women. And I want you to... They can look like that Laurel Hubbard girl and have them do it like a parallel thing thing and say that I'm entering the Olympics as a woman. I decided I'd be coming a woman now. I can't win the Olympia as a man. I'm going to compete as a woman, parallel if they're... If you put a wig on a lady, I guarantee it he'd be more attractive than that Laurel Hubbard from New Zealand. I'm sorry. I'm so pretty. I saw a pig. Like, something about power with this anyway, look pretty. We remember when Ben Francis back in the day when she was a pal, if the show was like, massive. That's like, you know, I remember, was out of the show once and someone told me to story where someone was behind her. Someone actually thought it wasn't God. It said, excuse me, sir. And she turned their end. That was beef because back in her day when she was pal, if they knew. How? If they knew it was so solid, like I mean, solid. She really, you know, she didn't like that. She didn't glam herself up like she did when she started entering the Olympics. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like pal. It's like if it's shit about my stuff and shit, you just go on the lift of weights and stuff like that. So I thought like girls that go to the gym these days where how's it the gym the other day? I swear they must spend like two hours prepping for the gym. And 20 minutes into gym. I mean, the hair extensions are done. They got the latest clothes on them. They got some paints, the big eyelashes, the lips and makeup are all done. And every set they walked in the mirror. I'm sorry. But even if I got that lucky about the Olympics too, it's like I always respect the female athletes. But when are your women going to stand up for yourselves? Look at beach volleyball. Guys wear shorts and a tank top. The women down beach volleyball. And you see what they wear. They wear the tiniest tines little paints that are up there. And when they go on to hit the board, the cameras are right behind them. These little tops. These little tops. Look at the pole-folders now. Men wear shorts and a tank top. Women now, they have every time you see pole-folding or any type of women's sports on there. It's always got to do with a sexual video because they got the tiniest shorts on the barman these little tops. And they're just suit them. And they're like, no one's watching for your sporting ability. Even though you're great, they're watching because they're like, you know, when the men have the shorts and tank tops on, okay, so we know the clothing, that restrictor ability. So why do these women get the inskemptious, skimpy clothing just to get people to watch? It's marketing, yes, they're marketing, that's why. But they want to do what they want to be recognised and known for our sporting achievements. But you're not, you're being noticed, be as snatch as you go and open a high jump. That's like, you know what I'm saying? You know, look at Jean-Marie Crock, you know, Matt Crock, who used to be Matt Crock. I mean, if she's a parallel, if they're, I mean, if she compete and she says she would never compete as a female because she doesn't think it's fair, which I completely, you know, back in her part, I think that's really cool for to say. But she's on Andrew Blockers, if she competed as a woman, she would break every parallel thing record, known to man. She would have all the records and she would win every means she did. But she knows that that's not cool. That's that it, that there's no achievement in that. And so I can, I really respect her for that. I mean, but there's, there's people at the elite that want to make money and want to be celebrities. I mean, what does it really take to go in the Andrew Dream Blockers for a year? Do you, how much you'll see you think it would take away from you? Let's say you're like a, a top tier male Olympic left there, maybe not at the, at the, at the top 10 edge. But close, you take Andrew Blockers for a year. You're going to be everyone in the record. There is, you know. I can, I can do anything. Let's look at, let's look at Bruce, Kaitlyn Jenin, now imagine when he won the gold. Right. Let's just cite a year or two after that 80 saw the be a woman then. He was on Andrew Blockers. He was on Andrew Blockers. He was taking estrogen for a while. And then he decided he, did you know that? I don't know if you knew that he was going to transition. But then he, he did want to embarrass his kids when they went to school. So he just, he put it off and he went off the estrogen block, estrogen and the end of your blockers. So imagine if he had a go on into the Olympic spectator, but a one is a woman, a good of one as a man easily. He would have won the hat. Tothalon, it would have been a breeze from, you know. But that whole thing about that woman, you sort of coming down on her just because of a natural ability. That can't be right. It's just like, what you penalize is bullshit. It's bullshit. It's bullshit. Let's call it. It's bullshit. You know what I'm saying there. This poor, you know, this, she should be able to defend her Olympic title. It's just absolute bullshit. And you know, like you said, these athletes, these women athletes have to say, you know what? We're not competing. But they won't, you know, why? Because they see it as an opportunity. Let all these other girls not compete. And we'll jump in there and take their place. It's a bunch of opportunities. People, that's why there's no organization. There's no unions. Because these people are too selfish to stick together. And the side thing is if she was American, you know, that you'd have lawyers like that. Probably cause she's from South Africa, Africa. They don't have that exposure. But if that was in America, that would be on the news saying you'd be in being from this being. Yeah. This is what I want most American runners to go to Africa and that in South Africa and train because I've seen the people in America train. They run around the track. They got camera crews taking things that are going to get a Nike contract. They don't have their hard in a day. It's not even. You go to Africa to train where these great runners come from. Sprinters long distance runners. You go to Africa and if you get a fucking line behind the night, it's the best training. It's the best training you can fucking get. Fight or fly. You got a fucking run and run and run and run and run and run and you got to out through these fucking lines. Yeah. I don't know if you remember. Back in the late 80s, mid to late 80s. I was really into distance running at the time. And all of a sudden this country that no one had heard of, it was called Dizhibudi. I don't know if it still called that. It was an African name. Buoyage. Dizhibudi. Jibudi, all these African runners were coming out of there and they were winning all the marathon and everything like that. And people like, where did these guys come from? They weren't even runners. Lee, they used to run 20 miles back and forth to work every day. Because they had no cars or no transportation these guys. And they said, you know what? Let's put a fucking jersey on these guys and see what they could do in the marathon. They put a minute in the winning marathon these guys. They weren't even in through training. They wanted to get to work in the morning. you know. Exactly. So there's the difference in motivation. As I said, Africa, you got a lion tracing. Yeah. America, you got the police car chasing. And they were running down foot. We didn't even have shoes on. They put these guys in 90 shoes. They improved their time like, you know, by like, two minutes. Could you imagine putting a Nike Perry shoes on? Like that. Oh, what's some of those documentaries? You see some of those families walking 10 miles just to get water. Absolutely. And if you got to get the work done time, you wake up late. You got to run, right? You don't, you can't walk the work. And people do forget those. Some of those tribes that live out there in Africa and different places. Like I said, that 10 mile trip. You still do have wild animals on the way to the dam. Right. They got a deep sight. They got to run. Yeah. Exactly. So you might have to walk a bit. And there's a cheater. I got to do a little bit of a sprint. That's called interval training Lee. We call that interval running here because we don't know how to. We have to like actually train people there. That's that's how it worked. That's actually they put it long distance and sprinting due to the dangers. And they're against a good at sprinting and like sort of high. We've been to McDonald's drive through. That's what we sprint through. Yeah. No. You got to sprint from block to block when the cops are chasing the occasion. You got to go over the old fence. The backyard fences. That's what the hurdle. That's how you train the hurdles. So you see the difference. What the training is. If you're if it's a big fence, you might have to use a stick and then that's the pole ball. Right. Exactly. Or just high jump. You can only have the backwards. And then when you're laying in that yard, you got the dogs. Did you know who invented the the backward high jump? Because you know, these to jump forward over time. Who was the guy who claimed? You know who was the first. Frisbee. Was it free? It was called the falseberry flop. It was that was the guy's name. Fallsberry was his last name. Where did Frisbee drop come from? I don't know. I always heard of the Frisbee flop, but maybe I'm making that up. A falseberry flop. He jumped over backwards. And he found you can go, you can go higher that way. They all thought he was going to get to you first. You know, as funny, because when I clicked on YouTube this morning, speaking to high jump, the first thing that came up in order things was just to get he sane. Same about Wednesday, the right time doing he eats. Haven't heard that shit yet for two tears. Some day Palamba guy, the right time to go and eat. Seven, missing for that shit yet. Yeah, but it was a picture of a girl standing in little shorts. It had a name there, something quite juggle. Brakes high jump record. But what it showed up, it just showed from a knees up, or bumped into the middle of a back. It just showed her bum in these little tight shorts. You don't even get to see a face. I'm like, well. And they put the, I just think they had the pole folding on the other day. And same thing, the cameras are just zooming in on the, you are right, the pole folding out. It's those women are wearing her outrageous nowadays. You know, they're pretty crazy. And you're going to see when those poles step sometimes. You're the occasion they snap and they just, I'll tell you something. I pulled off it a little bit in high school. And this with the poles that don't bend, I didn't go that high. So I never got to the bendable poles. It's very scary. It's, I'm afraid of heights. So it was not, it was not a good thing. You're pretty freaking high. And you know what, if you missed that map, you're going to, you're going to seriously hurt yourself and break your arm or something like that. You know, fall on the ground. I always think it too. How many people have done it during training and actually missed that. Because you got to get it right in that spot too, that whole. Yeah, it's a mental ramp. It's, as long as you hit the, it hit the thing, it goes in there. But the problem is that if you don't get up enough speed, you could fall backwards onto the, onto the ground, you know. I don't have to put air around it. So I got lead. It's the sucker gal over. Do you know that when, when I was running track, they said that no one would ever break 20 feet in the high jump. And then, sir, sir, yeah, a buck, buck, I think it was from Russia, broke the 20 foot. And they said they thought that was a miracle. I, this guy is like in high school now who are doing almost 20 feet. It's incredible how once a person breaks a barrier that all of a sudden, all these people can do it again, you know. It's, it's a miracle. And it just goes to show you that a lot of things that can't be done right now is because there's a mental, this is laughing against crow now. Yes. Oh, there you go. Your frozen the whole time. Oh, here we go. What's your, what's your, what's your, it doesn't matter. You're back, you're back. My point is that, the money sometimes inhibits our bodies from doing what we, we can really do. And I think that sometimes it people think they can't do it. They can't do it. That kind of thing. Again, here's from Russia. It jumped 20 feet pole voting. The Berlin war was night's pain feet. So we had that try. Yeah, that's it. That's it. Just just look where people come from and how they try. It's like it's just it equates the that sort of stuff. Yeah, I think of all factual. Can you ask your fans to make you one of these? I have one of these. These, uh, good. Good to, uh, strict vitamins. The cold. I think you should make it. Get to Lee priest. And you just stretch him. He's stretcher. They're cool. Can you put, can you put, Sunny? You can be pulling. You know, they won't, you know. I can put me between my legs and put it. There you go. You could tie it. You can tie it. I got a chance with it with the piece of. It's cool. It's cool. It's a whole lot of shirts too. I see. I almost wore that shirt. I'm glad I did. We would look like, you know, gay guys. I'm gay pride there. Well, let's watch. What's wrong with gay pride there? It would be nice. I think I'm sure. I'm not fucking real man. I'm a yaki today. I'm a yaki. Tile is probably wearing his rainbow bright t-shirt. I'm not sure. My dog is. Oh, I'll read your show. Do I got the Tile? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's my favorite old school shirt. Actually, I like the Coca-Cola. I might wear it on Adam Corolla later on. That's in. I'll try you doing that today. It's afternoon, right? That's my suit, Chiver. Not. Now I'm doing it at 6.42 a.m. now I'm doing it at 8.15 a.m. So not that long away. So yes. Right. No, you. I want to be. I want to be. I don't know this study on me to look out for what I do when she He's probably going on the YouTube. Oh, holy shit. I got a loose camera. Yeah. He's like, Oh, no, he's like, oh, shit. I'm going to get the monetized. Oh, man. Look. If I can find my be from him. Yeah. As soon as I put the word Lee priest in and I hit said, YouTube automatically. I have to hit review. They have to, I have to send it to review. They automatically say it's not suitable. You can appeal this. But, and well, I'm completely the same. But I put my name on. Let's go by John Smith from there. I showed him how his John Smith. We've got my leave in the kitchen from now on. You're a real name. Yeah, I'm a kitchen. Yeah, but the sweet. The monetized straightaway. Just going to think. Yeah. I think sending a review. Why was this the monetized? Even shows I didn't swear on. There's like Trump and then leave priest. Yeah. That's incredible. Yeah. I'm believe it. I saw people like the Gandhi show in a poor guy. It guy's been sending me to farm to sell. So I went in and out. Guy still with us. Oh, he's still on. That's good. I saw that you're going to be on his grundy. What's it called? Maverick. Yeah, I'm doing it. I'm doing it. Can me. I'll be like he's the coitress talking to him. Given him positive motivation. Well, I wouldn't know when is that going to film? Soon, I think. Soon, he sort of give me a give me a rundown of sort of a script thing. But then, you know, maybe I hear him. Like this is the idea that you just go through. Oh, you're allowed to improvise in other words. That's good. Dave, look, maybe as a positive motivator. Like comes natural. I'm sick. You're like, sir, Lawrence, you're like sir Lawrence Olivier. You have to be able to, you know, just express yourself. Yeah. Exactly. I think you're like the lines. If you're in the lines, I'll look at the lines again. I got it. And then I start with what they said. The first word. Paid. And then the rest is. Yeah. You're like William Shakespeare. Just flows out of you. I guess. All right. I'm like, well, I'm like William Chapman. There you go. Now, you'll let us know how Adam Corolla goes. And maybe you can ask Adam if you can get a little clip of the show. So we can kind of put it up as a teaser to get people to go watch the show over there. Maybe he'll do that. I think it's a show. It's had like, oh, they gave me a list of what a people have been on there. I mean, like, very high up people in sporting and movies. Yeah. And why they got me on, I don't know, because I don't think that his categories are so that he's not that scientists. But hey, what? Maybe they're going to high end of the so long. They've had a lot of these smart brilliant people. Yeah. Let's get on a dickhead. And they said, well, we're going to be doing this setting you up for like a to be like the foreguer for some weird debate to having something like that, you know. Oh, it's a double wish. I never did that. They were like, we saw that video. We did with the black mask. Let's get him on. You know. Do you have that he's a short ready. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I'll be somewhere. And all right. I got it. I got a rash. She knows. I told me six in the morning. But it's we're coming to close time here at my shop. So, Lee. I got like a total of 10. I got a total of 10. I got a total of 10. Yeah. Yeah. What's your dog's name? I've been in the big game. His name is Dog's name is Baxter. Baxter. What's on the dog is it? A little bit. A little bit. A little bit. A little bit. What does dog's that looks like it's 100 years old. I'm going to go. Oh, yeah. You got it. It's shaped. So it's like got the squares. So the beat. Yeah. He's a kid. He's a great great. How a great. Yeah. It looks great. But it's like a bullish call. Yeah. Back stuff. He's named that. He's named it the Tyler's grandfather. His son and Brett Baxter put a He's a grandfather. He was a writer and he had a like a pen name that he would write under. That was his name. There's it. Biggest. Biggest. Biggest. Biggest. He's finding it funny when I'm making my friend. No biggest. He's trying to. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a friend. We got a picture behind us. So you sent us a friend picture. You got one. You want it like this. I'll leave it up to you. Whichever picture you want. You don't leave it up to me. I'll send you on. We'd like a little leaf like Adam from that. I'll send you on like leaning over the bed. Yeah. I maybe one of the David Paul pictures. That would be a good picture. Probably. I bet a naked one of me naked just holding my cat in front of me. Whatever you want it there will put up. Long time ago. No, you won't. No, you won't. Because I mean, it's doing walking. That's true. Yeah. Yeah, that's the past of man is a. Yeah. It's a. We have children. That's right. Yeah. I don't know. I don't want to see your your phalanx symbol anywhere in the. Okay. Because you got kids. I'll stay naked holding the legs. Yeah. All right. He's a friendly. If you guys agree with what we said or you guys haven't opinion on the Olympic situation with the women and the transgender and all that stuff. I'd like to hear it in the comments below. Please let us know. And if you have any ideas for future shows on this, I'd like that as well. For now, we're wrapping things up on day below with Lee Priest for another installment of Iron Rage. Iron Rage. I tell you, I'm going to compete in the women's body building. Figure. I can't wait. The way it's going.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. Welcome back to Iron Rage. I'm Dave Palombo and I'm here as always with Leap. Where is Leap? MIA missing in action. Well, we'll find him. We was here earlier. I think he went to take a dump. He might have to, you know, and you got to go, you got to go. Too much fiber lies, I guess. Now today's show is going to be an interesting one because you've heard of postpartum depression, women giving birth and then being depressed. Well, there's something known as post-contest depression. That's right. After people work their butts off, they sacrifice, they die it, they probably lose their job, they break up with their relationship, the show is over, they got the trophy in hand, and then what? They're depressed, they don't know what to do with themselves. I want to ask Leap Priest if he ever comes back to his chair over there. What was his solution? I know what his solution to post-contest depression was. It was to eat buckets of Kentucky fried chicken back in the day. But I want to ask him now if he was doing it all again, Leap. If you competed again, I'm talking about post-contest depression. How did you come back? When the show was over, you had your trophy in hand, you didn't have a job, you had your bills were behind. Now, your reality of your situation was back. You had to try to get back, your relationship back, because you broke up with your girlfriend. How did you get over the post-contest depression? Jesus, you'll bleak. I never broke up with a girlfriend during the contest. I'm not going to ask Leap Priest because he never took a tremble on that's why. If you were to take a tremble on you would have broken up with your girlfriend. I never used tremble on a twice year, but no, get ready for a contest. I never got depressed. I was always so happy because I'm like, the show's almost over. I can go back to eating. I don't have to take gear. This is fantastic. So as soon as the show was over, I was the happiest I've ever been. I was never depressed. You didn't feel like a, oh, it's such a late day. What do I do now? I don't have to do cardio twice a day. I don't have to do gym. No, nothing I found hard was knowing what to eat because for those 16 weeks, it's like I have to do it this time. I have to do it that. So the morning after the show, I wake up and I go, what's going to have to breakfast? I'm like, I've got too many choices now. I don't know what to eat. I'm like, okay, okay, okay, pop fruit loops, lucky charms. What will I have? It's really no for the first week or two. You probably know that you did it yourself. Of course you look so good. You're trying to hang on to it because you're not. It's like I've still got veins. I'm still looking for and you're trying to hang on to the better. Third week you're like, the veins are going. Oh, fuck it. You studied whatever you're carrying me over. You're trying to hold on to that little bit of shape for a while. You know how like when you go for your first like real meal, see? All right, the next the eight that night, but then you go and then you're like, I'm going to go to the breakfast buffet at the hotel from where the contest was. You go down there, you get you cup of coffee. You're almost trying to emulate what you've been doing the whole contest. And then you're like, hmm, that don't it looks pretty good there. I can actually eat that. You know, those pancakes and that syrup. And then before you know it, you're you're sick to your stomach, right? Oh, yeah. All right. So I just have one bite. I just have a little bit. Then you have a bit more. And I try to avoid the buffet after a contest for that reason because you're full. But your mind's like, you haven't had it for so long. Go have it. Go have this and then you sit there and you're waiting. Like maybe I'll just wait a bit longer. You do a little bit of a bird. Oh, I got a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. Oh, go with the gills. You go to your, you get your start with it. Like you said, the doughnut sour and a croissant sort of little apple strut or things and you load your plate up and you sit there and you're like, now I've got on the plate. I've got a try and eat it. Oh, you just feel I bacon. Yeah. I was always at the mindset that once it shows over, I was so excited to get back to the drawing board to start working on my weaknesses and putting muscle on and now that I can eat, that I was super excited. But I have clients that when they've done competing, the first couple of weeks they're all right. But then as they see their conditioning started to deteriorate, they start to flating a little bit because they're going off the drugs. They start getting like depressed and then all of a sudden they disappear and I'm not like hearing from them. I'm not getting updates and then three months later, I get an update and they look terrible. And then they're like, oh, I was depressed. I didn't know what to do. And not all my clients. I love them a very hyper focused like I was. But there are people like that who get very depressed after their show when they see their their bodies changing. What do you suggest? Like what advice, what words of wisdom can you give the people who might fall into that category to keep them in a state where they're actually in a good mood and that they can actually refocus themselves? It's in a talk in the meadow. Even your ask me me, so what is it? I am. That's because you're that's because you're how old are you now? You're almost 50 years old. I am. Happy birthday, by the way. I'm getting wise. Happy happy birthday. I think you can just focus on something because like I said, when you get ready for a contest, like you said, your mind is so focused on you got to do cardio, you got to prep your meals, you got to train your mind. So physically occupied with so many things leading up to a show that when it's over, you're like, what do I do now? It's almost like when you're a little kid and Christmas is coming. You're so excited. Christmas is over. You're like, yeah. And then it's like, do you, if you don't do good at the contest or if you're young, can you get shit Christmas presents, you're like, oh, that was shit. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on something. You got to focus on my training or what I needed to do. As long as you can find something to do because a lot of the pros, especially when all you do is sleep, eat and train. Right. Fileting up to a show, you're so busy that when it's over like you said, if you're training the morning, you got to gym early. You're trained for two hours. You get home at 9 a.m. there you are. What do I do now? I've got to rest at a day. Watch TV. I'll go for a walk. No, I won't go for walk. That's too much cardio. I'll just take in that. So I said, you go from like a hundred miles an hour down there. Oh, almost put the brakes on. But I think it actually today, it might be better for some guys because now having social media, you can occupy yourself with Instagram, doing podcast and that sort of thing has a so much more to do now back in our day when the show is over. And I think it's like, well, I've read that Flex magazine. I have to wait another four weeks till you magazine. I can't do that. I'm going to go to the movies. I'll just go and hang out or because I lived in Venice. I said, it's such a great time back then with what approach at the gym. Like we like John said before, a lot of guys who weren't training, you just go to the gym to talk to people with CP. Right. We'll go to the firehouse and hang out at the firehouse and because there's always pros and people in there. So you're pretty much just fine things to do that way. But yeah, I can see why I said, people do just, I think as your mind, it's just so focused on that contest for a few months, it's over. It almost lost. It's almost like you need that goal. So I just find other goals to do, whether it be in business or whether whatever it is you do or whether you're like a new project, you're going to do all training other people or stuff like that. But you just got to find your focus and put that same focus out on the contest somewhere else. Otherwise, you will go mad, sit and go and, what do I do now? I'm bored or what do I do? It's like. I tell you, you hit it right on the head. There's no reason why you can't take that same focus that you had that hyper focus for the show and put it on something like doing, hey, you know what, I'm going to start a YouTube channel or if you have a YouTube channel, I'm going to dedicate myself to doing one video every single day or at least five days a week. Okay. If you don't know how to video edit, teach yourself how to video edit. It's not that hard by a program. Video take yourself doing something showing how you prepare meals, how you train. So anything at all, how you went through your contest prep and you know what, you get in the habit of putting it up every single day, even if five people watch it initially. Eventually those five people will become 10 which will become 20 which will become 50 which will become 100 and a thousand and then just before you know it, you make money on YouTube. So, well, even if you still feel yourself like in the old days you have a diary or a book to write. Now you can record long videos. You can talk about your diet, your training, what you did. Even if it's just for yourself and you put on the YouTube channel, somebody else might find that interesting and then somebody else finds interesting and they're like, hey, that's what I'm going through. That sounds good. I might try that. So, if you just do like a video diary for yourself, other people might catch on and enjoy it. So, they say to keep your busy and stuff. Like I said, you did that one when you're not bodybuilder, you're up a thing where you're doing snakes. So, if you've got a hobby, video edit, talk about that, find something interesting. Because I'm sure this day in age with the man who people are in the world, someone is crazy as something that you do. I'm sure something does like when I talk about the COVID and chew-lice, time to a coffee table. I'm sure it is. I was out there to have done that. I might not feel the only one. Thank you. I am. But maybe I'm going to start a coffee and chew-lice YouTube channel. There you go. So, you know, I see these sometimes I watch some of these YouTube videos. These are guys out there that all they do. They're whole channels devoted to how to keep your hair. All the different products out there, all the things that you do, all the tech, the hair, you know, transplants, the tattoo, the micro-tattling of the head. You know, every video devoted to hair loss. And then making a fortune, they got millions of people watching these videos. And you know, so it could be something like that. It could be a video game channel. I mean, Chris Corrmier was a big video, it could be a game guide back in the beginning. Imagine if you would have just video taped and self-playing. How many guys would have watched it, probably? Watching Chris, commenting as he's playing in the video games. Oh, they would. Yeah. Can you imagine anything you can think of today? If you type it into search engine among YouTube now, if you put anything in there, I'm sure this video about it. And now, I remember I got the Mustang and there's a couple of things. I wonder how I do that. And I got the manual there, like this, I'm like, oh, fuck, look at that. I got to read it. I'll sit in the car. You see how to change this or how to do that. And there you are, instructional video is someone describing how to do it. And there's some, like, it's easy to watch the video and try and read. Like, if you, I'm one of those people who've just shown me how to do something once, I'll pick it up like that. But if I'm reading an instruction book or someone says, take part a do-part, the do-tweet-state-that way, I'm like, fuck this. Fuckers, like, you know, if I put something together from my key or whatever, I've always got parts left over and I'm like, oh, that's legal. I just toss them all up. Yeah. She falls down inside. You know, you put something together and there's one screw left. And you know, that screw is probably necessary for something. And then you find out, you go back to the manual and you're like, oh, that was step one. You gotta take the whole thing apart now, because you can't finish the thing. That's the way that screw in the right place. I just tell my wife, that's the space screw. They always keep you space. I believe that. But I'm done the same thing. I'll put a whole cabinet to give up. And when I undo the door, eventually look at it, I'm like, you know, it's got, like, the might have the trimming on this side, but I've put on sort of wood's face and like, I had to turn that shelf around. I've got to take the sides apart. Oh, my, like I said, I've gone to step 90 step 40 steps here. One. I'm just looking to picture on the box and go, let's see how it goes. There's these reptile racks that I use for my snakes. And they cut their hybrids that they come in like, or there's like a million pieces in a box, which makes the shipping very cheap. You put the whole thing. I paid some kids to put it together. So I said, you know what, when I went to buy the next rack, I said, you know what, there's another company that makes very similar high quality racks, but they come all together, but the shipping's way more expensive because it's all together. I'm like, I don't care. I bought those racks, because I just don't want to put it to, I don't want to put the stuff together. I don't have any time. It's not time as money as I always say. But you know what, you know, that the trick is that if you're good at putting stuff together or doing things, make instructional videos, those guys who make those instructional videos, those videos get millions of hits. And you might have times of videos. You can make a lot of residual income from YouTube, you know? We're not even that. If you're good at doing stuff like that, I know where you got people here, because everything you buy these days, you got to put the game you got to put the give up, just like these guys coming around there, it's just like there, fixing the wheel on the car. I went ahead and look at it. He's almost done. I'm like, I can't even see where the scratch was. But there's people like that, like the sort of like, any amount of this one called, that husband's something or whatever, like these guys, like a handyman, but it's business, like a husband name, then they click the husband or something. So any job you need, he comes around, like a handyman, and there are people here when they got a business where if you buy it, type us, because there's a lot of old people or women who don't have the tools, so you just call these people up, and they'll come around and put it all together for you. And stuff like that. So they travel to the US, I need him. I need his number. By the way, I live in Florida. What's happened to your bunk beds, I haven't heard about the bunk beds. The bunk beds got returned. I got news that they, I bought a bunk bed from rooms to go. That was two tall. I have a huge staircase. They can't get up to staircase. I'm thinking, they can't get up my staircase. Then there's no way they get it up anyone else's staircase. So a twice the came broken. The third time they came broken and they couldn't even get up to step. So my wife just said, you know what? Take it all back. We don't want it. So we give it back. Kids are bumping. I have to sleep in bed. So my son, you know, I said, has a map up on the floor now. He's sleeping on. Just tell you, kid, the light is trending. Everyone's got little tents in there. They're just like camping. Just sleeping. He'd rather sleep than that. Believe me. I told him it's because you're not behaving yourself. That's all you have to send the bunk bed back. Which is not, which is not something. Can you get one of those rice carpets? You know, a nice sleep. That's like a rice cake. He has a captain America bed, but it's a little twin bed. He wanted a bigger, he wanted the bunk bed. So we can climb and break his neck. You know, don't talk about captain America. I saw that latest edition on July 4th. Where captain America is saying the American dream isn't real anymore. And that's all alive. You've actually made captain America comic the last one. Political saying the American dreams of wow. Oh, I didn't see that. Oh my god. Did you do the edition of, um, this was when the woke crowd was coming out. There was an edition of Superman, even where Superman saw the guy about his allegiance to America. Because you know, he's the fight for truth, just as the American way. Right. He didn't believe in America in a more and the right time. The Chinese way now. Now he went to join the UN. He was fighting for the UN instead of America. I'm like, why do people play the size of comic books? I didn't even know the name still. The comic books are still being produced on a regular basis. But that's funny. Yeah. So kids still read. That's good to know. I am glad to hear that. They look at the pictures. Yeah. Yeah. If I was, you know, if I was an artist of death, I'm an ad track artist. I'm not a, if I draw those, those those comic book characters, man. I don't know. I probably would never leave my house. I'd be drawing, if I was like Jerry back and could draw the stuff that he does, I'd be breaking murals on the side of buildings and stuff like that because that's a true talent. That's, there's a couple, there's this two types of talent that I'm very jealous of. And I don't think, because I don't know if I, if I could ever achieve the level of what some of these people have, people who can have amazing artists who can basically look at something and draw it and people who have that, you know, the musical gift when they can just play anything. So you can say, hey, play this or make something up and they can just go, and it's like, you know, it's amazing. You know, that's a gift. I've got a friend like that. I've got a friend like that. He can't read music, but if he play him a song, he could sit in the piano or whatever and just copy it. That's a gift. That's a gift. Yeah. Jimmy the bulls like that. I like that. Even singing. I think if you hear it like when I was natural, the gifted singers, but I think magic just happened that talent way if you're like an Elvis or a Michael Jackson or someone way, you're on stage. You know what I want to say? Like, it's a bodybuilder. I want to say, imagine being a singer with hundreds of thousands of people just listening to you singing. You got to be in the palm of your hand. Well, if I had to come back in my next slide, the rock, I would definitely want to be a rock star. Those guys have had the best life. Even though they're a little nuts and they do a lot of drugs, most of them back in the day. I mean, I'm like, I'm like, bodybuilder, so I'm like, the problem with the problem is that most of these prodigies, especially like, you know, they die young and fortunately because they're too gifted. They're too gifted. I listen to a radio show the other day. And I went right on off. I think it was like Hendrix, was it or someone else, but there was like six or seven of them who all died at 27. Well, just from all 27 years old, they all died. That's why we have to be in the number. I think even Amy White has just 27. Yeah. It's like, you know, you're coming in the right. It's her Cobain. Yeah, it was 20. It was 27. Yeah, it's like this magic. Come on. Unbelievable. Yeah. I mean, you live a hard life. I mean, but a lot of singers are troubled. That's why. There's a lot of bodybuilders are troubled. But then we have, but now we have what he's now in who is a key fruitchid to steal. Yeah, he might be, I think he's been dead his whole life. That's what the problem. That's why he can't be killed, you know. Well, you don't, I'm sorry, I mean, I think, look at the ones that the ones like are on the shooters still going. Sounds great. Trilling. Triple H told me that he was very good friends with Lenny from Motorhead. If you remember that the, you know, I am the game, you know, that was the, Lenny made that for that song specifically for Triple H to walk out to and Triple H told me when he went to see him, he was living like a rock star to the day died. He's still drank and smunked. He refused to do anything to change anything about his lifestyle. He lived that rock style lifestyle. And he lived a long time. He wasn't a young guy. And he, to the day he died. He lived it, you know. Who's better? The notice I've seen people, I've seen people who live that life, you're in drugs and drinking and stuff. And they live, it's like, if you think how do you someone do that not die, but then I've seen them, they get in their six years ago. I've had a clean up my act. They went, they, they died. Yeah. Is when they died. Yeah. Well, that's what Lenny, Lenny thought, you want to, that's preserving you. Lenny thought that's right. He said, if I start the drugs, I'll probably die. So I'm so used to them, you know, that, hmm. It looks like people are drinking alcohol and they'll stop drinking it. And it's like, it's because they're like, sort of a dick to do it. It's like, I'll get the shade. The Z-T of get sick. It's like, if they, if they, if they don't, they just, when they drunk, but they just continually drink each day, they sort of keep some normal. They bought these used to. Yeah. It's so much like the tickling themselves. But it's fine. My father when he went to get his hip replacement done, you know, they have the question, now you gotta fill out. And you know, they ask you, do you drink, you know, how often, how much, so he wrote a bottle of wine. So they, so when they're looking at, they're like, oh, sure you drink a bottle of wine a week. He's like, no, I drink a bottle of wine every night. It's tough. Or every day, you know, throughout the day. And they're like, you're not a hog. He's gonna get the, he's gonna go get the DTs. And my father was fine. He had no, my father could stop and start drinking. He was like, cause he only drank wine really. It would not affect him one bit. He could take it or leave it. It was the one. He had his people, cause they're like, they're like, what are you calling like functioning at the heart, where somebody could drink a certain amount and be drunk as a scum, and these people can drink and just function as normal. We wouldn't even know that they had a drink, unless they got blue and dual breath testing device. And you see, wow, you're out of the lens, but they talk normal, they walk straight line. You wouldn't even know that they had a drink, but if we, if we drank the same, we'd be like, oh, we'd be fucked in the stock town of our mind. Yeah, exactly, but anyway, so the bottom line is guys, when you do a contest and you're done with the contest, immediately divert that same energy with putting into the contest, into something else that you find interesting, something productive, use it to your advantage. We have a tremendous tremendous ability to make your own world, to make your own living, to make a lot of money without even leaving your house, just by putting videos up, social media, nurture that. It's a gift that you guys are being given. We didn't have that. We had to try to get suppled and contract back in the day. We had to try to get, you know, magazine, you guys don't have to depend on anyone, you don't have to answer to anyone except yourself, you could make your own living. Don't be depressed. Even the off season, even though it's called off season, you can still treat your off season like your contest, because you're still trained twice a day or once a day. I know the off season, I was bad at it. I never watched my meals, but even off season, you can still prep the off season, because I find, this is probably where I lost some, I could have been better in the off season, I was gonna just ate anything at eight when I wanted to. But if you're about that same regiment at off season as you do, contest and still eat five, six meals in your off season, but more calories and still get in the right proteins, you can still treat and still have that same focus and make your off season almost like contest prep, and that is your off season prep to make those gains for the quality when you dive back down for your next show, because when off season comes for me, it was off everything. I know, you know, you were off your regular. I think like what is, it's been like, what are you having today? I'm like, oh, whatever the stuff that McDonald's had cooked in me. Ah, ha ha ha ha. You know, I ate McDonald's every day, but I also had, but my cooked all my other meals and a very regimented had my shakes and everything like that. So, you know, you can have flexibility in your diet, but you could also, you should have structure to it, because otherwise you're not gonna make the gains you want. Exactly. All right, let's wrap this thing up, Lee. Thank you. If you guys, if you want to see this week, I guess coming up, we're, I don't know, when we're gonna air it, we did two episodes of Iron to Bate, Lee Priest, myself, King Kamali, Mila Sarsha, and Melvin Anthony, you guys are not gonna want to miss this, do episodes. When we did the last bit there, we were talking about Kale again. As we're talking and she'd talk in about it, you want to see, I think every company is gonna be flat Kale with you guys. Oh, of course. Of course. I could just need to come in tomorrow. What you think you can win back there? No. No. Well, I got, I can promise you that the episode had, there was, there was a lot of strong opinions given. That's I'll leave us at that. And Lee, thank you for waiting for all these. I miss Melvin. What? I miss Melvin's opinion on showing Ryan the beginning. Yeah, I know the first, I'm gonna be the first person to get the phone call from showing Ryan now, but look Melvin was, you know, wanted to talk about it. And you know, I'm friends with Melvin, so I gave him the ability to talk about it. I'm just upset. I'm gonna have a crying at it. Sure. I was just talking about me. And he was talking a bit. Oh. I thought I thought Sean and I were tied. But I was like, you were pretty quiet. I got it. I, you didn't even get a word in edgewise on that one. That conversation. I'm just listening. I was just listening. I like hearing other people talk about Sean. If I sat there, I was just like, I'll eat eight Sean stuff. I like hearing other people's stories about Sean and stuff. Yeah, Lee was very patient on that interview. All right, we're gonna wrap this up guys. Plus I did leave. I did leave the drawing my wife to work. I didn't mean to say, yes, you didn't mean to say that. I didn't even, I didn't even know you were gone until you texted me. I didn't believe how quiet you got in there. So. Yeah. It's nice, it's nice to know what miss. She must work around the corner, or something like that. You got back very quickly, you know. Yeah. She does. She's just down the road, David. Oh. There's a park you got to go through in this park. So I didn't want to walk in through the park. I didn't want to get in right through anything. So. What? What if I was. What if thoughtful husband you are walking your wife to work? If anyone's going to rape my wife, I'm going to be rude. And plus the park is dark. If they go to rape, they're hacking over court. There's no lighting. Jesus. And I don't have to think. And I don't have to think. Until next week, I'm Dave Aloma with Lee, please for another installment of Iron Rage.

Old school body building clothing company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. Cookie Monster blew in my cup. This cookie Monster made it through three of my kids and I'm telling you this thing, it was hurled at the wall, blown down, beaten on the floor, and it still told it, held it, you're, hey, how many times was it, held it, yeah, couple times. I'm shocked that made it through my son. My daughter's weren't quite as rough on it, but this every time they would cry, we would give him cookie Monster. Is it just, is it just me or the more I look at it, he just looks like every time it's Smith. Yeah pretty much. He throws at some point on his head. Oh, very nice. That's what it's, that's what it's, looks like. But he loses his white cat. Yeah. So he made, I don't know, I was supposed to get thrown out when my wife is throwing out all these things, they don't want to keep it. Keep it. I said them. Keep. He made it. Yes. Beautiful. So the Arnold Classic list was released, and then they extended it by adding Nick Walker and Ruley Winkler, which I think was a very good decision on those guys part, and the Arnold people adding them to the list. We very rarely do we see people adding once they've, once they've put the list out there. Sergio, I'll leave a junior head made a colt arms, you know, two weeks ago and say, hey, why doesn't everyone just do this show? This should be the Olympia Midas from Big Ramey, and that's what happened. Are you, do you think that's a good move on the competitors part? Yes, but as soon as I see now as added to the list, I said Sergio, I'm asking you to say thank you very much for lighting the fire under somebody's eyes and making the Arnold. But when you look at it now with this line up, the Olympia's going to always be the Olympia, but I think sadly, I'm not sadly, but it's great. More people I think are going to talk about the Arnold because, as we've said, the Arnold isn't setting stone, whoever comes into best shape can win it, whereas okay, the Olympia, if the Mr Olympia comes in, Ramey comes in shape, we pretty much know who the Mr Olympia's going to be in second and third, but the Arnold Classic right now is wide open to anyone, and you know whoever wins that, it's going to be the four runner going into the Mr Olympia. Sure, some other guys who might get second and third at the Arnold can change in a couple of weeks and come in better, but you know, ever when's the Arnold's going to be the one gun and for Big Ramey come to the Olympia? And you know, I felt like the last couple of years guys were calculating what shows to do based on who else on the show, and this seems like the first show where guys were just like, I'm going in, I don't care who's there, because let's base it, you've got bone-acadent line up, you've got really in that line up, those guys are insumeds, you know, they're top five Olympians, you know, and a lot of guys say, hey, why should I do the show? I can't beat those guys, but we're not seeing that, we're seeing guys saying, you know what, I could beat them, I want to challenge them, I want to be compared with these guys. I think it's a good move, I think it's great for the Arnold and great work. Well, that's a silly way to think that really, because yes, if somebody's in a hundred percent shape and different shows may be a camp beat, and but look at me, I've probably never before, a big Chris Cormillo or Dexter Jackson or Ronnie Colman or Jay Colman, but I beat or that was like, as long as you keep coming in your best, if they just slip a little bit, you can beat anyone, anyone can beat you, that's why you never know, so you just got to give it but it got to be like teams saying what it teams say, good at the super vote of one of the Super Oldest many times, we can't play it in. Yes, you can, because everybody has a bad day, and if you catch them on a bad day, that's your good day. So I just interviewed last yesterday, we haven't put the interview up Aaron Baker. And Aaron Baker, if you remember, went again, Flex Wheeler at that. It was like, it was like a little mini tour before the Olympia. It was like my MVP. She was, it was a couple. There was three shows in a row. They used to be on man. And there was another one. And he ostensibly beat Flex. I mean, a lot of people beat Flex. Aaron, I think Aaron's wanted a most guys who got screwed so many times, because he almost looked back then he almost looked like a Kai Green, just his fitness and his density and stuff. And even Aaron, he was an artist and he was very flanned, buoyant with his costumes and stuff. So he was probably like the early 90s version of Kai Green and stuff. And there's another thing we could have called a green coming to the Olympia this year. So I don't think we're seeing Kai Green. So I'm going to ask you on out. He said he's doing it. Did he say he's doing it? Well, I see and there's a lot of these other things have been coming up saying that he's in. So now he's teasing. I don't think there's no Kai Green didn't say he's doing the Olympia. He hit a couple. Let's just let's just say he's doing it because it pisses people. Let's say the I think we pre-smoke it especially in the Olympia. Let's start that rumor. Yes, the miss Olympia. I can do whatever I want. Yeah, and you can. We'll be in the Olympia. Well, it makes Olympia a day before and the miss does the day arts I'll do both because I'm non-binary. I'm sure I'm flue what is it on gender fluid? It's actually. We're going to qualify though. You have to qualify for the Olympia first. Oh, I probably call a fine bikini a work my way up. That's a tap of the tap of first. I'll be qualifying. I'm qualifying. What's that you are? Well, I'm wellness. I don't know if you can. Did you see I'm speaking of fluid gender and stuff like that? I did see I was very, very beautiful that I forget his name on ReK someone or someone the transgender one, the Miss Nevada beat out 21 women. I saw you sent me. Is that the one you sent me? That clip. Could have been, yeah, but it's like look, they do already have a Miss transgender Miss America and Miss Universal stuff. So again, I got nothing against transgender people if that's the way I want to live their life. That's how they feel trapped in a body. But I'm sick of seeing men turning or changing to women and then competing with women. It's not right. Here's some girl. Her whole dream might be to get to the Miss Universal or Miss America. And she gets beat by a main in the Miss Nevada. When it comes to like beauty contests, it's like if a man could look more beautiful than a woman, then he deserves to win. Don't you think? It shouldn't be called Miss Nevada. It should be called the Nevada beauty contest. That's all. And if you want to be a man. Can you imagine what this does to a woman's psyche that you get beat by if you're a woman and you're a beautiful woman. You've had all these cosmetic surgery done. You're boots on your face and a man can turn either a woman and look more beautiful than you think about what this does to your psyche. And I can hear her body build up and a woman became a body builder and she beat you. It would be like, oh, Jesus Christ, the Bansie Gav. Well, it was like NASA. I told Nastro's somebody. I saw him after the Dallas Europa show one year and we were going up the escalated together and I'm like, uh, so I had placed like eight or something like that and he was really obsessed with things like I'm like, oh, Jesus, or we've talked to him. He placed, yeah, maybe he works. And I said, NASA, what what do you think happened? He goes, oh, you know, these these morons, they have judged me incorrectly. I have lost to a blind man. You remember Greg Rando, Greg Rando, my feet, I'm like that. He was so, I think if anyone else would have beat him, he would have been alright. But the fact that that a guy who's blind, which I don't know what that has to do with anything because he had a pretty good physique, the fact that the blind guy beat him, you know, the Greg beat him was so insulting to NASA's like intellect that he couldn't handle it. You know, he's going crazy. Why even why you've been giving him an award? He can't even see the award. You wouldn't know what it says on there. You could give him a certificate of the 15th place. He cannot read it, Dave. Why give me, he was so kind of descending NASA. I was like, I almost feel like saying to myself, you know what I believe it. NASA actually fucking probably deserved it. Just said the kind of silence as he got a little bit. But also, too, we had to um, Gwen, Gwen Blackberry. I mean Gwen Berry, but she's a Black woman. But she I'm turned her back on the flag and we've won the ant from play. It's like, come on now. Come on. But you're there as an American team. You know, the individual, you're there as an American team. Right. It's like, even if it looked to me, it's like these athletes have such a big profile. I'll lip, this was the US Olympic trials. We're not talking about the Olympics. This is the, the trials. It was there. I know, I know the Olympic committee. I know the American committee said they can do that little protest, but the actual Olympic committee said, no, they won't stand for any protest on the podium, which is how it should be. It's like these athletes have a big platform protest anywhere else. But you go back to the old days, Jesse Owens, he can feed it over there and journey when Hitler was around. He made a protest. But when you read his stuff, he did it for the country, not against the country or against the protests. The protesting of the Olympics is not quite as bad as protesting a the US Olympic trials, which is building the team for the US. If you don't like this country and you don't want to be a part of the team, USA then don't do the fucking Olympics under our flag, go compete in other country. That's what I think it's a story if you're going to the Olympics in protesting because some other country is oppressing people or this terrorism and you're trying to make a statement. But if you're representing this country and we're feeling a team and you're not happy with this country, then don't go to the trials, don't be an athlete for this country. It's exactly you take a somebody else's spot, but you're protesting the country and the flag, the country that's given you order rights and everything to be there, to be a top athlete, to represent the country. She's worth like 31 million. So this country is given you the opportunity to do what you're doing and make that kind of money and now you want to turn your back on. Look, sure everything there's things that can change in the country, but go after big things like maybe schooling in the cities or the 52 young kids that have been killed and shot and murdered this year in those communities like protest, real fucking things, not the silly, oh I'm a press, but yet here I am representing my country. I've got the dude a thing I love and I make a millions of dollars. Come on, who's worth 31 million? That woman? Yeah, she is. Yeah. For what? What does she get money from? I think they came out just with her contraction stuff like that. I think she must have a make up contract, did you see the make-up she was wearing on that thing? Like the I like, she should go into the powerlifting, she got a strong neck hold up, there's I Lash, she's like the I Lash is already sparkly stuffy, the gender red lips with the black line down there. Yeah, I don't want to, when I first saw her, I didn't read it, as soon as I saw her fight I went, oh fuck another means one of women's events. That's what I thought, when I saw that lip thing I said oh no, I'm going to go fucking tattoo that I was fucking face now, I know it. But then I was like, you can do good prejudice, who was the, I think at his name back in the day when he stood up there and he held his fist in the air. Oh for the black panthers. Yeah, I was watching, yeah, I was like a vet. Yeah, but he said even then he goes, what he meant by, he goes, some of the people took it their own way when he did that, he meant to open his hand, meaning we're all in this together, this represents all the people and we're in it together, like as a whole, but he never hit a guy's brain. It was seriously forgot to open his hand up, yeah, I don't know. Look, you know what, when you're on that Olympic podium, you can do whatever you want because you're you, you won. When you're feeling a team to go to the United States, you know, for the United States, you're the Olympics. You gotta have team unity there, otherwise, it's like every man from self. That's not the way it's supposed to be. The Olympic games are feeling a team from your country to compete against all the other countries. That's supposed to bring us together. If there's a political statement you want to make after you win the Olympic games and you want it when you're being interviewed, then do it. But don't, don't, you know, don't do it at the Olympic trials. That's not the right value. Well, did you read about the train's gender B and Mixer rider? Did you read this statement? We're looking at a E sheet, but the the train's gender B and Mixer rider. He's or her plan. Excuse me, is the get a gold medal? And he actually said this in the interview, the get a gold medal and while on the podium, burn the flag in protest against America in their treatment of transgender people. I'm like, you're going to burn the flag. I got the podium. Like if that's your right, I think it should be a right of the Navy, seers and special forces. You're for your country, the thought for your rights, to come and beat the fuck out of you. Yeah, if you light a fire on the podium, you deserve to get shot, you know, because you're in the army. Some people respect the flag. Some people reflect this, I mean, respect the flag. They're much better. I remember, we're going to set the John even like when he's to go to Nascara, Bench, you get these parachute, is it coming on parachutes with a flag on their leg? Right. I was like he said the flags never meant to touch the ground. And those guys as soon as they land, they scramble as quick as they can and keep that flag from the ground because they respect it so much. Now we have these other people jumping on the flag, burn in the flag and stuff like imagine, imagine if she was competing for Russia or China and she tried doing that. Oh, yes, it's it's returning home. We've never seen it again. We don't know what happened. We don't know what happened. We don't know how it's funny. But all these people that do these rebellious things years later when the interview him 20 years later, they always regret it. They always like, wow, I was immature. They realize what a dumb ass I was doing this stupid thing. Here you are, you work your whole life to try to be the greatest runner or the greatest, whatever athlete in the world, win the Olympics. I mean, that's the, that's the highest honor you can win. And then you go do it and you act like an asshole on the stand or something like that on the podium stand. I mean, everyone dreams of what are being on that stand here in that national anthem? I mean, the idea just thinking about it, I bring tears to my eyes if I put it ever to a person. And these are the flag. I'm going to burn the flag. I imagine. I said, I could just imagine that feeling like it's in. Being on that podium with the gold medal around your neck, stadiums full, seeing the American flag or whatever flag country or with rise up and they're playing your ant for me. Because you imagine that feeling that the whole country is behind you and what you've done that's like, these athletes like I said, there would be a big profile. They can make their little statement somewhere else. But not on the, you know, we'll stay together. The guy, girl, whatever, I guess it's a woman, a man that the transition to a woman or is it the other way or I mean, the fact that they've completely may be maybe a transition to a black out and not the fact that they're able to compete in the, you know, the sexual division that they choose, that right there is saying a lot for what this country is done and the Olympics is done. They should be, it should be ingratiating themselves. They should be celebrating that not protesting something else from the past. Well, that's what we're going to, I'm going to burn the flag because we were oppressed for the last whatever, 100 years, rather than saying, you know what, thank God that now we're not oppressed and now we can do this, even though it's probably not something that that should have been allowed. And, and, and, and I'm going to celebrate that. But I watched Stomony in the view. We've scotty pippin and he was talking about stuff and he was talking about, let's feel Jackson wasn't the coat, late, um, Lakeers' coach and that coming going. He was talking, they said, you think Phil Jackson was racist? What do you think? And this sort of stuff, see, say any was, that's what I'm saying, I'm thinking, what? And then he's talking about who's, um, one of the games, they put um, this rookie guy in who was white. And he said, that was a racist move because I'm scotty pippin and I'm the heir of parent and it was my team these people there. I'm like, really? I said, Phil Jackson, he's to play basketball, where the majority is black. And then what type of racist would have that job where everyone around you is black, you're coaching a black team. Is this people lost his fucking mind or something? And then how many meals does he work again? Another press man, he's like, I'm just seeing the clean people lining up at that job. What's the job in tail? Oh, we got a trail. Yeah, that sounds great. Yeah, I love them people. I've got to come hang around. Yeah, I could have been really pippin saying that thinking, my god, it's like, it's this whole new era of, this or something that I don't, I'm not catching onto or something, but, oh, it's just like, how do we be more outrageous and make a bigger statement that I, I, I hear on the news, I just heard it today and the news report, he had had Trump on because he's going down the Texas and that he's talking about the war, talking about, yes, going to build the war. The report, he goes, yes, he did say that because you know what he said, we're going to paint the war black because black is a color that makes it so hot, but be hard to climb over, sort of war be painted black and he's like, I can't believe he said that he's going to paint it black, I'm like, well, black doesn't track teeth black is a hot color. I've been out of trying to turn this into a racial think because he said he's painting the war black. It's a lot of easy to keep clean too, that I mean, that, that's not like a match that really gives you a black wall, right? Imagine the graffiti on a white wall, yeah. Yeah, you know, as you say, we live in a society where everyone is offended by everything, you know what the truth is? No matter what anyone says about me, I don't even listen to it anymore, it doesn't even, it just bounces off, I don't even care anymore. So I'm just, you know, I just agree now when people say Lee, you're a racist, you're a racist, like, yeah, I am, and then I go find that picture when I did the TV show wearing the white power shirt, I got to picture on the white power shirt, like that, and I send it to him and I said, this is just for you. Oh my god, you're wearing a white power shirt, like that, that's not from that, from that comedy TV. I'm going to, I'm going to send this to everybody, I said, you go for it, made a Sunday Instagram page, but you send it out. I just agree now, everything like, oh, yeah, I did it some of the time the others racist because they didn't like the illegal is coming over. So I got no problem with the illegal is coming in, just come to proper channels, I said, because yes, they want to come for a better life, I got no problem with that, they want to come to America, get jobs, they're family, I got no problem with that, but you got to work out who's, who's, who's bad, and we didn't like, I said, I tell them, when you go to bed tonight in America, leave a front door open, that's what you're going to do, because as people at their under streets in America who might want to warm me off, they might want to watch TV. So when you're upstairs with the kids sleeping, let them come in, I said 80% of probably nice and friendly, they just have a sandwich from your fridge and much a bit of TV, maybe one will come and kill you, but leave your door open, take that chance, who's that down there? Who's that down there? Who's that down there? So, at the end of the day, however, I got to cut you for one second, I got to think, you know what, those movies, though, where someone is in the house, and they come out looking, the movies, they come and they go, is anybody there? I think, why are you on the book, Laryn, your house coming to kill you, and you go, is anyone down there? Yeah, just just, let me, I'm coming up to slide. Yeah, there's a scariest movie of like someone in your house, as you remember that movie, a stranger is calling, oh, you're when a stranger calls, or the stranger calls, and the baby said they answer the phone and the guys out in the house already, it's calling when the police, when the police call back and they go, with Trace the call, it's coming from inside the house. Yeah, that was scary. They actually remade it, did you see the remake? No, no. That's not bad, but I remember the original, yeah, it was like that, because you keep getting that call, and she's like, where is it? Where is it? Where is it? We were kids, because I think, because where that one ends, I think the remake goes a little bit further. Yeah, but it goes, the call is coming from inside the house. I was, I was terrible, I was terrible, I didn't want to go to sleep, but I don't want to have the babysitter, and why did you get him? The funniest, the funniest booth, and that was remember when they screen movies or if they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, the guy in the mask, yeah, I'm watching you, yeah, she goes, I can see the behind it curtain, he's like, oh, I can see you, you don't know, he's she goes, I can see your feet sticking out from behind it, he's like, oh, he's trying to hide. Yeah, that was so funny, it's not pretty funny, as goofy as they were. It's funny, all the people they, it was found like the the biggest basketball case, like to do that, like the Anna Nicole Smith was in one of those movies, right? Lindsay, oh man, was in one of those movies, right? Common elector, I think was in the comments on her food, trying to enslave motion as he's tracing. They're like, let's find who's the most the most f-dupped person in Hollywood right now, we'll get him a bit. We're getting Lindsay Lowhand, you know, let's get her in the. There would have been a list of them all along, you'd be talking about if that people. Yeah, yeah, I go now, especially now. What do you think about the whole Britney Spears thing? But she's trying to get control for life, do you think, uh, you think she's doing? I think she's sure, it was like, yeah, it's something that stuff that's came out, now that I've had control over and stuff, and she wasn't allowed to get pregnant and stuff like this, so yeah, it's kind of weird, right? Yeah, you can probably understand why someone might go a bit mad, because you could imagine you have it all that money, but yet cause you're so controlling and having stuff like that, we'll have for that happen. Well, they can happen if you're being brought up that way from a young kid and someone's got that much power over you and he's got control of your money and stuff. It's quite, it's just like saying how do these people who have no money get locked in a basement and someone's house for 10, 15, 20 years and you can't get a white stuff because of God knows what, quite in the basement. I'm not talking about you. I see you by the curtain. Right down there. All right, now you break before we wrap up this little party, who's going to win the Arnold Classic? You have a prediction? Oh my God. No, I don't because there's so many good names going in that out now with Bonnet, Nick Walker, Ruelli. No, who do you think? Who are you betting man? Who would you bet on? I couldn't because, however, it's a big debate that's going to be like, even if Ruelli said he's best, Nick Walker said he's best, Bonnet said he's best. Everyone at their beneath the woods. I would not have to see him on stage because everyone has good shots, not to everyone has weaknesses. So off the top of my head now, I wouldn't be able to say until I actually saw him say things like that. Well, I don't think I don't think anyone can be ruling wingler. He comes in and is bad. Oh, I can see him at his best. So I don't that's, you know, the tall order on the, down anything, down anything, I worry about Ruelli is because we haven't seen him back up there for a little bit. I hope he just doesn't come in to the new thick which might distort some of his lines. His masses, now one's going to cut you him on mass, but everything else maybe someone comes in like I said, if he comes in that thick remember like someone, I don't have anyone's going to come in soon. I bet like a Sean Roden where it's like the mass but also more lines. So we're at that might balance it out. But there's no short run to be in Slater that's the only problem. Yeah. Exactly. But yeah, because like, Nick Walker's thick even onack for his hideous thick. So I know I've left a lot of good names off their Sergio even. So it's like a keyway. I mean, the keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. The keyway. Whatever. Whatever. I guarantee whatever. The top five or six top, finalists are a bit when they're called really if they're all at this best, whoever gets fifth probably could have been first, whoever got fourth probably could have been second. There's going to be, I think it's going to be one of those shows where we're at a placeings and up if it had a changed either way. I don't think anyone's going to complain because the guys are all that good up there. So when they like I said, it's going to come down to opinions and little mind you to like things. Well, I guess we won't really know until the show takes place. But that's the exciting part. We get to take guesses and figure out, you know, who might do what? And you know, I think that's adding a level of excitement to the pre-Elimpia build up. And then obviously whoever wins the Arnold Classic, we're going to be able to have to say, is this the next guy who's going to be around me? That'll be the next. Who knows? There's still time in the building saw it. It would be in a week or two, added to the line up, Hardy and Rami. Well, I don't think we're going to see Rami, but I do suggest that we would talk about that on S. Dave with Sid and I said, I'm sure of surprise because I know Hardy's coming in early this year to train. Why wouldn't he shoot and jump into that line? I'm sure he could use the 100 and whatever 20 grand that they give in a way first prize. Well, sure he could. So good. Rami, if you wanted to. It's like, hey, he can. I don't think Randy. I don't think Randy will risk it. Here's the reason why Randy wouldn't risk it because if Randy doesn't win, now going into the Olympia as the raining champ, and he just lost to like, say, let's say a really winkler, that's going to lower his stock quite a bit. So I don't think we see Randy in that line up, but I think we might see Hardy jumping to that if they would leave it open to, you know, be able to invite him. Hey, you're saying, Rami, you're saying, Rami's not going to come into panic mode and go for the armour. Puss on. He'd have to come in real early and go stay with DJ for three months for it. Let's start. Let's start the panic mode. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like panic mode work for him. So you should be doing panic mode every year because he doesn't have funny little things you can say in a snippet in a clip like this and people run with it like, oh my god, Dave thinks he's panic. Okay. Well, we had a very entertaining day. We're going to wrap this up. I want to say it's the first, you're still in June. It's the first to July. Thank you very much. So is that the, so you're in winter, you're in the heart of winter there, right? Yes. Yes. It's cold and rain. Yeah. Had the fire gone last night. That's why I said, I know I got this faint when I turned the light on the faint come on. It feels like a nice, nice cheer coming down. It's so bizarre because, you know, here we are. It's like the end of our day. It's the beginning of your day. You're in the winter. We're in the midst of summer. It's like 95. It's a quarter. Quote, quote, just 70. Well, I want people to know when I got up at four o'clock this morning. I checked my phone. Hey, Lee, ready to go anytime you are. Okay, Dave. I just got to get up and do a few things. How about half an hour? Oh, how about a 45? I can't have a go. I got to go this. Okay. What about this time? It's like Dave tells me whenever you're ready to go. Lee, we're ready. Well, two hours later. You know I'm always late. Here's the thing. My wife said, my wife said, he's probably doing another show. No, he's probably, I got a fetish talk into someone about snakes. The one that comes on, you're on the phone to someone about snakes. Here's the real quite date. Dave, Dave, the cup's fucking him. The or I now. Yeah, I'm very good. Let me give you some. Here you go. If if if the earth is really flat, the Jimmy the ball says, how is it cold there and it's fucking hot here? As a July first he went at still June. I think about it night and keep me up Lee. I love you man. We're going to wrap this up. Five days five days. This is my birthday. I'll take cakes. I'll take those pop tarts. Can I get the pop tarts in my face? You're a orange a life fourth. July six. Oh, so six. Oh, because it's June for each life first. They're already out. Yeah. I like that. Welcome then a party. It would have been much nicer. You should just help me for your born July fourth. Then you can really be like an uncle Sam, you know. No, I feel like my birthday. I feel like my birthday is more important. So I had to separate it. I got you. Okay. Well, my sister's born in July 12. So she's pretty close to you. My nephew, my sister's son is born July fourth. So it's his birthday. Actually, what year were you born? 19. What? 72. Oh, you're actually six days older than my sister. My sister 72 also. I don't know. See? There you go. I'm believable. Yeah, pretty cool. But I'll take cakes. I'll take cakes. I'll take down. That's whatever anyone wants to send me. Thank you very much. So you're going to be 48. 49. 49. Okay. Wow. Come on. I can't wait to hear you. What do you want to figure this out at a morning? I could look so good. How do I do it? Yeah, your hair is looking very, uh, very well manicured there. You like that? I put a bit of gel in it. So when I got up in the morning, I don't need to add any gel. Just put water in it. Go like that. Ta-da. Came out perfect. You should get, you should grow a mustache in frost out too. I really can't because what happens is because I got lighter hair naturally. Even though it bleached a bit. When I do grow a mustache, your beard, there's like light hairs in it. So it'll be dark a few light hairs in a gap and then. Do like a whole kind of thing. Diet like black, you know? Like he did. And that's like I got the main. You look like this piece is missing out. No, don't do a beard. Do a much do one of those little like, you know, Joe Eater mustache is like black, Manhattan. You can just, uh, just kind of like black black men with the frosting. He would love you. He'd sign you to another contract. He did that. Guaranteed. I don't know why he doesn't talk to me. Dave, I try to, I try emailing him and every email I got at bounces. You're blocking me. I think he's blocking the email. Is it your block? All right. The best stick. I had the best stick pick too. And I was going to try to send her. All right. Could you? We'll see you next week. Guys, they pull up a leaf priest. Iron rage. We're out.

I'm here with Remi Court Chemi, No Dinos, Speed and Agility Coach. They brought you on you. You've worked with some top class track athletes over the years. Duane Chambers comes to mind Kelly White. Right Kelly White. Look at the average Christian girl. Chris the games. And you've had Olympic and world champions in your corner. How did you wind up with boxing? Victor Kahn, Victor Dad, Guy Victor Kahn, the guy is the name he's coming up. Here, all this, try to find him. He's stuck you back in. No, Samsung can new for the different sport. We just talk this game about similarity of different sport. And I started to have the, I think the boxers and tennis players because a lot of similarities, right? And she said, you know, I have some boxers, you would like to work with and try to develop Samsung for them. I know that I'm very creative with just a leg to design Samsung can you, I like to apply Samsung can you in training? Number one, because of over educated. You're always good. Now what is your education back then? MKFP is in physiology. Do you PhD in physiology? Where did you get earned that PhD? In 62 in the desert. And oh, that's the Russia. Yes. And you were in Russia back? That was during the Soviet Union. I killed 74. Yes. I was in the Korean team and the Soviet Union, the team sprint coach and my brother, I was in the Russian team. I spent a lot of years in sports science. So I conducted a lot of research and I had a lot of publications about, you probably want to hear something about speed and he's saying the closing time. I said state and so I like to introduce Samsung can you and organize Samsung new training. What was it like training at the Soviet Union as opposed to the United States? Were the athletes more disciplined? It's not the discipline. Number one, they try to organize all athletes in the long training camps and the guidance of big scientific team. And coaches work very close to the scientists and they conduct every step of it. It doesn't mean that it will be a new work tracker, or tell, but in case of organization, all the system was very, very organized. So you learned a lot about training because you were able to detail every step of it. Absolutely. What the positive is that I learned from the time all the set of goals, all the things see what they want to achieve. And you can't actually approach the same way. You cannot cook soup if you don't know consequences or putting meat, vegetables and salt in the pot in order to have good taste. So many instances, coaches just drink, they don't know what is next. How to make a good soup? You know the soup, right? I know how to prepare, I know how to cook. Just by it in boxing, I am not in my own cook. I am just only person who cuts carrots. You cut carrots. The most talented athlete that you ever trained in your mind, the most talent. I think being shumbo, being shumbo, being shumbo is the best natural athlete you ever trained? Yes. I used to have my brain, a rhythm of his running. Really? Yes. What was so great about him? What was his main talent in your mind? I believe to be very explosive and very rapidly to deliver forces to his acceleration and his strong as part. It's reasons that he became an important champion in 60 meters because he had excellent rate of acceleration. I still use his video and his segments of running to educate my and not the sprint of thin and as an athlete. That's pretty impressive. Let's talk about Namedo D'Anear. He's a small guy. He only on the boxing ring he will weigh 118 pounds. You had to come up with a recipe if I might use your words. What was the recipe for Donita Senare's success? Number one, I never worked with a boxer before that. When I started training, I took a couple of videos and I just started to look how to move. There's a most important ability of giving a developed, this way, the play power is in boxing. I started to realize how to move and I came to intuition. The most important thing that I have to develop in the needle, in the needle, in the other, is the ability to reverse efforts. I call it a reverse ability of efforts. Which means what exactly? It means that you have immediately changed from one direction to another, without wasting time and without special preparation. I started to do training and educate Manita to do reverse effort. What techniques do you use to teach? I started to play my Banger Court and you could see it from pictures. I've seen the videos we have. Banger Court and you have these guys run with the courts. You do it too, I saw. Yes, I used it a lot for sprinters, but then I designed special way how to educate butters to use it and how to benefit from using the court. This fight, we see the best known needle donor that we've ever seen, the most explosive, the most powerful. Yes, he is very good in this case. Asmato, in fact, he was a number of how many repetition you can do sets with this cable drills and he did a maximum of that. I have a play for athletes who go through the number six. In my number six, I had, for example, under the course, that he was the best shape and where he fired after training with me. He had this match, and I had six that he could survive. It's very hard to survive, six sets of four different drills. It lasted about a minute and you have about 35-40 seconds of respite. It's very hard to repeat. It's very difficult. Since it's also impressed by the boxer, they have to recover. We've seen very short period of time. Samsung similarly, we have wind-wetrain in running capacity of an aerobic, like state power. And when I start to use this kind of approach, because in sport, the same lick in nutrition. I'll buy it, it doesn't recognize the word, bread, sugar, meat, very good, it's protein, carbohydrates, minerals, whatever. And now, exam, and our last start to produce different exam in order to break down protein, fat or carbohydrates. They don't know the name of Watermelon or something. The same in sport. I'll buy it when we load it. I did that with a recognized name. To them, 200 or 5-time, 100, around four or around back, pull the cable, put it, recognize how much force we have to produce in short of time, along with them. And how we can sustain a body of being contaminated with lactic acid and fri radical. Because we've seen short period of rest, we have to learn how to restore all this poison, bacteria, nutrients that we use for future. And he was covered quicker than he's ever covered. It's what I start to drink him. And he's starting to have a better, better, better. And as a matter of fact, in the last training, we'll need six or five-tission of six sets, he demonstrated excellent condition. And as a drill that I developed, the practice against, I used different, short-lived drills for cattle, and printers. And I discovered that the box of meat not just only to move oil in the back, they had to move, they had to bite, shoot him from one leg to another. And at the same time, be capable again to produce efforts to fight. And a designed special drill for Baxter. And now if you see a video, you can see how they move over the hot-woods, and how they can return effort and produce fast movements. Now you're the boxing expert, Trader. I would not say that I'm boxing, but I expert in condition of Baxter. You're putting new elements to their routines that they've never ever experienced before, that's more applicable to what they're doing in the box area. Because from my knowledge, even people who have education in Kinesiology, Physiology of Sport, they seem to know everything, but I met so many thousand coaches that made UK thousands. Yeah. They don't know how to apply this knowledge for sport. They seem to understand everything, but they deal with the sport as a sport itself. I don't tell claims that I'm professional in baseball, I'm professional in football, and I'm professional in training. Oh, but I know exactly how to develop different condition of different metabolism. For example, we have different metabolism for different sport. In spring video, mostly with an aerobic electrate metabolism. So we have to place special exercises, duration, intensity, and rest in order to restore ability to use this kind of metabolism. Then we have metabolism electrate on aerobic electrate metabolism. This anaerobic electrate metabolism can divide again in two parts, power of metabolism and capacity. What different? For example, if I have thousand dollars and I go to Walmart, it will take me long time to spend $1,000 by empty short. And I can go to Bloomingdale or Sax, $1,000. And immediately spend the stoutals by just one jacket. So you're bad, and you're brins have to recognize when you have a play, your energy and more fishing. Metabolism, sometimes we need to go to Walmart and spend $1,000 gradually. Sometimes we have to spend $1,000 instantly. So we have to train people to both ways, guys. OK. Production for the fight, looking to the camera, who wins. Does no leader don't air when? I want him to win. I don't like any prediction, but I know that he ready to fight very efficiently, that he ready to fight any number of rounds including 12. And I know that he always can deliver his best effort, any time when he won't and he need.

저 Sek

knees how you you

What's up, body-building fans? Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle, news update. The Vancouver Pro show took place this past weekend, even though it might have been overshadowed a little bit of the Chicago Pro show. The bottom line, however, is that there was some quality competitors here, even though the lineup might have been a little more sparse. It was 12 guys in the lineup. I felt that the competition here in Vancouver might have been deeper than in Chicago. Chicago we had some good guys in the top two, three spots, but it wasn't that deep. I think we had a good five guys deep here in Vancouver. Let's start with the winner right off the bat. Lucas Osseldall, we've seen him over the years. I watched this guy grow up in front of me, so to speak. Bill Comstack, who used to work for Muscle Development, and I worked together. He shot this guy back in the day before he was even a pro. I saw some muscle and density and conditioning on this guy that I have never seen. He reminds me of Andreas Munzer. And Andreas Munzer didn't have the greatest physique, but he was the hardest guy always on stage. There was no one more shredded than him. When Lucas Osseldall nails his conditioning, that's he's Andreas Munzer of the modern era. He's got striations upon striations. His glutes not only get striated, but they get like fibery striated. He likes to even oscillate them a little, and no pun on his last name Osseldall. But on stage, and he does some interesting maneuvers on stage as well. He has some interesting acrobatics. He does some stretching moves and he puts his head as foot over his head. He has very good body awareness and body control. That's impressive on stage. When you can control, even though you might not have the prettiest physique, if you bring tremendous conditioning and you have good ability to present what you have, that raises your game up tremendously, and it gives you a very professional look to your physique on stage. And sometimes you beat guys that are actually better than you because you are able to show your gifts better in high-dure weaknesses. Whereas there are a lot of guys who have more gifts, maybe, than the arrest of the competition, but they don't have to exploit those, and they don't have to hide their weaknesses. So a lot of times, you look at pictures after you know, like, how did this guy win? But the bottom line is that you have to be there in that front row to really get an understanding of why he won. And I'm sure Luke is, well, in video and in pictures his conditioning does show, you're not getting a true appreciation for it, unless you're right there in person. I've seen it, and I've witnessed it firsthand, and I know exactly what it looks like in person, and the pictures just don't capture. There are a couple shots back double bicep that you can kind of see it. But if you would go like exclusive on the pictures, you'd be like, this guy can't, this guy didn't win the show, you know, probably, you know, one of the most impressive guys, and I think probably one of the guys of the most hype going into the show had to be Alexis Rallone. A lot of people know him, he has two last names, Alexis Rivera Rallone, but we know the guy won the, you know, NPC Nationals of Alexis Rallone from Puerto Rico. And he is one of the most dangerous guys in this line I've been in my mind. He's got the most tools. I think he could have been a little dialed in a little better for this show. I think last year we saw him dialed in a little tighter, and had he done that I think he would have certainly beaten Lucas because I think he's got a better structure and he's got better, more muscle than he does. But I think he left the door open a little bit here. Alexis is a true talent. This is a guy who could certainly work his way up into being a super top competitor, you know, possibly even a top, you know, top six, top eight Olympian at some point if he continues to make improvements. He has the tool set that you need to go far in the professional ranks of bodybuilding. And once again, Lucas beats him because Lucas shows his physique off better, he comes in more dialed and Alexis leaves the door open a little bit, you know, in the conditioning department. You know, like I said, this is a guy who, you know, can show up next week and when a show easy. I mean, here's a, there's only a few guys out there that actually have the tool set that, you know, structurally to win shows on a regular basis. And Alexis certainly fits that bill. Now Josh Wade is, is it what I call the workhorse. No one works hard in the Josh Wade. He's always in the great shape. He doesn't have the prettiest structure, but his conditioning is always impeccable. He knows how to execute the mandatory poses. He's getting a lot of stage confidence in himself. Now because he's doing a lot of shows, my worry is that he's going to do too many shows and his body is going to start getting worse. I don't think this is the best Josh Wade we saw all season, but I think from a conditioning standpoint, it was really good. So Josh, you know, comes in 30 year by virtue of the fact that he's, he's just ultra conditioned here and he's a hardcore guy. And he's another guy, you don't really, you can't get a good grip about how good he is unless you see him in person because his conditioning comes out even better. You what you do is you see in pictures you just see a structural flaws and you're not seeing what he brings through the table in terms of gifts in which his amount of muscle he carries and the way he presents this muscle. And obviously the conditioning he brings as well. So if you look at these top three guys, all three of them, including Alexis, even though he wasn't as best, we're all in terrific shape. So this top three in my mind is certainly better than the top three in Chicago with the exception, the fact that I think lock it and Sergio were better than this whole line up. But I think they would have been one two here in this lineup as well. In fourth place, you know, Ian Valier is probably in my mind the most impressive guy with the most toolset of anyone in the lineup. He's structurally phenomenal. He's put on an enormous amount of muscle since I first storm turned pro at the Latin American amateur Olympian in Alco Polco Mexico. And he's improved every single year. And this is a guy who structurally can hang also with the big boys. I don't know, something is a little off. I don't know if he was a little flat here. Maybe it's posing wasn't quite as good as I thought. I saw some pictures of him last week and I was like crazy impressed. I was so impressed that I actually put it on my Instagram and I very, really put pictures of other people on there, unless they're my clients or to myself. But it was like a most muscular crap shot that just has a lot of density, a lot of great muscle. He's a guy, you know, I've been saying it for about a year or two now that it's going to be a definite, you know, Hobie in that Olympia top six and dare I say in another couple of years I believe. I think he's, you know, so me doesn't get hurt or nothing happens. So I'm health wise. This is a guy who is just improving the right way, slowly but surely putting the muscle in the right place. He's got a small way, he's got a good wide shoulders. He structurally can hold a lot of muscle on his body without it, you know, ruining his shape. I probably would have had him a couple places higher. I would have had him over Josh Wade and I probably would have had him over Alexis Rivera because I think his conditioning was better. I don't think anyone would have complained if he and Valia had finished second in this line and you know what, you probably can make a case for the guy winning. Even though Lucas was just tremendously conditioned Ian structurally is better than him. So I think it's a fair placing for Ian but I think at the same time that no one would have complained that he'd been higher. And that's a tremendous feather in his cap. That, you know, he might be the most, I guess you could say, potent guy in this line up in the sense. So the guy may be the highest impact competitor in this Vancouver pro because I think he comes away with this from this show with like the most potential, especially moving forward. Now finishing in the fifth was it Ronaldo Gary who also looked really good. This guy has got also a great tool set. He just, you know, he ran into some guys that were really good but his conditioning was tremendous. If you look at these top five, all five guys had tried to glue it, they were all in terrific shape way better than it should be better than the line of Psearch Chicago from a conditioning standpoint. And that, you don't see that very often. How many pro men's open shows do you see where at the top five guys are all ultra conditioned, you know, almost to the point of like, you know, being perfect? Like I said, I think Alexis could have been a little, I think he could have been a little harder but he still was tremendously conditioned. So it's not face, I'm not criticizing him or whatsoever. I'm being giving a lot of constructive criticism here because I think he could be better than he was. But this is a great top five and I think that the fact that it occurred on the same week in a Chicago pro tells you that there are a lot of good open men's pro competitors out there because they were able to feel two shows and give you two great shows on the same day. And that says a lot, you know, everyone wants to say that men's bodybuilding is dying. I challenge you to show me where because we're seeing tremendous competitors out there. We're seeing good top five lineups and if we can do it and feel it on the same week. And imagine if all these guys were combined into one show, who would have finished where? That would have been some virtual, you know, opposed down that we could have set up and tried to figure out. We never would have been able to do it in a hundred years if we tried. But it's good for bodybuilding. Congratulations to Lucas Ostele going back to yet another Olympia. He is a testament to the fact that hard work, practicing your posing, dieting hard, sacrificing pays off with the win here and bragging rights to say I beat some super great competitors, probably some future, you know, stars in the making. Congratulations, Lucas and everyone in Vancouver. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle news update.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to the show! Welcome back to legendary food muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Thursday, August 12th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Some people thought I was crazy. Other people thought he was crazy and even more people tried to write the whole thing off as one big media stunt. And if you're one of those people who love to be skeptical, this segment won't change anything for you. But if you're not, this behind the scenes leg training clip of Kai training legs with blessing I would be vote from this Tuesday has to get you excited. Considering that we're only nine weeks away from the Olympian now, this is exactly what you'd expect to see from Kai if he was planning to compete. You'd expect to see him calling in all the dogs and pulling out all the stops because this is one of those old or nothing moments in your career as far as bodybuilding competitions are concerned. I say this all the time where this smoke is fire and things are starting to look awfully smokey around Kai Green now. Don't you think? I've been so few days ago. I'd never heard anyone say that it's time to start the finishing before I read it in a post from Kamala Gorgney. Then the more I thought about it, the more I started to like it. And the app proposed I thought it was for him heading into this year's contest considering a situation. If you look at where he has at this point in his career, compared to where he was last year, it becomes immediately obvious that he's better today than he was then, which is saying something considering the fact that he played second last year. This version of Kamala isn't looking to finish when he started last year. He wants to finish when he started this year. He wants to prove to the world that Kamala L Gorgney is the best 2-12 athlete in bodybuilding. And if now is the time to start the finishing, then the only real way to finish whatever he needs to be finished is to be the last man standing on October 7th. Now, I want you to take everything I just said about how great Kamala looks and forget about it for a minute because Derek once further looks like he's about to do some starting and finishing of his own. Derek hit the stage last weekend as one of the featured guest poses at the NTC Knox Classic and pretty much everyone I've talked to about it since then has all had the same reaction, which is basically, oh my god, did you see what Derek looked like last weekend? In terms of his size and conditioning, this is the best that Derek has ever looked at any point in his career. People have been talking about Derek as their heir apparent to the 2-12 throne for the last 3-4 years now. But if this really is a precursor to what's coming down the road, this could be the year, those people finally end up being right. I know that I've said this before on the show about how important I think it is for people to double down on their stress. It never made sense to me why anyone would intentionally try to shy away from doing some of the things that helped them become successful in the first place. And the reason I say that is because Sergio O'Leave a Jr has one of the best backs in bodybuilding and he's been doubling down hard on making sure that it doesn't change heading into the Arnold Classic. According to Sergio, he's training back twice a week during the prep with the goal being to add more width and thickness so he can come in and remind people what this sport is really all about. And considering the fact that he placed 5th there a year ago doubling down on what works might be exactly what he needs to do to push himself up another slaughter too so we can find himself in those top 3 conversations. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

The thyroid hormone is kind of like, you know, necessary for your metabolic rate to work properly, but basically what will it does is turn on the machinery in your body. The machinery being the muscle cells, the metabolic enzymes that metabolize things to your body's genetic ability to oxidize fats and do all that great stuff. So if you have a lot of equipment, okay, that can do a lot of fat burning and muscle building, having enough thyroid hormone to turn that equipment on is necessary. Now, if you overturn it on, obviously you could burn a lot of extra calories up, obviously, but you also risk obviously losing some muscle. If you don't have a turned on enough, meaning a thyroid is too low, high-pothyroid, then you have all the great equipment, you can't use it all because it's not all turned on. So that's why thyroid hormone, you really want to get it into, you want to get it into the normal range, you don't want to go too too high, you can go high normal, but you don't want to go too too high because then once again you can risk having other negative ramifications, sometimes harder with me if you amp it up too quickly. Also, if it's too slow or your thyroid hormone is too low, you might not be getting the most out of your body. But by and far, thyroid hormone, any of itself does not control how much fat you burn. It just basically turns on your body's ability to do what it's supposed to do, but how good you are burning fat or building muscle is really determined by muscle. What's going on in the end of the enzymes in the muscle cells themselves. And a lot of that genetic and a lot of that has been built because the more muscle you've built over the years, the better your metabolism. Okay, I believe that people who have done aerobic type or highly aerobic activities, like running, like I did or swimming or cycling early in the career, might have changed their metabolic enzymes, make up in the muscle cells as well. Because I think I became a better fat burner because of all the running I did. But you know, having said that, you know, you still need normal thyroid function. Now, I was interested to find, I went back and looked at all my thyroid hormone prior to my thyroid being removed and I never naturally had a very high T3 level. I was in the normal range, but I was in the normal low. And even now, you know, when I'm on replacement, I'm in normal low, but I feel totally normal. So my body probably doesn't need super high thyroid output. Matter of fact, if I did, I probably wouldn't be able to put any muscle on. I would be running too fast, you know. So your body knows where it needs to be. And how can you tell where the right place to be is because of your TSH thyroid stimulating hormone levels are normal, okay? And then normal range, then you know you're producing enough T3. So even though my T3 output is not high normal, it's low normal. My TSH is normal. So that would that and even on, and even on replacement therapy, that means that my body, my hypothalamus to my brain says, we got enough thyroid in this hormone and this body. We're not going to, we're going to keep TSH output on the lower side. Now, if my body sends that hate, we don't have enough thyroid hormone to turn everything on, I would, my, to a terrarian hypothalamus would put out more thyroid stimulating hormone to turn up thyroid function. Now, because I don't have a thyroid, I'd have to actually take more replacement. But that doesn't seem to be the case. So thyroid hormone is not the dictator of how fast your metabolism. It just turns on the machinery, so to speak.

六esi三顿一軟老PantsYain holy guys we're two set of B hitIt's 6.30aran video我們今天我們就芽熱 這算公幣啊謝謝開箱給讓一張哈囉搖茹這麼高我在一起這裡看到了我再辦為了介紹你的Twitter因為其他我們都在一起在一起那麼就會教真的到幫我說最麻 occurs說說說倒暗我們你們真是整個政府這是最後我們完了沒有他們突然 snug沒有兩個人去說他們說無論你們聊天所以早上這種年齡昨天一流那麼多例如 Ebola時代前期我是 день級五星八方面我們有一個人帶出我們互相行動,但是алось友的例如他們 сред識東西的注意他們做錯習進攻 Türk阮請你們知道談戰現在他們搭音演唱說但他們叫社出來賣給每次給他們他們他們冷 Kız那天他們連不冷氣而你們兩個去之間 2016年有 zus足 hecho在中工級的年級這是他是要坐開時他的上廁所的是這公司可想出山健康严厚的區諭隨共同 soul但他只要嘴步但是你得多 quelqueaca你認為都是這些人但是你ep你 can read拜託你不會欺騙嗎?誰愛教官?不是,你不宣爲你可家我在追求我我來 AleKa我在國民擁有一根我明白我還賣禮給台灣以及家裡這邊因為我在國民我剛才在世我自己沒有理解我不是在忙我ных人也是在乳最有錢但是後面就有點出вой但是因為Beau雪真哎呀真哎呀疤泣不我善你我我不我我填智本來我我我的你們歡迎 pessoal會是否做了照理好了他們一樣去羽瓣 Hyung,你們的緣但作品 Smart Cafe把我整支快快不要你站立了寒圓走路上 Script單前半句!對這一幕 esque起訊中美今天是整個人拿著我就是就會很爭論當中像裂位, Sabhat剛才是熄儉的燜靠兒子那她還是憤怏不過綜合的火鍵就是awan我講到我我要打擊我illing with the pro因為我一直覺得 vidéo夠滾我只是去找來什麽都是餓了是的我 milligram你我們不要和soever用 exhibition對那起來它長得不清楚有śli失去失去人離人離人離所有人都不負ز所有人都不這樣的不知道當你問別人你把我也有意外是由你的排名所以我覺得我的前面說的時候丟調說我的定案是權盤老 Falcon反此類類的時間別理人的時光非明�中如果你請別人亭反彈你不知怎麼最難發尻尻尻嬨這麼大的科技他們到的食物那我們才能加 кли到厚有面具最難因此武ichen何者大家拉應該不提醒中你鹏我算…快那個氣心不可允許基礎十個正的人實際嘛選擇過全人那這個確正前當他昨天 somethin這個方案他們媽的畿理他們的方法的方法你你因此重新因為俺家真的跟你們一樣 你愛戰力然後還是怎麼ε什麼呢過分成 PV還是將вед的 projet不然的人你別再說職地無 tails會較簡單能夠更接種不略我覺得右 4000能夠夠留意頭頭不好的一直被放弄也不曾怎樣再向上揹那完全更多滑炎我不需要去一件你要追求他們我以為我想要說那四一眾拭�這是一個點的那我真的守醫有甚麼你守醫有什麼我沒有個口我有什麼情緒我有什麼訓練我沒有幅度你你要替他們這個 IPO的時候你上一個了我還錯了他還在拍架更�熱像人員有人在買而已雪他你在拿著优劇 是 strengthening我們就是 Feed Unpopular我真的把你加了呀 不了解其實它不太意思就是你在之中可是算是因為今年了吧迪汁 你影響ener其實以前是在這樣的人有些朋友在各ements問啦 是的話噎炸 membership往心嚷嚷做什麼我覺得責任這個可能對入場的角度非常重要的我基本上就真的有一個叫做該到極樂的連套都是我現在去OOKJIM面合不知所以他以前作成一種因為蔡時候當不是撸空偏 sizeS等下誒然後我們我們心它現在 Nixon,我們跟飛時蘇華亞 venate went into any Victor Richards, The Barbary & Brothers, ¿OK的?但是在那邊,當然日本有個政治局,以前是沒有九岚,有人不是這樣過農林的那種美國中國的你們這邊倒入就對了,那邊證穢那個人有同事,還有老婆,因為有準備的有逃遇了, Wizard園偷了國現在分配。還有土牛一些專業。 slap and hold to it舞蹈很激晴可是走的針對沒有去附人很激晴敨低曾經做過新疆大陀你要次我會戴但我們外面他們晚上整個連結更故問題我們做下放下來可能是香港消失你許孩子們都amos他說他說,你們做一支香港越對人員受到計打撫我們還被公計有人會使 媳妇很久沒 properly會被民眾生了但是至少金馬,那你說啥最後前然後有績甚至能夯化處上 Koserayin Ment學師去打破你的名字還有一個中國沒有辦法澳洲 weiter知道如果者不知道那是 application 人士的 convers及自清我們把 dependency給你辦法我們說你無法廁所我們說的 城市有另一位可以跟yncorn主的可能性看到你比較保労我告訴大家你在說 Ser Autograph你的意思是這個是司機你怎麼這樣操作我是想加入ANN principally你也是制 cidade這是作品和 attends幾年那位車童真的 Gracias但我聽得到如果他要在他門站在守了她認為牆申 fungi父親 若有點殃頭但是若有端元 [" paar數,我們兩場婆半了Dale desersentra提 ignorance"]對腳沒錯當然今次沒有嘉乎而且只是揮載這是不一定一間是很強的就是因為結果我覺得如此給我毫不仅全部也有人守哈囉,可能要不要被你滗了然後要開始取一場就憐善追!我這-----不一定百朝非常多也 wenig不應該要繼續我現在認為講保相我不...地兒給�장員提升是如果你一直在進去你應該有人的印象還有學生我永遠我想拘捕你最初來一分鐘還要變命不是我們也在做到的譚曼他們好好講因為他講他是說好啊101誰在見網上在曚曼應該好像不是更 gì甚至在洩 BI結果已經這樣想自己一半了大概現在噴才病毒的話把該生氣我就帶它算一下誰沒有的我也應該想這樣的一個一路也可以然怒一路還只是這麼一樣大家都不算原來下 rainfall這是太嚴重oque人但不相信與民民有一個你不再去 нужно按摩 sexy揍走 夠maz不分自我你不要這樣的你沒繼續 135說一些你沒有 tri舞男生在林今晚早ened那可以好第一天說問題林我不 loin如果想義dist Gentleman我就感謝你如果 Mason 如果♥这个就要煎掉你,多不基本上只有小�...我愛他們!你們當他們誇張呢可是歸講他們的口 知道所以說講我決定大銷這個也能講下去當然經濟 pays數他們更新但是不見證論25%以上誰嗎?怎要給奧台北會議論讓你的兩個人還有科方你認少了日本人可以得當神馬戀如何請選禮物未知應該不會更大禮物iFV proAnd body building cultural fans are thereOK millions and millionsSuch when you say you're correct when you say most people could care less about the Olympia Statistically speaking on a numbers basis you're right Because most of those millions just want to go on social media and watch rich payout They want to watch the next truth and power and see what the latest you know hottest thing in this sport They don't care about the analysis that we're doing or the in-depth interviews or You know all that type of stuff because they're not the hardcore fans at 100,000 people Just making up an arbitrary number. They're the millions that like the My father would call the pop culture aspect of a body building But let me answer your question if they said we're gonna run your autoplashing OK, what fuck the body building show fuck all the other shit You know just come and we're gonna have the X-Pose and everything You want to lose a purse everybody? No because that is a pop culture That's the majority of the people like like the least the whole idea of training and and growing and now drugs and supplements and Right protein shakes and all that's they love that because it's it's the cultural thing They don't necessarily care about the competing But that's the majority of the people but the hardcore body bulls are still there It's the same numbers. It's just a comparison to the rest of people It seems love that's all Yeah, water down, but what about guys that would John start it just before we start a talk at any age right What about guys like John and I am just gonna use John and I for example because we were there back in the fucking early early eighties. I'm 181 and you know and all that And I knew everybody builder who competed even in the fucking local shows and shit I mean I knew everything now how come you know What up it guys like John and I that don't really have that you know You're all men you like me you You become a sick that's all I think it's two things one is you know we got we got older and more More Disillusioned with the loss of what our brotherhood was right that's what it is you said it Yeah, we had when we Back then and Greg you know this and David you were there a few times you could have the worst shit Day in the entire world where would you go you went to the gym it's all your buddies were we had nothing to do Where'd you go you went to the gym because two guys were hanging around waiting to go eat or something you had you had a central You want a central community of like-minded people that was that that was Ironclad Accepting of you because of who you are and what you were doing and Greg and I because of we came up during that very intensified Environment of bodybuilding we missed that we missed out But what do we say back in the day we want it we want to grow the sport we kept saying that we got to grow the sport We got to grow the sport we need public mainstream appeal to the sport that's gonna make the sport grow and it's gonna make it more acceptable That's what's happening. I think I think what's happening You don't like you don't like where it's going, but that's that's unfortunately You're not growing a sport nobody gives you a strike you're not right because you're not gonna The majority of the people don't care who missed her limp your sport part of bodybuilding and there's the lifestyle part of They go together though, Greg without mr. Olympia. There is no lifestyle. There is nothing to aspire to You don't have to be want to look like I don't really curry to go out to the gym and train But that's what I'm looking at when I'm going to the gym and saying man I want to put muscle on you that looks cool even though I know I may never achieve that you know that that's I think we're to be on a cruise. I think that rich be on a prove that The people just want they people want that part without the sport just guys Focus it because people lazy great. They want to just take drugs and eat a lot of food and they don't want it That's really diet hard and have to do all the things that entail getting on stage You're competing practicing your posing suffering You know every day until you lose all your body fat They don't want to do that. That's not the fun part. So they'll do the other part which doesn't entail that But that's still that's still bodybuilding. You know I just thought it's you There's something there. It's not that we lost that taste Do you know what I mean like we don't it you're going to set it perfectly you you lot it was a it was a it was a time You think back to where it was so good, you know It's like when you watch an old movie and you say wow it brings you back to your high school years when you remember Was going to see that movie with with some girl in a drive through you know what I mean you say oh my god Holy I remember those are great times. You know and that's that's what you guys remember that gold gym camaraderie It can never be recreated again because it's right now The only way you can create it is go on Instagram, you know, we're ticked talk or whatever the case may be and And watch people doing kooky stuff on that that's the the sub culture now, you know Well, I I think the other aspect that I think is is part part Partially problematic for guys like Greg and me is that Whatever causes to lose interest in that It's it was back then it was happening right in front of him you're training next to this guy and then on a week And you see him he's on a stage. We know a fight for the America universe You'll live be out when I write there next to you, you know And so you had that connection to the sport because the competitors were right there with you training in the gym So so so now now when it when it's doesn't mean that much to be an ISBV pro Or have an IFBV pro card because everybody's got one, you know, and I and the beer top girl at rock bar is not an actual girl at an actual place That is a euphemism Okay, and before I get all the hate mail that Greg doesn't get because Yeah, I mean if people take things so literally a beer top girl's an image It's not a professional athlete. I know I'm looking at this girl and see it a Olympic pole vaulter You see a freaking beer top girl is what you see But can I see one thing for in a John I'm speak for John, but I think John's gonna great John and I will we talk like this and I want everybody who's watching is the know Okay, this is the fact we both love body building still we do it every day I have I have not lost a beat I can fucking cancel a whole bit knowledge it But I still train the way I always did I still take it that serious I'm talking about the competitive part of who's winning shows and who's not winning shows That's the part of bodybuilding that I think John and I don't give a shit about you know, and I mean I can't really you know I'm not saying John doesn't give a shit I'm interested sometimes that who wins the Olympic and all that the big things but I don't have it like I did But I'm still super into bodybuilding I worked out every day I tried good you know taking his you know supplements and it's all that stuff I do everything that it I've always done it's just the the commercial part of it is gotten so watered down And then I don't give a shit these guys did it all look the fucking same it's it's all of that that I don't So I don't want to sound like an old man Is that just huge as great because you're not keeping up on it because you know what I mean You know when you're younger certain things matter more to you and then when you get older You're you're thinking and you're and you're interest evolved so yeah You can't miss these guys world on social media world Instagram and Facebook we see them We see them just like everybody else sees them there's just there's no draw There's no sign no you know here's here's how you know the promise there's no backs You know how like when you go watch a movie sometimes in the character development is not good enough for you And you can't really emotionally get behind the character See you leave the movie kind of thinking wow it wasn't that great and then there's other movies with a Developed the character so much that you actually feel like you're the character in the movie I think what you're saying is that it's too easy for these guys and that's the so it's to move up the ranks Initially and it's hard to get behind people because You're almost don't know who they are because they turn pro so quickly There's no backstory there's no time to develop it Wait a minute let me use the bikini girls for one second If you go to a show okay, but this is what it is I think a lot too if you go to a show and There's bikini girls there and I've been backstage and there's fucking literally at one it to a universe Show did's fucking 400 of them okay, and if you said I'm not gonna say his name because I'm not gonna get trouble But there's a very famous guy who you both know who runs judging and all that shit And I said to do everyone in these girls is amazing how do you pick the top four and At you know top five and he said I picked which ones I would fuck first And I'll tell you who said that believe me And if I could want to say negative thing about this particular person, but Here's the point it's it's so watered down that you can't focus on the certain girls Even but then in those days you love the glass you love you know, let me ask you this question If you train Excuse me, if you If I know COVID I got I got I get a good code to do you train these girls Like your coach and bikini girls wouldn't you know who all the top girls are because that would be your job No, it's too many No, of course Is that too many you would know every single one of them because that would be in your best interest because you If you got 15 girls that you work in with you know Reus wait a minute to reason why I used to bikini girls I was using them as one I'm not putting bikini down I love to bikini I love I don't like we can say figure I'm saying if you trained girls You would know who all the girls are You wouldn't be saying this a million of them You know you know all the top ones are all the girls who are going to get the pro card are you would know them all Right, wait listen, I think you're missing the point I'm trying to make the big pool It's such a pool of people the reason why you use bikini girls was gate they for a while there They would get in the most competitors and there's so many of them. They so good right so but now What I'm saying is it's hard to zone in on let me like these particular girls It's the same thing with bodybuilding is what I'm saying there's so many shows there's so many pros there's said you don't have enough To zone in a back in the day when you when you said you know you don't I guarantee if you asked the judges They know who all the girls are Yeah, because that's their job right, but right so what I'm saying is your job has changed Maybe back in the day you were you would have been more into it because you're in the gym I'm so you know Jim you got all these competitors working out there Ask your advice you'd be looking through the magazine looking at all the girls so you know who everyone was But they know it's not it's not in your interest anymore You don't need that interest in bias. Yeah, but I still love baseball. I still love the same shit. I love back to listen when I'm trying to tell you It back then even even Up in the 90s when you're Dorian and all those guys you had about 20 to Maybe 25 guys that were really good Okay, and the rest it was just you know But you had 25 guys you could zone in it was more like oh who's gonna win you my kids? Gonna be this one it's gonna be I'm it's not some guy from the middle he shows up You know what's his name? You know mode X team or whatever That's because you don't pay attention. I know who all the top guys are. I know it all the names I Stop your job Yeah, it's my job But as fans right all right, let me let me let me change Let me just change something for you and then then you can say something Let's say there was no social meter internet Okay, it was an blackman had a thousand page magazine going now, okay? And that's where all the results and the body building was in there and they only way you can have any Tuck in touch get any in touch unless you go to the shows with bodybuilders read the magazine You would get your monthly magazine the blackman's copy of a thousand pages 750 would be ads of course and You would read through the pages a hundred times because you'd have a month to do it and you know who all the people were Right Greg Yeah, you're not willing to go to 16 social media sites and and a 4,000 Instagram Profiles it's too complicated That's what the problem is that's what it and that yes And that right there is the is the flies and the appointment Yes, it happens is the the prestige now right Go on yeah because back then People knew it was competing in the Olympia because it was it was that was it right The already whatever and we had the magazines it was a big deal was a huge deal Right, you're running a cover of a magazine It was a huge deal to have your article by you know you it was a big that was Press the right no any swinging dick in the gym can get his picture on the front Yeah, and he's talking about the appetite I'll put you on the cover And and get their by line on an article or blog or what it doesn't mean anything anymore Now just there's right well you have to establish you have to create your own prestige Look at like a dandelion valley for instance everyone knows who she is Yes, but that's it's like it was on This was on her to do that if I had a factory and I made ferraris Okay, and then and I would make two ferraris a year and it costs $8 million each because it was only two of them right now all of a sudden some German guy buys my company This is all you're doing this all wrong you gotta do it like that and now and now I'm making 5000 ferraris an hour okay, is it any less of a ferrar? No, it's still a fucking for everybody's got one right It doesn't mean anything anymore right? No, it's right great cards still the ultimate but it doesn't it doesn't have that Mistaken anymore because it's just everybody's got one is no it's not too easy What if they expanded baseball and they said you know what we're gonna throw another 10 to 15 teams and they're really making so that you have to That you would stop being like that's too much That's not it. Yeah, we'll whether it down right you need it I've got a formula race you gotta only race in that if you have a formula one car But now I'm letting it shopping cards mustangs doing buggy's motorcycles and it's a big cluster fuck You know, I got a lot of people love motorcycles and I watch it And I got a lot of people are like watching wheelchairs so they're watching and you got this big mess and like We're the formula one guys right there is way the fuck ahead nobody's even watching Just don't think that by watering down the sport you may say it's big and they're making more money by adding more pros and now You got to have somebody backstage that's more money and this is but the bottom line is The int you could get a rich piano walking in the room and fucking don't leave the pro bodybuild everybody to go run to rich because I Social media has made bodybuilding more of a lifestyle You know You know, niche and that people want to be around the social media stars They know that Mr. Olympic and walk to room look I just told you story Couple years ago I was at the Arnold Classic okay and a guy walked up to me wouldn't another guy He goes oh my god, you're above a but he said I got to ask you a question great Do you know this is then and next to me and I'm looking at the guy and I'm and you know He looks like everybody else that's walking around the expo, you know and I said I'm sorry I have no idea and he goes to me I told you it's that's so his friend I told you the told you and it was it was the guy who won the national that year So if everyone in assholes like think it was in 2016 or whatever it was that it was him okay now The bottom line is this They were trying to make that same statement they were actually making that to me like see You know he's not getting the recognition he's not getting all that you know Because the people on the internet Believe it or not if you have the national champ on your show you're gonna get people that are niche to watch that that really give a shit Who won the national you're gonna get that but if you had one of these new Nick that strength the next drink guy. I'm not really crazy about if you had him on there you'd have a hundred times more views and all that why because those the people social media has made bodybuilding into a Social media sports. It's like I've trained everybody's bodybuilding Yeah, but that's good. Greg that's bringing more people in you know It's not doing anything for the actual sport, but it's not it's not bringing it down It's it's just bringing more attention to it watering it down now Let me here's the question. I'm gonna pose this question to everyone Mr. J included you go each answer me. I want to sink the answer. I don't want to a 20 minute diet tribe Go ahead. How do we make bodybuilding great again? Talking about Trump slogan how do you make bodybuilding great in your estimation? What do you do? You want to go first Then you go first Dad John. I'll go first. All right. Well, I think obviously I'm gonna use the current situation To describe how you make bodybuilding great again. Number one is you get a guy You get a guy in charge to own the whole thing who actually has a passion for it and an interest in what's going on You got Jake Wood now. That's good exactly Jake Wood Versus David Pecker David Pecker didn't even know where the fucking gym was let alone one It looked like money inside a one let alone anything about bodybuilding now you got an a guy You actually knows the sport who owns the sport so Huge step number one and making bodybuilding great I'm not gonna say again. I'm gonna say bodybuilding Really great like it's never been so and that's the way you do it you get somebody with a passion for a money That has a vision that can pull from You know the amazing resources that we have out there people that have an interest in fitness and bodybuilding whatever and get them together You know create a create an online buzz about what's going on and and Promoting promoted with celebrity endorsements influencers who are are interested in bodybuilding they can make bodybuilding and the Associated sports that go away that look attractive and appealing and and the practitioners Interesting and people that are gonna that other people are gonna want to know more about and want to follow around And want to learn about and want to be fans And that's how you do it not by I think you can distill it down to this. I'm sorry I know you didn't want to die. I'm gonna give me one anyway In order to distill it, okay, you got to folk you got to refocus the energy if the focus is on On making money you're gonna have a different outcome than if the focus is Surveysing the fans serving the fans and serving the industry so if you're if you're a prime directive is to service the the the sport and and serve the sport and create opportunity create buzz create excitement create You know prizes opportunities all that stuff that goes along with promoting and and serving the Participants versus only working into in the realm it's gonna return you money I'm gonna spend this because I'm gonna get this ROI. I'm gonna get this money back If it's if it's all about making money then you're gonna have what what the the mess the Jake would inherit it Because that's what it was it was all about making money and that's what we got so Now hopefully the focus is gonna be more on the athletes the sport in the industry and less on Who's me making all my money and I think you'll see a quantum leaf phone Yeah, but I don't think I don't think it's possible I don't know I think with today people care more about watching the guys on here the action is see and some guy in the gym working out Talking if you had that if you had that okay if you had that whole Developed character as Dave was talking about and you and and social media Regular media was was promoting and and creating these images and these characters and you know about them Then when they went to compete you'd have a you have skin in the game You go yeah, I really like that guy. I want him to win right because then I'm other fucker I hope this guy be some but there's none of that though They don't have any calories mat these guys aren't calories men Yeah, why let me ask you a question why wouldn't why wouldn't the Olympic people you know Somehow Do some partnerships with TV you know or they or not it just they don't work now You know a TV's dying they need they need stuff like that, you know They should show like you You had I was working Oh Create a character like w w Create these characters in these story lines and create that and show the guys Yo that that he's got to wake up a tree 30 of the morning I'm more happy because he's kind of full-time job Because he's not making enough money and he's trying to go show all that with all the guys And and and they happen to have to come to practice and this way you don't want to watch him With the WB as they take a car you think somebody from the cat boat and they show them going up the ladder They have a whole character development division Yeah, that's the guy with me that's what Vince McMahon wanted to do right Even with that file you know these guys get a real out it would be so much other because then you like Oh, that guy that guy has to go work 15 hours and then he's going to the gym And then he's taking care of his kids he showed the show them as human rights I think lose good lose wicked great job Hold it lose wicked a great job with that didn't he when he was doing American muscle magazine I'm sure you watch that show you wanted to be on that I wanted to be on that show I mean, but I saw John Cook and I was jealous that I you know how did this guy land this fucking gig here? Me you you really were a mission Have a job on that show I'm missing a point though you missing a point No, I'm not because you know what they could create their own YouTube program And you don't have to be on TV Greg everyone watches YouTube now. No, I know that But that's what I'm saying YouTube yeah YouTube it's not gonna you the character development all that shit's on YouTube The problem is is that in my opinion there's no excitement it bodybuilding's not the most exciting You know to us old school guys wicked get excited by seeing guys pose on stage and we because we know what we're looking at everything But the average guy don't give two ships about that I'm just telling you they don't they'd rather see him in the gym Puffin going at home, you know the whole rich pianiting opened up a Totally different thing these guys don't have personality. There's nothing to sit up there and watch it's not like watching the UFC We've seen guys bash each other's brains in and I mean that's the fastest growing sport on the planet, you know It's right there's no way right You know Like the action's on your YouTube channel when you're seeing them in there and you get to hood on and your pocket facing around there And they're fucking living and all that shit in your screaming in the gym and and you know That's the answer but to sit there to fucking 20 guys posing to either fucking music videos doing it for None of you you know Black music doing a little stupid fucking shit that they do on stage and you know Everybody's going oh look at it. Look at it. Just did you like this, you know It's boring, you know It's just you can't sit to a fucking 50 people The same thing like the girls when the girls get up to take a 400 girls It's a kid falling asleep like this, you know what I mean basically Greg if I had gained free tickets to the Olympia bikini I should not give them to you. I don't want to my swimming god I did I Doesn't you know I love those girls those are my favorite and I I'm not Into like super if you want you love the one you want to fuck you don't love the one that's you think is the best Athlete because she's no Great as what I respect him I respect the fitness girls the girls When the girls are lined up with their ass face in the audience and they're bent over and it's like oh look at my head Glute ham tie in no one's looking at the gluten ham I don't think between their legs It's like you like to do it from fucking revenge and nerds. Oh, heopie You know what I mean Remember to you remember that the Chinese kind of an already a guy like they squeaks came in his pants Ah And they're a fix you know with the chicks Yeah, you know I can imagine in in in a in a legitimate athlete's mind What thoughts he's going through when she's got to turn around and face the curtain and bend over where a leg spread I know How was that opposed though? They have real estate That was designed for us fucking are like Up to the fifth seventh row and and you know Stendor like dancing and expect that everybody's looking at her you know Stelberg I never ever this did have that pose Pat. Remember back in the day you couldn't do the moon pose and body Going show your hamstrings glutes. Yeah, I mean that was pain compared to what these girls are doing on stage I like to little importate I mean that affect the girls that are at the top don't do that. You know if you notice they don't bend all over They don't need to try to cross they cross the leg. They do it in a much more sophisticated way and I think This is off way that those girls those girls crying for attention boy They can stick that chute shop to the fucking back door I've never seen anybody arts from back so much like that You know what their posters prize out the door I was at that unit was closed post down and I was with Robbie Durand and Jo Pia Tarot And I in Jo Pia Tarot you know so many motherfuckers are a little bit Okay, and he said to me to class a client after like all these girls came out He said to me I should have got a never thought it ever said it to my lifetime He goes but if I see one more fucking bikini I think I'm going to fucking spit. You know I can I kiss because after a while It's like if I showed you playboy magazine at the playboy at the playboy You're like okay, okay, I get it. I get it. You know it's too much they water down the shows You don't have the elite competitors That's what I was trying to tell you before about that and I'm not just using girls bikini I mean even bodybuilders You knew there was like 25 guys or 20 guys actually that you could that we're gonna go for the Olympic We're gonna go for all these pro shows and you had you could focus on that you know I'm saying Now who's gonna show up fucking John if I if I told you name it like the guys in the Olympic You wouldn't even know who's who's this fucking guy You know, I mean it's this fucking mode X team and fucking you know what I mean And you know you understand what I'm saying But great why did you why did you know who these guys were back you know 10 15 years ago because you're red That's it was all they got from one of our article about it or Peter McGoff wrote an article about these guys and you're red it And you knew who they were because you learned the background That's what you can do no, but there was 20 of them listen to me when you went to school There was 15 kids in your class maybe 20 kids in your class You know everybody in the class, but if you sat in a classroom with fucking 2,000 people You'd be like an I've been in the same class for fucking four years and I haven't you know That's where it happens when you go to college with big university you sit with 300 people in the class You don't know no, you don't know everybody in your class No, you don't know you don't but that doesn't make it the learning experience any less. It's just means no, but the thing is you don't this is a body-belicture She can't really it's hard to say So what you're it but now what you're what you're saying is that they should not have allowed the sport to grow That's what you're saying no not grow grow that way That the elite should always remain more money in the sport There's more people there's more interest you got to grow the sport There's not more I don't win them a hold on I disagree with that There's more money for the fucker promoters and everything But you haven't grown the sport with the people out there get this shit nobody gives you shit They'd rather watch that fucking great-duke kid or whatever the fucker's name is You know when rich pian and all that you know what I mean Let me give you an example MotoGP motorcycle racing there's six copies Six that whose name you hear every race first second third fourth that they're the same guys The same ones Valentino Rossi Mark Marquez the Vizio So he's at the same guys you see him every week every track The same six guys so is that sport growing one of the biggest sports in the fucking world It grows every freaking year, but it's the same six guys winning the same six guys So free to say the Olympians the same top six when it's the same top six every pro show It's the same six guys same six guys. It is the sport growing I don't think you can go you can't measure it by the by the how many practitioners there are you got to Remember by how many people want to see it by giving away too many pro cards John you're creating too many people that have the The key to get into that show That's a challenge It only the only the best is going to rise to the top though Right, that's the point on making so it doesn't matter Greg you're a hundred percent right It doesn't it doesn't matter how many people are they can call which competing for it It matters who are the top guys and why do you want to know who they are right and you know what into your To and I'm agreeing with you if you're talking about the top six guys in motorcross or whatever it was right Now now let me taste something if they if they had Fucking fifty guys going for that and one shot you'd be sitting and going I can't sit to all these guys doing that shit You would wait and watch those six guys am I right along? But I'm any guys you see you know again, you know Ed Beckley fucking earn revenue it's always talking Whatever you go get some out in the lobby go take a piss but now oh shit You know Jake Hotler's coming up He's gonna pose like seconds and you run out there and you watch him you right what I'm saying is They've made it so watered down that it's hard to focus on this sport because to every There's a new guy did you you put these guys on your shows I don't even know what the fuck they are and you know They're all super jagged you know trading like it and they're all fucking you know giant try everybody's fucking big Well that's why that's why active I have to feature these people because otherwise no one will know the back stories on these people No, that's why this that's why our ex muscle and sites like us are so important because we are the magazines now And when we feature someone on here, and that's why a lot of these you know the upcoming guys want to be featured because It validates them in a way that the magazine just devalinate us when we were coming Yeah, but I'm not putting it down. I'm not saying it what you're doing is bad. Oh, I don't know. I know what you say But that what you're doing is there it's necessary. It's necessary. Right. It's necessary. It's great But when I'm saying this I don't know who they are You understand what you're doing Sometimes you got to pay a little more attention, Greg Yeah You don't know who they are because you're not excited about no one who they are right It was if it if it's stimulated you want to well wow I want to know more about that guy because You you you watch an interview on our ex muscle and you found out wow we're from the same town Or we we were into the same high school and we we knew we knew the same girl and the It was a cheerleader or whatever so I mean Once you know more about these people what David is saying and when you know about them You know the back story when the characters are developed when you know them There's a greater chance that you're going to like them and follow them in care about instead of not caring You've got to make me want to watch them but the only way you're going to do that the only way you're going to do that first You're going to have you got to want to know about the sport so you got to A care about the sport avoid of any personality You got to care about the sport you care about the sport you're going to watch our Ex muscle you're going to watch everything on our Ex muscle you're going to write a new care I do care about the sport which it's it's become again it's hard to watch if they Sports expand even like baseball if they had it in another 10 teams it's But that's what you're saying is but what you're saying is the number of events Have water down the the blanket organization there's still only top 10 guys in the Olympic right But now the garden's got a lot more weeds in it. Where's the fruit? Yeah, it's still one of them that it that's what you want what you're saying you don't want to get to all that To get right I don't want to get to a weeds to get to the fruit you understand that's what I'm saying I can also what this like girls with long pubic hair you don't want to weed you all Dude I'm a 70's guy I like that Dude I like the bush bro a 70 I'm 70 guys Mr. G what's your what's your take on this? On the whole thing is that they should like develop a link at W to be characters and the guys have to be You have to be brought up to show them what forking Regular jobs family all the things that they had included going to training like this used to show When the guys in the Olympics You can be seen with show the guy training and how much tech aisle XC I would eat They show me all the food and stuff like that and very lift and you know Kind of the public character inside him so this way is gonna make you want to watch because that's that's the Ultimately how these guys want to make money they have that personalities they have to have a party without a personality If you just like above Them forget it that's why when we went to the company had the Trend when we were at the Arnold stage They had oh you could have 10,000 girls next to us nobody did Everybody was watching us because we're in the team We're interacting and that's what needs to happen I We do have character development see the character now today's they go to YouTube What's gonna make them want to see that guy on stage is what I think with Dave's trying to say because they are there is character Development everyone of these guys has to wrong YouTube channel right they post their fucking meal every meal The eat on Instagram you know what you mean it you get to see their lives on oh There's no there's no formula for that for success because you can have some guy in every man herd I've got 3 million followers Right Who is he in every man herd of then you got somebody Seeing as somebody who's like a fucking legend they got like 230,000 followers And you know exactly what's that at all? 230 to show us that fucking Can't even get 10,000 for it's it's strange it's a fucking odd thing because the internet I think is what's caused this is what I've been trying to say Well who's responsibility is it to promote these people But what is it the organization is it the Olympia people is I mean like the organization who's responsible Well, you know, that's a good question Dave because that that right there is one of the one of the elements we lost when we lost the magazine Yes, right that's what we're trying to say when we worked for the magazine If I want to see a bodybuilder he went to a show and he got the magazine now today It's all over the place and that's what I'm trying to say back when we were all together working it You know for the magazine it was a different era It's before there was YouTube it was before there was Facebook it was before there was an Instagram It was before there was TikTok and all this shit the these guys now put themselves on all these platforms I don't need to go to the Olympia to see like oh my god, there's Jay Connor or you know It didn't need to do that do you understand now they do that you know that They would have to go to show to see that Yeah, right a 16 year old kid nowadays is not going to open a magazine Okay They only know Instagram Tik Tok Facebook Yeah, but you're validating everything I'm saying I'm saying because of that But I'm saying it's and it's you can't He says that's the era we live in so how do you make bodybuilding great according to your depth? I think it is great still but according to your depth and how do you make a great using the tool set that we have right now I you have to get you there. There's no excitement in it Oh, I'm making you in charge. I'm making you in charge of the organization. What do you do? My rep is circus by doctor Zeus Wait, I I mean I I think everybody's right. I think George is right about the characters and but that's being done already on those platforms How do you get people to go to a show? You know what I mean? It's like when people say to me, Greg how do you get dates to stop doodling during the show? That's that's the new thing That's the new thing I made a very I made a great painting I don't know if you can see this I'm gonna send it here. I'm signing and I'm sending it to you I don't have you can see it from where you are You'll see it when you watch what's the truth will set you free You know that that's the big that's the big for a conversation on the on the thing Listen great can you please tell Dave to stop do what is he doodling Dropping pictures of you guys I'm trying to on you that like to have like the guys in the courtroom They actually they they that like Sketch Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Um, anyway, I think we could beat the subject up to death. I just feel that unless you create excitement There should be more fucking excitement on stage归上正式的完全可以洪然好 pink我在grav和水如各位李大传就是全世界的是一個我是香港社團可言我一直不能很煩來撕走1套系列語片食巾台銷一個 knee拿著讓真的革命的 Communications也是這樣的王子回去還有不我跟你講為什麼要 被捍縮 圍縮不是vietok這些奏嗎別過去改韓郭嬰兒在事情我覺得許可的學習他永遠憧 prejud會的看不見那麼包括為☠ lovers們這一集什麼那個都跪唐神仁我是箱袁媽ycz對他們就是你從去招餘 κάν個東西沒人一想覺得有點差你把房子鍵扶著我想的是看破eken做秘書我想有白冠軍餘的書以及製造這個 Danny我們裡面就會在這些茶匯裝任徒你過符吃慁什麼 horrible事情克斯你有 feeding people subdoms是那我們格比的你可以暫住你其實知道你你一定用我不討論我 注意具為什麼在 Team Pmit他們 weg放在過程後逆基歧蒂柯與蔣恩我不認識做得全P都聽眾是小伙我可以比較全不讓他們 buds好我們差不多他沒有天聰,他說道ív是要有 Destion –就是聖鎮至於掌揼不過老吉太是作為償意以對聖鎮就是晕靜臘aut Work但是都系衝好總結布有點不錯而且通知閉難自由就是追實在不能聽收兩方咹水一個魴染升級未ED3W需不可以也一次玩的才會與飯 classify其中只乎跳躍乎輸原我調獎 Prix5 UIC幾乎好的ля再把於船 puis也輸明了更上次哇但基本上決定屬於背景供應度是第一個很容易過敬有點好你們感應比較低香港的球跟紀望讓多大山驚奈或者叫前決地將會被搭檔 fingertips或小距離最落似的在坊間看看貪照什麼採採取至於我們可以邏注對和我們經常還一預料同期等一下А大 Mask然後你的貨困在你 Architect行係左拍 65%你的踴鐵操站以前三拍舞牠是不是開始冷靜難跟大家講但 –對牠都能用而且牠發生一爪好像駕駛 Lift alumni站得中跟牠大一帥哇漫畫面 Optimizebins那種家庭刑人1 poquito人2教育專注弘讓本人的底中是説結 Muslim字版他被人他就是剛 portrayed或者什麼還是是pe有個魔女喜歡收藏我 zombies還還我在幸運機但因為沒有這些賶包沒有更 Biden但係你記得你賀給短些海可以設計一點在一下美國在進生金頭在 Maria 在便可我們在他他們已經 wanted to這是醉放潔的對FBE那種紐約給你要你們去笑絕對地牠是這樣的你會按深淩涉的時候但我的顏色色沒有避免也在被通知不代表我的 sponsor卻可以開始為了公結他們對這些度願意在做鑕駡是知死捏是在學校的學校他們在探騾到了我總產回到剩下一個起碼在食物上你在所有的腳上想你試過是間製造成為鬼印自然的原因你沒想過可以先燈手怎麼辦你真容易看那麼五樓圓圈的找我們第二切廣 opposing這做人的時候把現在看到花蓋以後既然好好享受就問了我的經濟問題是我認識你一杯喝糖做了瓜杯永遠就要品想點甜度大概 canonical或是台灣的相比他订队拋大碰但我跟你講但是呢大家找到 emocети你今天要和你誰把完成sharp就得到對吧譚誕中蔣誚親拜夥伴表明所有做完的可能還是好亦使他們員工的的是真正的別人也說將你們公与整個人兩位隊伍他們解釋回家名字 即使中國指臀這命當 gren認為他們看過走你是雖然如此地是不是香港個人本 cooled那向你如果我的錢給載到吧你當重心的留言這是要完成本貴錢的你有的關係這一點的人還有人在上位因為平常的 Prophet附時學習這個人得把 Nam Game打,他一直之間我撐了他他說柱子的很多手事不過我的娃娃問題ầ還有一個媽媽在看我的家裏我有點胸門不能按我你是 【月娟?】我沒人知道它是掉SD大 Raven LEAN並且交代了他的小白意思酒氣受傷會被 Polski對能不能与所以生感差不多就從現在賣不同的你對這個造型我保證會法 Minuten想試一下我學為什麼以後是 seals 我就知道 To appreciate bodybuilding另外 因為 賴製造的共產模糟響遠一點你的記輔有問她我想要想警 év節或劫夸somets,就是太延縣的你講吧今天的세人 landslide都在書中和 countless стран的人們的處理或蓮蓮該撐賴對,已經慘了鼓勵重 Keeping Computers小辯試用途中重點如果有在一起在 televisら paddle有看到路過起是在外面段還有在提著更大的世界往上連鱗南非命亦在跑我們還可以能獲勝新 innovating例如那個你看而要順弄都只有我的Fierreacing有幾個新 express是從來沒有的人家在這些地方那邊是什麼想看著這 sauce絕對貼於自己就是十一四號伯題上是這種 carn放在哪裡對所以Fierre跟我說喵咯 Colombia他們都是 الج十一個年輕因為 Kampf這裡有一個是也就是說的這個 rain,憂鬆一下柄上去每個人走過去八至八年可能被什麼?韓硬 diu在臉上呢所以他說,這是憂鬆的其實這對標準,大家能分辨,我請給你們這一種都是在プレゼ詞 tiverся我們再想一下幕行讀的短暫時有一個最神經考演講到是什麼那麼我們講 τ編譯這回答是有一個修正身的跟你一間跟李廠如果大家如果算大鐘正常能完成可以這些ico function就可以不少又或者 ladder深刻是輸贏的完整什麼才拿在嗎暫度允限s但是政府是正在隨地 Kwk然後全水的國家在發娃你們說,不行霍入的話在發娃的上限很好的知道的蘇氏處於說確訓是一來口的與靜慎在度違反中國的產頭時他們都說這看不是地獄戲長,令食座的巫生小 Rhod,和你們兩째就會把 lamps一下把群別的執著所以他們覺得英國不關,他們想對依定的憲法 Rasen,他們質疑你們覺得你們不關robi gezell idé這位專門是合作的就 vast在其中一點可以自然過來資料而且動作很好大家在節目裡你們沒Ken你來告訴今天吃嗎填養就是過 filament我認為我有 nadie対 balancing還指籠值都能找 Kiss我不 greasy敵 cantidad我們還在在一起哇對啊所以 unfortunate後來直到北北練四uros一致來gun拍圍的我個人只對解护我選手變靁這時候還有多要好多我們就可以了壓力不要小中間您看很明顯的你可以繼續幫我來坐吧名 cash款塊 川普也是保中藜桂他說這些數據我現在說要跟你說你的質疑…他事實之所以你就吃了你說嗎這是一個,事實的他沒什麽央入但我她沒什麼量是的都會做我絕對讀了 Brexit 問我是第一女演出來的 有沒有時候亂約香港 hein我都會問到計劃Danny現在我會形成什麼別說不敢 blah than solamente你都 簡單為什麼這主題是這個很有名的你想出的我很想跟pingBabybeat好呀可愛不一樣rimination我們問個貴的貴,日本民有取得是我的孩子我也是講得我是和外國九成如果還買日正站沒arto我先是有一條我的孩子安樂為了我看生活你那個事件一定挨拘你我應該下午改 zum接下來開會ف你們沒回來了你想突變成章更更請寋清楚Anyway program請不要再說我的頻道謝謝大家我是最好的丟

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, stows from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic is going to be, if I was in charge, how I would restructure the IFBVNPC divisions that are currently out there. A lot of people ask my opinion. Now, I want to just start off by saying that I have the utmost respect for Jim Manion, the IFBV, the NPC, Tyler Manion, everyone who runs everything. I think the judges see Weinberg. I think everyone's doing a great job. I think the organization is grown by leaps and bounds, especially since Jim Manion is taking over the IFBV proly. I love that you guys are doing. This is just my own little fantasy world of how I think things could be better. No disrespect, but this is how I see it. I always say, like, I'm going to see how I see it. That's how it goes. This is what I think is going on. I think that I have been a little harsh on wellness, because I think that it really doesn't have a place, and I think it's a redundant division out there. However, I see the wisdom of it and the sense that in the Latin American countries it's very, very big. And women train there because they want big, the legs, but they don't want bigger upper bodies. So in that sense, there's a built-in division of people that are already, you know, basically looking like the division. So we don't have to try to, you know, mold people into that division. It's there already. So you have to take advantage financially of that and for the fan aspect of it. And I understand that's why it was adopted, because it's already there. They're already doing it there anyway. So we buy this whole sanctioned in the IFB, the N-TNPC, so that it's judged appropriately. And it, you know, and that we have it under our, I guess, umbrella, or the umbrella of the organization that we're all part of here. That makes sense. So I'm okay with wellness. What I'm not okay with is women's body building and women's physique. They have evolved and grown to a point where they are the same, essentially. Women's physique started out as a slightly more muscular figure division. It was figure with a little bit more muscle, a little bit of hardness, but not too much hardness and not too much muscle. It is completely morphed out of that initial iteration of when Danlin Belly was the first IFB be women's physique pro. And that's probably why she stopped competing, you know, because she doesn't fit in the division anymore. She's like a too small. And that's fine. If the power is to be in the judges and the competitors, want to see that division get to the point where there's more muscle, there's more conditioning. And when we don't know more, can you see I'm talking about shredded, blue conditioning. That's what they're looking for now. And I love that believing. That's my cup of tea. I like perfect conditioning. I don't like to have to like half diet people for shows. So women's physique has basically become women's body building. Now women's body building now is making a comeback because of Jake Wood because Jake bought the body building Olympia weekend. He has been supporting women's body building, you know, for the last whatever is six or eight years. I don't even have how many. You know, he supports all the shows with wings of strength. And, you know, there's going to be a lot of money. The miscellaneous back. So now you got this body building division that has basically died over the last five years because there's been no one nurturing it and no miscellaneous. And no Olympia, champ, iris left, you know, once, you know, they stopped doing the miscellaneous. And no new people have come into the division because they felt like there was no life in it. So they just all went to women's physique. And then as women's physique competitors, got bigger, a lot of the women body bowls that were really good just dropped down to women's physique. And fit in perfectly. And right now the women's physique winners are just as big as the women body bowls, biggeres of winners. And to be honest with you, a lot of the times the women's physique competitors are better than the women body builder winners of the show. But the exception of probably the rising phoenix show, which will now also go all to be the Olympia. So it behooves everyone to say, okay, you know what? We have two divisions that are accomplishing the same thing. One division where we have older competitors who have been competing through the last 20 years and will never leave that division because why should they, they're comfortable there and they're doing better now because there's less competition. And then there's a new division of a lot of young people that are afraid to do body building because they don't want to be stigmatized as body builders. So here's the solution. You call it women's physique division but the title, the grand title, is called miscellencia. So you win the miscellencia is the premier women's physique championship title. And basically women's body building in women's physique get merged together into one division. You take the title of miscellencia from women's body building. You take the name of the division of women's physique so that you don't have to intimidate women's body building moniker on your own. Because people seem to like all the women's physique competitor. It sounds more feminine. It sounds more publicly acceptable. And that's fine. It might from a marketing perspective, it's probably it's brilliant. But miscellencia is the title everyone wants. Iris stock competing because she wants to be miscellaneous. She doesn't want to be the world champion. That sounds like a step down. She's 10 times miscellaneous. She'll be going for 11 in December. But she should be competing against the entire division of women's physique and women body builders. It's what you'd be one contest. Who doesn't want to see Shnake ran first-high risk-high on stage? It's like a heartback to when Linda Murray was competing against Iris-high. I mean those were great battles or Kim Shazewski versus Linda Murray. I mean that's what we want to see on this stage. And I want to see the best of the best in the division. At this point there's no distinction. The weights of the girls are almost the same. Some of the women's physique competitors are bigger than the bodybuilders weightwise. Because their conditioning is better. They may look a little small. But I'm telling you, when you get to that Olympia level, you're going to see big, hard girls up there in both divisions. Put them against each other. One division, miscellencia. I don't know. It's almost too logical to not happen. So I hope someone hears me and maybe takes my advice. The last thing I want to talk about is crossovers. If you compete in two different divisions, let's use George Peterson as an example. If George qualifies for the Mr. Olympia in classic bodybuilding, or let's throw that out. He's done with class in Maddo. He qualifies for Olympia this past week and in the two-trial division. He won the Tampa Pro. If he gets another show now this year and an open category in wins and qualifies for the Olympia, Allah, Hottie, Shupin, what Hottie did last year, shouldn't he be allowed to compete in both divisions? Why not? They don't occur at the same time. Why can't if you are good enough? Okay, to qualify in two divisions, just like if you're good enough to play two professional sports, like Dion Sanders did, Bo Jackson did. Why can't you do both? They, those guys, were able to do both. And they had scheduling conflitsions, and they still made it work. If on qualified in two divisions, I should be able to do the Olympia in both divisions. If you want to limit other shows to hey, you know what, you can't cross over fine. But if you qualify for the Super Bowl of bodybuilding in two separate divisions, you should be able to do those two separate divisions. If you can qualify in two, 12, and classic, you should be able to do class in two, 12, why not? You earned the right to be on that Olympia stage of both of those divisions. I don't understand why you have to pick one of the other. It doesn't make sense. Now, in Hottie Schubensk's case, since he picked open, he probably was too heavy to make that two, 12. Also, but if he had been given the option to do both, maybe he would have sucked down to two, 12, and then jumped in the open as well. You know, he might have done his well, the open because maybe he would have been too flat, but that would have been his option. He qualified in both, he should be able to do both. I mean, I don't see, you know, I don't see why it would be something that would be a negative. It should be you should be celebrating and raising up the champions that are truly gifted enough to be able to win two divisions in a single year and qualify for the Olympia and both. That's big story. That's big news. We want to bring attention to the Olympia. We want people to get excited about the Olympia. How do we do that? We do exciting things like allow people who are prodigies to do two divisions. We do it by combining bodybuilding and women's physique because now we have a clash of champions. We have a physique champion, a bodybuilding champion, a 10-time misalmpia going against an almost unbeatable women's physique and limpia champion in the same division. And McCall and Miss Olympia, who's gonna be the next Miss Olympia? Well, the 10-time misalmpia winner will the women's physique champion that never got the accolades and never made the money she should have because she was in a lesser division. Now she's going for Miss Olympia against the greatest of all time. And if she beats Iris, she sets up a legacy of her own. Plus, who knows what other dark horses could be and the wings that might even sneak in there and beat both those girls? That's exciting. That sells tickets, that sells pay-per-view views. That is exciting. We have to create excitement. Hey, you guys did it in the fitness division. You somehow got a Delah and you somehow got an oxideaggress sheet of the comeback and challenged Whitney Jones for that Olympia title. That's exciting. That's a great move. Telling you, combine those divisions, allow people who qualify in two divisions to compete. It's just, it's fun. It's like when Trump came along with that football league and they made the instant replay, through we can check and you can do the challenge, the challenge, the referees decisions on the replay as well. I mean, that made sense. That was exciting. And then when those leagues fell apart, the NFL adopted those ideas because they made sense. They made the sport faster and more exciting and allowed the fans to get more involved. Think about it. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle rant.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. I love you. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro, 30-year-to-year-old. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Alright, self-vision on rxmuscle.com. This is ass Dave better known as hashtag ass Dave. You're a 30-minute question, an answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions, diet training, supplementation, I FPV pros, news, whatever's on your mind, it is all on the tables. We now bring a Dave Palombo Dave earlier today. You got to speak to the impressive. And I mean impressive, Hunter, La Brada, you saw the comments. Obviously, just one this past week in Chicago pro. Many call him really in the crop of the new generation of bodybuilders, really at that top elite tiers of ambassadors and really one of the future superstars of this sport. You know, I've interviewed Hunter since, you know, he started his whole thing every time he's one of the shows. It's funny because he pointed out to me and I forgot that he had one every show except the Olympia that he did. Amateur and pro. And, you know, he's got such a level of maturity about him and you could tell that he's his father's son for sure because he definitely falls in his dad's footsteps. And I could just tell, you know, when they showed that picture, I think you put it on our Instagram of Lee standing with his dad, his dad, like just staring at him while you want the trophy up on stage. You could tell how proudly he is. And you know what, it's great because Lee and he's got another ambassador for LeBron and Nutrition now and his, you know, Hunter is kind of like the new guy now on the block. He's the face of the company. They just rebranded with a new line of LeBron approach series supplements that they're coming out with. So he's got, you know, he's got the business side connected to the bodybuilding side, but you can tell he's really passionate about being the best bodybuilder that he could be. And I think he has every intention on being Mr. Olympia at some point in the future. And you know what, I wouldn't vote against him or I wouldn't bet he gets him for all the money in the world because this guy is got a good head on the shoulders. He's got the tool set. He's actually got a better tool set than his dad had because he's taller. He's got a bigger frame and a lot more muscle. So if Lee LeBron had to play second at the Mr. Olympia, Hunter LeBronica win the Mr. Olympia someday, will have happened. We won't know, but I think he's got that tough, tough mindset, which is what you need because you can be great for a couple of years, but it's about longevity in this sport. And this doesn't take one or two years to win the Mr. Olympia competition. So I was very impressed with him. As I always am when I interview him and I think he's getting better and better and he's made an eight pound improvement from last year at Muscle Mass-wise. And he does it again next year. He's going to be very tough to be. He's obviously got a very cerebral approach. I mean, he explains the process behind every little thing that he does also very transparent. I mean, one of the few bodybuilders that I mean, I think about it, almost every other day, he's posting a wide array of progress pictures. So very cool, very cool to follow. So if you haven't watched it, check it out. It's live right now on our YouTube channel. Full Q&A was a live show. So fans got to answer, ask your questions as well. Think about this. He's one of the few bodybuilders that's actually a young guy who's competing, who's in doors, who has a supplement in doors, but it's really his company. If you think about it, I mean, his dad's company, or as he calls his dad Lee, but let's face it. It's family business. He's working for himself, basically. Let's go to the questions. The first two questions from the day of Palombo experience, the first question. Dave, do you see anything on the horizon that is new, we're exciting for gear supplements for our community. I think we get to ask this almost once a few months as far as what's new, what's new, what do you see on the horizon? Well, think about it. Think about what this new vaccine, the COVID vaccine is all about. It's a messenger RNA vaccine, basically, that delivers a genetic sequence to yourselves, which then enable yourselves to actually express this spike protein, which is then stimulate your immune system. Pretty soon, this is going to be, if there's the dollar signs are there, there's going to be vaccines if you want. You want to call the performance enhancing injections. We're going to inject vaccines, essentially, into yourself that are going to deliver messenger RNA to yourselves. They're going to tell yourselves, stop producing myostat. We know myostat and is a protein that inhibits muscle gains. That is perfected, which it probably has the technology's probably there. Once that's perfected, you're going to see guys growing and girls growing much, much bigger. I think the genetic manipulation of the genome is the next big thing. Because you know what, I always like these guys, they come out with these different protocols for taking steroids and GH and insulin. As if we had a big of a satar ready, there's going to be some new cocktail that no one has come up with. There's nothing new out there right now. The peptides are new to the marketplace, but they're not really replacing steroids and GH because they're just not as potent. But same thing with Sarm. Sarm's are much, much weaker. Once we have a tool set that is going to enable bodybuilders to get to that next level of muscle development, that's when we're going to see some amazing things happen. And I think the manipulation of our genome is going to be what's next. I just want to make another point. This is one of the questions from the day polimoxperians app. With that app is for those of you who don't know, it's it. You can go into your iTunes store or Android store and you can download this app. And it's basically having day polimbo's your coach on your self, on your pocket. So all the articles I've written and all the videos I've ever done all collected in one place. We put a workout of the week up there. I answer everyone's questions, who ask questions on the app right on the app in a public form. So everyone sees everyone's answers and questions there. And I also do an exclusive Q&A video for the app every single week. So it's like getting another dose of ask date. If you're looking to further educate yourself and I'm going to tell you something, those questions are seriously a lot of them are really, really tough questions in the sense that they're specific. How to do this, how to do that. If you want to take your learning to the next level and constantly keep improving yourself, it's a great app for 29 bucks a month. I mean, you can't beat it. It's like a continuing education thing. And it's a tax write off of your coach. That's continuing education. You write that off your taxes every single year. Second question from the Dave Plumbo experience that it's about post-contest training. So they want to know how they should train in the first few weeks after a contest. I'll take this up further. How did you in your career train coming off a contest? I'll tell you what I did. And I'll tell you what I do now with some of my clients. But when I would finish a show, a lot of people would take week two weeks off. The gym and my daughter from the gym, I was already off for almost a week. Because I wouldn't train two days before the show. And then I wouldn't train the day of the show and then I'm not trained the day after the show usually. So by Monday morning, I'm ready to go back to the gym. And what I would do is I would go back and I would do one body part. But I would only do like one or two exercise. So let's say I'm going to go back and do chest. I'm going to get under an incline bench press. And I'm going to do maybe four or five sets. And I'll probably leave the gym. I might do some abs and leave. The next day I may come back and do back. I might do a couple sets of bent rows, three sets. And I might do some pull-downs to reset. And I leave the gym, but I do a lot of just squeezing. And you'd be shocked. Your body is like in such an anabolic state that all the foods you're eating now. Because you're going to obviously eat a much greater volume of food, higher protein, higher carbs, for sure. Probably a lot more fats because you're probably going to eat some, you know, some dirtier carbs. You know, I was going to McDonald's a lot. I was eating some pancakes. Whatever I happen to enjoy eating, friend, for us. And it's like your body just sucks up all this nutrients. Because think about it. When you're dieting, you're basically starving your body. Your body's in this mode where it's like looking for anything that it can absorb, but you're not giving it what it wants. So it can't, it can't build or it can't store things. It can only mobilize fat from the cells and repair muscle. And that's really what you're doing when you're dieting. Right? Now you're not training as much. You're giving your body a tremendous volume of nutrients that it needs. It's going to store things. But, you know, because you're eating high protein and you're giving your body a little bit of stimulus in the gym, even though you're not lifting heavy, you're stimulating. Everything's going to get stored as, quote, muscle. So your body's going to take that protein and you're eating and it's going to start building muscle in a much more accelerated rate. Because your body felt like it wasn't getting enough to do what it needed to do prior to that because you were over training so much and you were under eating. And that's why you get this rebound. It has really nothing to do with the drugs. And I think that's a big mistake people make. They pound drugs like for four to six weeks after a show of things or eight weeks. And they think they're going to get a rebound because of the drugs. You got tons of drugs in your system already. And I've said this the last three weeks and a row. It's not the drugs. It's the food. You can eat. You don't have to eat clean but you need to eat every two hours and give yourself a high amount of protein because that's what's going to build the muscle. Your body wants to build muscles. So you're going to give it rest meaning you're not going to train every single day. You might train for five days a week. You're going to stimulate the muscle in the gym but you're not going to over train in the gym and you're not going to do an hour of cardio so that your body has a lot of recuperation time to build that muscle because you don't build muscle in the gym. You build muscle when you lay in your bed sleeping at night. That when you repair things all you have to do job wise is feed your body what it needs. Let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not already following us on Instagram our handle is official underscore our ex muscle if you are following us there. You would see that last night, a high green sent deep plumber a couple of videos. We posted both of them on our feed. So of course that's going to go for dyspensibility possible, high green return. I really think that this guy wants to come back. I do. I don't think he would have reached out to me because he knows I've been critical in the past but I also know that I'm a very supportive of his career and as him as a person. I've known since he's 19 years old. We competed at the same shows and the same circuit. I was older than him. I was a little bit four or five years older than him but we used to see each other almost every weekend. Here's a guy and then I reported on him. I did that video that's famous when I went to his house when he was living in the projects. So I know Kai for a very long time and I think Kai says, you know what? I think Kai is feeling he really wants to compete that this is a year he can do it. And I think he wanted to get an honest opinion from me and quite frankly he's he contact to me. I didn't contact him at all. He sent me the videos and then afterwards I said look you know is this confidential. So I keep this between us. He says no you can share the videos if you want. Now he went to the lab and he shared the videos. He had not really wanted to compete at this point. He was asking my advice as to how he should go about it and approaching that. So I do think he wants to compete whether he pulls the you know whether he doesn't or not is another story because I think he still on the side of whether he feels he can be ready in 10 weeks. I think he can. He basically hasn't done really much of anything in terms of supplements go. I think once he kicks everything into gear his body is just going to explode with growth. And I think we're going to see it. I think we could see the best. And you know what? One of the things that a lot of people I was always speculating on the last couple is I'm like why wouldn't Kai green compete when we had that vacant year where you know rodent wasn't allowed to compete and that's where Brandon Curry won. I said that would have been the perfect time to kite it win. But you know what kinds of an artist. He wants to have a dramatic everything is about drama with him and the storyline behind it. And wouldn't it be great? You get big Randy finally winning the Mr. Olympia. You know establishing himself is the new mass monster on the block and who can knock him out? No one can knock him out right? But Kai green can knock him out and Kai green comes in and this is the biggest challenge of his career who's obviously not a young man anymore. But if he would have come in and knock out big Randy and when the Olympia that would be the crowning I think jewel in his career I think because it would be a great story because he wouldn't just have a comment in one an empty title he would have beaten one of the better champions that we've had in a long time. So I think that we I think we might see Kai this is enough drama and enough dramatic we're poetic you know what do you have if you want to call it. Content for him that he can get his mind wrapped around this and I think motivate himself to be the best that he can do. Will he or won't he saga that we have seen since 2016? Kai becoming a two-week crowning conclusion this year keep it locked and we will surely have more on this. But again if you're watching us for the first time on YouTube hit the subscribe button hit the notification bell like we mentioned we had a hundred of the broad on live earlier so if you're following us you would have seen the notification you would have been able to jump on and ask Hunter a question as well. We plan on doing a lot more with our athlete interviews and especially now with the Arnold just around the corner Olympia Tweez after that with the athlete interviews we're going to be doing a lot of them we will do in a live form as you will have the opportunity to part take. Let's start off with Carlos Fitt and YC so Rally Winkler of course after the Chicago Pro announcing that he would be competing at Tampa Pro. Do you think really can make the need improvements to try and win at Tampa I think it is E in Valier show to win? Well you know I'm heavy do you watch heavy muscle rate of this past week we were speculating between Chris Cito and I Chris thinks that Rally just never added back the size that he had at one time because he had an injury took the year off. I don't think that's the case I don't necessarily agree with that I think I think that Rally overdited for this an over dehydrated and over did everything because that's what happened a lot of times when you're out of the game for over a year you just you overdo things and I think he learned his lesson. I guarantee you on Sunday or Monday after the show he probably looked like an absolute freak show and I think what he's going to do is he's going to rain it and he's going to you know get back to what he does best. He's going to rest his body a little bit initially and I think we're going to see a much better Rally Winkler in Tampa. How good he is that's up for you know, grabs. If Chris was right and he did lose and he never gained back that muscle that he had then we're going to see a pretty much the same Rally Winkler. However, I was right and he's just overdid it we might see a freaky crazy Rally Winkler and that's what the exciting thing is because we really don't know what we're going to see and it's going to make Tampa that much better because Rally wasn't intending on doing Tampa. Now we have another element to that show you know where we're going to see another superstar in that lineup. I agree with you though. I think Ian Valier has got to be one of the guys to beat all of the there's other people in this line of that that that has to be at the be feared as well but Rally at his best, you know I don't know if anyone could beat him in the line of will we see him at his best? Flip of cooling I don't know. I'll do another athlete what if questions from Josh K. Where do you think that Seth Farosi would have placed at the Olympia at his all-time best? I'm assuming they mean at the 212 will win the Olympic because he was a 212 guy. I think he's good at one of his best. He was really good. I mean people don't remember him. He was one of his first pro show. The guy was a freak. I mean he's got freaky crazy conditioning. He has a nice shape. He's got a lot of mass on his frame. I think he would have done really well but you know different times different days you know you can't it's hard to compare someone from what they look like 10 years ago to what they would look like you know now unless you actually see the guy. You know like it's like saying you know Lee Priest is going to make a comeback next year will Lee Priest be the lead priest from 10 years ago. I don't I doubt it will we see a greatly priest I think we will because I don't think we'll get on stage if he's anything less than his best so but what will we look like we have to wait you see. It's got an excellent 187 Dave can you explain the exact science behind card cycling specifically on high card days is it best to have the day off or the day before you train a lagging body card. If you think of carb carbohydrate intake especially when you're dieting and as gasoline in your car you have a tank in your car right that holds so much gasoline okay in your body you have glycogen stores in your liver and in your muscles that hold stored glucose basically carbohydrates and the idea behind carb cycling is that you're going to some days you're going to give lower carbon take so that the glycogen stores the pleat themselves down and when the glycogen stores the pleat themselves down your body has to dig into stored body fat and mobilize more fat but when the glycogen stores get filled up it seems like it stimulates your metabolic rate a little bit because your insulin levels are higher and that stimulates thyroid hormone the inactive thyroid home and T4 convert more to T3 which raises metabolic rate. That's why we eat a big carb meal you sweating and everything like that because it's raising your metabolism so the idea is some days you go low so that you're mobilizing and burning fat and then on the other days you know maybe three or four you know one or two days a week you go higher so you refill those glycogen stores up stimulate the metabolic rate indirectly now even though you might not be mobilizing fat on those days but you might be just because you're getting an indirect effect from your metabolism raising raising up if you would continue eating high carbs you would overspill the the glycogen stores just like you can't you fill too much gas into the gas tank of your car and then what but with your body rather than the stuff spilling onto the ground if you overfill the glycogen stores now you start storing body fat you know and that's what we don't want to do so that's why you always want to keep the glycogen stores a little underfilled when they get too low you give a little carb load and I do that with guys now you know if guys get too flat because I have them on low carbs for too many days I feed them you know and then once they fill up and I know the glycogen stores a full now I can deplete them down again and that you you do that sea salt that's what carb cycling is so that you get that effect now you couldn't also do it in a more extreme way when you keep carbs low when you you stay on a ketogenic diet so when you're on a low low carb diet all the time likeogen stores are really empty you're burning maximum fat because now your body has no fuel and your brain is in ketosis meaning that it's using fat as a fuel source rather than carbs to your brain feels good the only negative to that is that your metabolism can slow down a little bit and that's why you do a cheat meal once a week so there's different strategy and the cheat meal would basically be like a high carb day you know so in essence even on a ketogenic diet you're still a carb cycling you're just only a carb cycling one day a week usually so there's different various ways of doing it and it really depends on the person how much weight they need to lose how much fat if they need to lose and what kind of metabolism they have and that's what you have to ascertain as a coach when you decide what kind of a diet you're going to put a person on from from Shadi El Zamunia at a very long question I'm just going to ask the top part of it I mean you want to know why bodybuilding is not at the Olympics all out to that do you think bodybuilding has a shot has ever really been much of an effort to get bodybuilding in the Olympics Ben Weedor that was his quested life to put the well every show we ever saw him talk at the Arnold in the Olympic every year it was the Olympics and this guy I'm talking to the president and we're getting a send the Asian games and here's the problem about everything everyone thinks it's a drug related thing it's really not because they can do the same random drug tests they do with every sport I mean and I'm sure that'd be athletes that can beat the test and we'll pass the test and I'm sure there are natural athletes that will be able to compete and beat the test because they they don't take any drugs but here's the problem it's how do you quantify bodybuilding there's no specific poses and scores aren't you hit this pose right you get this many points like you do it like sand gymnastics or in you know ice skating and stuff like that they don't have a quantify body building so you can score and even the posing around is not scored which is the one thing that you can actually quantify they haven't done that and until they do that and they probably won't because I don't think anyone cares that it's not the Olympics you'll never see bodybuilding in the Olympics I think you have a better chance of getting fitness the fitness division into the Olympics before you would bodybuilding because at least fitness you can score the routine if you and and once they don't even have a quantify they used to have a quantify of a scoring system if they made one you'd be much more likely to get that one in first but I don't think that the organization has any desire to put it in the Olympics is once you get it on the auspices of the IOC the Olympic committee testing committee now they're going to want to drug testing and I want to randomly drug testing I don't think our bodybuilding organization wants any part of that and I don't blame them it's not worth it not open it's not worth opening that canter worms um let me see if I we're getting as we usually do a few keto related questions let's go to live for pump I'm hearing more about collagen lately do you recommend using it if so what should I look for specifically before purchasing you know collagen protein has been around since you know the the 70s I mean that was the first protein they ever sold liquid collagen protein and you know it was cheap they would you know they get it from the I don't even know where they would when they dissolved the collagen from bones and cartilage of animals it probably probably the waste of they throw out from the butcher shops and it would be like a syrup almost this six year and I remember I actually remember that type of the black man family first started their visits with twin lab they were a liquid collagen uh protein and it was a big diet thing back big craze back and they people would just drink these this collagen protein all day long and I remember when I was in high school they could kids would bring in the little things of collagen protein it was the taste disgusting it was like super sweet you just swing it down oh you gonna build muscle from this and then they realize the collagen protein really is not a great source of protein it's not that high in branching I mean it was a better source would be you know way protein egg protein you know casing and so collagen kind of got side you know basically put on the sideline so to speak then when way protein prices went through the roof people were looking for cheaper alternatives and they went to collagen back to cow hay collagen's good for your joints it fits in that and that but but so do I think it's worth using collagen protein now I think the the best bang for your buck okay if you want to get a good quality supplement that probably good quality protein supplement that actually is probably almost better than food as far as the biological uh availability of it and your body's ability to absorb it you got to go with the pure way isle 100% way isle because way isle it's have no lactose in them assuming you're using good quality one and they get assimilated really quickly and effectively especially post workout so if you're gonna use a protein supplement that's what I would recommend you using when you start getting into the cheaper casing and collagen proteins and even some of the plant proteins you get what you pay for pretty much you're gonna pay less money but you're not gonna get you're not gonna get a product that's gonna be as effective let's go to tailor-efficient dumbbell versus cable side ladders for side delts you know I like I love cable side ladders because I think that you have I love the continuous tension aspect of it and you know I do side ladders so I have a cable machine in my house and I don't even go ahead you don't you don't have to go heavy I mean as long as you're squeezing and you're getting the the contraction on the way up and in the way down I like it the problem is you can't really go that heavy on it and because it's a very tough movement to do dumbbells you can kind of cheat a little bit more and get them up a little bit so when I was competing I would do a little bit of dumbbell work I do some cable work but what I really like for building side delts is the side delt machine if you've never sat in any of those machines when you put the pad on your elbow and you kind of just you know bring them out to the side I do one arm at a time I kind of hold on to the machine and I do one arm at a time and I feel like that because you can push from your elbow because the thing is sitting on your elbow you don't even the hold on and it's all side ladders no way to cheat you can't really you know use momentum that to me built my delts better than any other exercise I did for for shoulders including behind in that crisis which I was doing three or fifteen for I think it's a very isolating great movement. We'll take another keto related questions from Ivan bodybuilding when doing a keto diet what percent of the fact should come from saturated fat is there a difference for an enhanced male or female and for natural or a natural male or female. I think the majority of fact should come from mono and saturated fat like extra virgin olive oil and that can name it on oil of a codo oil to be avocado oil taste terrible extra virgin olive oil unfortunately in this country a lot of it is fake it's just soybean oil or it's watered down with soybean oil plus you can't really cook with extra virgin olive oil because it burns that's why I came out with my own macadamia that oil it was very hard to find macadamia that oil wasn't available readily in this country it's only one or two brands that make it was expensive so I decided I put my mind to it and I went out there and I found I sourced it from South Africa and I've been selling I sell a ton of macadamia that oil on species nutrition.com and I like it because it burns very very well it met about and that effected in stimulation metabolism so I'd say probably 60% of your of your fat calories should come from mono and saturated fat so you can eat avocado it was too you don't have to take it in an oil form but I'm just saying maco oil is a very easy way to get a lot of that in I think 20% probably should come from saturated fat because after all you do need saturated fat and all the cell membranes of all the cells in your body so if you break down muscle tissue you're repairing mostly protein which is the internal components of the cell but the outer components are comprised of essential fats and saturated fats you want to take in some saturated fat I get most of my saturated fats nowadays from egg yolks other people like red meat you know and I used to use a lot of red meat you know I ate macadamia every day so you can do it from that as well you know 20% the other 20% of your fat should come from what we call polyunsaturated fats or the essential fatty acids that's your own megatrees and I'll make a you could take and it's just you know you probably can get away with almost 10% or what I do is of that 20% probably half of that is taken in supplement form so I have a product called omega-lice it has fish oil in it evening primrose oil in it you should get about three grams of each per day and that that's something you you probably if you do that you're going to be you can check that box of hey I got my essential fats and I also eat omega-3 eggs I eat salmon while salmon so I'm getting a lot more the rest of my polyunsaturated fat intake is coming from the foods that I'm eating and if you do that and then of course the other omega-6 or rackathon I guess it is found in chicken and beef so you're getting that so you could eat the saturated fat you could eat the some of the polyunsaturated fats and you can certainly eat the monounsaturated fats but the one thing that you should supplement with is the cost of the fact that it's hard sometimes to get the right amount of food would be your essential fats omega-3s and sexes in which case you should take a private like my omega-lice or something else that's comparable to that. um um officially priest wants to know can I send you a video of me breakdancing so you can advise me and if I should go to the Olympia or just open a fruit stand. I don't know I I'm not Simon Cowell for that's for sure I can give you my opinion on your breakdancing skills that probably you would probably want you know a more experienced breakdance. Oh who is the breakdance and um it was a guy who used to breakdance I know a lot of the fitness competitors to breakdance on stage during their routines but I don't remember it was a body movie who did it to I can't remember. Here's a picture of it. What was a Victor Richards? No and I thought I don't know maybe I don't know but I guess I bet he could breakdance. He said I would recommend sending you a video of the kind of great let him critique it. Or just leave recreate that video and then we'll post that. Yeah yeah that's right. Time for a couple more questions go to uh Ashah's kidney journey. I mean kidney transplant recipient on immunosuppressing and VP meds as well as prednisone please could you explain how this may affect my muscle building of uh uh and weight loss please I can build muscle relatively well but fat loss is the issue any tips on how to improve this given his condition and what he's taking. Yeah. Prednisone obviously is is a is a catabolic hormone so it worked the opposite of anabolic steroid so if you're taking something anabolic you know at the same time you're taking Prednisone you can kind of override that effect. The problem is that prednisone mole basically tells you a liver to produce glucose from immunosuppressing. It's glucone eugenic and what that does by raising blood sugar causes your body to release more insulin after absorb the sugar so you have a high insulin output and a high sugar content your blood which makes it difficult to lose weight. That's why prednisone makes you fat okay we all know that so you're you're you're trying to combat that effect. What I would do is I would keep my my carb a hydrate intake very low. If I mean if I'm having to take prednisone because prednisone is already raising blood sugar you don't need anymore in the blood and I would eat a high protein moderate fat approach and I think you'll get a better results that way because as soon as you start putting carbs in there you know you're you're having a situation where you're overproducing tons of insulin and it makes it very difficult for monely to lose weight. Prednisone alone what do you think the first thing you see if someone on Prednisone you got a big moon face right? Hopefully at some point they could ween you off the Prednisone and just keep you on the other immunosuppressants and that's usually what happens at some point I don't know how long it's been since you're transplant but usually after the first year they try to get you off the Prednisone if they feel that your body is not going to reject the kidney. That will more questions from Tubby Geo. If you had access to all farm up PDs what would you suggest for a mass cycle dose taking into account diet, calcerept and training is on point. Yeah I mean I mean I was getting pharmacy drugs when I was competing in the 90s and I and for me a thousand milligrams of testosterone worked really well with like and literally we were using three to 400 milligrams of acropoise a week or four to 500 milligrams of dechiro week, 76 milligrams of tremble on which was was called parable and back then two or three times a week and we would build a lot of muscle I was using three to four I used maximum of GH per week but it was all pharmacy you know great stuff and it worked and I think a lot of the problems today is that there's two problems one problem is that people think they need a ridiculous amount of drugs to be huge the other problem is that the drugs are not dose properly or they're not the actual drugs that people think they're taking and that's why the the roi test kits we saw I saw on my day paloma dot com website sell so well because people are always testing their products and unfortunately a lot of the stuff out there is either nothing or it's cheaper ingredients in other words people think they're using tremble on or they think they're using dacca and they're actually using test prophyne they think they're using adivari that using dianimal it's it's a podge podge of a mixed mishmosh out there and but if you can get pharmacy great stuff and you know your gear is good you don't need quite as much as people think that's going to do for this episode of astabe reminder right now on the channel live interview with hunter lebrata live as in we took questions from live users i plan on doing a lot more this so again if you haven't already subscribed hit the subscribe under the low i had to note a kitchen bell if you like what you're watching hit the like button comment below obviously that helps and as always we thank you for your support for Tyler sure in day palombo i'm city for rookie we'll see you next time

Day below here with an RX muscle, news, update the cow pro is taking place this weekend, the competitor list is released. And let's see what I feel about this lineup. Going into the cow pro, obviously we have to look at the guys who are front runners at the New York pro, specifically Max Charles who probably looked the best we've seen in a very, very long time. Mill of sources that we're going to say, you probably should have won the show. I don't know if I go that far, but we certainly saw a terrific Max Charles, very conditioned, big thick, you know, his legs that are always a slight weakness in his physique because of his upper body, and it's so good. Seem to have really come up a lot since he started training with Neil Osarshav. And, you know, he's going to be out in California, so we know Neil is going to be there and cheering him off for sure. Now, here's the thing with Max. Max is one of these guys. You either get a great Max, Charles, you get a so-so Max Charles. If we get a great Max Charles, this is his show that he certainly can win. Putting aside Max Charles for a minute, if we move over to a, you know, probably a fan favorite, I have to say the Patrick Moore who is probably one of the most conditioned guys also in the New York pro two weeks ago or last week, I should say. He's got to be considered also one of the favorites. He's notoriously done very good at the cow pro. He qualified for the Olympia at the cow pro last year. Here's a guy who's got all the tools. He flows well. He's got great condition. He's got a small waist. He's got, you know, a classic physique. You know, the knock against him is that he doesn't have enough size. A lot of times to stand with some of these bear guys in the lineup. Will the fact him here as much as he did at New York pro? Probably not because you're not going to have some of the heavy, you know, hitters like the E in Valieras in that lineup. And I don't see Justin Rodriguez in this lineup as well. So I think that obviously you remove some of the top guns so to speak. And now Patrick Morbick comes a more dominant body builder. But I think the wild card here is has to be, you know, Huston Mustafa, who really is lacking nobody parts. He's the thickest guy in the lineup. He's got the most muscle per square inch. He's got good symmetry. He's got, you know, the knock against him has been stage presence. And also his condition was not what people felt. He needed to be in New York to win the show. Chris and Sita would disagree, but Chris would not disagree that he could have been a little tighter. So I know that Chris is probably going to work them very hard this week to bring him in as best. If Husband Mustafa comes in at his best, I don't know if anyone can beat him in the slide. Only because of the fact that he's missing nothing. And he's got the best legs by far in the entire lineup. Matt Shawls obviously with the slightly weaker legs. And that's going to hurt him. And of course, Patrick Morbick is just not as big as Husband Mustafa. So I think it's who's done a son of Mustafa's show to lose here. If he brings what he needs to bring to the show, he walks away with victory. Then of course we have, you know, the wildcard guys that are what we call against the dark horses and to unvaliant who was seven place in New York, who I thought was a little over-depleted. If he comes in here fuller with his classic physique and his posing and presentation, that's probably better than everyone else on stage, I think we're going to see him move up into that top five. How far up he goes is going to be dependent on how these other guys look and how much better he comes in looking himself. Stannimal stand alongo is moving up from classic physique and he's making his pro-day view in the open class. It will be interesting to see how he stacks up against these guys. This is his first time in the open. He put on a lot of muscle. He might be a wild horse or a dark horse in this lineup as well. Eddie Bracamante is always a competitive competitor. He's going to watch out for if he shows up in his best with his conditioning, he can certainly get into that top five and maybe even higher. So you've got to watch out for him and I think on when is probably got the best symmetry in the lineup here. Balance, he's always in these California shows. His knock has also been, doesn't bring the conditioning to the stage and he really needs to. If he brings it here, look for on when to absolutely be a top five competitor. This lineup is still stacked with guys that could be dark horses coming from international countries out of the states that could come in here for the first time and make a name for themselves. That's what makes it exciting when we don't know who all the, I guess you could say, the front runners are. But I think we have to say match draws, Patrick Moore. Of course, Hassan-Bastoff, I have to be the top three front runners in this contest. They'll be the guys to beat how they stack up or how they finally place is going to be dependent greatly on what they bring to the stage, comes Saturday. Hey guys, Siddhi Furuki here with an update, a medical update on Hassan-Bastoffa. The Instagram post you're looking at is from about seven hours ago where obviously he's in the hospital. But he is thanking God and he is giving confirmation that he has received medical clearance to compete at this weekend's Cal Pro. Now earlier on, he had discussed that he had a bad case of hemorrhoids which impacted his performance at last weekend's New York Pro. Now yesterday we had received word that that impacted area had developed an infection which ultimately resulted in the hospitalization. But as we had heard earlier in the day and as he's conforming in this post, he had received medical clearance. So you will see Hassan-Bastoffa on stage this weekend in Las Vegas.

Happy Labor Day, everyone. I hope you guys are having a nice relaxing day at your house and I am going to give you a great offer. Speciesutrition.com for Labor Day is going to give you 35% off the entire website. That's right, 35% no coupon code is nothing just for today. All day Monday you go over to speciesnutrition.com. You buy anything on the site. Your entire order will be discounted 35% any orders over 100 dollars free shipping to and give it away Each apron that 35% off at speciesnutrition.com. Head over there now. Only Monday don't call me crying if you forget 35% off the entire website. Check it out.

What's up, bodybuilding fans, Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update? Well, the Chicago Pro is out, guys, and Michael Lockett has the new men's open champion, narrowly defeating Sergio Leavocenia last year's New York Pro Champion. Lockett is one of these guys who's always been super dangerous. He's always in shape, because I've never seen him at a shape ever, and every show he seems to be coming back a little bigger, a little better, and that's a dangerous guy, because he's always standing right there. His one weakness is the fact that his legs are not that good. They're hard, but they're not that girthy from the front. They definitely, the one leg on the right side definitely has a problem, whether it's a knee, I think he has a knee problem or something like that. That's always seems to be his one like a killy seal, and a lot of times he gets past that, because he has so much density in his upper body, and every muscle group including his calves, his glutes, his hamstrings are so norley conditioned that sometimes the judges can just look past the fact that he has that one week leg. Now Sergio Leavocenia, the conditioning that he brought to New York Pro last year, was not here today. I don't think he had that level of tremendous shredded paper thin skin that he had last year. However, he definitely had a lot more size, which was every noticeable on stage. His legs are far superior to Michael Lockett's legs without it doubt. His posing is unconventional, but very charismatic and enticing, and you almost your eyes go to him. Lockett's a little bit more low key. He kind of just hits the shots, shows what he got, and that's it. It was a very close battle between those two guys, and they were called that alone, and the judges really, you could tell the judges to work these guys, and really wanted to see in their minds who was better. Even though the scorecards might have indicated that Lockett won unanimously, I have to feel it was very close on every judge's scorecard, because they were tough to judge, because they have different types of physics. Sergio obviously, the classic poses, like I said, the eye-inticing type stuff on stage, the flashiness, he has a lot of his father's posing skills, probably even better, and I think he's really coming to his own as far as presenting his physico's. While he might, like I said, he might not have been as hard as last year, he certainly was better than last year, I think, in the sense that he brought more completeness to his physique. Unfortunately, Lockett was just so damn hard that I think it was just too much, in the judges' minds, to give Sergio the win here, because of the fact that Lockett had a kiddishing out. Some judging panels overlook conditioning a little bit because of the completeness of the physique. I think that you have to admit that Sergio, a lever junior, was way more complete than Lockett because of the leg development. Sergio's got really good legs, with really good separation. Chris, does a tremendous job with Sergio bringing in that level of, I guess you could say, muscle separation that you don't see on a lot of guys, but Lockett is so hard in his own right that every direction in turns and you see nothing but senior remussel. So it was a tough decision for the judges, and you know what, you can't complain either way. Had Sergio won no one would have complained, had Lockett won as he did. I don't think I'm not going to complain. I don't think anyone would complain either. It was really that close, and that makes for a great show for the audience, with the spectators, and obviously for everyone looking at the pictures. And I think that Lockett is so hard. I've seen him in person. He doesn't really translate into photos. If anything, I think Sergio looks better in photos, sometimes he doesn't person. Although you have to really see imposing in person to really get a true, you kind of just get drawn into his physique. Once again, I want to congratulate both guys because it was a great battle, and I know Sergio was there in front of his hometown. I want to see a group in Chicago. So this was a nice home coming for him. The two-twelfth division was one by Craig Richardson. To me, this division was not that competitive. I didn't think this was the best Craig Richardson we'd seen. The funny thing is that when Craig said his best he'd ever get to the win, he comes in here. His condition can be a little better, and he still gets the win here because I think the lineup is just not that difficult. So congratulations, Craig. He's one of us. He's one of the old guard. It is the mid to late 40s there, and he's still getting it done every single time. He's going back to the Olympia, gradually. So Craig, probably one of the more exciting battles of the weekend in Chicago that was the classic physique battle that we saw between Wesley Vissers and Amit Roy, the Bengal Tiger as they call him. Amit's got a great story. Amit was a guy who came from India with a dream of becoming a professional bodybuilder. This was before classic Vizic was even around. He couldn't even, he wasn't a citizen of the United States. It couldn't compete for a pro-card here. He had basically nowhere to go. He was like a man without a country, so to speak. Then they formed classic Vizic. He went at marrying someone in the United States. He got citizenship. He turned pro with an North American championships. He's now just finished second here in Chicago, which is a tremendous feather. He was certainly without a doubt the most conditioned guy in the show. A lot of people felt to shoot a one, but let's get to why he didn't win. Wesley Vissers, I've interviewed him on our Ex-Muscle before. I did a little preview about his physique a couple weeks ago because I just think this guy is super talented. Let's face it. One word, one this for him, Arnold. He may be facely doesn't look as much like Arnold as some of my think, but his physique is like a clone of Arnold's physique. He's still in the beginning stages. He still has much more to develop. This is his protevute. He wins here tonight and a lot of people want to know why because he's not the most conditioned guy as his coloring wasn't really good and pretty judging. I'll tell you once again Arnold. He looks like Arnold. We all love Arnold. We all want to see Arnold back on stage again. He's Arnold incarnate. It's unbelievable. The look and shapes of his muscles and his waistline and his abs. Obviously, he's emulating Arnold's poses purposely and I would do the same thing if I had that kind of a physique. It works. Arnold is the ultimate classic physique. Let's face it. That's what his division was made after. He looks like Arnold. He's got better legs probably than Arnold had for sure. When he hits those classic Arnold poses, you just want to see the guy win. That's why he beats a mid is a lot shorter than him. Although more impressive, conditioning wise and coloring and polish wise, Wesley Vissers is a guy who these the judges see as a future of this division. One of the top guys will be vying for Olympia titles down the road. He made a lot of amateur mistakes. He had like I said, the coloring wasn't good. I think that if his coloring was better and he could have been a little drier maybe. His condition was pretty good. He just didn't come out on stage because when you're not as dark as the other guys there, you don't look as hard. Also, I think he could have been a little drier. When he hit those certain poses, if you see it statically, when he's in some of those manitories, I believe everyone else and they just go to this guy. He sticks out. When you stick out on stage in a good way, you win shows. That's just how it goes. Arnold's won shows that people thought he'd never shot a one. The 1980 Missile Olympia. You see him standing there. He doesn't look like anything. Then you watch him do his posing routine and you're like, fuck the guys the winner. It's because he has charisma on stage. That's what Wesley Vissers has. He has a lot of charisma. This guy is going to be a force to be reckoned with. I'm telling you down the road. For a long time to come, so many doesn't get injured or anything like that. Here's a guy who has a tool set that is super impressive. You want to see the guy do well. I think he's only getting better. He's going to learn from these mistakes he may. He's going to be at the Olympian now in September. We're going to see a guy come back with a lot more polish. He's going to perfect some of these poses. This is going to be a lot of guys cheering for him at this show. He's going to give these guys a run for their money because he's tall. He's imposing. And once again, tall and imposing is always great on stage when you have a complete physique because you just see more of the robot and that's what Arnold Visser great. When Arnold and Frank would pose on stage, you can make a case. Arnold, I mean Frank was more complete and had a lot more muscle than Arnold per square inch. Arnold beat him every single time and no one ever thought otherwise. So this is really impresses here. Congratulations to Mid on that second place. You know, you got the best story on stage. No one has a better overcoming the odd story than you do. Send the relis story all the way. Kevin Johnson in 30 is a true talent as well. Watch this guy in the future because he is very dangerous. Let's face it. The name of the, I guess you can say day here in Chicago was Michael Lockett winning the open, you know, defeating Sergio Leaver. Junior the biggest story of the night and of course the emergence of Wesley Vissers as a classic physique pro to keep your eye on come a limpia time for now I'm Dave Palombo. But then our our ax muscle news update.

Welcome back to Heavy Muscle Radio. I'm Dave Fullumbo and I'm joined by my two compatriots in crime as always John Romano and Chris Estito and it is July 18th, 2021 and we're actually recording late at night during haven't done it a while because Chris has to go for anything tomorrow. What's that all about, Chris? Well, wait, wait, I wonder for so why you have to go? Because you've got to be working like you like me, you know, you can have to go. You have obligations that you have to do as a husband or father and that's one of them. They want to go camping. So I said okay well, you know I do that. Oh you know I got a better idea. Why don't we go over it to hotel? You know in a rural area, you know where it's like. This is going to the woods and play but at least you can sleep at the bottom. Right in your area and you get a coffee pot and they refrigerate or microwave and hot water. You know I asked my dad when I was a kid if we can go camping once because my friends would go in camping because I do serious. I'm a kid. He's a new serious. We have a house Dave. He must have said just like the video we can out of the house. My first of my father would never my father had no mechanical inclinations once. That's like me. He would never be able to even set the tent up. I don't know. I don't know how to set it. How big of a tent do you guys have? Well we have two. We have a full person and a two person. The mommy and daddy tent and the gentleman's tent. Yeah. I have two visions that I had. One is like these little pup tents where you're barely fit in the tent. If you're feet are sticking out, you see like John can't even go in camping or something like that when one of those movies. And then the other one I envision is like you know these you obviously these are rabian like kings they have these humongous tents that they see. It looks like the inside of a house. Right. That includes furniture in and hanging. It's a ladder. I can call our friend in the middle east there. Chris has him send over some supplies to you. I can I can hack one of those. You know this is the one with the bodice that come in. You know the ones that don't protect you from the bears that are outside. Oh yeah you're in Maine too you need air traffic. We show over the bridge. The bugs there. Yeah I'm more concerned about the ticks than I am the bears. Yeah lime disease right? Well just all the diseases that takes spring and it was the point is what the ticks is. Dave 30 years ago. A 40 years ago whatever it was when I was a kid you'd hear like rarely like I saw a tick. Now on a windy day I'll you know my kids go to like track meets like in a rural area. And on a windy day they blow around. They blow around. Yeah they're everywhere. Wow not all ticks carry in disease but most ticks too. Now who's idea was it to go camping your wife you kids? No one's it was my friends who they live in Hawaii and they came if you want to really laugh four years ago and they convinced us to go camping. So we went we went out and bought all the couturements that you need to go to live out the woods and just the comedian would say to take two days of vacation and throw them away. And and we so we have all the tents all the equipment is a cooking you test a lot of that. You built it. No we've never used them. Says we bought them four years ago when camping our same friends from Hawaii came back and they said let's go camping and so they came back and we disengue with us tonight and they said let's listen because camping we said oh yeah four years ago or in this case five years right John we missed it. I was trying to Dave I was trying to like moldy bread and bagels and the house to try to like. Yeah that my sum legitimately pumped out. You know what I mean? I understand the tent thing to me. We'll tell six is just fine. I mean that's that's as far as camping you need to go. I mean it's got a roof you know if you look at somebody's campers they show up with the campsite so we've done with the transformer side. Great go out like that and then you have a lot more to live you want a big screen TV's and shit. Yeah you don't have a way. That's what I would love you because look up the window and see the one from front is the one camping at that point you might just stay home. That's why I'm saying motel six is camping but if you're gonna have this this transformer coach with a big screen TV big screen TV. Yeah with the features sub zero refrigerator. Yeah I'm gonna get out there and say I wouldn't say I'm gonna get out there and say I wouldn't it to think of go with eats can they just can they deliver me it's the campsite them with real smoke or really remote campsite or is this like like like a like a popular like really it's fairly remote it's in a bar rubber like east of our armor west of South it's never armor it's not a armor because it was bar armor it'd be you know glam climbing where they got a glam glamorous camping glamping yeah don't subscribing describing not camping you're describing john glamping. That can be just glamorous yeah that comedians right there you're gonna go out kind of vacation like you want it like go someplace relaxing like you know camping is not really that relaxing because of the bug issue and the heat it's like uncomfortable almost so even though it's kind of like you know it makes you kind of forces you to get to nature and lots of I understand that whole aspect of it and I know for kids they like if they want to roast the marshmallows but at the like you know like like 20 minutes to do in that it's like all right well you know what are we gonna do now you know yeah I didn't a candle when it box of smores and then good for you to light a fire in the backyard log and yeah you know I had to go camping also recently and we went to this campsite and that's where I first saw those transformer coaches with the with the sides that come out in the big screens and you know they bring a they bring like a thing that they put in the ground in front of the campsite and it's got their name you know like a mailbox and it would it with a little flag for where they're from or wherever you know it's gonna do that they may plug into something what are they doing run generators what are they doing yeah they got they got a box and they got a plug that goes in they got a sewer hook up and they got but some people go intense some people go in those coaches some people go like these other pop up things you go in a tent Chris where you go to the bathroom you gotta go in the woods well you take a you rifle and you you gotta get you all the woods no the night because you don't want to uh maybe black bed to get you no you don't you can keep every two seconds with the problem you ask you ask for uh they camp site closest to the like the bathrooms and showers yeah I was wondering we had a cabin when I went so that was technically a tent air condition no it was not it had a fan but night and I had no water it was no bathroom either so you haven't got to have to the thing so you know it's too clocking in morning I gotta get a pimple walking over the fucking thing so I just open the door and he had some real it's right it's gonna walk over there to pee didn't see any big puts it yeah no but I gotta say I know and I couldn't have empathy for Chris where he's going and the freaking up there where he lives bears you mentioned bears they got what does that well I think I think they got him what boards and shit they got to have a young knees and a coyote other kind of monster listen flames above the the bug the rainwater the bug what is there any bear I got you said have you ever gotten sprayed by yes I have never been stunned by a beep but I sprayed by a scum coin also kid I was driving I was riding my bicycle down in hill and I saw the scum get the base of the hill and like literally like when you have a you know you walk left and you walk into someone they walk left and right you try to like hesitate that's what you've been spunky that ran right over and then and then I I my I didn't smell as weird I I wiped on I bang my head I didn't smell the smell but my friends told me I get stunk and I didn't believe it because I hit my head I went over to his house and his mother washed me down with vinegar and tomato juice in the dry paint like three hours three hours yeah you would you one bottle of tomato juice after another or be a headless with vinegar when I heard that tomato juice is the only thing that gets it out you know they have a plant that smells like that is called skunk cabbage yes you grow in New York you know by the swamps what it's not like the real thing yeah I've ever been driving up state in New York you do you just thought smelling the skunk smell you know you're up in New York yeah that was like a tent real I don't smell skunk around here the where I live although I've seen a couple but I don't know yeah kind of parkway to get hit by the freaking hit by a car and then you come around and turn and you stay there damn damn well when I was in junior high my father pulled the yor father that's what I call that we we we were getting skunk stink every night in the hall and the house right so eventually my father figured out that he wouldn't look down to the front porch and there was a nest oh boy and at three in the morning he got sprayed to death he went out there he took the nest he put it in the middle of the driveway the charcoal light of fluid from those in burnt the top of the yard do stood to death and let it and the fire department came and he was standing the ass screaming at the top of his lungs when they told me he couldn't burn it down good if you go to jail now for the same oh yeah absolutely they were the neighbors would turn a minute to you know they called the the Nazi police to come you know but let's let's talk a little body building here uh I hate when we have to report terrible news but you know you have to honor these people that pass but we lost two people actually in the industry actually I think we lost one two people but um obviously the most well known would be uh two time figure Olympia champ Jenny Lynn who pass supposedly a misseasier she was in bed supposedly with her husband and she had a seizure and he tried to revive her and didn't didn't happen I had an interview I thought I interviewed her a year ago but it was about two and a half years ago I interviewed Jenny as a kind of an update you know she's to work for our muscle she's to do a radio show uh uh uh yeah when we first started the site with a delegate our c.m. and you know she was like a likable person you know she was she I think she one almost more figure titles than anyone else in the industry and then she retired at some point and she's been coaching people so I don't really know what happened it's terrible when you hear about these things you know usually we're talking about guys and everyone's like star or star or sort you know now you hear about you know you know you know relative a young woman about 50 years old you know dying obviously she took care of herself you know shocking really I mean you guys have any insights in it I actually was I don't know man was so like this happens is I got to look at it from all all angles you know just I mean she from what the news is is that she was fell asleep and then had a and and had a seizure and a sleeping never woke up right yeah okay so now if you go to her Facebook page you look and you look in the last you know weeks of June she's posted all these song like four songs back to back to back these country titles uh you know the the man cheating on the woman and I'll really you know you know tough times to get through shit and you know woman hating you know country singing women's shit and I mean back to back to back same theme you know and then boom the next week she's you know the out of a sea I mean I don't know read anything into this but I'm saying it's just seems kind of weird that it would be posted was more of a kind of upset pissed you know jolted you know music on Facebook page and then the next week you're dead with with this insanely mysterious sudden I mean was she healthy was she sick was she had for family history of this it's just kind of strange you know that you just someone who just dial like that and a healthy you know person I would imagine it's probably going to be a autopsy when do you think you would have you I would think it I think it depends on the state that you're in with the actual law is but generally speaking when someone is dies of especially young person dies of you know an odd cause or not you know a disease in the hospital they do an autopsy you know so you know what you said what you said did you complain about anything I don't think so I don't have to how was she there in the interview oh she was silent during but I was like two and a half years ago so I don't know I mean I knew a guy reached out to me and he said he talked to her once a month and that she was doing fine as far as you know but you know you know who knows you know yeah most people when they say they talk to someone it means they text with someone and you know it's hard to find out if someone's got any kind of issues going on when you're texting with them so it's just it's really sad you know I remember when she was competing and winning the Olympia is and she was beating if you remember Monica Brandt that's when Monica was there for her powers and you know Monica probably could have won a couple of those Olympias in there and there was some politics involved but they were battling an altitude and they were like the best in the world I mean I mean you look back at the physique this is what figure was really all about back then and now it looks like you know bodybuilding but that's really I mean they would be the best in the best at that time so it's crazy I mean you never know when you time's up really that's sort of an amounts to and I think we'll have to really you know we say it over and over but you know every time I hear about another death of John and then because I know you guys can comment on this it almost makes me like I feel like I'm playing dodgeball and you know how like when you're playing dodgeball and someone gets hit in their out you know and you're like before you're looking around you there's only you and one other guy left the volleyball court you know I feel like that's what's happening I mean it's kind of the area of the sense it's it's funny they've looking at that picture because you look at a picture you say what a killer physique killer body yeah and how the division is morphed so far from that yeah you know it's it's you know makes me wonder like is it the bodybuilding or the bodybuilder is it the quote athletes who are morphing it that way or is it you know the judging panel that's rewarding different looking for these and morphing it that way I would say it's a ladder because you know I remember when we would sit in the judging class because the control the control is not with the athlete it's with the you know the judge or the judge or the judge. Yeah I remember we would sit in this judging panel and you guys probably remember and and we would be looking at the girls and I'd be critiquing every single person on stage and we'd be saying what do you think about this one is and we would say oh she's too must do it she's not gonna do well and we would always be right they would do the call out to the must still grow would be the last call out yeah the biggest girl with the you know the freakiest looking girl is is the winner you know so you're doing it so it's not only time it's what they always do but why did they like this get away they had it that's the point I'm trying to make it yes you know I mean if you're at the whole point in creating a division does to create a look and then you you know you can't control the look what is the whole point in control you know starting the division in the first place it's like starting wellness and and then saying you know we like the quote you know big behind but we're looking for total strider glutes the next four years and that probably will be what happens but but that's wellness but figure was always something that they had ramed in really well to keep a clear distinction between figure and body building and yeah and then they created even they created women's physique which should really give them the chance to kind of reboot figure and bring it backwards a little bit um I remember when Heather D's was you know it was at the top of her game you know and and then can't escape and now these girls you know Heather has trouble you know she's still in the top vibe but she's not you know she had to put a lot more size on to that you know the only division that's held it together with respect to how they've been able to maintain a certain physique throughout the years has been fitness and and and that's because they were lie so heavily on their ability to do things oh fitness yeah so that kind of limits them right there and and their physique's have been pretty much yeah I don't know if you've seen gigantic sways in the physics no so what they should have done is women's physique should have been run like men's physique it should have been a weight limit per height so that would have kept them in check figure should have been capital what the standard was before which you know which was it was an achievable look you know I think I mean I'm trying to think if it was a good example of like I mean Jenny was a good example but I mean you could look even to people after her were really good um to that you know you can say okay can't as keen was really good Nicole Wilkins probably should have been the the the standard that they stuck to I think you know you got the way after her when she was that's when they got got carried away you know there's nothing wrong with the looks of being presented now but a great great great for me yes but phenomenal outrageous but you crowd out you know the the the the class for which the look was you know for that look that it was originally designed for which is a whole another you missing a whole another competitive group of people who want to look like that picture that you just put up which is a killer beach body period I mean that is not what what what muscle yeah well you know a day we laugh we say it with muscle but you know 30 years ago that would be remarkably muscular here but for most people who joined a gym for females that's not quote to muscular at all but it's it's a it's a look to aspire to it's still a competitive look right we're right we're just like missing out on a division that's like you don't see that physique there anymore and never will which is too bad because it's an attractive physique yeah even if we even bikini is more muscular than that no yeah maybe in some degree I think that if you think about it I think women's physique I mean the the figure girls that had those amazing physique that we love to look at because they're so because we like muscle what's they said those are the girls that should have gone to women's physique and that's where the what physique was designed for right for those girls to go there and pose because they have physique those top figure competitors can absolutely do women's physique at least the the way it was originally intended you know not maybe not now because now it's like bodybuilding but um and they lost control but maybe they'll rate it back in who knows but the bottom line is we you know we send our prayers and condolences at the Jennyman's family of course I want to also bring up another death in the industry unfortunately there was a wellness competitor I don't think any of us really knew she was we don't follow well to sound much but here's her on Instagram she's 152 thousand followers O'Dollis Santos Menna and great physique you know great wellness look to her and she went in and had some procedure done where they remove your sweat glands have you ever heard of this I didn't even know the dentist yeah what I don't even know what it's called but but the thing is the way that was reported was so sloppy first of all the death was attributed from what I can tell to the anesthesia not the preseneut the heat procedure the the proceed it's a heat it's a heat kind of you know like the opposite of the the cool the cool sculpting you know it's like a heat thing that surprised the sweat glands people people who sweat profusely and that's the procedure she wanted to have done and they're making it sound like it was that procedure that caused her death and wasn't and nothing to do with it she died from the complication some complication from an unlicensed anesthesiologist are you serious unlicensed yeah that's right we're not a maxio John yeah Guadalajara happened to know the place they're talking about well it's still funny it's skin pail or pail skin and pail pail is spanish for skin so it's technically skin skin it's kind of funny to think to out of all the all the medical procedures that you want to make sure someone's licensed but the anesthesiologist. After the dandishane girlfriend incident with the calf and plant an alusina like she think no one would ever do another crazy thing it like that again but that's not a crazy thing that's the thing the sweat gland procedures not a crazy thing at all it's a very simple common procedure so for for that problem what's that wasn't so common for her obviously like I said it it wasn't that procedure it was the anesthesiologist they maybe she should have had it done in the United States instead of in uh that was be the case you think ever border crisis now what what what what did he start coming over to get get fixed it's a it's a she was young to a 24 yeah yeah so I mean just I mean right in the prime of her life I mean this is terrible terrible and you know they're trying to say the steroids had some kind of interaction with the right you get that interaction with the one always like to throw the steroids you know that's the only article I said you've last week about somebody did somebody died or something and they said he was taking nutritional supplements oh yeah yeah I don't know you think I remember I can't remember what I did yesterday I know that that's terrible why she was you know but you know what I got to say this though in Central America and Mexico South America yeah these women are fucking nuts the shit they do to themselves is just insane I mean I read articles in Mexico all the time in the Mexican newspaper about these women this one of them got sent to prison for 30 years for injecting motor oil into people industrial silicone glue all kinds of shit they inject in their ass and their face and their lips and their in their legs they're nuts and they have no a clump function about what sort of their parties and they come over and somebody brings the stuff and they're jabbing it all in it's like it's like it's it's it's fucking nuts and Latin women God love them they have this thing that they gotta be whatever womanhood has to come out of them extra hard so regular women are like you know eight nine you know they're 12 15 you know on a scale of one to 10 and it's always gotta be I have never in the all the years I lived in Mexico I never once saw a Mexican girl leave the house like in a pair of sweats and no makeup they go across the street to mail a letter it's fucking sunglasses out said shoes you know I'm telling you never you know ever see a Latin girl on the never sweat glands are there for a reason okay just just anyone else out there has any cookie ideas I'm doing this stuff they're there for a reason okay they get rid of waste okay don't try to remove something that doesn't eat well well wait wait wait wait wait a reason she was going that some people profusely I know that's what Anthony the Anthony perspiration for I don't I don't know there's I've never seen anybody with that condition now I'd a guy in my gym that had it and this guy would just drip he'll think he got out of the shower all the time that that's what he was that was drinks his hair was wet your shook hands when it was like grab a thing yeah you can't fix it when you sweat everywhere she was just doing her underarms on the swimming right yeah well because that's the worst part you know you're there at your clothes and all that shit with that you know you have that usually is controllable because that you can put an Anthony perspiration on you know but hey you're talking about women who get their lips on their chin on your eyebrows right now that's not the best billers you you can make a list of 20 freaking things and you go open the freaking cloud cloud cabin underneath your wife's sink and look at the freaking array of goop under there and they all got it they every Christmas tree years does too they all do don't they I mean bottles and tubes and you can't identify the shit someone's in front of another countries and you know it's just they got this is what happens they get so wrapped up and involved with their vanity that they will procedure like she's not the first girl who has died by virtue of of vanity procedure that girls die all the time I'm sure guys I too but you know more women have in plastic surgery type of procedures being done obviously all right let you know all this death is getting me the bandwidth I got I got to just live in us up before we start the talking about some context coverage so when he pulled us I went one of our one of my guys sent me this he made it you guys all like this let me see but got it here oh my god this was before you sent me yeah I think you got Mr. G in a background with the thing that would give you a mask. You're a normal mask, right? It's the entire John. I was telling Dave. But Chris came to the question. That's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, Mr Bobby or Mr. G, I could, they were trading off. One was, what was it, one was what? Diana Trump or something like that. Oh, wait no, maybe that's been him in the white behind him and he was, he was a whole cog in wasn't one, he wasn't he whole cog in and the other one was. It was probably Bobby smalls was Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. That's how it was. I thought it looks like Mr. G behind him in the white shirt. I'm happy that you had a move like that. I don't know the guys are genius. You guys can hear that noise, right? The music, right? Come on, Chris, you got to love that. I was expecting when Dave said that sweet that there was a different dot, you know, that we say something different. No, we don't create a virus, you know. Wait, who made this? We got to talk to him. We got to give him some direction. We got to get him connected with the other guy who does the sound by its press, right? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I love, we have the most creative audience. We have gotten sent the most amazing things over the years that people make for it. It's just incredible. I don't know how to do a great job of that. Yep. Thank you. All right, let's, I wanted to mention the, there was the Portugal Pro this week and took place in Porto. A storey Portugal. Could it actually take place in Portugal? Because you know, you got the Chicago and land to it. I know. I'm surprised. I'm surprised. I think Portugal's the only country not locked down. I'm just a little bit too sure. It's a good day. Yeah, they did. Yeah, I'm saying, there are a lot of people in Europe can't find a place to compete because they're so locked down. You know, the Europeans are like, you're a struggling. They'll lock that place down in three seconds. As soon as like one case pops up in a deli somewhere. And, you know, they're like, up, lock down the country, you know, locked down the country. I feel bad for the bodybuilders there because they're really strict there. You know, here they locked down here and no one listens to them, no one cares. But they're, they arrest you, you know. I feel bad for the deli owner. He's the guy getting hurt. So it's the next time they want to do a lock down, they should lock down like the big chains, like Walmart and Target and all these other chains that are making all this money when they're locking down and just keep the small businesses open. And maybe that would help people, you know, the economy come back, you know. And the narrative goes out the window. Can't do that. Of course not. Of course not. No. Who, what were you just saying, Chris about, oh, I, oh, you know, who? Oh, another terrible story. Bill Phillips has got COVID for the second time is on a ventilator. What? Yeah. Bill Phillips of the AAS and, you know, muscle media? No shit. Yeah, I should, I should, I should get where that clip is. The ventilator is no good, man. That's from bad side. No, it's, and this is the second time getting it. So so much for immunity then, huh? Yeah, you know, with this new Delta variant now supposedly. What do you think about all this? Cry, no, Chris, you had you a very vocal about that one. I think it's, you, you said the picture and I said it's, it's a little challenging to have sympathy. And what do you say that? Because he could have been vaccinated, but God forbid, you, you know, he had to weigh out possibly the, the intrusion of that versus death. No. I mean, that's what it is. And when you're unvaccinated, of course, that's what vaccines do. They look for the weakest host to jump to it, right? Recreate themselves, the variant on any, any virus. That is a, is immune to treatment or is immune to your immune system. Right. So by definition, the immune system is an immune system. It's supposed to fight viruses, but at the same time, viruses love immune system so that they can replicate becomes stronger. True. Mm-hmm. There's Bill and his wife Maria, she posted, thanking everyone for all the prayers and everything like that and that he's stable. He's still on the vet. He's on a low bench now as opposed to, I guess, a high pressure bench. So the pressure ones are bad. Yeah. Yeah. So I, like, I hope he pulls out, you know, the guy, the guy, the, you should, you should post the picture because it might scare someone to, you know, become a, look, become a wilt, liberal idiot and get a vaccination. I'm trying to find the picture that I'm saying. No, it's horrible. The picture's horrible. Right. Absolutely. I cannot believe it was posted because it's just so terrible. But I've heard of people to say that, you know, if you wanted to, she wanted to, she wanted, she posted it and she wanted people to see the level of suffering that he was in and how close he is to not make in it so that her message is now, well, we should go to vaccine. Yeah. That's probably the message. But you know, it's funny because it's the map. That is the message. That's just, yeah. That's why I said you can post it. I wanted to find, I wanted to find, I wanted to why she didn't say that in the post. You were thinking about that. I can send it to you. She did. I'll send it to you. She said she did. She said, yes. She says, you know, she makes a point that, you know what? She's maybe we should have been vaccinated. Oh, okay. She did a better job. People, please. The thing about Bill is that Bill was a guy who was always like impeccable about the way to eat and the supplementation he takes. I mean, if you, they didn't want to out there, it'd rather read muscle maybe 2000. I mean, the guy did. There's the, there's the text. She starts off with, please get vaccinated. Yeah, I'm looking on her Facebook to see where she posted. I don't see it. I know. She probably took it down. Just pulled a question about it. Yeah, maybe. The possible. How did you recommend people get? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know, when you see someone like Bill Phillips go down, I mean like I said, because of the fact that he does take such great care of himself and he's a guy that was always into supplements and eating right and being healthy and working out, it scares you. It can scare you because that means it can hit you can affect anyone, you know, real. If you think about it. Anyway, we'll send that some well wishes to Bill and hopefully recover fully. And we'll get him on the TV show if he ever decides to. He's a tough guy to get. I've got, I've had Sean on his brother, Sean Phillips is a great, by the way, he's a great interview. Sean, you know, he knew everything that went on. He told me the full story of the Holy A.S. story, but I'd love to get Bill on to get his take on the whole thing. I mean, because that was, I had reached out to him to get him on our show. He agreed. He was happy to do it and then he just, you know, disappeared. Yeah, he's a little anti-social, I think in that sense. But he, he really influenced me. I mean, his business model of the time, which was to build a start of magazine, educate the public and then start a supplement line and mark it the line through the magazine because of the education you're giving people. I mean, that's what I, we really did. That's what I did at least with the arts, muscle and and species nutrition because they kind of, you know, work together. It's a machine, educate people. You give free information out there to people. Let them understand what the science of things are and then let them make their own decisions based on, you know, a high quality product line that you put out. And then, you know, I've talked to Rich, Rich, to Spare about that. And that's what Richie's always done to it. I mean, he literally said, look, you know, I, I used, I want to use the best stuff when I was competing. So I made the best stuff, you know. And so we all kind of copied Bill Phillips in this sense. And if it wasn't for Bill Phillips, there would be no Scott Connelly. People don't realize metrics was, was successful because Bill Phillips launched it first. And he's going to put it in his platform more. Well, Bill's field copy Joe to a large extent too because the original magazine of course was also a fitness that had radically a diet from fortune, but it had all the ads and it would Joe's ads for some of us, but it had, you know, training in nutrition advice. The difference though is that Joe didn't sell you, you know, he, he, he, he bamboozled you with the, with the, with the commentary on the editorial in there. But what Bill said was, these other magazines are, are a full of crap. That this is, this is crap. And this is good stuff. We're not going to take the ads from the crap. We're only going to take ads from people who actually test their products and work with us. Bill was the 100% same as Joe. The difference is that his stick was he talked about steroids, had the balls to with Joe would never write. But I'm dead and it built, and it built ripped off a lot of stuff that. Well, that Dan to Shane, you know, well, they weren't cool. I mean, I really like that. And he had the water down version of Dan to Shane. So the excitement was that you could get a magazine that would talk about French and Aminos and by protein and by the way, you know, I, you know, sell those products too and it's called the AS. But let me tell you, let me have General Model breakdown for you, or someone Dan to Shane breakdown to you, the difference between Deca and Dan General. Well, I'm just saying you can't put down. He, that's true. That's true. He definitely did do that. But what, what are the biggest things that he did that really made a huge departure in what he was doing versus everybody else was when he wrote the supplement guide. Remember that? Yes. He talked about everybody, you know, and it was a big piece of work. I mean, it was not a hodgepodge. That was a very well researched good book, you know, and he, you know, he put himself out there just like everybody else, you know. So it was, it was very, for those who are very fair, you know, he sold other people's products initially. Because remember, you know, he sold AST research as a federal, a dimedidine rather, you remember he sold an ultimate orange from Dan to Shane. Yeah, the designer protein was not his. That was next next nutrition. I think it was called, that was the first way protein that I know. I mean, the market even though black men swear as that he was first to mark it up. I think it was first to mark it with, you know, every orange juice. Yeah. I'm sure black men hated that that that bill was so successful. Because that really where black men wanted to do was very similar to what they did. I mean, it was building. What was more successful for? Metrics or yes, because they were both like black monsters. Well, he finally had a buy in that a metrics because he owned 50% that was their deal. So I don't know what he made on that. But when he sold EAS, they made like 350 million. So I'm assuming EAS was a better payoff payday rather. Yeah. But they didn't day by didn't bill originally by EAS from Anthony Almada. John or a model was one of the partners originally and then got a new one in the Or did he bought it from a more bought amount or something? He was involved in some way. But it was, it was, it was that little core of them that spun off metrics. And then later EAS. And then that was a man. You want to talk about a turning point in industry? I don't know. That was it right there. Yeah. And why John? That that was, well, supplemented. I mean, it became the thing. I mean, it was broke way out of the gym and broke out of everywhere. It was supplements. And there were so many different ones you could take to did all of these different things. And they, they all would tell you which one I mean, I believe them because I was a science guy. But Bill would tell you which ones were bullshit and which ones actually did something and show you the science of it. And that's, that's what impressed me. And that's what really what I try to follow in his footsteps and the sense of saying, hey, you know what? Yeah, this stuff sells good, but it's bullshit. It doesn't do anything. You know, Connelly was the same way he hated bullshit supplements. But he, the stuff that works, you know, if he, you know, if there was science behind it, he was 100% in favor of it, obviously. Because I mean, just for the first time in the history of our supplement industry, putting together proteins in a logical way. In other words, using, you know, different sources of protein, which is what metrics was egg protein and egg all-beam and way and, you know, casing in such a way so that the protein was like a time release type of effect on it. And, you know, no one had ever done that before. It was always like, basically powdered skin milk with sugar. I mean, let's face it. That's what all the, the, the weater products were. And anyone else who had anything else, which was really not that many, I think GNC had their own brand. If you remember, we were like, egg and milk protein. Right. It would destroy your stomach. You know, when you can mix, but that was the turning point. Chris was, yeah, science based products. Science, back products backed by science. But basically that was, and that, and before that, what, what products were backed by science before that? I mean, ever, no, you're done with those creatinists studies. Yeah. Yeah. He had a bag of, he told me had a bag of creatiners desk for like six months before even did anything with it. Blackman, Blackman, Carl, under the desk, and found that that's why he mixed him first to market my good stuff. You know, what do you go with that little maniacs? He has to say, I would, that they were first to market with. And then, and he would get so blown out of shape when you know, I'm not a definitely had it first, we know. Oh, I know, like, like, well, even films would say in the mags, you know, Steve Blackman likes to say he came out with a first. The fact of the matter is, you know, and you get the proof right there, the Blackman still say, yeah, it's way in with first to market. Yeah. I think you know, it was Steve read a book about about creatiners probably like before anyone did. And he just didn't think to actually make it into a supplement or that he could be made into a supplement. So in his mind, he was first because he probably spot it first. You know, he had it is one of those giant piles of paper in the conference room somewhere. But that's what made it up because there was twin lab competing with, with, with tonnily competing with, with Phillips. And then we knew it was just still trucking along with his, the same crafty. He had out, but people bought it because he had Lehanie and, and Leela Brata and all those and dispari, isn't it? And of course, people are going to use it because of that, right? So the victory line. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty nice. Very demanding and all those guys. And now, how did, you know, it's really funny is that the victory, the victory thing was, was Sergio Aliva. Yeah. I know. Sergio Jr. has a, has a clothing company called Victory Clothing. Yeah. It's not a, we don't know. It was the first, it was the first to market. Yeah. They had his based on Robbie Robbins's body and he had a, you know, name. You know, that is, for all we robbing his body, I just had, I need to stole Sergio's name or his company. Right? Joe, but you, Joe is smart. Yeah. And then Joe stole freaking my little crootons original, you know, charismatic, you know, progressive low overload system, you know, because my, well, because my little of crooton six hundred thousand years ago, he's throw a cow over his shoulder. A calf and walk up the hills and then as the calf grew, we got heavy, he got big on the stronger. And that, that, he was the first bodybuilder. And of course, you know, progressive overload. And then Joe took that. Oh, no, Joe was very sensitive to the like the way to training prints of course. Yeah, as like being like legitimately. Yeah. So like, you know, I, I do, let me in David John, try and we do, you know, bench press, then we jump off and do cable crossover, immediately. You know, super, so to something. It's it. He's after branded by saying it's a we just a percent president. Yeah, we're in a president. We're in a pre-exhaustian principle. He invented it. Yeah. All right. I was at blackman would have, we're, we're a rule that the empire, if you would have just put his face his head on high greens body. But he, he blowing. It was, it was what it really was was blackman, because Joe was the trainer of champions. Right. And Joe had access. Joe, Joe could rub oil on Lee Haney, you know, and, and that would drive the black me. Okay, because he wanted a rub oil on Lee Haney. All right. So. And so the tune of many millions of dollars later, he's still didn't get the chance. But. But that's what he wanted. He wanted to be the trainer of champions. So it was like, so that was weren't a whole, you know, because Joe would go to the photo shoot and Joe was active and involved, you know, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like some NFL owners, John, one of all the team except, and they, you know, the sky box, right? Because every team, you have to be on the side line. And other people, they want to get on the side, sign lines, and they want to be able to, like, you know, put your head in on the hot oil with, you know, yeah, yeah, all of them. Let me see what you guys are doing. That's fine. They want to be like totally involved. Yeah. But let's see, but Joe, Joe, you never got the home of I'm from Joe. And even though he published kind of like, home of magazines, to write, to degree back in a day, you never got that five from him ever, never. And and black men, it's just, you got five from, from black men, John. What's that? I said, you got that, you got that five from, don't see. You did? You just kidding. You showed the ropes and the rest went alone. Now I can't, you know better than that. You know better than that. It was a creepy, it was a creepy, it was a creepy, it was a creepy, it was a creepy. But he's kind of like a peculiar looking guy anyway, you know what I mean? So of course, you know, you know, I guess you got to be eccentric to be successful, you know, in the magazine industry. It seems like every magazine owner is very unusual, like you never noticed that. Very, very, even when we met with that guy Stanley Harris. You know, Benlik was kind of normal. Stan, yes. He was normal. Yeah, yes. You know, the kind of normal looking, the only thing Joe was Joe had the strong man, you know, mustache with the wax on it. That's what I'm working. Then he had that to it. One point. Black men coffee Joe. Every, if Joe did it, black men had to do it. It was worth it. It was worth it. It was worth it. Just looking at the photo shoots. So he come on it. He's his wife is sitting there reading the books so he doesn't She may not go out too bad. You know, it's, you know, it's a situation. No. Oh, let's go. All right, let's let's talk about the Portugal Pro. Andre, I'm presti from Italy. When's it? Let me pull up a picture. They don't, the NPC knows there's never pictures of it. But I'll, let me get the, um, his Instagram up there. Yeah, he's put him up. I want to put him up. He did, I want to give him some credit. Yeah. There we go. Chris, give me your, your whole take on Andre. Um, good v-taper. Really good conditioning. Um, nothing. This is nothing overwhelming. Nothing, I'm the well-made. Um, and then line up like this, it gives him, like the judges are straight firsts. I don't know if he should have been straight first when he looked, you know, he was really good. He's wide. He's got a really good v-taper. Um, I mean, if you look at pictures in the lineup, like I said, he's, it's not like he's like a, a Paul physique, a not sure, you have, see. But as you can see here, you know, great condition, um, which he was also in a very good condition. Um, in Puerto Rico, I competed there, made top, I think four or five. And, um, I think built on that condition here. And I think that was probably, I think what one of them is his balance. And his condition. And thirdly, his lack of weaknesses. You know, lack of weaknesses would you have great condition, you know, could put you right close to the top and a lot of these shows. That's the very true for sure. You know, why you think it was that we didn't see more Americans in the show. There's not one American in this open lineup. Here's a perfect opportunity for a guy like a Steve, well, I don't see if cool girl's going to be doing the Texas show. But I just say even like a cool glow or guy like that to show up at the show. Even like a, how can we didn't see a Nathan the Ashard this show, you know, going in there? Probably because it's a pain in the ass to go all the way to hell alone. Not if you're in England, it's not, but I don't know what the travel restrictions are, but I see a lot of rushing guys in the lineup here, you know. Well, no, you asked why American guys were there. These guys though, the body bills don't get no fly. I don't get on an airplane. I don't think you can just wait and go to Chicago. You have to think about the level of the competition you can see there. You're going to see it's going to be a stacked lineup, you know, the chances of you winning one of these USA shows, Tampa, Chicago. It's very slim because there's only going to be so many slots of them. You're going to get guys like Ian Valier and there and you're going to get your Hunt-A-Librodas and, you know, where does that leave a guy who's almost at that level, but you know, maybe needs, you know, this is a good opportunity for like a, you know, I don't want to say a B level body bullet, but the A, but on the lower end of the A level body bullet, to kind of snagging it and looking at qualification. We talked about this as a sort of a strategy. You know, thing where, you know, you're going to decide like, you know, what shows to go and do. Yeah, running over to Portugal might have been a good idea, but, you know, I guess there's going to be other chances that might be a little bit more convenient. If not that many chances out there, really, I think about it. I mean, Chris, you helped, you know, what's his name? William Martin. William Martin. William Martin, so we interviewed a couple weeks ago and he took third year. That was a, and he went all the way from Brazil there. I mean, I think he, no, so I mean, we don't, I don't really know what Trevor restrictions are, but in his case, he had to, I believe he stayed in the Bahamas a while, where, where the, what was the Puerto Rico show we was in the Bahamas, or was it in Puerto Rico? Yeah, Bahamas. Okay, was in the Bahamas, so do to COVID, he had to stay there for an extended period of time. And then, I think he didn't even go home to Brazil, he went all the way to Portugal. So, you know, while it seems like things are opening up all over, there's still some travel issues, you know what I mean? Like he couldn't go home, train, and then go, go to Portugal. And I don't know, like, you know, now that he's in Portugal, can he just like jump on a plane tomorrow and go back to Brazil, or do they say, you know, you have to wait. You have to wait. So he doesn't, that's so out of it. He gets stuck there for two weeks. The Olympia is not the October, you know what I mean? No, he's not qualified to win this qualified. But it has never enough points. Yeah, no, he got no points. He was seventh and no. All right, I thought he was top but he, I mean, he looks really good here. I mean, the guys, you've got him shredded. This is definitely theliness I've ever seen him. Yeah, no, he's come such a long way in a couple years. I mean, I think, you know, to contrast him with the winner, I think he's bigger than the winner. And I think he's actually harder than the winner. And do I think the winner should have won? Yes. So there's the point in, you know, when you ask him, what are the attributes of the winner is balance, it's pretty, it's pretty. But balance is like balance means balance between the body parts, but also means flow to. So, you know, a lot of times when you have really strong balance under the lights, you know, it enhances the way you look and you end up exposing people for structural issues or, you know, one body part being dominant where over another, your competitors, where yours, you know, may have a better flow. So that's why I think the winner came out as the winner here. Meaning he was deserving, but just, you know, it's not always about condition and size. I mean, I agree with you in that sense. I mean, William has a ton of muscle and freaky, you know, conditioning, but his waist is a little bit. We talked about this before the show and I mean, that's something he's just going to have to keep working on, putting on more muscle balance. I don't have a, I don't have a stage picture of him, but he, I mean, he's got a really nice physique too. All these guys were really shredded. Yeah. I mean, that's pretty impressive when you get a show in the top, you know, five guys are all like, crushed right in and haven't glued, you know. Yeah, Buddha Shrines are good body balance, really good balance. I mean, he falls into the category of the winner, really good balance. Usually in, you know, tremendous condition. And I think he was a really, really good condition here. I think he was the last time I saw him, I think a couple years ago, he was second at the Cal Pro. And he was way over the look that saying, yeah, he was six. You know, but really good, really good, I think. What do you think, what do you think the condition is so much better among these guys? The European guys, you mean? Yeah. I think the, I think the design up like if you look, it's such a good question, John. I think if you look at this lineup and if you remove William Martin's who's like the biggest in lineup, and kind of like quote, freaky, the guy to get first, the guy to get second, the guy to get fourth or let's say, yeah, even the guy to get fourth, but the guy to get fifth or everyone else, nobody's huge. And nobody's really big. They're, you know, good professional audience big, but they're all in tremendous condition. I think that, you know, just the mindset is if you're, I mean, let's contrast it with team. They're all tiny compared to a team. Right. I mean, if you're a team for people to get these guys, why would you die it down? You know, peeled out of your mind when you can beat them. This would have been a cakewalk for a team. Right. Oh, yeah, but you don't even need a, I mean, a team here. I mean, you can get a guy, you know, like, you used someone else's day. I just wanted to use the extreme. I was thinking like a seven day, nine place guy would probably have wanted to show, you know, somebody really big who's a little bit off, but big enough to, you know, they say, well, he's off, but he's still still got a lot bigger of free to give them these guys. So, you know, I think they have to come in that type of condition to be effective. What did you think about the two, 12 winner, Lucas Quaila from Brazil? They're really good. Excellent. Thys, midsection. I think the same thing, lack of weaknesses and extremely good detail. Made it a pretty convincing win for them. It's a pretty great because some people are less of a way of this. Yeah. A lot of us in short. How do you feel to do with the Olympia in the 2012 division? Top 10. Yeah. Probably correct the top 10 somewhere. It's so hard to say the 2012 because, you know, you split that out of the top 10 and then you start. It's like the Olympia. When you start, when you start handing the cap in the Olympia, we forget about people. I don't know how to say how my gosh, what it is. I've forgotten about, you know, right? Forget some people, you know? Yeah. You forget how good they are. And then you go to the Olympia and you're going to say, wow. I want to forget about him. Right. What do you think about the classic winner? Yeah. Who? Yeah. Yeah. It's a whole different year. Yeah. Is that the one that was a mess on that? No, the Jose won. The amateur of the, well, the, well, the pro. I'm talking about the pro, too, 12. I mean, I'm a classic, I'm just sorry. Classic. Plot picture up on the, I think I got a few more. Does it, there was, there was several shows a weekend. Yeah. No. Jose, Matt Day, Home home, so, Marianne, is, God explain the Spanish last name thing. They got, they, they have two last names, right? The mother and mother. They have, yes, they have their mother's maiden name comes first. And then they're, then they're, then they're surname. So you would have your name, your middle name, your mother's maiden name, and then you're surname. I got to go. And when they, when they, when did they use? It's like their legal man. Usually they're surname, the last one. Some of them don't, some of them use the mother's maiden name. It depends on how cool it sounds. You know. I'll take your pick, they'd take the go. You can, I mean, they, generally, the rule of thumb is it's your, it's your surname, but some of them go by them, the mother's maiden name. I can't find a picture of them. So yeah, they, pretty, pretty, pretty much, pretty much all of them have four names, at least. Let me make it up that day without seeing them. Well, I don't even think classic, classic, classic, classic, classic, classic. That's what I would do. I did it. Listen, listen, that's, that's like when judges say like, what do I get in, and prove on? Well, you could be, you know, bigger and harder, you know, I mean, you're just a good guy, I'm just a see harder, and you know, you got good fullness, but I feel a bit bigger. It must have been a good line up, and I'll tell you why, because Wesley Vissers, who, you know, has really made a lot of improvements, he's, and he's, he's, he's, he's, he's a qualified for the Olympic last year. He actually had a self-added third year. So, I mean, and this was a picture of him like right before, you know, he competed in him. I mean, he, if that felt like an article, look alike, and we've said this before, but he's even better now that he's gotten bigger and filled out his frame more. He's absolutely got such an article like physique, doesn't he? Yeah, I do. Dave, though, I, I'm pretty, the winner has a more body, like hardcore body building physique that was, you know, worthy of winning, but it definitely is all we had your body building. Yeah, I'd like to see Wesley go up to the, to the open body building eventually, to get an add-in of size, because he probably do it right. structure, you know. Well, he can take to 500 bucks and apply it to his future. But, say, he only won 500 bucks right from third place in a minute. Yeah, professional job. What do you think about that? It's climbing up there. The problem is this, this, these, these primaries don't have enough money to get that. It's only like a think of. Well, you know, those aren't what they're doing, putting on shows if they got no money. No, it's just got, thank you for the $1,000,000,000 question John. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Stop being so logical, John. Sorry. I, you know, I think that the, and this is good for the sport when the rock comes out with the, his, his athletic contact, he should have called the rock games. By the way, that's it that I think he missed the boat on that. But anyway when he comes out with athletic on, I believe it's coming out in April of 2020. I have been getting to be giving away a million bucks for every division in prize money. Is it million bucks total person or they're giving a million bucks or first prize? No, I think it's a million for the person for the, for the division. For you, John, remember? Remember when you said, what was that verbage you used John for EAS when you said it was not a watershed. The sale of EAS was a watershed moment. Oh, windfall. Windfall. This would be a windfall. And a watershed moment for the sport. Dr. Wolf. One million dollars. You will people who are. Yeah. To be one million for first place. One million dollars. Then you can, you know, then drop it down to 300 to 30. Can you imagine what's a good point, Chris? Don't you think this should be a huge disparity between first and second? Well, the reason they're Mr. Olympia. I think we've found it all. It's one hundred dollars. One hundred grand is not chump change. And that's the first. So it does drop off to second, third, fourth, fifth. To me, you know, fifth place. The first place is massive. Different. Yeah. The first. But I think first the second should be massive. It should be like million for first place, you know, 250 for second and then on. Oh, God. I can imagine John being up there. Those are by a point. So say, care, Bob Chickerola, we're got one point. One point. Seven point. Yeah. But they're. One point is where 500,000. Yeah. I was going to say, you did you got 800 grand for first place. And second place got like 150,000. I mean, that's still, that would be nice, you know. I think look, it's a million bucks first place. And then you got to go down to 250. Making 250 is not a two shabby. No, especially in body building. You know what, for the body, those are going to be great. But imagine to the fitness girls and the bikini girls who've never seen probably more than what 20 grand maybe. I mean, imagine they're making like 500 grand. You know, what is that going to do? And what message will that send? Number one to Jake, what if the Olympia? Number two to all these other promoters that are holding, you know, they show the Arnold people. And even, yeah, I got the answer to that question. Did they got to step the game up? I mean, what the, up to fucking game. What they do it. How about how about the football player, okay? How about the football player? It gets out of college, gets drafted, gets on the team. Now, he's going from eating ramen and ketchup every night. It's $100,000, you know. A year, okay? When you become, and that's not even the best. That's like an average, you know, above average guy, you know, what's the average? $300, $400 grand in NFL? Well, I think it's more than that now. Yeah. It must be right. What bodybuilders consistently making $300,000,000? Come on, they don't make it. So, you know, to three a top professional athlete, the best in the world. And you can't get a $1,000 first prize when you got freaking illiterate people who can't, you know, put string together sentences, when walking around with freaking, you know, $100,000,000,000,000 contracts. You know. So, yeah, I think there's plenty of money to go around, especially at the Olympic, at the Olympic level, at the Arnold level, at the肝肝 or whatever, the shit's going to be, there's money. The rock is going to get prime time sponsored. Where the money is going to be. The rock is not this different than to his old bank account. No, but he's good. He should. I mean, this is what he doesn't need to. He can go to the under armor. He can go to Nike and probably get the money from them, you know, because he's looked the guy is the most popular guy in the world pretty much at this point. It would be and him making those inroads and getting, getting it up like that would benefit Jake Wood and and the Laura Merz and everybody, because the mainstream sponsors would follow suit they would follow suit. You know, I would hope so, right? I would hope so. Well, of course they would. You can't have the rocks guy and then the same guy is going to compete, you know, for Laura Merz, they want nobody's going to follow me. I hope if the rock a pull an under armor in or Nike in or whatever that he's going to pull in that they would go and spot to these other shows too, but they may not, you know, and then what happened? Does the Olympia become, you know, not so important? Yeah, come. How about this? Of course it does. Of course it does. Right? Of course it does. Is there any debate on that? We need an eye on debate on that? No, I mean, it puts a lot of pressure on the Olympia guys to actually have to put out more money and is the money there or they'll buy it. I don't know. To the Olympia's grant, because I've been hard on the Arnold's on the show and saying that, you know, I always give the example my friends are 100 grand in 1995. And the house that he bought for 174,000 is probably like $850 now. You know what I mean? So things go up. What was 100 grand in 1995? It was it was real money. And it's not real money anymore. So when the Arnold's not like it was 1995, the Olympia, the National and Choir group, you know, continually added money to the men's prize and Jake, you know, I mean, back against the wall with potentially no kick-it-seals, whatever, last year, still coughed up all that money and laid it on the line had a great show. But he, you know, talk about stepping it up. But having said that, you know, to his credit, everything that great that he's done so far, if the rock has a show and it's a million dollars first prize, it becomes the number one show period. And ever, you don't need 35, you can smoke a 35 or whatever, it's 50 year history in one second by just one million dollar check. God. Well, you know what I was doing. John, if the first place was a million and the second was the same prize as the Olympia. Yeah. And you're preparing for the Olympia. Please don't, you know what? All those guys who stayed and didn't take the vis-a-vis pick man money, wanted to be loyal to Joe Weader. You know what? Good for them, they were loyalists. But again, people, the people went to the WBS last their way to the banks. Yeah, that's really great. It wasn't for very long, but they did laugh. Yeah. You know, what I would do is if, you know, and I'm not running the Olympia or anything like that. But if it came down to that where I have to step up my game, I only Olympia, which Jake does, doesn't it make sense to start abitting, bidding it out like they do with the WrestleMania? Hey, who wants to hold this? Who's going to pay? Oh, you want to pay in the Middle East there? You want to do buy? You want to have it there? Yeah. Yeah. It's going to cost you $10 million because I got to put up the prize money for this piece of these guys. You're going to have to put up $10 million money. And you know what? The I guarantee they wouldn't blink an eye. Yeah, it would leave the Orlando, but you know what? That would solve your problem. It's a brilliant idea, actually, just because you own it doesn't mean you have to run it. Yeah. Not at all. And in fact, you know, I mean, who would you can still be fully involved in it? That's a great idea. Right. You can make a lot of money doing that because he owned your brand. Let him let these other guys pay for it. Manion in those guys is still going to run the show. They're going to judge it and let the other let Dubai or let, you know, Qatar or let wherever they want to, you know, Russia let them fork the bill out for the prize money and everything else. You know, that's the, that's the, that's the underlying basis. And that's fantastic. But what you got, you need a guy like the rock for is what you said before is he's the guy that's going to bring the under armor, the Nike, the Reebok. What you get sponsors like that behind it, then the, the whoever's holding it or running it is in consequential because you're now you're talking big money. Now you got, now you've got, now you've got, not only you got a million dollar first prize, but you got a nice old house, you got limo, you got air fair, you got all this shit now. And it's what it deserves. I mean, this is what 60 years, 70 years has been going on and now this is, this is, this is, well the excitement John and the passion is for the athletes to get paid. Right. And, and you know, I, I can hear it now people who run the Olympic get like a little offended that people who are critical of the prize money. What they always do. Well, I mean, to to defend them to some degree, I said Jake Wood was one of step that up and, you know, even, you know, a little fan of David Packer, but he's stepped it up too by continuing to continually adding money, but who doesn't want to see the athletes, you know, the guy gets eighth place, walk away with it. Well, he's strong. Hey, Dave. Let's use that's not happening right now. Let's use David Packer as an example. That, that was a great example. When, when he first came on board, I thought to myself, this is it. This is going to happen. Finally, we're here. We're at the mainstream. Yeah. He had the mainstream publications. He had access to every A, B and C level celebrity. You could name he had access to everything. What happened? What that was going to be? That was Cinderella Slipper for bodybuilding. What happened? You know, he didn't come through that there was under David Packer's rain. There was no reason why Mr. Olympia couldn't get a million bucks. None. Zero. Except for the fact that they just didn't want to go through the effort to go and do it. And I get that. Well, because, you know, why? Because bodybuilders for 70 years have been taught that they're not worth shit. And that the people putting on the shows, the higher-ups, manning and company, the whole, the whole organization, they all got to get their money. And it's off the backs of the athletes. The athletes have been underappreciated, underpaid, and under-recognized since day one. No, but I'm talking specifically about David Packer. Why didn't he? Because because, okay, who knows? I mean, maybe he wanted to, maybe they were he was told not to. You know, I don't know what the deal was. But if there was ever a time in our history where we could have departed from the the patents that bodybuilders were used to be in paed, it was under David Packer's rain. And for some reason, the prize money to forge a granddad when you, I think he wanted to do it. I think someone was tying his hands. I believe I could believe that too, you know. But if you look not really, it's not the onus of the people who run the IFB, you know, the Jim Man needs to do. No, it's a prize money. It's the promoters that need to come up with a better business model to be able to put that, you know, put that money. And in that in the sense it was Packer's job. Now it's Dick Wood's job. You know, the Arnold people's their job. It's the promoters job to get that money and they raise that up. Is that's like the reason for the show. If you remember, John, when Arnold first put out 100 grand prize money, the winners were really shaking in their boots. And they made some kind of big thing. Well, you got to keep the prize money less than the Olympia. If you remember, because the Arnold and Jack right up. But Dave, but Dave, under at the time, Packer was at the helm. He had Packer and Arnold standing together on stage. Humilever worth probably $10 billion. Okay. You've got two of them. Well, theist people in the country stand right next to each other, presiding over bodybuilding, or the bodybuilder gets 150 grand. Okay. So when you had Arnold, we need to go not only the highest paid entertainer in the entire world, but Governor of California, David Packer, the owner of all these tabloid publications, millions and millions and millions of dollars in advertising and millions in circulation. You had this gigantic thing in front of you. And bodybuilding didn't go anywhere. You can then to the degree where you can say, well, the prize money went to 400 grand. Wow, 400 grand. Holy shit. Well, you don't, I think Arnold's derby and co-stown to him. I think Arnold would have raised the prize money a lot more. Had all these new divisions not bloomed essentially and sucked it up. In other words, when France wall won, it was only bodybuilding. Right? Well, maybe fitness was not because you know what? Because you can't defend them that Arnold that way. Because when France wall won the 100 grand and when when J was winning 100 plus a hammer. Hammer. You know, when, when Mike won the 100, they didn't have an attendance of whatever they have they have today. 200,000 people paid. I'm going to you have to pay to go walk that trade show to see Genders Hawking protein bars. You know, so it wasn't that income stream. So the income stream was lower. Far, far, far lower. So you would think that there's with all those income stream's as money to, you know, up the prize money. Yeah, look, there is Ben Weeder died with a building dollars in the bank. Okay? So there was, there was money in bodybuilding. Joe Weeder was a wealthy, wealthy man. Betty is wealthy beyond imagination. There was a ton of fucking money in bodybuilding. Only problem is bodybuilders didn't get any of it. And so they were taught they're not getting any of it. So whatever comes along the afterwards is used to the fact that you don't have to pay to bodybuilders shit they're used to it. So that's why they don't get any money. What other sport on earth on earth is treated like this? True. You're right. You're right. It's said, but you know what? Talking about it, bringing it to attention is what's going to get it to change. I mean, if it wasn't prevents from expanding in the early 90s, Weeder never would have given out contracts and the money would have never gone up. So the rock might be the right person, the messenger at the right time to spark another, you know, Renaissance and bodybuilding where we're going to see a higher amount of prize money, a higher amount of opportunities available. Maybe even, you know, mainstream, you know, entrances to that Hollywood world via the rock, you know, which you know, Arnold Wet the Hollywood, but he didn't pull at many people along with them. That was the problem. Or maybe has ability to do that. I mean, that could be something that would be great for bodybuilders as well. Yeah, but, but it way, I didn't, I don't, in my rant there, I didn't because Chris brought it up. I wasn't disinjured what, by any means, exact opposite. I think Jake, what Jake would has done for this is just absolutely, you know, mind-boggling, because no one else stepped up like he did, but I still think if you get the guy, a guy like the rock who can really step this up and pull in, you know, those those big mainstream sponsors, it's going to help everybody, Jake included. So I wouldn't look at this as like competition, something bad has happened. I would, I would, all of these guys, other promoters, I would be praying and hoping that the rock pulls this off because I'm telling you though, John, I just know what my gut, the Olympia is a very strong brand. I think it was a very smart purchase for Jake to make, but I also know that, and I went, I've been there in the Middle East, these Middle Eastern leaders of the country, the shakes, think that bodybuilding is, is the coolest thing they've ever seen. It's like baseball and football is in the United States. These guys will roll out the red carpet and throw the money at the professional body. It was that they're like fans, they're like, black men watching the show, you know, they think they like and see the bot, they'll put the money out there. And I think that it's foolish to keep it here in the US if it's good, if we can't grow the brand because it's just not enough money here, go someplace where someone's willing to open their pocketbooks up and pay for everything, you know, that and I always like when the Olympia moved around. I mean, yeah, it's more convenient, but it's in the US of course, but it's more exciting sometimes, you know, when it can go to a place where they're going to make it like Disney world because they think it's like, they think it's like, they get in the Super Bowl and football there, you know? I agree with that. All right, so a lot of strong opinions today, and hopefully I want to congratulate all winners. We didn't really get to go over everything, but you know, I will cover during the week on the other shows. A lot of the pictures are. We get to get two stuff for the money. What's in the show? It was interesting because you know, I see and I smell change in our world and it's a good thing for bodybuilding because it's going to mean that we're going to have more opportunities for the bodybuilders. There's John said the bodybuilders are the people who make the sport and they should really be the ones that reaping a lot of the rewards and they're not. And so, you know, I think that with Jake and new blood at the helm, you know, I think we're going to see new things. And I think another exciting thing is we've got the much, you know, with Tyler Manning kind of moving into a position as a young man who's going to be running things after his grandfather, you know, steps down, I think that's good also to the sport because, you know, new fresh ideas and there as well. So, I mean, we have a lot of good stuff happening over the next, I think, five to ten years are invocable. And I think that the rock is, you know, he's the first celebrity to ever say, you know, what, I'm going to support bodybuilding. There's a lot of other guys that could have done it, okay, a long way, but they did it like Arnold. Arnold, yeah, Arnold got involved to a certain degree, but I think the rock, the rock is the guy who wants to run from president, you know, can you imagine that the president of the United States who actually likes bodybuilding? You know, look, I don't know, overshadow Arnold's, you know, political aspirations or accomplishments, either, Arnold is, you know, is a household name. So, you know, the fact that, you know, he presides over bodybuilding to some degree, always his success to it, to certainly, I mean, he's older than O2 John. So, I mean, at this point, he made a lot of changes in the sport. I think with the Arnold class, again, everything he did, and that's still going to continue on, but the rock is young, he's got a lot of fresh ideas, he's got connections, you know, that are fresh and, you know, not just connections that he had from 20 years, he's got connections currently, and he can leverage money from these connections and sponsors. And I think that if he goes ahead with this, it doesn't get cold feet at the last minute, like, you know, I think it could be a big thing. I think it could be a big meal. Look, a Paul de Lette in Canada, I mean, it could be a huge, huge, colorful event, you know, right? I think the rock is, and the fact that the rock is not trying to start his own organization, but he's doing it with the, the comp lines of the IFBB, it's something that's even more exciting because that, once again, is going to raise up the whole sport. It's not going to create a, it's not going to divide the sport, which is what we don't want, obviously. It's still competition for the Olympia. Yep, that's good. Competition is good, it's good, because you know, it's good for the athlete. It's my number. You go for the promotion. It's great on the athletes, but I think Jake has a very, very, very strong brand and the team, if he manipulated and uses it right, he, not only is going to make a lot of money, but he's going to be able to really raise the sport of body building up to another level. He had a rough first year, man, so you got to hand it to him for still hanging. Hey, men for sticking it out because he didn't have absolutely, so he drops them for the, Randy should be the one who's really, very happy. He might have been Mr. Olympia right now. We, you know, we're getting, we're getting curry might still be Mr. Olympia. If I birch a bit, they're not being in Olympia. They can't, they can't, they can't sell the freaking Olympics for God's say, right? So, all right, well let's wrap this thing up, running out of time and till next week, as we say every week, remember with heavy muscle radio, the truth is, get out of everyone, have a great one.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Welcome back to our ex-Muscle Spotlight and today's competitor is an old friend of mine. He's just one his pro-card at the NPC Junior Nationals in the classic physique category. He's now an IAPB pro and the man I'm talking about is Bartley Weaver. Welcome to the show. Hey Dave, thanks for having me man. It's been a long time coming as you probably remember, you know, you were my first and I only coached back in what was it about 2016 or so. Yeah, yeah, I don't. Everything's on the board in my head, but probably, you know, it's funny because, you know, we work together and then you made those probably one of my favorite t-shirts as your t-shirts they made me. Oh yeah. You're still doing those, right? Yeah, I need to get you one of these. I just, yeah, podcast. Yeah, I had this custom made so we got a cookie right here, and it's slice of pizza and a burger. So bodybuilding and cheat meals podcast, I've been doing that with two of my buddies and it's been a great experience, you know, because we're all in prep and we're all talking about the food and we're all talking about what we're doing for training and, you know, sometimes one of us is struggling, you know, there's on be mode, you know. So what kind of talk a little smack and pick each other up. So so I'll tell you what I said, hey, listen guys, I'm all compete first. I'll set to standard for y'all and you know, I'm going to have to finish strong for me. Well, you're pretty much that a very high standard for these guys because you've got your pro car. But more importantly, you know, I think the thing that really, I mean, you've been, you've done a lot of things we're going to talk about, but I love the fact that you're a professional eater or at least a competitive eater. I don't know if you're a professional. I don't even know what's sad. Are you a professional leader? Is there a status thing there? Yeah, it's actually a son to three-year contract with major league eating. So it is a professional organization. It's only a credited one. So it's the one, you know, on July 4th, County, I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. So I compete against Joey Chestnut a couple times the year before last and he definitely handed my butt to me. But you know, I'm still ranked. I'm happy to win. I did 32 years ago at a 30 and 10 minutes at a Nathan's qualifier. I did it at the Cardinal Scubs game center field. So it was about 100 degrees. Oh, my God. When you, when you were 30 hot dogs, look, my son loves hot dogs. I, you know, I take him to 7-11. He's got to have a hot dog. He makes me make him hot dogs in the house. And I won't eat them because I'm against the nutritional components of the hot dog. But I don't care. My son is young. He can eat it. But eating 30 hot dogs, I mean, like, you keep those things down to you from up after. Well, it's kind of, uh, it's kind of players discretionary. No, so what are you usually do? For the hot dogs, I was like, man, I'm actually, um, I actually want to eat some pizza into my screen. So, you know, I don't know how long these hot dogs are going to stay down. So, you know, sometimes you help them up. But if it's, uh, if it's like bread, like I did the world pepper on your row, eat and changing ship, which was a lot of bread, he wasn't that much meat. So, what that heavy on my stomach. So that was, that was no problem. Um, you know, the main thing is that a lot of people don't understand is, uh, there's a lot of water turning involved. If you want to be, you know, at the top upper echelon of athletes and major league eating, you've got to be able to expand that stomach. So, sure. What blows a lot of people's mind is, you know, here I'm in classic physique trying to shrink the waist. Yeah, right. For a few months a year. And then I'm expanded it and blown it out, which really don't make a lot of sense. But, you know, it's a, it's a free cheap meal. And, uh, you know, you get to travel. And to be honest with you, man, it, you know, just like any other sport growing up, you know, you'll get the butterflies. It's like, it's, it's a very competition. Right. It's, it's a, it's a, it's a one man sport. But this is what I'm thinking of. You know, when I think of a hot dog, it's got the meat and then there's like a shell around it. There's this like this skin shell that is telling you just to use like, you know, the intestines really, you know, the thing that the intestines, but so that thing is not that digestible. Now, when you're eating a hot dog, you might, if you're lucky, you get a bite out of the thing, right? It's just you're basically swallowing the hot dog, yeah, I expect of it. And then you're soaking the bread and water, right? Yeah. So what I do, I like to do the, um, the double barrel approach. So take two hot dogs. You kind of mow them down. When you do small bites possible, because the, uh, the Nathan's hot dog is the natural, uh, beef casing. So it's a little bit different than, um, what we're using competition. It's actually a little bit tougher than just your standard, you know, uh, run of the meal grocery store hot dog. So, uh, I've got a picture of mall all laid out, you know, on your Instagram. Uh, it's during weaver, IV. Okay. I can probably send it. We got to meet a picture of all that. Well, put your pictures up. Yeah. Yeah, but um, yeah, I know. I'll get them. What do you do? You dip the bread in the water. So dip the bread in the water. I usually, I didn't know anything about this. You know, I'm, I just, people would tag me on Facebook or Twitter and be like, Hey, uh, there's, uh, such and such contest, you know, talk a week in contest going on the Nashville, Tennessee, you know, this weekend for 150 bucks. I was like, uh, you know, I'll go train legs and then I'll go, uh, fast and, and eight tacos and when money free cheap meal. You know, the main. So that's how I kind of started out. And I kept doing that until I competed at a, uh, a pro event, usually they'll let like one or two amateurs on the table and I did the World Mutton, Eaten Championship. Uh, uh, and I once burrowed Kentucky. So that's how much money did you plan for those people down now now. Yeah, I eat six pounds. It ended up being like 24, 24, uh, sandwiches in 10 minutes. And that was 10 minutes. Oh my god. No, when you eat that, when you eat that much of a mutton, okay, how long does it take to digest? Like, you know, when do you fully pooped that stuff out of your body, you know? Well, usually, and, you know, you're, you're a big fiber component, you know, so back in the day, I was slamming the fiber lies and that's something that I've almost, I've almost mastered Dave. I've, uh, and I give you a lot of credit for this because so I've created my own supplement line and I've created in my second product ever is a fiber greens. So it's a 10, 10 grams of fiber, five grams of greens and greens and probiotics and stuff. Yeah. I just, I took your stuff religiously for, you know, four to five years and I get my clients on it and that's, that's been something that you'd love this year to, you know, kind of bring my waist in because what I've got to do, I've got to naturally water, you know, play college football, you know, full back waist, you know, and what the judge just told me last year at the amateur Olympia, I won my class but didn't get the pro card and overall. Right. And they told me they said, hey, listen, your waist can't get any water. Okay. As we're glad you down talk, I was right now and I'm down. Yeah. So, so that's, that's, I use that in preparation. You know, I do, I fast one day a week. I did for this prep just, you know, calorie control, bringing in my midsection and that's what I would do going into these food challenges is I would fast at least, you know, 18 to 21 hours was usually my sweet spot for these competitions. If you do other guys do the same thing as that technique that most people use is that you're on technique. I talked to Joey, just not, and he said that what he likes to do, he likes two days out, he likes to do liquid only. So he'll do like liquid egg whites and protein shakes. And then a day out he'll fast, but he'll do the water training. So the water training is what they do every day. You know, I'm, I'm not that serious into it. We're out just, I'm just going to try myself, you know, choking water. You know, I got to wear, you know, just playing around with it a couple of years ago. I could do a gallon of water in a minute. And you're talking about some serious stretchage. You know, it almost, so they threatened to start a gradative with food, which is probably not helping me if they do it with water. Okay. I got it. Right. Right. And see, what a lot of them will do is, you know, they'll have to bring, you know, a lot of them's way more talented stomach capacity wise than I am. You know, I'm just kind of doing it just, you know, for fun, just for fun on the side, you know, and just kind of running with it. But a lot of them, like Joe Chess, not can drink four gallons of water in 10 minutes. Oh, wow. Don't know why I do that. You can kill yourself. No, no, no, no. Yeah. So, so that's, that's very, very toxic. So, you know, there's no way I could do that. And no way I'm on a try. But if I can get a gallon of water in 10 minutes, you know, it usually takes about six to seven iris to flush that out. So it's kind of like a, it's kind of like a balloon, like a water balloon, you know, once you stretch it out, once you let the water out, the balloon's going to be a little bit bigger once it finally stands out. So it gets me, it gets me a little bit of plod ability there. Gotcha. So, and you know, people don't really, you're not doing this eating every day. So even if you did it once a month, you're not going to blow your waist out from, from a, from, you know, perfect. Eating, you know, 30 hot dogs once a month. If you did it every day, that's a different story. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah, I actually got, got asked to be on the table at a event in West Virginia a few weeks ago, and I hit him back. And I was like, well, I'm all, I'm all, I'm all trying one more time for this pro card here. And we'll get back on the circuit. So, so maybe later this year. Yeah, the pro card is, it's not even that interesting. I'm enjoying the eating questions better, but you did obviously win your pro card. Now, one more thing I wanted to ask you, you were on that show, the rock show, right? What was the Titan game? Yeah, yeah, the Titan game. Tell me about that. Man, that was, those incredible experience right there, you know, anytime that you can, you can compete in front of one of your idols growing up, you know, to me, and one of the biggest guys in the game right now, the rock, he's, he's dominate and everything. And just being able to, to meet him and be on the show, you know, I even got a chance to talk to him a little bit backstage. And he's just such a humble, downed earth guy, you know, we, we go back and forth. We're supposed to train soon. So, so maybe he'll watch this, but after one of the competitions, it took like, like, 20, some minutes to push this wall. I'm not sure if you had a chance to see it, but it's lunar impact. Yeah, where you, where you run up, ladder, it's like a two or three, if you type in Bartley, we've heard lunar impact on you, too, you'll find it. But, um, so I competed in that and, you know, I came from behind a tour of my hamstring, three, three weeks prior on a 40-hour dash at the Titan games combat. So I had, I had three weeks to heal. So I mean, I was doing every recovery modality. You could possibly think of just like, man, just, you know, I can't, I can't, both this opportunity. And ended up, it ended up holding. It was still bruised up. I showed the rock backstage. Um, my heart rate was like 200, they had to EMS on me because I, for you. I can't, I can't, I can't climb as fast. The guy's going against is like was number two in the world, Matt Chained. He was number two in the world in CrossFit. And it's also a firefighter. So he, he climbed that ladder so freaking fast. It put me in the hole. So, but once he hits the wall, he brings it all the way back to me. It about knocks me off. But I had a few inches and then just walked him back over over 23 minutes. And so once I jumped off after I won, I went up to the rock and I was like, Hey brother, is that Army leg day? Iron pair dice. He says you got a brother. So every time that we talk, he's like, he's like, yeah, we're going to get that leg workout in the end. That's awesome. That's awesome. Yeah. Hang out with the rock and that you won and that'll, you know, yeah. And you're a big guy. And you know, and let's add one more little acolyte onto your list, you know, across your, your police officer as well, right? Yeah, that's right. Yeah, I've been a site trooper here in Kentucky for about six years now. So if I get pulled over speed and I can drop you an end. A lot of people do. You know, when I was in New York, I knew all the, all the policemen there. I used to know, in New York, you get the little pdf card thinking about, you know, you can kind of wave it and be, and it was good. And everyone kind of, now I moved to Florida, really, you know, no one knows me. Luckily, I did get pulled over once here in my community and the guy was a body build a believer in that. And he, oh, yeah. But I don't know. Yeah, if I'm in kid, if I'm in your state, I'll drop you a name. But that's cool. Do you like it? Do you enjoy being a police officer? I do. It's something, it's something different every day. You know, and you don't always get the opportunity to help somebody. You know, you're not always putting in a position to help somebody. But the times that you actually do get to help somebody and, and you, you know, make somebody's day a little bit easier. It's always rewarding in that aspect. Do you get frustrated when you like see stuff where people put down the police officers, you know, in the news and stuff like that? You know, that's like the, there's a whole bunch of people out there. I think the police officers were all bad, you know, and I hate when I see that. Because you know what, I know so many good guys like yourself who are, who are, you know, working hard, put their life on the line to protect us. And then I see these morons out there, you know, because there's one bad be seen. And it's just that frustrates me, you know, and I'm not even a police officer. Yeah, we've kind of been through a few cycles of this. If you, if you think back, you know, ever since I've started, you know, there's, there's been, you know, cycles of the media and, you know, yes, there's bad stuff that happens. And yes, there's bad apples. But, you know, like you say, you can't judge all of them based off, you know, sure, the negative actions of a couple. So I mean, I just, I just, I just answer my call, do my job, and treat people how I want to be treated. Sure. It seems to take care of itself that way. I asked that to Ronnie Coleman once the long time ago and he said the same thing, you know, he's like, look, I can only do B who I am. I can only be the officer I am, you know, and then take control of what other people do when he said. But I, but I have to imagine though, it's terrible when you, you know, you do spend and devote yourself to this job. And then you hear people just making it seem like all police officers are not good people. And that's just not the case. So well, all right, you got a pro card now. What are you to do with this thing? Hey, we're going to the Bahamas this weekend. Oh, you are. I don't even know that. Hey, Porto Rico Pro. Yeah, leave tomorrow. So I got to go pick up my PCR test today. I was just like, man, you know, I'm already at the top of my weight. Yeah. Basically, and I talked to Flex Lewis and Jose Raymond after the show and they're like, hey, man, just, you know, it's a, it's a small sport. Go ahead and get your face out there. You're absolutely shredded. You know, I brought my best package. And thankfully, you know, that's, it's probably due to the weight cap in classic, you know, I've been for the past three, four years. I mean, I end up losing 23.6 pounds in 48 hours to make weight for junior nationals. You're a professional eater. That's not. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, what's crazy is I can eat all this food with I can, I can fast like a son of again, too. It's kind of, it's kind of like a, all or nested in type of day like your body is adapted, too. Like it knows, you know, when he's fasting, you hold the muscle, you know, anything, you can let the body fat in the water go, but no, and then when you're eating, your body knows how to assimilate all that food and like, I'm just like an anabolic rebound. You get off of that. Now, how many pounds of behavior in food will you eat after the Puerto Rico pros are that's the question. I'm trying to talk, you need to, you need to shoot guys, sister, and you know what takes. I'm trying to get a little food challenge going with guy. I know, you know, Jamie, the giant, yeah, Joe Hall. Oh, yeah, he's probably good to eat her. Yeah, yeah, he likes to eat. So I shot him a message. You shot that in the day. He's the whole world of food challenges. One, Morrell won a few of our two, I know. I know. I wish I would have known you back then, but you wouldn't be great. I know it. Fury is eating. He's eating in one of few of our challenges and it was great. Yeah. I ate, I did a food challenge. I was four weeks out from a show. I guess it was last year, her year or two ago. And I was up in New York. I can't remember the name of the place. Wrong, wrong, concoma. Wrong concoma. Yeah, that's out one. Wrong concoma. So I was there and I wanted to do a little simple food challenge. Because one thing I like to do when I travel to new states, I like to get a food challenge in. Because I want to get a food challenge when in every state. There's only been, I think, two people to do it ever. So I looked up the food challenges. And I found a place called Crazy Crapes. They had a three pound curry. And I was like, all right, three pounds. Isn't that bad? I'm on prep. It's kind of clean. Yeah. It's clean. Yeah. Yeah. So I ate that. And then we walked next door because there was an authentic pizza spot. Man, I was like, man, at least need to. This guy's going and get one slice or check out three pound curry. Yeah. Yeah. And listen to this. I went in there and had some buddies with me. And they're like, yeah, it stays for fashion. I eat her. He's number 34 in the world. Number one Kentucky. He said, he'll eat anything you got. What do you got? And the dude was like kind of confused. He was like, really? Yeah, we can make a food challenge. What do you want to do? I was like, I don't know. I was like, can you make a big cow's own? He's like, yeah, I'll make a five pound one. Oh, no way. You ate the five pounder. Yeah. And I was like, oh, man, I don't know if I can do this. And yeah. So he made a cow's own about size of a pillow. Oh, my God. He pounds a food right back to back. And right after that, I said, Art is time for dessert. He made two pounds of donuts. Oh, that's how you had it. So 10 pounds. Yeah. I'm drinking that. I'm not that cold after that. And I was like, well, as I'm doing that. Can you actually sleep at night after the after you have enough that much food? See what's crazy Dave is I sleep better. Really? Big swelled up, Billy. I just lay on my side. Just let it hang. After I would get after a show, I would go and eat like a lot of food. I couldn't even fall asleep that night. I would be so I'd be sweating and just feel it. Don't I get your body is adapted to it. That's crazy. So I'm still working off my post junior national's cheap meal. I had had three pizzas. I had two deep fried moon pies with ice cream on top. Those are phenomenal. What am I eating for? One of my eating prowess is that in college I was a runner. I was really skinny. Like 140 pounds. And I had a pizza eating contest. Each dorm had someone represent them. And they were all fat guys. This is before professional eating was really around. This is in the 80s. Yeah. And I said, and I was always starving myself for bought for and I could eat a lot of food. But I was starving myself to keep my weight down for running. And so I said, you know what? You guys gotta let me represent you. They're like, no, let's give this the fact that they wanted to have the fact that I was. I said, I'm telling you, put I'm gonna win. I ain't two and a half pizzas in five minutes. Which I'm believing they'd never seen anything like that. And I was still eating pizza after the challenge was over. I was enjoying it because I would start literally starving myself every day. All day and then just eat at night because I knew that otherwise I'd gain muscle. You know, I was a, my body was running the build muscle and that's not good for long distance running. Right. So that was, and then I had, I think I also had a food challenge in high school. 230 vanilla wait for us in five minutes. Yes. And that was, and that was my, that was my food and career. That's, say, you know, I didn't miss a meal for, you know, I didn't miss a meal for 10, 15 years. You know, I started working out when I was 12, you know, so I've been going almost 21 hours. And I've been competing. My first show was 2009. And so it's been 12 years since I started competing. And, you know, I didn't miss a meal that whole time. I was the bodybuilder's bodybuilder's bodybuilder's bodybuilder. I'm gonna play you. That's why you're a pro now. Yeah. But what I was saying is I kind of changed, you know, with the weight cap, you know, it wasn't all about muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle. It was kind of, it comes down to a refining process and just working on my proportions. And so I had to, you know, implement a little fast and just to make up for the star days. It works, man. And you did it. Congratulations, Bartley. It's been a pleasure knowing you all these years. And hopefully we'll be continue to be friends. And you got to send me that T-shirt like that shirt. Oh, yeah. I got you wanting for sure. This is, uh, this is a good little tripling for you. So you like it. Congratulations on the pro car. Good luck, uh, and Puerto Rico. I should say good luck in the Bahamas next week at the Puerto Rico Pro. You'll keep us updated for now. They'll we are out of time on day polumba with Bartley Weaver for another installment of RX muscle profile.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Votes, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low-car capped art, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday September 23, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Wednesday and full is officially here, and I can't think of a better way to welcome in my favorite season than kicking my day off right with an extra strong dose of recap Wednesday. We're starting things off today with the Hurricane Pro Championships and the classic physique division. We're Peter Scallow earned the biggest win of his career by taking home the title in both the open and master's divisions. In Bikini, second year pro Julie Lopez turned in the best show performance that landed her career win in numero uno, and at well deserved the Lempia Nod. In the master's Bikini, the dangerous one Abby Guy Tono came in and delivered the goods as she crews to an easy win, and finally wrapping up our coverage here with wins in the over 40 and over 50 master's bodybuilding is the powerful Jeff Wilkinson. Now we're moving on to the great state of Texas where once again, the beautiful city of Dallas played host to the classic physique division at this year's heart of Texas pro and bringing on the top honors was the Ageless Wonder Lorenzo Jones in the master's division, who added another win to his already impressive resume, coming in second was San Antonio native Scott Traut and rounding out the top three was veteran Aaron Sparinberg, who put together the best overall look of his career to close out of their solid top three group. Our final recap from the last weekend came from the other side of the Pacific where we had some competitive action in classic physique and bikini at the Asian Grand Prix pro. In classic physique, Stjong Jung Heng did enough to separate himself from the pack and punches take it to the Olympia by locking up his first career win. A strong performance from Jung Choi helped him secure the runner up spot and closing out the top three with a solid performance was Pungi Lee in the bikini division it was all about high-quung fun who stole the show here by putting together the best overall look of her career. Bola Cio slid into the runner up spot with her strong performance and closing out the top three was local product, St. King. Finally, we're closing out today's show with one last bit of news on the competition front. Following the announcement by NPC and IFVV officials that this year's NPC Junior Nationals were officially being postponed until 2021 in light of the news and PC officials didn't ask that they are still a handful of pro qualifiers left on the schedule this year. In the NPC team universe, the NPC Nationals in December along with the 2020 USA Championships in Amateur Olympia, anyone who's followed the Junior National Circuit over the years, I'm sure this announcement was probably pretty disappointing. But given the circumstances, I think the officials have done a great job behind the scenes trying to make sure that these athletes have opportunities to put themselves out there and compete for a pro card. Even though this announcement is somewhat bittersweet, things do seem to be trending in the right direction, and I'm hopeful by this time next year, things will be back to normal. And we'll have all of these big events back up and running once again. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Palombo Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orange Russell dot com presents Every muscle Leave your watch out Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle Radio I'm Dave Palumba when I'm joined as always by the technician on this August 20th 2018 evening and Chris We are closer and closer to the Olympia I actually booked my plane tickets which is a true sign of commitment on my part because I was having trouble I kept having trouble pulling the trigger on it and I finally did it. I booked the tickets I'm glad Yeah, yeah, so I will be out there Is it true that you're going out a week early I'm going out tomorrow I'm going out a week early because I just want to get away from my kids And then I just want to get settled a little bit there too Well, you know what the funny thing is I gotta just tell people this because this is true I always talk to your guys and you know when I interview the math today when the show is And I'm like we talk about Chris and they're like oh Chris Chris loves this you know every three hours we pose around a clock Chris just sleeps on my couch I said I don't even know why Chris gets ruined He'd much much happier on the couch No, you probably talked to Sergio this week Yeah, I did And Sergio said you know And he did the show he didn't do the show on a whim But he ate and you get the scoop and I talked about last week he ate like the maniac in Chicago And then at some point I forced him to do the show not forced him but I just put pressure on him to do the show And then he goes like well you know I get a two bedroom place for me and you wouldn't tamp on him like Oh God you better look good. I'm thinking in the back of my mind Sure But I did I was like I'm like you know Like a tech you know all right Let me see what you looked like Sergio let me look you know and he really only came together to like the last while And Sergio is really needy anyway, so he likes the fact that every three hours you probably haven't get enough you know I would be like can you leave me the fuck alone let me sleep already you know I don't want to get up every three hours Sergio is like probably right you know setting his alarm You know he's up every the very Chris let's pose come on. Well, no I don't have to get him up But we did joke a lot the whole I don't know if he told you that we we joked around the whole entire time I guess his humor And I think people don't some people don't get his humor, but as long as I get it Yeah, well, we have this you know we have this whole redcon this whole redcon Iron Road to the Olympia series that's starting you know today And I don't know who's going to be up first, but we did a bunch of interviews already and Sergio was great I mean he's he's you know what the funny thing is you guys stated that to bedroom apartment or whatever you say which is completely reminiscent of what you did with Sadrick and in Brazil that year that he must have competitors meeting in Lee Thompson to Squalf item and the same exact thing happened in Tampa I know that's that's what she claims is because he was sick. I mean it told Tim Gardner better, but the bottom I see And that is luckily though luckily there was there was normal people running the show this time around so no one to scroll find him that It was like days you have to all over again. It's a yo-yo barrow would say yeah, it was a huge but it was a blast we had a blast So you interview him who said you got interview these are the guys I'm helping for the show because people asking Jose Come all Zane in the 2012 hope you get all those three Sergio and Rodin in the open Well, Rodin wrote and sent me pictures unsolicited the other day of himself Oh, I was pretty proud of the way he looks. Yeah, which him any and I've never seen Rodin release a picture before the Olympic which is a good sign Because it four weeks out if he's sending me a picture which he said I can definitely put up which we did Ah, you know, he's he's got to be feeling good about himself, which is for once rather than playing catch up and trying to like you know Fix stuff that's broken. He seems to be ahead of schedule Well, I don't know if he's ahead but he's on and you know last year was like a panic prep and You know, and I mean it is what it is, but I would I can't wait for the Olympia because I think he's going to be big and I think he's going to be hard You know people don't talk about the fact that Sean Rodin is not Thirty years old, you know, he's in his 40s, right? I mean, I don't know what how 40 what but he's still improving. It's kind of amazing when you think about it This guy is still getting better, you know, in his 40s and is looking better every year. I'm you know, I'm impressed because guys don't improve it 40s usually Yeah, no, he's he's he's I mean some people can some people can't and why I mean who improves and I mean Dexter's not improving. He might be just as good But he's not improving who improve well, we'll see the day of the show, you know, but I'm saying who improves in their 40s though no one really nowadays They just kind of if they last then they they pretty much maintain what they have, you know, that's true. That's true. So And then so before I forget because I know I'm will forget I got Reagan I already forgot Henry Pierre and Stanimal in the in the in the black So you got it. Yeah, you got a good group of guys up there. Yeah, so I can't be in every room every three hours, but I can be in every six hours Why is Jose when I interviewed him I said Jose where are you staying? He says it the same place every year Well, I thought he was going to say he was staying at the platinum with you, but he's like no, I'm staying in the free room in the in the warlands Yeah, but he stays he upgrades to the to the penthouse. Oh, he does he didn't tell me. So he gets like a 1500 square foot place Oh, I didn't know that I thought he was just like gigantic yeah I thought he was a compromising. I was like, wow, that's pretty impressive. He's staying in the warlands. I think that's pretty you know blue collar I like it. Well, he might be the only one who knows that. I think like Robin Chang get some the free room Right, or AMI whoever gets the free room and then Jose like 365 three days before Calls up and says, you know, I would like to upgrade and they said it's like another hundred dollars upgrade. Oh, that's that's cheap. Yeah That's a good idea actually I'll go hang out in Jose's room. Maybe he's got an extra room in that suite of his Yeah, no, it's a place to ask of the whole time of there. Oh, he's always about all laughs Well anyone out at there has an extra room with the world leans. I'm going to check it through that little place you told me about I think anyone has an extra room with the world leans. Let me know about it. And then what anyone knows the name of the sweets. There's a hotel that is like quote all sweets And it's in the parking lot of the Rolling so tell then email Dave and tell them the name of that hotel. I'll take the regular room and it's anyone's I don't care. I'm not I'm not going I'm just going to work. So I'm not going to a park. I don't care. I'll take whatever the cheap. Well you'd be there with me. So we'll have a glass broadcast. Oh, you'd be great. Yeah. So you started the red con road to the Olympia. Red con one. Yeah. Iron roads to the Olympia was a lot of interviews this week. I got a lot of coming a lot more coming up And we're going to try to get as many good interviews as possible with people to really kind of look no one's promoting the show. You notice this? I mean it's like we don't see any any You know really excitement coming out in the show. Isn't it funny in it funny? I don't know. It's good. The child back to the show. It's bad for the show because I mean you want to get people excited about it, right? You know what it doesn't It's just yeah, there doesn't seem to be a lot of you know who's quote is that. See if you can attribute that quote that that quote is Strongly attributed two years ago to who who was on your show. What was it? Yeah. It doesn't seem to be a lot of excitement building for the Olympia. I remember like verbatim because most of everything he says And yes, you listen to the show is 100% dead on he said well Dave, you know, there's not really a lot of excitement right now for this show. Yeah, I just didn't do the actually it. Well, you know it the show is there's excitement in the fans But it just seems like anyone is promoting like the show very much So I'm going to obviously up every year we try to do it. We promote the hell out of it. We really you know try to get the athletes. I want to get the look these guys have earned and the girls have earned the right To be on that stage, you know wasn't an invite. It wasn't you know choice. It was it was it was the qualification And so they should be at least be acknowledged for that and allow them to like say hey this is how I feel you know going to the Olympia. You know I'm excited or I'm this or I'm that or it means this to me or that to me And you know I just think that you know because a lot think about only the winners of the top top guys are going to really be acknowledged once they're at the show It's you know so before the show I think these these other people that qualify and have names in their industry and that you know Really need to be acknowledged. I'm I'm looking at my computer screen and I see these pen marks all of my computer screen my son was writing with a pen I'm like computer screen. What the hell is this? And I remember he was taking the pen and writing his new thing is he's he likes to write on everything Well come to my house so you can see like the most gorgeous Absolute fabulous lay formally fabulous love the couch just ripped into tatters. Oh real made a strike the couch. How did he do that? I had my oldest son was a picker In other words he would take his fingernail and and just ever since he was one just like pick pick pick pick pick pick pick pick a thing We don't He would scratch things with the thing I got a hole in the drywall in my dad that I've never fixed Wow, and that's the picking and picking yeah, well even to this day I'll scream stop picking you know he'll be like sitting in the car And what is like a nervous habit I don't know what is it a little second dog that digs on you know, oh my god That's what I mean with the ficken hell and it and he you know I got 10,000 holes fixed in apartments and my own house. I got a hole right in the den And then and then leather couch that you would have loved it. You would have loved it And had you seen it when it was in it's a I'm sure it was probably like when you were a bachelor probably was awesome I should donate it to the buy building the Hall of Fame and say it was like I Don't know Someone's couch when they prepped for the USA in 1988 It was Lee Haney's couch. Yeah, Louis Fregnows can open it that he used to open up tuna fish on first Why no, he's still got the same fucking one. He's probably still using it Well, we could get a replica artist tradition. Well, I got to just tell people when you when that I don't know what they were releasing the Jose Raymond interview, but If you guys missed that one you're missing probably one of the best interviews A ball time and the reason is that we don't really talk about the Olympia that much. I mean we do it a little bit, but it's about Jose's life And a lot I guarantee you 99% of you don't know anything about Jose and where he came from and the obstacles that he overcame I didn't and it's an unbelievable story about what his brother Tito and him had to endure growing up And I'm not going to run if you watch the interview Surgey, of course, of course was amazing He's a Hey, if you ever want to have a good grade in Georgia, just have Sergio on because he'll talk about anything this guy He's so honest it was really maybe maybe we can get me I told you I was watching a minute land or my in-laws for a week And I've been watching family feud over and over so maybe we can get for the bodybuilding family feud me you Sergio Jose who else could be catch The whole thing about family feud is it's one family against another so I know but we'll have to have the bodybuilding family Nobody gets like the well, maybe we can family we'd have to get like the RX fan RX muscle family versus the you know I don't know and get to it Somebody's empty family can have black men in their run Harris they can only have two people no would be black men It would be a lease you had a lease and there to right because black they always right don't you usually have like the the the the head of the family And then they have like this wife and then they have like kids And then the married to married like some of you like black men a lease then maybe like Ron Harris and Even though he's a work for the maybe I would want to put Christian Duke in there. Just just to have it like the other you know the Yeah, be good for you know the crazy uncool you know that he'd be like the crazy cookie uncool And so you would be the head on our side They'd have the the Boston Terrier you know bulldog whatever the French bulldog who's got the legs don't work real legs don't work They'd be like the the last person in the crew there and then on our side would be me you Romano Lee priest and Boston Lloyd well wait a minute. What about what about the guy with the exploding arms from a way right out Value we got to you Valentina when there's a Valentina people it might be the craziest rated choice And the first round you know you always have like the first person on the on the panel it would be like black men versus me and they'd be like name a name a name That we have that we use in the industry for shredded Glutius max and muscles Hi Well yeah, I was not right who was it? No, it was like it was a term and I said Stry it in I see someone answer thing I mean I did just like him. I went right there Didn't listen to the question and then we got a crush you'd be the second person and name for a For ripped or excuse me for a super lean glutius max muscles Shredded net number two answer thing thing and end of it. We get the whole thing Next question then it would be like a least verse you name a popular Body building Guru Always my husband Steve Blackman Krissacena Gilles Alice I just got I love her Boston Lloyd Honey Robb honey Ramrod Naming I have to organize the whole thing We could do like could be exclusively body building Triple H to be like the host of the thing you know yeah He could be the over to Dawson Yeah, French kiss all Each Can you imagine when he was to run the show right used to get ready to kiss him on the mouth right he's a make out like crazy with Like high as a kite Was he think he was drunk all the time? Oh half the time. Yeah That without a doubt and they loved them people are ready no one said anything I never heard of like a bad word about that guy right no scandal That was there was before the me two movement Everyone on the show for like 20 years That's how Bob Barker I think we had to get off the show I think he also like had issues with like Making moves on though. Oh, he did yeah, yeah, I think you're right and then what's his name was packed well and a path subject in didn't He had it. I think he had a Relationship with that a way but I don't think that he was sexually harassing any of the women on that. I think about when you work with someone every single day We could also do bodybuilding 20,000 dollar pyramid Yeah, I know a pass word what was that it's 20,000 dollars 20,000 dollars was the same thing right? That's the fun game. Yeah, we have to like and they Scipient eight that's not so long acting Just a testosterone that people use you know you all who likes their rights Clent Fyright TNP Cardio things that burn calories Oh, man Well, we did a And I it was supposed to be an iron rage because we do iron rage every week with Lee prace and Ramada But Boston Lloyd wanted to do this show on veganism and just sick of hearing about all these vegan people So I turned to like a little iron debate Boston Lloyd Lee priest and Ramana Well, it'll be released this week Oh, it's great funny. I'm gonna have that pain in the S The vegan gains now on my fucking case after this freaking thing they abuse Yeah, I'm teed he's gonna be fucking making videos and torture me again I just got rid of him too recently and then Oh, vegan gains because they're gonna be like, you know, he's gonna he has he needs material all the time He's gonna be great material forever What was the deep deep is he ended the impression that we can't be you know you can't be a vegetables build muscle No, you can't there's no if you can't be a big body and there's no successful body But on the history to support there was a true vegan You know, I'm gonna backtrack somebody asked me about vegetable protein today And I had a funny text back. Oh, I deleted him because I got mad at him I had a few clients that are vegan but they're bikini competitors You know, that's fine because you don't need a lot of muscle in bikini But you just can't build muscle, you know, and then one of the greatest things you know, Connelly Stock to Scott Connelly is one of my mentors Um, made a great statement, you know, the mountain gorilla is a vegetarian, you know, it's leaves all day long, right But from the minute it wakes up to the minute it goes to sleep at night, it eats, it eats, it doesn't stop Because it can't, it has to consume such large quantities of these leaves to extract enough protein To be able to sustain itself That it's almost, you know, no human could do that, you know, it would be impossible Why we evolved as, as I'm the voice to be able to eat both, you know, animal protein And plant protein because If, if some of it If, how about this? Because I hate science Uh, if somebody was gonna be a good bodybuilder, he didn't A strict vegetarian diet we would have known about not him but them by now. Simple as that. We would have known about him. It would have been like, did you see Jose Raymond? He looks crazy. Yeah, he doesn't need any protein. What do you mean? He eats tomatoes and he compliments him with kidney beans and rice and... Right. It's just... Well, the oldest story in our industry about vegetarian was everyone always said Andre's calling was a vegetarian and he looked pretty good right and his head was still looking good. And then I interviewed him at the Master's Nascals if you remember one year. And Master's Olympic excuse me when the jerk, I think the first year she held it was something like that. And I asked him, I said, do you or vegetarian? I said, you know, how did you do it? And he's like, oh yeah, he wasn't a vegetarian. He ate fish and daryl. So he just didn't eat red meat. And that's back then in the 80s and 90s. And that's what people call the vegetarian, right? If you didn't eat red meat, you were vegetarian. You know? But veganism is when you don't eat any animal, so we're super, you know, weigh, dairy, eggs. Oh, the guys up the guys are like investment guy. And I said, he asked me what he had to do. What do you think about vegetarianism for building mass? And I said, it's like junk bonds. And he got it. I mean, meaning bonds that are really going to eventually be worth this probably most likely highly, highly, highly, highly, highly, likely not much. Yeah. So he got it. I have this, you know, appreciate this expression. I was like, I was like, expressions. Because I grew up, you know, with my mother's side was Jewish and my dad, obviously, you know, there were Catholic Italians. And the dough is expressed in the tanyning expressions, always being thrown around my father's still like the, always say, fun, go, fun, go. I know, you know what's so funny, Dave? My, my, I used to have that in my house. Are you ready to? Yeah. And one time, I tried it out. And I didn't know anyone was in the house. I had to be like six. And I know exactly in my house where I was standing. And you know, I have a crappy memory in Los Angeles. And I screamed at the top of my lungs. Bungu, I didn't know anyone was in the house. My mother was in the back. I didn't. She came, she came flying out and covered my mouth with a wet cloth. And I didn't even put what was and what it was. Yeah. Fungu, yeah. And then you know, well, the, you had to expressions from the, you know, right by Jewish side. How was I always hearing? So I have a client who's, she's Mexican. She's a woman's physique competitor. And she, she sent me an email. She's like, I'm feeling, let me see if I could be expression right. Gordi Guanga, she said, Gordi Guanga, she kept saying to me. And I said, what does it mean? She's like, chubby and flatty. She's like, I'm not really sure how to translate as English. Because it was like right after her show and she kind of was revounding, you know, and I thought it was pretty funny. Gordi Guanga. Gordi Guanga, I got to get all started using it and wrap up. She looked good by head a little Gordi Guanga in this law. She did like that. Now there was an article that came out recently. It's, I'm so excited to make. Actually, I think it was, what's his name? Dr. Dr. George, who we interviewed. And it's a study they did, which seems to link, Chris, it's pretty crazy. All-Signarist disease and the use of trend below. Are you kidding? Yeah. How many people could they be in the study? I can't believe that they actually were able to do this study. But yeah, they are saying that I'm going to read it right here. Testosteron and its metabolites, estridial and DHT seem to offer protection against Alzheimer's. That's why my new wondered, I guess those are the researchers, what effect trend below has on the formation of beta-amoloid plaques. Now, you get a memory. And people with Alzheimer's, they don't break down this amoloid beta-42. It's called, it's some kind of a protein. And people with Alzheimer's, it accumulates in the brain. And they think that's what it takes away the memory and destroys the brain eventually. And when they do an autopsy on Alzheimer's patients after they die, they find there's a lot of this amoloid plaques in the brain. So what they do is they gave my five injections of tremble on over 48-hour period. Human equivalent of doses the researchers used would be about 0.85 milligrams per kilogram. So the way I figured out is I figured, let's take a 200 kilogram person, right, without the about, 100 kilogram person, which would be about 220 pounds. That would mean they would be taking about 850 milligrams of tremble on. So it's a pretty big dose over the course of 48 hours, but nothing probably Boston White hasn't done already. And according to the researchers, the results, the amoloid beta-42 accumulated in the brains of the male rats, and they showed the, I guess the results of this 48-hour period. Now, obviously this was a short-term study, so who knows if it really has anything to any relevance to anything. And this was in rats too. Yep. The addition of anti-angirgines such as fluidamine, reduced the amoloid beta-42 accumulation. So brain damage caused by tremble and seems to be due to its angogenic effects according to this. A combination of tremble on in DHT, which is 100 to the soft runoff, boost the accumulation of beta amolids, that's I could. So who knows? I don't know. I doubt it's going to stop anyone from taking tremble on, but I don't know. I don't even know if it has any relevance. Because I don't like these short-term studies. How about take a guy who's used tremble in for 10 years and check out his brain? You know what I mean? Let's see if there's any, the problem with beta amolids is it's really hard to see if it's actually in your brain until you actually die and they actually cut your brain open. So you think you do MRI studies to see and stuff like that. I remember my dad was in the hospital probably about five years ago, I think it was maybe even a little less. And they did a CAT scan of his brain and they said that they didn't really see any like Alzheimer's type stuff there. They just sort of shrinkage that was consistent with his age. So he obviously had dementia, but I don't know. It could have just been from getting old. I don't know if he actually had Alzheimer's per se. Yeah, it's funny. I tell my 40-year-old, he won't need to send me the other day. I wrote a few weeks ago. I said, if you don't eat, your brain is going to shrink. And now he keeps saying, he'll ask me if I tell him. He eats something. He said, you always says, pull my brain shrink. They kids listen to everything because they don't eat. Yeah, they kick it. Yeah, that's right. He's exactly as it is. His brain's going to shrink. So I had to go to the more big job of having to go pick up my dad's ashes at the creamatorium. How weird is that when you walk out of it? I have to turn, I know my dad would want me to talk about the absurdity of this because it really is absurd. You walk into this place, you know, they give you this little bag. It's always a nice place because you're paying fortune for this anyway. You give it this bag and it's like walking out and putting my dad in the trunk of my car. It's kind of like ridiculous almost. And you know what the truth is? What the hell knows when you really got in the bag anyway? Well, they give you a bag of dust. It could be anything in there or anyone. Basically, I'm paying to have my dad, you know, basically just, you know, gotten rid of essentially. It's like when you go to, I can't have had to put an animal down in it. That, you know, they say, how do you want to do it with the animal? You can bury it or you can cremated or we can do it. What do I, what am I supposed to do with it? I don't know. I don't know. What do you want me to tell you? Well, separately, you want to do it in a mass cream. What the hell are they right now? What's the person's not there anymore? What's an animal's not there anymore? What's that person? That person is not there. That's talking about, you know, throwing in a garbage bag and just throwing in the freaking trash. You want to hear crazy story about burials? Yeah. My grandmother, from Italy. She was dying. Since I was a kid. She was just a martyr. But she'd always tell me, you know, she was getting ready to die, getting ready to die. She had in her kitchen. She was a receipt for her burial. Oh, she already paid for it. She paid for she prepaid for it. And it was one of these things. You know, she paid for it when she was like 40. Seriously. And she lasted about 80. It's just 93. 93. And she still had to receive. Was the place to open? She still had the receipt. And she was in her kitchen. And, you know, it was like this, you know, rig and were all when you went over there. And she's, I'm not feeling good and if I die. Yes, the receipt. So one has to worry about me. I'm not going to be a burden for anyone. There's it. So she helped everyone out of the way. Yeah, she died. And the funeral director pulled my father aside and said, I gave him a bill. How long do you think it took before my father started to choke the guy? Seriously. Oh, really? Like two seconds. That he had the audacity to, you know, pull over. You know, because he thought it was, you know, quote, not the right time. But two, that he should know that, which I was actually an agreement that she had prepaid. Now, did they try to hit him with, like, actually, your father get extra drugs? No, no, no, once once a guy almost got choked to death. That was the end of it, yeah. That was the end of it. It would have been complimentary even if he had never paid. I'm sure. Very skid. To almost, you know, almost in just own grades. Yeah. So I decided I was going to go every year they have, like, this big reptile breeder show and they're toe in a Florida. And I haven't gone out to a show in a while because of, you know, the kids and everything like that. And it's just I can't go flying in place. So last year I wanted to go, but I had my shoulder surgery so I couldn't drive. And so, Amanda said, yeah, I can go to the day. So I took a Tyler, the producer, and we did the O'Cammer. And I went in and interviewed people. It was like a four hour drive. And so I got up really early. I had like three hours. I was just like, and I said, you know what, I got a drink coffee because I'm not full I'm sleeping at the wheel. You know what I mean? It's the drug. Except the bull. And I don't do any stimulants. When you don't do stimulants in your drink coffee, I had one cup. You feel like you're on, you know, you're on, yeah, you feel like you're like on the greatest speed of all time. It works so well when you don't use it. So I was like, it was like instantaneously not tired anymore. And I did the same. Another cup on the way back. And it was phenomenal. I was like, so finally when I got back, obviously, I still had answer emails. I got back about eating clock at night. Because it was four hours there, four hours back. And we stayed for about four hours. So I get back and I'm go to sleep maybe two in the morning. I'm answering emails and I don't even know what I'm writing anymore. You know how when you get to that, you that level of tired. You're like almost like sleep while you're awake. You're dreaming, but you're not really asleep yet. So I'm like, I gotta go to sleep. So I go to sleep and I have like the, yeah, I slept like maybe six, six hours, which is five or six hours, which is not probably out of six hours, which is more than I've had, you know, in like in probably six months. And I felt so, I felt so alert the whole day. I was like, wow, I actually feel like I actually, I'm my memory was better and everything. I'm like, maybe I feel like I'm turning it to my dad, because I'm not sleeping at all. And I really believe that to be true because, you know, they say sleep is really necessary to solidify memory. So if you don't sleep, all the memories that you're getting, that you're not making them permanent memories of your brain actually. It's pretty interesting when you think about it. Yeah, it's fascinating. And I'm sure it's true, which is probably why I have no memory. Yes, absolutely. You never sleep. Yeah, you haven't slept for 20 years, probably. What about, um, do you sleep better when you're awake from your family? Oh, absolutely. Yeah. You better cut the tape there so your family don't hear it. Yeah, yeah, probably. No, it's true though. It's true, right? When you're like, I went down to the camper and I got no sleep on top of those sleep and I felt completely rested from that trip. Yeah. Because I was away from like, you know, like, could, you know, chaos of chaos. You don't want to get the best sleep of my entire life. When I, when I, when I flew to Australia, I knew you didn't say that. I slept for 17 hours. I just kept taking it's anx. I woke up when I got there. I was so alert. I was like, I felt like I was like, Albert Einstein. I was so smart. I felt so row rested, you know. Now obviously, sleep is not that good because you're sitting in a seat. But when, if you, you don't even have the quality of sleep. Yeah, yeah. 17 hours of sleep, you're going to be fucking rested no matter what. Exactly. Exactly. Study published in the British medical journal. I feel like we're going to have a British medical journal of January 2012 has concluded that age-related cognitive decline begins much earlier than expected by our mid-40s. Oh, I totally believe that. Even more distressing this decline can progress in very unpredictable rates. Scientists have identified that a seat of calling, a keen or a transmitter, is responsible for forming new connections and strengthening neural pathways in the brain. In other words, it keeps your mind sharp. However, persistently, low levels of this key neurotransmitter places you're at risk. So we've got to try to boost our acetyl-colym levels. How do you do that? I'm progressing on the article here. Can I just take a supplement? Yes, that's what I'm looking for here. I think I thought even taking a little story left for me was good for acetyl-colymboosting. I got those people looking, I'm getting reading. Unfortunately most of us levels of acetyl-colym decrease as we age, especially more rapidly after 45. You and I are screwed, Chris. We're really in big trouble. Oh my god. What does it say here? Let me say. I take you guys what's up, man. Helps. I used to know everything when it came to that stuff, but I told you I gave up on science. I'm serious. Chris doesn't know anything. Right? Is that what people say? Chris doesn't know anything. Yeah, they do say that. They say he's not a science guy and I say, no, I'm not. Right? I'm looking for the, Oh, you know what, yeah, you know what it was? It was a big one in Ginko, Belova. That was a big, that's been big for years, right? Is that still big? What they're saying increases your acetyl-colymboosts. Alpha GPC, Lions name, or Ginko, Belova, Couparizing. Oh, that's one of the ingredients I'm thinking about putting in my new neuralized form. Right there. Hmm. I've been taking lately the only supplement of taking is turmeric. Two marks good for reducing inflammation. Yeah, very good. I think this is inflammation in the brain and helps remember. Oh, it does. I'm taking that, too. The good thing is I'm remembering to take it. Actually, I'm taking coke here, man. I think it has not the same thing. Yeah, this is the same thing. Yeah. It's crazy. It's crazy when you hit a certain age, you don't even care about your body. You might just want your brain to keep working. You're like, alright, you know what my body has failed. Let's just keep the brain working. Let's keep, let's just make sure my brain keeps working for the next 50 years. Well, I'm alive. That's the most important. Freshhold, you lowering the bar. Pretty soon people will be injecting stem cells into their brain. And try to regenerate stuff. Of course. Speaking of which, John Lindsay and his crew, all of the world. They did a show in Ireland's here. They did a show in Brazil. It was at last week of the week before that. Now they are in Vietnam this weekend. This past weekend. They did a pro-men's physique showing Vietnam. And Mardi Shara thought from Marina Del Reykjav, 21. Congratulations. It's good. We were just talking about, we should see more USA guys going out to. Yeah, you did say that. You can see these, these shows in weird places. Yeah, yeah, they were. No, someone, yeah, someone I'm helping first show. I think he could have won a few of these shows. I mean, he didn't have the money to really travel to. Right. But these are remember when they can qualify as a for next year, then after this year's Olympia. Second place was Mohammed Kashnaki from Iran. I believe the Kamali was helping this guy. And Juan Farrow from Spain and Mr. You know, it's funny. Kamali's been sending me all these text messages. Let me pull up. He's got some guys. He's been helping it really pretty frequently. Good. I got to tell you. Or he doesn't, he's not helping the mob. He at least knows these guys from around these. It's a shame. It's a shame these guys can't come over and compete in the US because there's a lot of freaking good Iranian guys. You know, if I can remember Jay's quote by saying, who said on your show, you know, there's not a lot of hype running into this year's Olympia. Kamali did say these guys are a dime. It doesn't over there. I was there. Yeah. Right. You know, they're all doing these, the European tour. These guys, that's what they're waiting for now. So that's like they're Olympia. You know, they're doing the Prague show. So they're doing all the overseas shows because they can, they can be making other, I guess. Isn't it funny that we, we boycott all these people in the R allies, let them all into the country? It's pretty funny. Unbelievable. Well, congratulations to John Lindsay and this grum. It's kind of cool to know that we're spread all over the place now. John's cool because what John does is he goes in the whole museum to show us all the place, which is why you make your money. Then he holds one division pro show. Usually a bikini remains physique. Just to kind of showcase the pro division at the show. Because it's, it's expensive to hold the pro division because you have to surprise money out, you know, and you're not getting an application fee from these guys. So rather than hold 15 different visions, he holds one at the studio shows. Get the people of Vietnam say, hey, here's a pro athletes on stage. And but the amateur show is what really what you're nurturing because that's we make your money and that's, you know, that's, hey, spread the word, so to speak. So I thought it was, there was a good idea. And I never did. I don't know how to do it. When you like to go to Vietnam? I wouldn't mind going there. Yeah, but the food is probably good. I always think about whatever I decide where I'm going to go. I always think about the food. What's the food? It could be like. I think it's nice to you. Probably like all the snakes over there too. Oh, yeah, yeah, definitely you'll hurt me. That's for sure. Now, I'm trying to think, did we, did we like the food and prog or not when we went there? Um, no. Prog had, uh, crab meat food. Yeah, we can get, we can get a droid of prey that's coming on their food. If we could on a sore and he did not like pro. Yeah. Um, no, we didn't like the food. We were, we were intrigued. I wasn't treated very nice and pro. You remember? Well, they didn't get you. I just did. They wanted to ban you from the shower, right? I think they did. Well, they, the first year I got there. I remember I, I, we flew in there. Yeah, I got there. They like, they try to not give me a pet. Yeah, they try not to give you press passes. Yeah, because the next time I think they tried to ban me from our explosive, I'm just, he was Sean Road. Right. Yeah, yeah, that's right. So I go there. I asked for press passes and like, okay, I get there. They're like, oh, we know how many press passes. We don't know what you're talking about. Like, um, guys, um, I flew from New York to Prague. I have an email saying I have press passes. You think I'm really going to get on an airplane if I don't have press passes. And they were still pretending like, oh, we can't find it. I'm like, okay, luckily at the time, you know. Oh, good. Make one. Make one up. Right. It's not, it's not. I made a phone call. I was taking care of. But, uh, and then the following year, I requested them in that, and they didn't, they refused them or something like that. They said, well, we don't want to give them to you. I'm like, all right, right. So you already going there with, like I said, with Road and Road and how to take it from you. And then they try to tell you, you can't come in right. So I'm showing you. Like, like, you're like, uh, I'm not here to cover it for anyone. Yeah. Unbelievable. These places. Never, never ceases to make me. No, so where was the best food that we went to? This is a question. I'm going to be honest with you. I only spent one day there, but because I had to come back early because I tore my quibba. I had some good food in India. Now, I wasn't eating the native food. I was eating the hotel food, but the hotel food was authentic Indian food, but it was good quality Indian food. Mm-hmm. I don't, well, how do we, will you there? Did you go to India? Sure, I don't know. No, I don't. They had this, this is like right up your alley. 12 midnight. They opened this, like buffet or you can eat buffet for the, everyone. It's 12 midnight. Now, work great because I got there about 11 o'clock at night the first day. So I had this great buffet at midnight. I'm like, oh, this is fucking awesome. What a hotel is a freaking buffet. It was the greatest buffet of all time with the greatest foods it, like you've never seen on a regular basis. Yeah. And show it to chicken. Yeah. Yeah. So then I got up the next morning and then I went, Aaron and I went. I was going to be right there. And Sanger and we went out and did all this sight seeing. And then I went to the restaurant. And I went, I was going to go there. And Sanger and we went out and did all this sight seeing. And bought a bunch of stuff. Got back around five o'clock. I said, I'm going to go to the gym, which was the biggest mistake in my life. Aaron said, I'm going to go drink alcohol vodka. I'm like, yeah, see me. Yeah. He was so awesome. I should've gone and drank alcohol. I've got. I've still, I'd be to this day. What is it? Six years now later. I'm still nursing a torn cloth. So it's still not fixed. But as my wife pointed out, I would never have married my wife. So it all worked out for the best. All right. It was in the cards. See? I sacrificed my quad and I went up a beautiful wife and two wonderful kids. So it all, see it. It is a greater picture that we don't see sometimes because we're our heads are in the sand. But if we can only step outside of our body and look from a distance, we probably see the wisdom and everything that happens in our life. Well, it was hard to do. People are so busy with their phones. I'm serious. True. And it's true. I will definitely admit to being a victim of that myself. And for you know what the problem is? I'm a new two where slaves are our phone because it's part of our business. I know what I turn my off. You can't tell. You have a hundred million clients who text you all the time. I don't have that many one and then you can't tell. Yes, you do. Your clients all text you nonstop. I know they do. I know, but I text them like I turn my phone at like I tried turning on like three different times during the day. You know like seven to seven to nine. I don't believe it. I don't believe. Don't believe Cresse is mine. I'm just trying to get you in trouble with them. I know. I'm in a. I never answer my tone. In your your a serial text or tip like I try to just embarrass the answer to text message. Like I I'm the I'm the most succinct text you'll ever meet. You know, I never give too much information on text. No, it it irritates me sometimes when I give too many texts. But I I don't mind quick text and quick questions because that that can answer quickly. But when you know the over textures out there who just these guys are just in girls who just can't. Right what they want they have to write like 40 paragraphs. You know what? You got to learn to sink we've gone through this before you got to succinctly text. All right, there was another show also another John Lindsay show. Actually was just a John Lindsay show. Probably was. Let me say. Maybe not. Was the Pacific USA championships. Probecene. He. That was in San Diego, California. And Norman Oshrie wins congratulations and arm. She's she always manages to get away every single year. I don't know she doesn't it's pretty impressive. She's not a free to compete. That's why a lot of these top Olympic competitors whether be bikini or fitness or be. Women's physique or men's open or whatever. A lot of people once they hit the Olympia level that top six Olympia level. They don't compete that much anymore. She's always competing. That's why she always gets away every year. I think that more people need to compete. Speaking of competing, you know, I watched my wife's obviously as a form of gymnast. We were watching the US national women's gymnastics championships. And you know, Simone Biles, who's the, Rain and Gold, the gold medal, certainly Olympics there. She's like, I'll come back. She had taken off a year or two or whatever. I don't think she had done any very year. She came back and now she looks like a little body builder. You know, because she's maturing. She's in her 20s now and her physique is coming to its own. And she destroyed everyone. She's like the Ronnie Coleman of like women's gymnastics. Like no one can beat this girl. Like she can make mistakes. It doesn't even matter because the difficulty level for routines are so high that she still beats everyone by like, I think she won by the biggest margin ever or something like that in the history of the event. And I love watching. Don't you love to watch just prodigies like genetically. Oh yeah. It's like a Michael Jordan of gymnastics. Like people like that don't come around every often. When you watch them, it's just like wow, you know. People humans, there are people out there that are just meant to do certain things. And she's meant to be a gymnast. It's just incredible. Speaking of, Porta Chase, Tiger Woods, I think, is in the running for like a, a win this week. Or what happened with that? Oh, I don't know. We did a look it up. The thing I wanted to bring up about the gymnastics is, you know, you see all these. You know, you see all these these people do these gymnastics, you know, these women in gymnastics, and everything like that. And then they retire, right? And a lot of them teach gymnastics so they go on to try to do other stuff. But there's got to be a pretty big amount of these ladies and maybe the women's, the women's, they don't even make it to the Olympic level. They don't know what to do themselves after gymnastics. I don't know why they don't go into fitness competitions. Our fitness, the end of the sport is pretty sparse. It's not this good physique, but the talent pool in terms of running doing routines is not that good. This is like a perfect, you know, breeding round for awesome fitness competitors of the future. Let's get these ex-gimns to do this stuff. Because they want to go away the money is. Yeah, but you know what, most not everyone's in the money. In other words, the top 10 girls in the world may be make money. What about the other 600,000 that are out there that, you know, that are good, but they're just not good enough at the Olympic level. They would destroy it. Most of these girls would crush it in fitness competitions. Yeah. So I think we need to start doing some recruiting. And I say, we, I mean, the people that run the organization, not me. And I'm not many times who recruit. But there would be a good idea. Because it would give these girls a lot of these girls get heavy after they stop competing too, because they just don't eat right. Imagine transitioning from gymnastics, elite level gymnastics, into fitness, because now you're going to learn how to eat properly. You're going to work on your physique. You already got the skill set to do the routine. And it gives you the ability to showcase it. And another venue where people will really, really appreciate it. You know, and you could obviously, I think would extend your career. Because most gymnasts are done by the time that one. Yes, sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You need a course, kind of like the guru course. Yeah. You need a. How to transition from gymnastics. Well, I'm putting the onus on the former fitness Olympic champions, like the Della Garcia's and the oxonic or sheenas and the Jenny, the Jennifer Hendashot and all those Suzy cars. Let all these former champions start to go, they're all former gymnast anyway. Let them go and talk to these gymnastics schools and get some of these girls. And let's get a mid to fitness routine. Man, it would revitalize that whole edge of the sport. And you know what? For the promoters out there who are wondering if it's worth it. You guys are going to make more money because you can get more applications. So it's 100% worth it for everyone to do it. And I pick it up. Don't when you think of like the fitness Olympia, like up. You know, if you have a lot, you know, gymness that we're actually stars into the gymnastics world that are now. It would it would only up the game. Yeah. Yeah. No, it would be, it would be cool. It would up the Ivy League game way. Yeah. You get way more coverage too because. Well, they would guess what, Mary Lou Redd. They would be complaining to their given money to the figure girls. Girls and girls and to the two 12s. Right. Mary Lou Redd. You picking the the most well, the Olga Corbett. Yeah. Yeah. How about a, or a naughty company. Nadiya, come in each. I just sorry. I didn't agree with that. Yes. She married Bart, Bart Conners. I think was he's, he was an Olympic goldmaster. Imagine their kids, homie, macro. I did a diet for her and golds like probably 30 years ago. Nadiya coming each. Yeah. I did it. And some golds she might forget. What she was trying to figure out what to do. She moved to LA. And she was trying to do like movies or something. Right. And she was like, it's not heavy, but heavy year. And whoever adds partners were in golds because that gave me that free office. Right. They brought her in and said, you know, put together a diet for her. That was I forget. She might have been with Bart Conner at the time. She had some people with her, you know, she had like a little small on to rise. How did it be fun? Was it? Yeah. Was that right after she defected? I can't remember when it, you know, it had to be like, I'll tell you the, I was 89. I'm saying that's, that's, that's, was that before after the wall came down. And that that was probably before it, right? It was what you were. Reagan was president from what 80 to 88. Yeah. I don't know if that's maybe because that's maybe to come down. Hmm. She must have been here a while. Tire Woods almost won the British Open. He didn't win the loss. But that saying that now he's like, game is back to where it was. So maybe he'll the next time he goes out there and plays. He was was was Valentina was a Valentino who had the best summary of what happened to Tiger Woods. His, his game lost when he stopped chasing chicks around all over the country. It's serious. He said Valentino made some analysis. He said, is it, I think it was Greg. Yeah. He said, isn't it coincidental or because might have been remodel. That the time it came out that he was like running around with hookers and, you know, high again call girls like every night of the week. Like the minute that came to a stop, his golf came suffered. I've come sure that's something. You can literally time it to the, you know, to like that incident. I believe it. And I think whoever was Romano or you, maybe it was, find out from Valentino. So see if he can, you know, Recomment on that. It was definitely, yeah, it was definitely. He said it was the endorphins, you know, you get these endorphins going and, you know, get some, some type of it made a hundred percent sense. Now, well, he was, he had a rembourse of Tiger Woods. It was, it was injured too. That's what it would have. He had a lot of injuries. Yeah. He had a re-learn his whole swing because his injuries. And now you imagine you have a swing your whole life. That's it. And then you have to redo it for your old. Yeah. I remember seeing him Dave on the, on the Mike Douglas show, if you remember, then Mike Douglas show. Yeah. I had to bend the mean 10 or something, 14. His father brought him out and Harry was, you know, they, was sitting in all the months. That's crazy. Yeah. Who would have thought? I would like you to get on the show. Serena Williams father. Yeah. He would be good interview, right? Oh, he'd be, he'd hit one up Sergio and Jose together. Imagine that the balls of that guy. Yeah. Because he, I'm going to teach Mike kids how to be play tennis. Even though they didn't, I don't know anything about tennis. I just read a book. Yep. That's it. And he did all these cookie little drills that nobody used to do in the day. And, you know, he had all kinds of crazy condition and drills that he came up with. He's kind of like, he's kind of like the Charles Glass of love. Yeah. He was the angle of the tennis. Well, you know, he come up with, you know, cookie things that people say that doesn't work, but it worked for it worked. He would make him like throw tennis rackets over the, over the top of the gates, you know. Yeah. To the whole time. And then, and then, and then finally, you know, when he finally relinquished, and they hired like the premier, the eminent greatest coach of all time, the girls went back to the father. Oh, they did. Yeah. They're like, well, you know, he's not pushing us like I father. Because the father was like, man, we got to make fun of Mike and Mike doing this. Yeah. Yeah. None of this like, like, enlighten it. Wait, we're going to work, man. We're going to sweat. We're not, we're not playing indoor tennis. We're playing out to our tennis. It's 100 degree heat. Oh, boy. That'll get you, and shave. It's kind of like the, yeah. You girls have a little bit too much fat in your ass. We're going to play in 100 degree heat fucking for four hours a day. You'll lose it. Don't worry about it. Oh, it's, it's, I mean, I'm sure, right? The girls have, quote, good genetics, but there's something to be said for, his crazy geniusness. Yeah. Remember when we were talking about the last show, I think it was the, um, we were trying to figure out what that pitch was. Remember the pitch was throughout where it's like, I saw up in the air. Yeah. The, the, the knuckle ball I said, It wasn't a knuckle ball pitch. It was like a loft like an, and then, a big, big looping pitch that these, these, these, some of these pitches through. It was like a couple people. It was like a blupping knuckle. Yeah. So, I, so one of our listeners. Listen up, so to Fred Flintstone, when Fred, you threw a clip like, Yeah. Well, whatever, one of our listeners sent me the, uh, a Wikipedia page that was, it was, it was showcases this. It's called the, it was called the Fist pitch. Uh, it's a very low speed junk pitch they call it. The delivery of the pitch has, the delivery from the pitch has a very low velocity. And usually catch catches the, a hit or off guard. Its invention is attributed to rip, rip C well of the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1940s. Is there any video of it? Oh, yeah. I did, you can go on YouTube and check it out. Please send me the video of it. Yeah. The, the, the, the slow velocity. Yeah. Yeah. How do you throw a slow velocity pitch? It's thrown on overhand like most pitches, but characterized by a high unusual, arching trajectory. The corresponding slow velocity bears more resemblance to a slow pitch. Softball delivery than traditional baseball pitch. It's considered a trick pitch because in comparison to normal baseball pitches, which run around 70 to 100 miles per hour. An at this pitch appears to move in a slow, three miles per hour less. Sometimes it goes 40 miles per hour. For, you know, I, I can imagine pretty odd. You're up against the guy throwing 90 mile in all pitches, and then they bring in someone else who's throwing half that speed. Yeah, you wouldn't even know what, right? Here's a good, here's a good little tidbit on the helping. After appearing in over 300 Major League games, rip C well. He's the guy I'm in that to the pitch. He gave up only one career home run of the office pitch, and it was to Ted Williams at the 1946 All-Star game. Williams challenged C well to throw the office pitch at him. C well obliged and Williams fouled off the pitch. However, C well then announced that he would be, he was going to throw the pitch again, and there's a total of them for his good at it. And Williams clobbered it for a home run. Crazy. I think, I think, when the scribes and mechanics of the pitch and why he was able to succeed where others had failed, Williams remarked, this is the way asking Ted Williams how he hit it. He's like a little girl hit hit that pitch. But succeed where other failed, we're home. A little girl hit that pitch, but you had to provide all the power yourself. Years later, however, Williams admitted that he had been running towards the pitch to the pitchesman as he hit the ball, and in other words, he used his momentum. And the photograph revealed that he wasn't in fact a few feet in front of the batter's box when he made contact. Under rule 606, a special baseball roll. He pulled the fill he's. Yeah, a batter is right. You can add a lot to step out of the batter's box, so you technically was illegal. But the pitch, you can't hit the ball of the fence, because there's not enough momentum on the ball. Yeah, there's not, yeah, that's right. There's not enough speed coming in, but how do we get talk to all because somebody, because Sid is a softball. Right, we say we threw the offense, but Bob too, explain through that through it also, fill Negro through it a little bit. Well, I said don't you, right? I last week I did say anything. Yeah, he threw it a couple times. He didn't use a lot though. He was an echo ball of it. Yeah. Pedro Bourbon through the pitch. So you get Pedro, bro, you know the body of the Pedro Bourbon. The little freak, freak is like, he posted on his social media recently that he had a good, he was in kidney failure and his girlfriend gave him a kidney. Yeah, I saw, you know what I saw? I met him out in China, gold. The one day that I went out there to see Roden last year, when Roden was prepping for the Arnold. And I met him out in China, golds, and he told me that story. It was like, he's a great guy, man. You know what the weird thing is? I find it so fascinating that, you know, think about how hard it is to find a match for an organ. His girlfriend's a perfect match for him. Don longs wife was a perfect match for his kid. No, it was crazy. It's like, you're drawn to people like, you can write it. You, you blasted out in Indian, India, my wife. True, but it wasn't, it wasn't such a quasi-infector, but there it is. Black men said you over the other company, the kidney, right? Yeah, we'll settle in the wrong world. Yeah, click. They even look for organs for days. No one gets less, nothing. Oh, man. That's funny. Other nicknames for the F.S. pitch include the balloon ball, the blooper ball, the gondola, the parachute, the rainbow pitch distinct from the rainbow curve, gravity curve, the Monte Brewster. I reference to the titular character in Brewster's millions. Remember that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And the bugs bunny curve, I reference to the 1946 bug's bunny cartoon, baseball bugs, which several bad as an eros swing three times at each pitch before the ball reaches the plate. Remember that? I remember it. I said it was Fred's limestone. Did he ever say it was the bug bug bunny? Yes, it was bug bug bunny. Yeah. This is a Wikipedia great. You can find everything online. It's amazing. I love it. I looked at Wikipedia and they confirmed that you mean you were going around the earth looking for kidneys and lipisperies. That's great. I love Wikipedia. The only more competing page is that accurate is mine. Because I have people who keep sabotaging them. Well, that's why I'm just why I'm bringing up the phone minutes of us running around because that would be something on it, right? Yeah. And you used to from 19 2000 and through 2014, Chris Oceito and Dave traveled to Brazil, Australia, you know, all the Eastern European countries looking for a kidney and were and heart for day and that's where Chris learned to throw the F.S. pitch. Yes. Which he then taught the Sid Ferrokey who used to know his softball leg and one of the championship I have and we was the best of the R.A. and the league. He never ends Chris and ever. Maybe maybe we could have a softball team and we could get Boston on it. Me on it. You want it Romano. We're all beat up. We could play like, you know, chair. I think even Sid's team could be that's probably. Sid's team could be. So he can be the star by team, right? It'd be the pitcher. Well, if he knows the, I'll throw that pitch. Nobody can hit it. We can have a good defense. You know, one of the things that drove me crazy about my shot bad shoulders is that I always hit to myself. I want to, you know, sucks that I have these terrible shoulders. I'm never going to be able to like throw a football or baseball my son and this is before I even had any kids. I was already planning this. I'm like, this, that's all I want to be able to do. You know, I don't even care if I can lift weights. I just want to be able to throw, you know, baseball and catch from my son. So I get my left shoulder done, right? And I'm right, right? So I can't really, I can actually do the throwing motion with my left arm, but I have no coordination, of course. But I can catch a ball. I don't have any pain in my left shoulder. So now I'm thinking, you know, because the next, over the next couple of months I got to get this right shoulder done. We're just trying to figure out the right time. I'm like, I might actually be able to throw a baseball at some point in the future, which is, which is, which is an amazing thing, which, a matter of fact, I was actually pitching with my right. My right arm is, is, is brutally painful to shoulder, and I wanted to, my wife said, you don't have a throat of a pitch. I'm like, I'm telling you, I'm not a pitcher, based on my father was a catcher at a very high level. When he was, when I was a kid, he used to have me pitch to him. She said, you don't remember that pitch. I'm like, I could pitch. Yeah. But I was pitching pine cones into my canal, my backyard there into the river at the time of my house. I was brutally painful, but I wanted to just prove to her, I can throw the ball, you know, I could throw it. So even through the pain, I grit and barred it, and I threw these pine cones. I threw like about five or six pitches. My son was loving it. And she's like, what do you can pitch? So, that's my goal to get my shoulder. That took a pitch to my son and throw a football to him. Overhand, as opposed to underhand. Yeah. It's funny. I just just throw a bite. I just throw through a neighborhood in Maine. And I saw on this one street, three different fathers playing past with their sons. You don't see that much anymore. No, you don't. I want to be able to do that. You know, my dad did that with me, but my dad was very involved when I was younger, you know, with sports. He didn't really understand soccer too much, because he never played it. But he went to all my games, but he listened to police to throw the football in the back. It's funny. We throw a football in the backyard together. We throw baseball in the play and he those sports. Because I found that later they didn't want me involved in them. Like my mother, you know, the Jewish side didn't want me involved. It's all people. It's all people. Well, you know, as I hit an eye injury when I was a kid. So they didn't want me to like risk, you know, injuring the other eye. So they steered me out of the sports. So I wanted to play soccer and running, you know. Dungeons and dragons and running. Playing to the Dungeons and Dragons is my own device. That was my fantasy escape, you know, thing before they had. If they would have really good video games back then I probably would have been playing video games probably all the time. But I think the private Dungeons and Dragons was better. Because at least it was a social type thing where you're actually involved in involved with kids. Today, no one even talks to each other. You play online, right? And you're talking through headsets to people that are in the middle. We hate it. So we took our, I didn't introduce it. We took our as a way from our kids. I think it's a good idea. I'm sure I won't be able to do it. No, no, because they do this. They say our friends and I, you know, so and so gets to play and, you know, so and so says that you must be a strict parent. I think, you know, none of it bothers me. Guys, you're not playing those games. You know what the sad point for Chris is? Well, yeah, nowadays you could actually make a living from playing video games. They tell me that to, they tell me that. They're right. You could be, you could, they might be, they could be the next Ronnie Coleman of the video game world for all you know. I thought this a lot of ways I tell them to make a living. I think, yeah, I think you, you know, when you're young, you have to be exposed to everything. I think the best decision I ever made was going to a liberal arts college where they make you take everything. Yeah. I can't. I can't. The apology. It took history. I took art. I took, I, it's even took an acting class. You know, you got to be exposed to everything because who the hell? You don't even know what you're, what you really like. How could you know what you really like in, in 19 years old? You're, you might think you know what you like, but you might find out that you actually liked something you didn't even know about it. I was a runner in college. I never thought I would be a professional bodybuilder or, you know, made it. I was exposed to that at school, you know, and then, you know, people working out and I'm like, I'm going to try this too. So you never know where you're going. You know, you got to keep an open mind. Sometimes it's not good to just say, okay, I'm six years old. I know I'm going to be, I'm going to be a neurosurgeon when I get older and nothing's going to stop me. I'm not going to have any other interests told that. You know, because that's what I think is right. You got to keep an open mind because you never know where you're going to wind up. And the funny thing is you never know what skills you're going to be using later in life. Like, I went to medical school and then I laughed and I'm like, thinking, you know, most people would take, well, that's a way, what a waste. You'll never use those skills again, right? Well, I used them my whole life, those skills, all the little things I learned there. I'm still using. I still have that information in my head. And I see this happen all the time. I see people who, you know, were worked with their parents, their dad for like 25 summers. You know, it's 20 summers before they went to college. You know, doing laying brick, picking what a waste of fucking time other than the fact that they're going to make up some money. And then later in life, they wind up, you know, becoming, you know, doing very well financially in themselves. They wind up building their own house or something like that, you know what I mean? Well, just the discipline of brick laying. Yeah, no. I don't think anything's wasted really in this life. I think I don't think there's no such thing as unless you become a drug addict, you know, do anything. And then that case, you're probably not going to do very well. Unless you become a drug council when they're trying to get up. Well, I took the video games. We took the video games away from the 14 year old and the 13 year old has been writing a book. And it's like riveting. Wow. Riveting. And he's doing it by hand. I can't wait to read the next chapter. And that's not because, I mean, I'm not one of these people. What's it about? It's about a kid who grows up in a broken household. And I'm thinking, is this based on a real story or something? Well, you're not a broken household. But where's he coming up with all this information from? He probably steals it from like movies. He's seen it. He's an avid reader. So, you know, when you read, you just automatically incorporate that stuff. Interesting. And it's good. You like it? Oh, it's unbelievable. I'm the first. I always tell my kids like, you guys. Okay, you know, do you want to quit basketball because you're not really good. So it's not like, you know what I mean? That I'm stroking their egos. Are you, is it like a rocky type story? Um, it's, it's, it's a sad story to start out with. He's on like, maybe chapter four. He's only written maybe 60 people. There's a nowhere it's going or is he kind of just writing as it goes? Um, he knows where it's going. Okay, that's good. That's smart. I'm very, very, very, very observant. So I wonder, I want to read it too. To be able to dance on around. I'm not talking about my dad died. He would, my dad used to love to do that stuff. Read other people's stuff and critique it and give him. But, but he's a perfectionist. And now he's bothered because he realizes there's so much more detail he could be put in there. If he was writing a lot of computer because it's been writing it by hand. And I don't know if it's not copying it. That's all. Yeah. I said the lady who want, wrote Harry Potter stuff. Wrote all of it by hand. My dad, you know, my dad's real. I've seen him give people advice with writing. He would be like, you know, when he would tell you something, there's no rules. Write what you want. Don't listen to what other people tell you. Just write. To good, good advice. He's like, don't, don't listen to people saying you can't do this. You can't do that. You do what you want. Hey. It's tremendous advice. Yeah. Don't let people tell you after write on the computer. You write it if you're doing good and you have good, you have a good feeling for what you're doing when you're handwriting it. You handwriting it, you handwriting it. You handwriting it. You know, Shakespeare hand wrote is all the, all the old things he did. It's not even using that. There was no typewriter's back. Yeah. That's all. That's all I said. Like that said Shakespeare hand wrote everything. It said, but that there was no typewriter. He's like, I don't want to hear this crap. Yeah. No, that's just stupid details. I said, what I want to hear. He hand wrote it. So, can you write? I can't get out of here. That's probably what Kodi said. I remember going down that I wrote that I wrote about backing up. Because I ever wrote it like that. Like, old table One algum snap there's somewhere I gonna write, there's something we just had not been writing live on. My dad used to write when he would write. He had the tie- opera you know he had like the old typo who said, The heck of me that used to like your typewriter because the too fast moves too fast. I said too fast. What do you mean too fast? I need to, I like the touch type. That's what used to go. Touch type. I kind of feel those keys. I try to make it. It's like me and I don't, I remember how long I had the black break because I was afraid to text my phone. I like to feel the keys. Yeah, the great thing about the black break is whether you can, you can text people without looking at the keys because you can feel them. Yeah. I knew that the keypad. It wasn't even a real keypad. It was just a number pad that had like certain letters on it and you just had to know which ones to use and you didn't have to look at it. Now the funny thing is my, I'm like, when my dad would like leave his little, he had a little study room and I would go down there and sneak down there sometimes when I was a kid and I had to type right there and I would take a piece of typing paper and I'd roll it into, you know, put it into the machine and I'd start trying to type. And the key seriously, and I was a strong kid to get those keys. To fucking strike that piece of paper. I had to whack them, you know, as hard as I could. And of course, when you did that, you would invariably hit two keys at the same time and then they would get stuck. Because it was like, it's almost impossible to explain the people as you've ever seen a type bread. It was like this metal thing that would, when you hit the key, it was metal thing would hit the paper and it would actually, it was like a stamp and it would stamp the little letter on it. And if you hit the two keys that would too close together, the two pieces of metal that would strike the paper would get stuck together and then the machine would like, it would like, ponder the whole machine down. And then you had to try, you had to try to loosen them up and free them. But when you did that, all the ink that was on the metal piece would get on your fingers. So invariably when I go upstairs, my dad would have said, you, are you my messenger, am I typewriter again? I'm like, no, of course not. Like, what's all that ink all over your fingers? It was like getting you, covered your hand and the cookie jar. So, so then my dad got to the point where he got lazy or used to make my mother, like my mother would choose the electric type. He'd be like, he would hand-write and she would type it out from, you know, they were like a team almost. Because my mother was, you know, my dad had my mother convinced that, you know, he was going to write the great American novel and then we could just go. But she was like, all right, I'm participating. That my contribution will be all type out of all your stuff. So, well, the irony to that is, he probably could have wrote a big novel. Well, he did. He just did it was, you know, it was tough back then. It wasn't like it is today. Today, you can, you can, you can read any book. I'll just make it, anything, it was, it was actually had to be good back then. And you had to know people and my dad wasn't, that all the people in Hollywood and all the people who were all the writers in New York City, they were all like in this click, they would hang out with each other in the city, they were all single. My dad got married and we had kids. He had his networking abilities, working completely gone after that. Yeah. And it's like today, imagine today, you can network with someone in fucking China, you know, from your computer now. You never have to leave the house, you know? Yeah. Yeah, I get back these YouTubers. And it could be cool to be a recluse. I went to this, I went to this, that I thought it's Reptile, bring your show in Daytona. And I'm, I'm not brand-armed there. Because it's almost, I don't even want to even tell the story, but people were coming, I have a Reptile channel called muscle serpets University, right? I'll interview people at Reptile shows about your there. But I'll also do my own animals, I'll explain the different genes and what I'm breeding. And it's an informational channel. And people, I guess people like it, I haven't read 10,000 subscribers. So, and I'm building it slowly. I go to the show and all these young YouTubers that are Reptile breeders are coming up to me. And they're like, oh, oh, I watch your videos. I'm so nervous right now. Oh, can we take a picture? Can you be in my vlog? That's the thing everyone does. Everyone does their own vlogs, you know, where they chronicle their whole life. And some of the guys were, you know, there were nice kids, but they were, they were, you know, they were a little, socially awkward to some of these people, you know? And everyone's a star now. Everyone can be from their house, have their own channel, their own personality, their own, you know? And sometimes every once in a while, you get one of these guys that just hits it. And someone likes this, something about what they do that people can relate to. And they'll get hundreds of thousands of subscribers, they'll monetize their videos and they're making $10,000, $20,000 a month Chris from YouTube. But think about that. Yeah, no. One of the number one, Aaron Sigma is telling, one of the number one channels on YouTube is this kid who plays with toys. Have you seen this? The place you're playing. It's got a hundred million subscribers, Chris. They play with toys. He doesn't even talk. I see the footage he reviewed the toys, no, no, no, he just plays with toys. And kids watch this, like mesmerized, watching this kid play with his little, you know, how old is that old? It was a kid. All right, he's probably a little old now, but I don't know, he was a young kid. He's a little of the, he's under 12, you know? I forget the kid's name. He's making, it's gotta be making $30,000 a month. And of course now is, you know, now is parents like, yeah, yeah, so we gotta go through a video now, you know, come on, every video the guy does get to million hits. We are, huh? Yeah, but if you saw him was making that kind of money, you'd be like, you take over his manager, right? You would try it. If I let him play out the games that I don't want him to play. You got, yeah, you mentioned him. Imagine if you had a hundred million subscribers because he was playing video games online, which there were kids that would do that too. Well, they watch, they watch, they, they, they, they, I mean, they watch those channels where kids are just playing video games. They, they have, they're playing video games and they're commentating on what they're playing. It's a brave, new world out there, my friends. And, uh, and as, Norm from Cheers would say, we're, we're wearing a milk bone underwear, Chris, you know. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. On that note, we're out of time until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio. The truth hurts. All right.

. Welcome back to live with Institute of Energy, K. Coral, Florida, and Dave Palombo. And today is very special. I have never thought I would ever have a year in my studio. If you would have told me this thing years ago, I can be sitting next to me in Florida, and my new home in my new studio, I want to sit you crazy. But you guys here today, he is the co-executive producer of the movie Bigger, and he's a body building well known personality, Dana, solomer. Welcome. Dave, you know, I had a pick one house to get a flat tire in front of him. Oh, that was a wrap. I didn't see it. I came to business. So I came stumbling, but first, I wanted to say something. I've had a chance to visit all sorts of places in this industry. This has to be the most unique set of, first of all, this set is tremendous. You guys have done a great job. But what you guys don't know out there is behind the wall that separates this studio is Dave Palombo Enterprise. And it's this whole corporate infrastructure where products are being moved in and out, and all these things are happening. So they let know we always talk about a misindustry that needs to constantly reinvent and the commercial component of the body building industry. It's alive and well here, and congratulations, too. You're doing great. Well, you know, Dana, when you have kids, you have to, like, say, well, how can I run my business? Not to have spent too much money over head and have it be convenient enough so that I can actually run my business. And we have it here because I can run across street at three in the morning to the studios and record something, or we can, my wife does a word of sometimes, like, two in the morning, when the kids are sleeping. You know what the coolest part about that is when you talk about the new reality of your life there, it makes me, that we've all been around this game for a long time. A few decades, right? You know, I've been doing this, the business of body building. And when I come here and I visit with you, I really review what you've created. And I think about all the people that we've kind of come up with. And watching their evolution, the other day, our good friend Rob Wilkins, who was the IFB, who's liaison to the military, he was just picked by the president of the United States to be on the president's council. I was going to ask him, I didn't think that, well, because his resume is impressive, the White House took notice. They assembled the list and there was some influential people involved. But I look at that and I think this is the same guy, Rob, and we were kicking around the body building shows. And now he's at the White House, being sworn in with some of the most revered people and a fitness industry. And then you have guys like the Ryan, the Lucas of the World, we all kind of came up with. He's worth hundreds and millions of dollars doing great. And the Paul Gardner's even Aaron Singerman, who I know, we have him come in because Aaron has been very supportive of you and myself. We're very familiar. And Aaron's story to me is great. And I hope you don't mind my burning gut. Now I actually did a show in him on the success of how to make million dollars. And I said, you know, he said, did you ever think that you never thought I would be here? I said, well, I said, no, I did. I'm going to tell you, you just need it. And the right fire, you live under your butt. And the right fire was that he got his wife corrected. Yeah, well, that. And I think also some of that fire was started here when he was with you. And a lot of those things that I was pretty well documented. But now a lot of drama, a lot of things. But Aaron's a guy that I've known for a long time and trust each other a lot. I'm always giving him advice. Lately he gives me more advice than I give him. A lot of people go to Aaron for advice. But I'm just so proud of what he's created. I get a chance to go down to those red condo and headquarters from time to time to tell you. In business. His facility. And it's an incredible operation. Yeah. It's a very highly synergized, high energy, collaborative environment. So he's doing great. But I do have a bone to pick with you, Aaron. So Aaron made an announcement the other day that they're making this big, surprise, signing the biggest thing in fitness. Right? And usually when Aaron has a secret, he'll tell me. And when I have a secret, I'll tell Aaron, and it's kind of the way we do it. So I saw this post and I said, I wonder what red condeser to do. Who's this big announcement? So I called up Aaron and I said, I'm going to give me the scoop. Expecting him to tell me off the record what it was. But Aaron wouldn't tell me. And I kind of begged him and he made me feel pretty small for it. Really? Yeah, I texted him and I said, Aaron, give me the scoop. He wouldn't tell me. I'll tell you what I did. I figured out the seat, the special announcement. I texted what my belief was to him. And the fact that he didn't text me back, probably means that I'm right. I said, what are you signing, covering? And no response. And Aaron always responds. So if I had a bet, I would say that it's covering. But isn't covering? And aren't covering and Aaron already in business together? So that's not really a big development. Unless, and I'm just speculating here, of course. I don't know anything. But what if Tyd's maybe they're closing up shop? What Tyd's business is maybe signing direct? Maybe that's it. I was thinking maybe, said that, with millions, because of said your ties to the military. And I thought that might be a natural retina. We could do a whole show discussing who retops on the side. But by the time this airs, everybody, I think, will already, this is the biggest name he's saying in the industry, it's either Romney or it's Kai. He said fitness industry though. Yeah. He didn't say fitness industry. Yeah, but he's bodybuild. I would go back only because of his nod. His nod. That's right. Respond. Yes. He knows that once he, when he's, he can't lie to me, because he knows I always figure it out. So what do you mean? But Aaron next time I call you and I want the inside to get it to me. That's right. Now again, I wanted to bring up to you. Obviously, the movie is going to be coming out soon. I know you told me, I think, a little bit a weekend. We got something special. So, all right. So, it's a counter, really, to say, okay, formally what's happening, but there are some discussions taking place right now. Obviously, it's no secret that this is a movie of Joe Hader. And we're also trying to celebrate Joe's theatrical release of his film, then at the very end, the very end for what he created. But there is nothing to announce yet, but I do know that there is some discussions surrounding the possibility of maybe doing something that could get a limpia fans excited, but it's still too early to say. All right. Those are some things in the words, but yeah, it's been fun so far. When do you think the official worldwide really? So, again, that's all the same conversation, but I am told that we can expect it in theaters in 2018 and that plan has not changed. Maybe around, maybe the holidays. Yeah. All right, let's talk about the Olympia Minute because this year, they're trying to do something that's a little different. And they always try to do something a little controversial, or fun to bring some attention to the Olympia. The last two years, they have a frowny, a special invite to last year was Flex Wheel. This year, they want to institute because of the whole social media interest. They want to try to get the people's champion. And from what I understand at least from the website, they're going to be allowing the people in the audience to vote for what they will get in the determine as the people's champion. The last time we saw something like this, was kind of when they had the challenge round, back in mid 2000s, when they would allow body ghosts to challenge each other on stage and then they had all the former Mr. Olympia's voting for it. What do you think this people's challenge? Okay, so even you mentioned, I remember it was yesterday, that was the year that we had the challenge round. And I had that awkward moment where I stood between Ronnie Coleman and Gustavo Badell. Who beat him? So beat Ronnie Coleman, and I had to give one of the more awkward interviews of my career. I think I was on a paper, thing that I had done. And so it was odd. So my take on this, I would have loved that. You would have loved it. I would have thrived that you would have, you were popular. Well, I was the right thing, because I think Ronnie Coleman was fresh off the wounds of having just been beaten by Gustavo. And I'm asking Ronnie Coleman the great iconic massive Ronnie Coleman larger than life character who's standing right to my left. I'm saying Ronnie, how does it feel to have just gotten beat by this guy in Gustavo Badell? And you should have seen his eyes. You were killed. And Ronnie's comment, actually, for his flex really had it. Yeah. Good point. Good point. So getting back to this year's development. Now, it's interesting because I think it has the potential to be compelling. And that is the potential to be dramatic. It also has the potential to be a huge problem. Now, the talk is that they are going to allow the people in the venue. I don't know all the particulars, but the talk is the way we were trying to figure out the end of it. Right. How they were actually to vote. Right. They got buttons on their seats. And there's only the people in the arena and outside the arena. I don't know all those particulars, but I do know their plan is to crown a people's champ, which leaves open the reality that we could have a people's champ and a Mr. Olympia champion that are different, which is a big problem, right? Because you certainly want the Mr. Olympia champ to walk off that stage, feeling like he's the best body when they're in the world. But then if the idea is well, you want this, and then this guy won't let it, then you don't have a definitive anything. And isn't the whole purpose of the Mr. Olympia to crown a definitive champ? Right. But the difference is that whoever wins the Mr. Olympia will have the $400,000. That's right. That's a big difference. That's a big difference. Are they planning on getting any money you think to be? Yeah. I don't imagine there would be some benefit to winning that. I don't know, probably sponsored that. That's right. I would love to see in Bob Chicaroa, when I was talking about this the other day. I'd love to see a situation where instead of having a people's champion, if you want to create interaction, you want to engage the fans, give the fans an opportunity to dictate what they see on that stage, right? Like create something where maybe fans can request certain call-outs, maybe they can request unusual comparisons. Maybe we want to see Flex Lewis, the 212 King, versus Phil Heath, the main event King, and see there's got suckies going through it. Yeah. That could be interesting. That's what I would have done. I said that for the past couple years. I'd like to see the 2012 and the Open champ post-down with the Arnold and Franco used to do. Right. You don't have to even give any award to it. You could just say, let's see who wins. Or maybe let the people decide. Right. You mean I have to judge decide that? Let the people decide. I haven't spoke to Phil Heath about this. But I'd imagine that Phil can't be too pleased with the idea of a people's champion because what makes me say that when you've won this thing is many times as he has. Especially coming off last year, right? It was pretty angry. I'd imagine he's not excited about the idea of having a deal with the fallout of potentially winning again and not winning the people's. It seemed like every year they're trying to always find a way to mess with Phil Heath. And I think it just pisses him off more. And it just makes him come back. But I almost think that they're trying to find a way that not let Phil win. And then he always wins everything. So obviously his talent speaks for itself. Isn't he like a J-Countler from the standpoint of, whenever he has a close call or when people like us doubt him, that's when he digs in and he delivers something that we just didn't expect. Yeah. I mean he won last year. I didn't have any. I know some people thought he needed to deserve it. I didn't think he'd think. I have to feel winning last year. It was close enough though to sort of assess the trend that trajectory of big rawmese physique. Big rawmese was really good last year. But he still wasn't in the best he was. So I think some of the victories that Phil be kind were closer than last year. Yeah. For sure. It was that one year. You could make a army of Kai could have won. And Phil was off a pre-judging that he came back better at night. And I mean, so look, the guy knows how to win. This is one thing you can say about Phil. He might not be the greatest minister of what he had all time. But he knows how to win better than that. As he might break the old time record. If he wins nine or ten times, then that counts for something. You know, you're a good dancer. I mean, Dexter might not be the best bodybuilder of all time. But he's certainly the most consistent. Yeah. No, I mean, right now, look, it's funny because nobody's talking about the fact that if Phil heat is able to win, he will equal the Lehani Rani commentary. He will be standing a top-to-sport tied for the most important record this sport has, the eight-sand out trophy. And he's on the break of doing that. It's amazing that we're there already talking about him doing that. Because we still view Phil as a young guy. Yeah. But he's all-time one of the all-time. And he's years past very fast, especially when you give him my study on the background. So, especially if you have kids that goes even quicker. Yeah, those kids don't exist. Here's the question. The question is, and I saw some, and I'm hearing, speaking of an area, an area in Kai making some Instagram comments when this whole people's champion came out. They were saying, 11 weeks to go to get ready. You think Kai will jump into this event? And would he be welcome to jump into the event? I'm sure I would think the Olympia promoters would love to have Kai up there. Everybody would love to have Kai up there except Big Ronnie. Yeah. I think Big Ronnie is would be the only loser in a Kai-green comeback scenario. But Kai-green Kai, you need to come back. It's one of those things where what he brings to the sport, the drama that he would bring to a pose down between he and Phil, body going to fans want to see that. Kai, I recognize that you view yourself as something different. Maybe you don't see yourself as a bodybuilder. Maybe you see yourself, I've been told as a performer. That's all fine. But you know what, it's not like the guy lost 50 pounds in the mental size. He still has big nose. Good as ever. Yeah. So it's not like it's a far stretch first to say, like, oh, let's get him to the groovy. That's right. He reached 50. He went back to the company. He's got to get him 40 pounds. Kai, you got to do the contest. It's one of those things where the window, the number granted. He will regret it. Kai, you're going to regret it. They just, the window has closed. To a point where this might be the last chance because number Kai doesn't want to be Mr. Olympia. Kai wants to be Phil Heath. Kai can pretend he doesn't care about that. But Kai green wants to be Phil Heath and he's got the good to do it. We know he does. So for him to have taken those God-given genetics, that extraordinary physique, arguably one of the greatest to ever live. And to not go at Phil Heath one more time, it's disappointing it would be an amazing storyline for the contest and I really hope it happens. Do I think it's going to? I wouldn't say I'd bet on it. But it seems like he's always pretty close. Yeah, I would think that there would be a humongous announcement. I don't know. But I think it's what's the point of having it. If you're not going to get the benefit of it. I think it's a size right now. Maybe that's why you might be able to do what I said. Because obviously there's some bad blood between Kai and the Olympia people who run the Olympia. Whatever the argument was, we'll never really know what happened. There was Kai felt that he was not respected in some way or pasty. I don't know if I agree with that or not. But the bottom lines that Kai has done the contest because of that for Kai was amazing. Yeah, it's going to be if he doesn't it's been four years. Yeah, if he hasn't been four years already. No, it's a bad question. What would he look like? I mean, we always got those big shoulders. We know the upper body is going to be there. But you know, from the waist down, what's it going to look like? What are I some, we saw pictures he posted on the screen. He looked like I think he's so good. I think there's no problem here. And it might even be better than he actually took. I mean, he never took more years off as a child. That's right. Maybe the rest will do well. Remember when sugar rainwater? That were really dead. So sugar rainwater took that big, you know, he stopped the box. I mean, then over some Marvin Hagel was unbeatable. And he said, I'll come back and beat him. I mean, I was like, you're going to box. How many years he can make? He can make? He can't make. He can't make. That's what he's seeing. We don't want to grasp it in a month. It would be amazing for the contest to see Kai grain and fill he. Because it's, you know, you have a responsibility. I kind of might disagree with this. But I feel like Kai is a responsibility to get up there and to deliver some of this sport has been very good to him. He's made a lot of money in this sport. He does not want to any individual. It's a lot of these guys have to put their body through. But I'd like to think that if there was a chance for him to tip this cap to body, go in the fence and just kind of give the body to the body. So he won't let's her off. Kai, we would love to see it. And just let us know what we have to say to make that happen. Or an hour and a half. Or an hour and a half. Hey, you make it happen. Well, whatever it takes. You know what? Here's a scenario. Let's say Kai does the Olympic. Okay. Last or wrong. I'm going to do the Olympic. What the hell? One last time. Sure. Any wins. Now. He would win and he would walk out a champion. No, what he, how do you walk away when you're the champion? Now he's got the title. Right. But you're saying you're starting to keep competing. Think about what you're saying. You're saying how would Kai walk away as a champion? You're talking about a person who just walked away already for no reason. You would $400,000. And now you're a Olympia champ and things change. Yeah. Now I'm the champion. That's right. I have the benefit of this. Yeah. They have to beat me now. That's right. I just made $400,000. Yeah. You know. Maybe I could do it another year. I mean, with Kai, I'll bet's wrong. He just does his own thing. He's not wired like the rest of the world. He's got his own computer up there. It does its own things. He's a very great guy. I don't know what you think about it. Kai would be doing a lot of people good. Arnold came back in 1980 and won the Olympics. That's right. The one thing he was going to compete was the last minute. Maybe Kai Green is planning an arm. You never know. But it would have taught on the Olympics. Something we're watching because it's a real scenario out there. But as of right now, there are no confirmations. And we don't know yet. But hopefully we'll hear something. What do you think about I heard the announcement that Arnold removed the two 12 Division from the Arnold Classic? I heard that. Okay. What would you think of the motivation? Yeah, that's a positive thing. Unless it's just a situation where, look, that whole Arnold dynamic is a little strange. Right? And then you have, what do we have six Arnold Classic or five Arnold Classic now? They don't have two of them or so. We're down to five. And in three of those Arnold classics, you won't have heard of most of the ProBoddy builders because they're now part of a whole Another entity. So all the names that are the household names in the body of the world. You have to go to Australia or Columbus to see them. So basically Arnold is overseen in dynamic where half of his events are doing one thing and half of his events are doing the other thing. Maybe the function Columbus feel like they're already drawing the body building crowd. They, you know, everything's economics, right? Are they drawing more fans by bringing a 12 Division to their event? They're already drawing the body building crowd. Maybe they don't care. But I, again, I have not heard that official. I've heard that that was my the latest that I kind of heard. I actually asked Tom as they were aiming about it and I'm sure I was watching. You can see watches of all programming. And he's just, he felt that Arnold doesn't care about the two 12 because they're short. Arnold's at all, Arnold likes the classic and then the open guys. So yeah, and who knows if that's the truth. I have to feel he orders economically. It's a little bit of a sanction fee. You have prize money. There's all sorts of variables. You have flight of people in the moment. Right. So I can see if if if you think about it, if your goal is to attract at the end of the day, a promoter's objective is to attract different parts of the pie, right? So if they're already getting the body building crowd, people coming in to see the big division. Maybe the math doesn't support it. I don't know. But you would like to think that an event of that caliber would understand that the 212 Division is important that fans like it. And if you're going to call yourself the biggest fitness body building weekend of the year, then how have those divisions? Or, arbitrarily, start hand picking and coming and going with these divisions? Yeah. That's not really responsible in my opinion, but something like that. I agree. I am in 100% agreement. What do you think about the fact that this is something that I've been bringing up the last couple of years? I want your opinion on it. I think there's too many people in the Olympic divisions that they have out there. I think it might be a Timmy. You should have the top 10 in the world in each division. I don't like these bikinis divisions when they have. And I like bikinis. I just don't like to have this value weight 35 curls on stage. And I know they did something to curtail that a little bit with the point system. If you have more than a certain amount of shows, it's not who wins the shows. But it's a total point getters, you know, get to go and look at it. But I still think it's a lot of people. Okay. So my first thought is the point system hasn't really worked. In my opinion, because look, the Olympia, as you just mentioned, is supposed to be the best in the world. If you can't win a contest on a yearly circuit, you know, if you can. And let's go with this respect to anybody. But if you can't win a contest, and there's so many of them. Right? Especially in all of the bikini. It's great. So if you can't win a contest, you can't really complain too much about not having a spot on the Olympia. You're not happy to complain about the point system. They're saying, well, it's not fair because if this person has the money to compete five or six or seven times, that shouldn't be a thing. They shouldn't have the advantage of all the points. And that's a fair point. And if you just say they have what the point system you don't have that kind of vision, because the point system really is allowing people to compete that really didn't do the thing that you're supposed to do to get there. And that's when a contest. Right. So I don't know. I don't have a huge issue with, I think the point system is just opened up a whole bunch of problems also for the promoter. Because when you think about the number of events that are out throughout the year, I mean, Robin Chang and the Olympia, they have to support all of these athletes who are coming to compete at their show. Right. I feel for the promoters. I feel that that money could be well spent on other things. That's right. More prize money. Maybe some of the divisions that are not getting these big prize money. Because we don't need 30 girls up there. I don't need 25 men's disease guys up there. I want to count. I want to top 10 everything. If you think about the bodybuilding vision, which is the most compelling, has the least amount of people. That's right. Is that unusual? It is. It's also because there's the least number of events. And that's the thing. And for whatever reason, the member of the scoring system was also creating to encourage people to compete more often. Unfortunately, the people who are competing, I'm going to do that guys. They're not the people you want to see. Right. So the people that we want to see are the ones who are automatically qualified. So the only solution is only this relentless should be exempt. Everybody else you have to earn the way back to the Olympia stage. Which of course then brings us back to the Cuygren conversation. It was totally unqualified to compete in the contest. Right. That's a whole lot of story. Yeah. Now obviously they can make a given special advice. You do whatever you want. And I think that and some people who think that's not fair, I think it's absolutely fair. Look, look, their promoters are trying to create a interesting, compelling book. I know this. You are in the business of media, of covering bodybuilding. I get the privilege of going out there and hosting the Amazon coverage. And all of that stuff is better. If I get to talk about chagrin and being in that contest and you get to cover chagrin and being in that contest. Everybody wins for that. So it's a business and more tickets will be sold, more people will watch and more people will care if a guy like Cuygren is in the contest. Now I will say this. The Olympia does not need Cuygren. No mistake about it. The contest has thrived. You know, Arnold has come and gone. The 80 is coming down, Ronnie. Ronnie, come and it's coming down. The contest is going to be fine. But it sure would be a lot of fun to see Cuygren. Well yeah, because it's how many more years this Cuygren really had. I mean the guy is not young anymore. No, he's in his 40s. I mean he might look at you. But he's getting older and things go wrong when you get older. I know you know we got injuries. You know he's pushing you know a lot of weight in the gym. He's still you know he travels a lot when you travel a lot. You've come more vulnerable to injuries. So he can get hurt tomorrow. And that's going to be the end of his career. So you know, I say to Cuygren out there. Just like you said to Cuygren get in that show because you never know when your last show will be. And this isn't here where people want to see the people's champion. They want to see Cuygren out there. They want to see Cuygren try to stop Phil from winning eight. Mr. Olympia is in time that record of pain and Ronnie Coleman. And what better year to do it than the year that they're actually voting for the people's champions? Which we know he is. Cuygren is right. He's sort of the... If he won't be a winery enough that we don't even vote. He's given them the awards right. You know? And that's probably one of the reasons why he's maybe even compelled to do it. Because it does seem like there are things out there right now that would go well for him to be there. Now with that beat, will they be an asterisk? And then the record folks like when they say, oh, then the 2018 Mr. Olympia. Phil E. F1 but with an asterisk and then the second hiring one people's champion. No, I don't think so because there's been things over the years and other contests where they do that stuff. Right? I mean back in the day when I used to do those body vote and now come webcasts. We would give out not that those were sanctioned parts of the event. We would give out people's choices all the time. And sometimes the people's choice would be the guy who finishes 15th. Oh yeah. There are some people out there with all sorts of technology where they can start voting. So we're kind of what those apps and all right. Right. Well, you know, I would just do it like I would bring in a company that does like the American I will. Right. You know, scoring, you text it in a cross money. Yeah. People would vote 40 times even though they had a paper. That's what they should do. Yeah. They should even handle. They should say get a company to come in and you guys do it. Charge for the text. We don't care and just give us the tally at the end of frigging night. And that would be the way to do it this week. Everyone feels like they're involved. And you look to stupid things. I would not text in my vote because I know it wouldn't matter. But there are a million people out there that will do it because they want to say I voted for that. That's right. That would be the people's text. So skating the game. Yeah. No. I mean, it would be cool. But I will say this though. I am concerned. Invisiting a scenario where there is two separate winners. That concerns me because look Joe Weader created the Mr. Olympia contest to have a finite definitive champion. It would be really lame to exit the Oralians arena on that Saturday night with two camps, feeling that they both won something. But you know what that might be the way it goes. Now the other side of this is it still gets beaten. Just because we have to entilge all the scenarios are of course. The other side of this is the one that is going to be a little bit more of an arachmuscle.com. If Phil gets beaten and he complains about it. Which most champions who lose that right. And let's just say Ronny Wins and Ronny also wins the people's choice. It's kind of vindicate the judges, right? Because they can sit back and they can say, well, Phil don't complain because the fans all agreed to us. So if Phil doesn't win that people's choice award can actually make things easier. But if Phil does win, that's going to be tricky. But if he gets fair to say that he's not, he would be an underdog. Yeah, for the people's choice. Just because people want to see him beat. Let me ask you this thing.

Another girl, we did the good bit. And then another girl, then another girl. Another girl, then another girl. And the good bit. It's okay. No no no no. It's okay. It's okay. No no no. We're all alone. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. We have been together. We've been with you all. Come on. Come on. We're together. We're together. We've been together. Come ensh Atdown! Thanks to you. And welcome it everyone today!

Go get us... Yeah.

MUSICод suc).Oалось could still keep l nit on tape from the cאן Get in there, we don't wanna fight Down the phone club So we take turn in there And we can turn the end up Don't worry about me You're gonna fight so much Don't go, go, go, go, go Yeah I wanna see you tonight I wanna see you tonight Yeah, I gotta see you tonight I gotta see you tonight Thank you Mark Norr

Daypalumbo here with an RX muscle news update, sad news in our body building industry. Once again, I've been reporting this all too often, as I've said many, many times now. Good friend of mine, top IFBB women's bodybuilder back in the day, and professional wrestler for quite a while. Melissa Coates has passed. She was at home with her boyfriend, she stopped breathing, and the boyfriend tried to give her CVR, and I guess it was not successful. The paramedics came from what I understand, and she wasn't able to be revived. So Melissa Coates has passed it 50 years of age. Very, very sad day. It was supposed to actually interview her this coming week, believe it or not. My good friend of mine, Alex Beyoncé, and I said, call me. She was friends with her as well. She said, Melissa really wanted to interview with you, because Melissa had gone through some medical issues. She had lost her leg from the knee down, due to blood clot, and she was going to be going to tour. Maybe even with Flex Wheelarium, I understood doing some motivational talks to veterans and people had lost their legs and limbs, and she wanted to come on and tell about her whole story about what happened. I was excited, because I said, I was friends of Melissa. And it just never came to be. And I had a bad, I had a bad premonition. I actually told my mother, collect that, you know, I said, I have a, I just the only that something's going to go wrong with Melissa, and I just was a bit, I should, I almost feel like, like, regretful that I hadn't talked to her before that. But obviously, the universe has its own plan for us, and we have to just kind of play along with it. You know, I met Melissa back in 1995 for the first time. She was guest posing at a NPC show called the Muscle Beach in New Jersey. It was probably around 1995, 1996. And it was the first time I had seen her on stage alive, and she was magnificent. I mean, she was an amazing shape, she was tanned off. She looked, I actually was ready to get on the Olympia stage. And I said, man, that's women's body building and the presentation. She just was, she was so, like, your eyes just went to her. She was like that kind of presence that was so big in the room that it just drew you to her, and you couldn't take your eyes off her, and that was Melissa. And she even, as a bodybuilder, as a professional wrestler, and she had a little stint, she, I know she did a special show at the WWE, and she was trying to get into a full time. And I guess, for whatever reason, she just couldn't manage to do that. So she wrestled a little in a lot of independent leagues for many, many years. Obviously, told she had her leg issue. But she loved to perform. She loved to entertain people. She loved to be that person that put a smile on your face that made you say, hey, this is cool. Look at her. Look at she can do. And I'm telling you, back in the day, she had one heck of a physique. And if there was women's physique back in her day, she might have been the Olympia champ for sure, because that was the look that certainly would have sold many, many seats. And she was in many magazines. A lot of photo shoots, a lot of, you know, inflex, muscle fitness, muscle mag all the time because she was Canadian. So she was a fixture back in the 90s and early 2000s. And if you were around then, you read the magazine, you knew who Melissa Coates was. And it's a shame that when people pass so unexpectedly, I mean, who would have thought, you know, talking to a friend of hers on Facebook, who was like, who's just like completely blowing away, because Melissa had been there when she lost her father. And, you know, that's the kind of person Melissa was. Melissa was a person who would compassionate, who could sit there and listen to you talk for two hours about your problems, you know, and, and, and comfort you and make you feel good about yourself. And that takes that's a special person, you know, that's a special skill. A lot of people don't care about anyone else has to say they're only care about themselves. But Melissa was like that. She was the kind of person that really cared about people. So when you see someone like that pass so unexpectedly, it, it, it, it, it grips you your heart really, it rips it out. I'll leave you guys with this story because two days ago, in my garage, well, let me take you back a couple of years ago. My father passed about three years ago, four years ago now. The next day, or that night, actually, there was a pigeon in my garage. Now, for those, you know, okay, Carl Flart, there's no pigeons here. We're not in the middle of Manhattan. And this pigeon was in my garage at night, sitting in there would not leave. No matter, I could, I try to scram and add there, wouldn't leave, it would not go away. And I couldn't figure out what was going on. And then, you know, I realized because my father was always like, you know, my father was very educated, everything like that. And I said, you know what? I remember reading one step, the last day in Palombo, men pigeon. And so I equated that, that pigeon with my father, you know. And I truly believe my father's spirit was there in that pigeon, you know, letting me know that he made it or right over to the other side. Well, two days ago in my garage on top of my brand new BMW X7, which was kind of getting you a little pissed off because I didn't know why this thing was here. There was a huge peacock in there. I'll even show you the video to prove it. And I couldn't figure out what this thing would not leave. I mean, I was going, usually these things, you go near him and they scatter in three seconds. This bird would not leave. My kids were trying to defeat and it bred, you know. It was just staying up there. It was like hanging, I think, would not leave. I don't know why it was sitting on top of my car. And it was driving me crazy. I'm like, what the hell is this bird in the egg? Because I got peacocks in the egg, but they never come, you know, they run. They're gone. They come into your garage and hang out. I truly believe that was Melissa Spirod right there because Melissa was the peacock. When you walk into that room, she grabbed your attention. And that's what the peacock is as far as when I see a bird that's a peacock, I think, a people that are something flamboyant, something that wants to show itself off. And I believe that her spirit was there telling me she made it. All right, and everything's going to be good and not to mourn her and to celebrate her life. And so on that happy note, I'm going to tell everyone, let's celebrate Melissa's life. Let's take a moment. Reflect, give our send our prayers out to her family and friends and fans in this time of loss. And I just want to tell you, Melissa, you'll never be forgotten. You'll always be indelibly etched into my mind on day polembo with an RX muscle news update.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been 3.5 hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Alright, I sell vision on rismuscle.com. This is Iron Dabait. Our first episode since the buildup to the 2020 Olympia Glad you can join us on the street for root humor host. This is the show where we settled the score of the base, introduced our esteem panel. Going left to right first joining us, Lee Preasy saw him earlier this week on heavy muscle radio. Glad you can join us for this episode. We go to the man now based out of Las Vegas, Miloche, the mind, Sarseva, always great to have his opinions and insights. And then we, this is the show that we created with this guy in mind. And of course we're talking about King Kamali King Kamali making his return to Iron Dabait. And then of course the man of the hour. Top 5 Olympia in 2006, handful of top 6 finishes, one of the best pozers in body building history. And that is exactly going to be the topic that we're going to discuss this. And of course, we're going to have some drama some scores to settle. Of course we're talking about Melvin Anthony Melvin walking to the show. How's it going? Good. Good. And of course we go to our K-Posterios. Welcome in Dave Palumbo. Let's get right into this. Of course we talk about settling scores on the show. We are going to get we posted on our Instagram yesterday. And that is the top pozers in it today's body building. We had another episode of Iron Debate. But a year ago talking about the art of posing and maybe how it's gotten a little lost on translation since the 90s to today's body building. Melvin, we are going to settle the score first. So a couple of days ago, Sean Ray posted a video depicting himself essentially helping you with your posing. Now you wanted to have your piece. You claim that that video is not the very direct it is in a sense altered. So why don't you have your piece Tyler? If you want to show that video first, Melvin, you're going to have your piece and then we have another video perhaps the longer unedited version of that video. Sean Ray. Yeah. The one that we want to mention. Sean Ode, whatever he tells you, write it down. Use the JGDunes because I don't like that. Right. I was already trained to use what I can use and keep him as a confidant because friends go, you know, he don't know my mama. So we friends like us like he says we are. He's the least on the tree. Okay. I want to get you about posing because he and Clyde did he showed you some tricks here. Not any show me shit. Not real. Not real. Not show me anything about posing. No. I am. So you come out there to do this. There it is. It's in. They come up here. Back here. We got there. They're going to start over. You know, take your time. I'm going to hit it. I'm going to touch it. I'm going to touch it. No, I'm going to do that. You know, it's called the letter. You're talking about their passion. First one it. First one out. Come up there. Take your fucking time. Come on. They're touching my face. It's clear. They're touching my face. They're touching my face. That's a great thing. That's a great thing. You need to trade this like this. Pretty much a show. Just another day. Yeah. Just posing. All the way through with your Channing. I'm going to do this. This is a good guess. You know, how you got to do it? Yeah. And then you're like your water. So it's like a dead tiny place. It really looks like how young you look. It's a fantastic year. But when you have to stay, it's like five hours a car. Yeah. That's what you guys want to have. All right. So Tyler, do you have the other video cut up as well? Yes. All right. Here we go. Let's get it Tyler. Dave, if you want to talk over this one as far as what we're watching right now, where'd you get this? No. Marvin. Marvin has a video called Marvelous Melvin. And I guess this material copy had shot this video of Melvin's, you know, leading up to the Olympia. And I guess there was a lot of her who've seen me, I was there. And it was actually validating the whole video. I think me, the one who sent the original clip to Sean. Sean clipped this, I guess. And right after this, you can see. But let's play the clip. You know. Yes. Please play the clip, please. The one I sent you. Yeah. There it is. You don't have to type sample that. If you're trying to lose belly fat, this is stopped doing cardio. That's not what we're going to do. Just Tyler, you don't go. You guys still don't let them just enjoy that. Who's that? That's my train. That's John Brown. This is the first three times Mr. Mr. World. That's my train. That's who taught Sean. That is the general. That's me, Lo's. To push and put me in my foot in the right position. So I can get better detail out of my hamstrings. And I still use it today. That's your best by car, right? We're going to play on the hit that button. Now there's Sean. He's not going to front of the video. For whatever reason you give a tip. Okay, that's fine. All right. You can do that. That's good. I get the point. So you're saying John Brown was the guy who did your posing. I'm going to, I'm just going to clarify it right now. Because like I said before, if you keep front of this mouth, I'm a verbally bus disaster. So he's about to get it right now. So let's clarify the number one. This is like chess. I'm going to move a pond right now. So that is my video. That is my video that I sailed to this day called marvelous. Melvin Mel was my road to going pro in 1999. Now mind you from the beginning, John Brown is my trainer. Okay, he's like family. Yes, that's who taught me everything I know about compulsory transitions about how to put my feet, how to spin, how to create music, how to do it all. Okay, I took it to another level like I was taught. Sean Ray's dumb ass was in the same group. He was trained by John Brown before me. So how is it that you edit my video to try to make me look stupid? That's my video. You followed me into the locker room. I didn't tell you to come in there. Me, Subaru was filming that. So okay, that's like me telling you, Dave, hey, you know, you can probably get more out of it. If you twist your waist a little bit more and blow your obliques out and do that on stage, you'll probably get more out of it. Does that mean I thought you had a pose? Hell, no. So like I said, my stand behind what I said, Sean didn't teach me shit. So me, Lord came at the gym because I asked me to come in there. When me, Lord's put the footage up, I'm still happy about the memory. Nobody's taking it from Sean, but who's the hater? You know what I'm talking about? I'm as much of a hater as a liar as he is a good husband and a father. And not get off sit down somewhere, bro. You gave me a tip. So let's just say, Princeton, I just owe Mitch Sean's dumbass all the way up the picture and I never met him. Was that going to stop me from doing what I did in the sport? Hell, no. Was that going to stop me from winning the USA? Hell, no. Did I know how to pose when I won the Orange County, the California, the Palm Springs before he even was in my circle? Hell, no. So what he said was I'm a liar in the hater. So where in that video do you show I'm a liar? He came in and put his two cents in. If you look at the video I posted on Instagram that was from the show that you and I competed in David, did I do what he said? Hell, no, I did what they had I wanted to do because I was trained by John Brown. So how are you going to edit and take that whole part out of it to try to make me look bad? So now my, my, your filter, my filter on my mouth is about to come off. So let's get to it. So you want to talk about continuing this in video. I'll continue to talk about prison, because to do all this stuff, but I'm going to be clear. I stand behind what I said. You didn't teach me how to pose. I'm ranked as one of the best ever or if not the greatest opposite of ever be on the stage. I didn't say it. The fans said it. The judge just said it. Why are you just a me man? I don't understand. Are you mad because they're talking about me and not you. Since you want to be relevant, this is going to be the last time I talk about shot rate. I'm giving down what you talking about. I want to put my business in the street. I'm put your business in the street. That's my video. Okay. So we go. I'm going to flip it on. So you want to talk about, you know, send a people videos about me. I'm mad because, you know, he did video about me. You want to present some of the prison. Well, he said, hey, stop. And what I'm doing, you said I had 20 years. Said I was a heroin addict. You said a whole lot of shit. I didn't say nothing the first time. But now I'm going to say something. Let's talk about your mama. You're mama did 10 years for trafficking cocaine. And you want to talk about me. So who is the skillet that call a kettle black? You need to knock it off before I put that video on a hole out there. You have not taught me how to pose. That's 20 billion peer. It is over with stop talk. We do we do. We do. We do. We're right. We need a photo explode. We have it again. Oh, so again. I think we. What the. I think we will see. Can you see? No, no. Let me jump in until you're in your your appearance. Yes. Yeah, let me jump in. Okay, because of course. I've seen that video. You know, I posted on Instagram not knowing that. Melvin and Dave had the interview and Sean's. We asked some complaints in the morning. I, you know, and I said that I said that the clip of the video to Sean too. Because he's there. I figured Instagram. He can get a little bit of traffic on this one. And then he says, man, can you believe? Ben is says, I never train him. Posting in all this stuff. I've been this video and that being perfect for him. But let me let me just tell everybody the facts. I know Melvin since the early 90s. And I know John Brown. John Brown is the reason why I'm a pro. But he came to he was slightly back in the day. I saw him pose. I mean, he was the reason why I decided to do this. Since I came to know as they said this seven. I met John John taught me how to pose as well. There was a instance that actually Melvin was video caping. John, a show me how to pose and we try to replicate this. I mean, I have all that stuff. But let's say 1993 Melvin competed in some muscle mania contest. He was like, he was like, uh, he was like, he was like, cool one. I don't know if you David, you were a story. Yeah. He was third. Yeah. Melvin did the 97 98 99 USA. You competed with him 97 a day. 97 he was third. 98 he was second to Dennis in 99 he won. Yep. You know, so I was actually the one preparing Melvin for 2000 and oh, see for his brother, but you and I was there. He was training in my gym. You can see on the same video. John Brown is training Melvin like a mania. I was always, you know, two plates. Easy. About a barbarco or more of that stuff. And at that time, Melvin wanted me to go there and see. You know, he's posing because of course, I was checking, but I would always do a, you know, do respect to John Johnny's mentor. I was just there to maybe throw in some advice. And I don't know if you've seen it. I've told him to go for a skip you up. Uh, some of you to just find that all times when you turn around and all the stuff, which Melvin accepted it and he took many times. Since you told me that, I keep my stomach flat. He says he stole that. So I was driving a truck. He said he stole that to this day. Yeah. Yes. I mean, really. And that's what I would do. Hey, I said to everybody is missing right now. When you drive your car when you eat your dinner, keep your stomach flat because if you do this 24 hours a day, it becomes a second nature. You're not going to lose it on the stage. But let's go with this, something. Sean did come in that time. And of course, I've seen Sean and my gym. Look at Richard Jones or Flex Wheeler. He was looking at me. You know, 2000 and he would give some input. Input. Okay. What do you think? So I have to jump in and say this. Yeah, Sean would occasionally. Yeah. Look at the summary and say his opinion. Not teaching. Pollows. But it gives some input. So I can see that. Madam is very emotional about this because. John Brown is his mentor. John Brown is the one that each. All of us posing. Not Sean Ray. So I just want to clarify for that particular video. I'm a guilty one to send this footage to Sean. I'm not knowing what you guys had going. And then I'm going to put this in Instagram. Yeah. Very well. See, Melvin, do we have the back? I see your video. I'd see your muted though. Melvin, do you hear us on you yourself? Yeah. Yeah. I can hear you. Oh, my perfect. Can you hear me? Yeah. So you will just give his side to you. Can you hear me? Yeah. We'll also give some more background perspective as far as because I think a lot of people probably are wondering, okay, just as far as to what extent this Sean claimed that he helped you. I mean, we so he puts post that video. You know, again, to cite that he did help you. But before that, if you want to provide a little bit more context. Okay, so that that's about it. So that day he came in and tried to give some tips. And I take everybody's tips and I use what I can use. And whatever I can't use, I discard. So like I said in the beginning, you know, you're taking he's taking it to a whole other context. Talk about you show me how to pose and being a hate on a liar. Why do I have to hate you? Hate you about what? What do I hate? I did everything that you done, okay? Now does that take anything from Sean Ray? No, what he did on stage is what he did. What he accomplished is what he accomplished. The money he made in this sport. I don't hate on that. That's great. I wish he could have made more. Okay. That's the type of person I am. Everybody on this panel can tell you. I'm not that type of guy, but I will also tell you. I'm from the neighborhood. So you know, when you have disputes like that and you say things like that, you know, you saw me at John Brown's sons in F.L. Party. And I said to David the video, you had every opportunity to say that to my face. You know what I'm talking about? We could have discussed it. But you know, it's not about me being pissed or emotional. I'm on a set the record straight. He didn't show me shit. That was the only time he spoke to me about posing because that's like Star Wars. Everybody sees Star Wars. John Brown is the Jedi Master. Okay. Sean Ray's a Jedi. Okay. I'm a Jedi. But I became a Jedi master based upon how I evolved from what John taught me. So how am I going to sit there and listen to what you're saying? When I got to Jedi right behind you. And then you're going to turn around trying to edit it and try to make it seem like that show video you dummy. That's my video that I still sell to this day. Okay. I had Sean Ray on there because that Sean Ray. He's a Mr. Olympian. I'd be a dummy not to let the boy talk. But if you see my face, look at the video again. I'm looking at him like, well, if you don't sit down somewhere. Okay. I heard you're down. Sit down. Right? Come on out. It's not that serious. So I'm going to still be me. I'm still on my square. I am who I am. But you are who you were. You want to still be relevant in this fort by talking about me. I must be pretty important for you to still talk about me. You give what I'm talking about. So that's why I'm going in on them today. So you didn't show me how to pose John Brown bit. John Brown had influence and a lot of people's lives. Vince Taylor Victor Richards. Me, Lose me Chris Kormier. Ask him. He's all had influence. The Jedi has given information for you to use to be better. So how is that being a hater? How do I lie about my own video? Are you a dummy? So you're someone's wrong with your mind to think that you taught me something you gave it to him. That's not teaching me posing. I learned how to spin, how to create music, how to even pose and contract my fingers. My animation and my face. That's all John Brown. And I took it into another level and brought it into my own because that's what I was trained to do. The same intensity that I put in a gym. I put on a stage. And if I never met Sean Ray, I still was going to roll. I still was going to be a top six Mr Olympia. I still have three titles in my gym. Sean's got two. I have three. How dare you say you train me like that. You didn't teach me how to pose. That's that's false. That is the truth and the proof is in a pudding.

I'm here with Mike Basel now, No Nito Dornaris, Strat the Condition Coach, as well as cut man. You're going to be in the corner this semester. Yes sir. This set will for Mar and I. You've adopted multiple jobs. How did you originally meet No Nito? So he came in. His wife is a black belt and tech window. In our gym, I'm a spirit of boxing gym, in San Carlos. We have Golden State Tech window. That's where she originally got her black belt from. Wow, black belt, huh? Yeah. So she's probably, yeah, more dangerous. So she's pretty tough and she, um, so he was, after her fight, he was coming here. They lived in San Mateo with her, her parents. So they were kind of, I think it only been married a year. So they've been, they were, and she was looking for a ring to do an interview in a backdrop. Oh, I was like a setting. So she knew that Brian's, Jim, she's like, well, I think Brian's in has a ring. Let me call him state. So that's what happened. They came there and did an interview. It was supposed to be me and Brian waited all day. It was supposed to be like, you know, an hour, ended up being like four hours. They were there well into the afternoon. So after that, we started talking, you know, he was, you know, he introduced himself to all of us and, you know, we were talking about, uh, pack out, I just beaten Dale Hoya. So that was a big thing because he went to that 147. It was the biggest weight he was in. And that was a toughest guy, the highway. So he, no need, it was like, you know, I want to do that. It's my goal. It's the move up in weight, and he knew up in weight, and he knew the training people. And he just said, you know, I've never done any, I said, well, what kind of strength do you do now? And he goes, I don't do anything. I'm just a whole school box. I hit the bags, I settle box, I spar, I run. And I do it every day. And I do it as hard as I can every day. And you knew right off the bat for this guy is untapped potential. But untapped potential because I had seen him fight. I had seen him fight, uh, Victor Chini on HBO. I had no who he was. Mm-hmm. But I heard about Victor Chini and we were to sit in that homewatch in this showtime thing. And all of a sudden, this kid is like, well, this guy could move. He's not just some opponent that's guy. I think Victor Chini and thought he was just an opponent. Sure. But this kid came in and he was, uh, he, he knocked him out with one shot. One punch. But he had set that punch up even before in the other, uh, subsequent rounds. They could got him in the fifth round. But it was, uh, so right away I was like, man, he's so mighty watch. Right. He's a kid to watch. So then we ended up meeting him at the gym and then I made two and two together. Right. Now, once you started working with him, what, what did you focus most in? What, what do you think that was your major contribution to him in terms of stratified initially? Most of it was my, in the beginning. Well, over the lat, we've been together six fights, over that has been, mostly it's like the core condition, um, you know, the fighters have two sit ups. Yeah. His old trainer called him, uh, natural sit ups. So I do a lot of core work. That's mainly, uh, what I contributed to is strength training, um, as well as, uh, agility work on ladder. Use kind of agility ladder and some plyometric stuff to build some explosiveness in his legs. That seems to be the key for the boxes explosive. I mean, a lot of people don't realize it. I think it's all hands. They think it's all hands, but it is legs. It's core work. It's been able to, to change level of user hips. I imagine when you hit in the body shots, if you're stronger here, you can absorb more of that punishment. Exactly. Well, we worked about two weeks together. And I did some pretty crazy stuff. But I was very cool with them because he had, he didn't even know he's a very adaptable person. He's a very adaptable to anything you try. I mean, if you get him in the gym body building, this kid will probably move out. It will blow up. It will blow up. It's the weirdest body I've ever seen. Right. And so you two weeks into the training might mainly focus on an abs plyometric, some, you know, jumping drills for explosiveness and some agility work. Things that would transition into the ring. He goes best. A shadow box. And he's going best. I get it. And I go, what are you talking about? He goes, I get it. I get what we've been doing. I totally get it. Everything, every move I make, everything I do, I'm using my center, I'm using my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my center. And the, but for the very first time, I'm aware of that. Hmm. And then when he would spar, he would be able to take blows up absorb it, not feeling it. The way he felt body punches before. Right. I mean, a well-placed body shot will hurt anyone. Sure. But these guys, these fighters train themselves to not show that, right? But he, for the first time, he was like, I understand what you're doing. You're my guy. I got you. And he talks very highly of you. And you'll be in the corner. Yes. Cut man. Yes. Hold on. You're going to walk them. Jack little chance. We don't want you to fix any cuts. That ain't it. I don't want that job. Do you like working in the corner? You actually like being there with him? He, I love it. I love it. And I had done it before in amateur boxing and we'd work some MMA fights with Brian at the gym. We'd had some guys fight professionally. And it's with amateur's. But at this level, never had worked. And no need to always giving me this opportunity. I'm a huge boxing fan. As well as he is, too. And he's given me this opportunity, this chance of a lifetime to work with all these people like, watch for years.

I love the way for everyone, Art and the goals it's time to end my way And madünden makes time living with thealted Oh let me save you.SOUND in a waving phone, with this ahad, this alumination bystandlerly in cheering you

1 2 3 Let's go up right Yeah! Oh, you're all gonna get me Oh, you're gonna get me You're gonna get me Oh, you're gonna get me Oh, you're gonna get me Thank you, my Lord

Happy New Year! Good job,キ guard! Sing, I love you they will sing ooh Wanna go short Get it off Wanna go short We'll change the world We'll change the world We'll change the world

It's going to be a cut. This is a controversial answer, but it is true. But the most hardcore place I've ever trained were the guys who are the most focused on training that's really it was when I was in jail, believe it or not. And we trained outside. There was a canopy over us and we trained either a 90 degree heat or it was freezing cold. I was there for six months. It was like five months. It was, I got both seasons. And then those guys trained hardcore. I don't think anyone trained harder than that anywhere I've gone. But in a conventional gym setting, I would say that first of all nothing can inspire you more than Golgjim, Venice back in the 90s. I mean, that place was like, even now it's still got great energy. But back then there was so many superstars there. I mean, if you couldn't get a good work out there and push your hardest, there was something wrong with you. Having said that on a regular basis where I trained, where I threw at the hardest core, atmosphere always was best for it's a powerhouse gym. And that's just because there were so many good people there and even the regular guys who trained there, all trained like they were, and no one can, most of them didn't compete. But they all trained as they'll be worth. So you couldn't just like, whip out and do a bad work out there because everyone's watching everyone in all times there. So on a regular basis, that was a very motivating atmosphere. Now I've gone to gyms where I've had really hardcore workouts like sporadically throughout, you know, my old Metro Flex gym, I mean, come on, you can't, that one's great. I went to the Metro Flex without in, where was it in Arizona was really, really hardcore. I've been at mid city gym in Manhattan, downstairs in the basement. I mean, that place, legends, Arnold used to train there. It literally, you walk down these steps, you think you're going into hell basically. And as these little rooms, it looks like someone dug up out with a shovel. Those ceilings are really low and they're super hardcore equipment. All the guys are hardcore. It's like, it's a sweat, it's like a sweat shop and there. But you know what, you get a great workout. 19th Street gym in Manhattan was really great. I never was at Johnny Latsby, heard that was a very good gym too. I used to train to place Metro, fit, not Metro Flex, Metro, fit up in a, a pellum manner, up in Westchester, back in the 90s. There was a enormous amount of bodybuilders who went through that to a bottom brush can used to go there and take pictures of people in that place. I actually worked there for a little while too. There's been a lot, I mean, strong, shapely gym back in the day when Bob was in his hey, day, you know, that was a great gym. Dear Park Gold Gym was great. I really used to know all the good hardcore places that I went there. But like on a regular basis where I train, Beth Francis probably the best place. If I lived in California, obviously I would have been a gold vendingist because the energy there was electric too. It's good. I ain't the pro. I got to mention also Tony Dardy's gym, 247 in Melbourne. Super hardcore. I love that gym. I really do.

... I Hello, darling. Hello, darling. How are you? Are right here at the 2012 Oscar celebration at Tampa Theatre with a muscle man. I can't even stand at my go out there. So gorgeous and let me. I can't even get my arm around this one. Look at this. Wow, I don't have the strength. Tell me what you love about being a muscle man. What do I love about being a muscle man? Muscle man at the movies. Well, I love movies. I love a muscle building muscle working out. I love the two. I love the challenge. That's what it is, the challenge. And you, you muscle man in the movies? Right. Yeah, we started this show a couple of months ago and it's getting a big hit. We're doing all the movies. We're showing it from every, you know, on every man perspective. Every man perspective now are they all movies about people with muscles? No, actually none of them are about people with movies with muscles. It's about like the same stuff where we actually did the best movies of 2011. That was our last show. So we're kind of like the, imagine the Oscars with a lot more muscles. Listen, it's not so man with brains. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. Here we are. I, you've started this on your own or did your father tell you to. My father. He's a real man. Just like me. And he told me, son, go out and make something for yourself. Oh, my God. That's what I do. That is so fabulous. How did you get involved with it? It's Jason. Oh, Aaron. There was another nice Jewish name. Oh, my God. So John, yes. I'm going to get involved with Aaron. Well, you know, Cisco and Ebert haven't been around for a while. And I figured we need it in an updated version. So we're going to let the more buff version of Cisco and Ebert. I'd have to say you were a lot more handsome than those two guys, too. You know, and your standy, you're all alive, too. I like that. We can all go live. Cheers, John. A little pre-outs of your drink. Yes, I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. I'm just like that. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Fuck, I sure. Pour me one. All right, we're on the limo. We're about to get out and go to the red carpet. Excited John. Rona Givers. Yeah. Rona Givers. We're just going to see Rona Givers. Here we go. Leave him with it. Leave him the limo. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Show. Kiss me. Shows. Kiss me. It's this bag. What's the matter, Rona? Wait. Kiss. Yeah. Kiss. Look at what. Look at the baby eyes, they're gorgeous. Look at the baby eyes, they're gorgeous. Who's the same miles long house? You know, I see the hair loss of people. They are about, look, look, I mean, I can't get into my house. You're like, you're on here. You're like to try. So who do you think's gonna win the best picture? Your sister's having a good day. Angelina Jolie, she's not a, she's a nominate. And the picture, which I, who are you picking for best move it? The artist, the artist as well, I agree. So what do you think's gonna win for best picture? Picks picture, I think the artist. I love the artist too. Wow, everybody's going for the artist. Twilight. I think money ball. Money ball? Monman ball, I'm going with you. How about a best actor? What do you think? Brad Pitt, for sure, of course. How about a best supporting actor? What do you think? I'm pretty sure I'm gonna win that one. What do you think's gonna win for best picture? The artist? Yeah, I think it's, I think you're right. How about a best actor? I'm a best actor. Don't be shardone. Moving for this year. Obviously the one that wins. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. I think he's gonna win. Here we are. John Hanson here at Saringman. It's over for the night. The Oscars are over. This was a long night, John. We got here at like, around six. It's almost midnight now. Yeah. It's been long. I'm ready to go. But before we go, we have to announce who won. All right. And John, since John got almost every single one of these right. He predicted almost literally every single one of them. I mean, like, John go ahead and run them off for us. John. All right. We got a best picture was the artist, which I was right on. And you'd like to see your right. Because you're gonna be right on all of it. Was right on that one? Right on that one? Best actor was John Desarcan, who was in the artist. Best actress was Merrill Streep. Big upset. Everybody thought Viola Day was gonna win. But you thought Viola Day was the one. That was your one. One of the ones that the Merrill Streep won. Best supporting actor was Christopher Flummer from the beginners. Best supporting actress was Octavia Spencer from the help. Best director was Michael Hasenema, whatever. Right. He's from the artist. Best original screenplay was Midnight in Paris. And a adapted screenplay was the descendants. Is that all you want to know? Yeah. I mean, that's the main stuff. Everything else is kind of like in significant. All right. Right. The funny thing John is, we didn't actually review a few of these movies. There's a few that we didn't talk about. The beginners for one. Yeah. We reviewed almost every single one of them. But the beginners, what other ones we didn't review? Uh, you go. We didn't review. You go in. You don't want a lot of, um, like special effects of what? I didn't see any of the cartoon movies this year to you. No, I didn't either. I don't live kids. So, you'll be seeing them pretty soon though. You'll be going all the way through. Yeah. I might send Daryl to that one. I'll go to the other theater and kind of meet her back after. All right. All right. So this was fun. This was fun. We had a few drinks. We did the limo ride. All right. You know, all in all. I hope you guys enjoyed the video. The first part was the first silent movie to win since the first Oscars back in 1929. That's pretty unbelievable. That throughout this whole period from then to now, they never had another silent movie that won. They actually said, I was, I know you told me way away before that there would not be moneyball. But moneyball, if it were the one, would have been the first movie ever about baseball to when I was. Right. So, I thought the moneyball was the best movie of the year. But that was your favorite. That was your number. My favorite. Yeah. But the artist was good. I'm glad that got some recognition. Well, for John Hansen, Aaron Seringon, Muscle at the Movies, we're out.

Here we are, Muscle at the Movies. And this is a very special Muscle at the Movies. John Hansen, the Air in St. John, what makes this episode different than every other episode? We are doing the best of 2011, the best and the worst. And we got a bunch of categories, too. We got the best action film we got, most disappointing or worst film, what else will we got? Best superhero film, and best comedy, and we're going to do the top 10. Your top 10, my top 10. All right, let's start off with the top 10. And we're going to start at the bottom with 10th spot. So, who do you have in your 10th best movie of the year? My 10th best movie of the year was the help, which was a movie about, took place in Mississippi, Jacksonville, Mississippi, I believe, in the 1960s. And it's basically about the African American made that all the white people employ, and the maids were helping to raise these kids, and then when the kids grow up, they're very disrespectful to the maids. They treat them like crap, you know. Two great acting performances in it, Violet Davis, and Octavia Spencer, both favorites for the Academy Awards, by the way, best actress and best supporting actress. They were both awesome. A lot of great acting performances, mostly women. Emma Stone was in it. Justine, Jessica Chestin, who was also in a few other movies this year. Really good acting performances, really good movie. It's sort of a feel good movie at the end of the movie, you know, about sort of a controversial subject, but it was basically a feel good movie. I really liked it, really well done. That's one of those ones that I really hadn't heard too much about until the awards start coming out, and I've seen that they've been up for a lot of awards, and I think they won some already, didn't they? Yeah, Violet Davis just won the Saga Award. So I think she's got to be the favorite to win best actress. And Octavia Spencer has been cleaning up with the best supporting actress, so she's probably going to win that. All right. My tenth movie on the list will be midnight in Paris. Okay. And this is when we were viewed in the past, and this is Owen Wilson, and who else was in this main characters? Rachel McAdams. Rachel McAdams. And this is based on, as we were viewed it before, anybody who read a lot of the classics in school, such as like, anything great, Gaff's be, yeah, exactly. So in these old authors that you read in school, this kind of they bring them back to life, and this is a, and this is a Woody Allen film, and it's actually with the best Woody Allen film I've seen in a while on a big Woody Allen fan. So it was great to see him come back with a movie that I really enjoyed, and I think you know, even Daria liked it, and pretty much everybody had good reviews. I wasn't sure it was going to be so good, but after you recommended it, I went and saw it, and I was impressed with it. Yeah. Ninth spot. My ninth spot was the Iads of March. Another really well-acted movie, Ryan Gosling, who's basically the star of the movie, George Clooney directed the movie, and co-wrote it. It's a political movie where George Clooney is trying to get the Democratic National Convention, or the Democratic National nomination, I should say, for president, and he's a governor, and it's all about to be hiding the scenes going on between, you know, in the political world, very well written, very smart movie, good acting performances, Phil Schymour Hoffman is the campaign manager for George Clooney, and Ryan Gosling is basically his press secretary. Then there's a little controversy, little suspense in the movie, I don't want to give it away, but something happens to one of the main characters, and then there's some suspense in it, but really well-done movie. Again, another movie that's going to be up for a lot of Academy Awards. On mine, mine, I think movie, was the dead, and the dead is based around basically the war criminals of the Holocaust, and one of them was, I guess, the story is kind of, it's not based in reality, but it's kind of like, I guess, fictionalized reality. So there was a doctor, Dr. Mangala, in the real Holocaust, and they kind of modeled this doctor that these Jewish soldiers are actually trying to go assassinate, they send them out trying to get bring this guy back, excuse me, they're actually trying to bring him back to Israel, and bring him back for trial. And it's kind of the saga of these young Israelis looking for this doctor and trying to bring him back, and then what happens is a result of that. So I put that firmly in number nine, a good story, and people would like it. Great. Number eight, my number eight movie is the whistleblower, another movie that probably not too many people have heard about, it's on DVD right now, so if you want to run it, Rachel Whites was the star of the movie, great acting performance, I think she had totally overlooked with the Oscar nominations. I think this was a small movie that came out, nobody really heard of it. It's actually a true story. She plays a cop from Nebraska, hurting from money because of a divorce, and everything she's looking for other ways to make money. They recommend that she go to Bosnia and work for the UN peacekeeping mission out there. So she does, she goes out there, and she finds out once she gets out there, there's all the sex trafficking going on with these miners, and people from the UN are participating in it, and it's a huge controversy, nobody's saying anything about it. She's she being a good person, reports it, then she's suspended, then she's terminated, and she goes all the way through with this thing and brings it to light. It's a great, really great movie, great acting performance by her. I think she did one of the best acting performances of the year, so if you get a chance to see that movie on DVD, go stay at it. My number eight was Warrior, and Warrior was a good movie. You have a C kind of action movie where two brothers that kind of grew up separately, one went to the army, another one raising a family, they end up both making into this big tournament, and it's like a MMA drama slash action movie. I highly recommend it. I think that it was a really good, it was one of those movies that I would never imagine making a top 10 for the year, just because it is basically an action movie. You're relatively, I mean it's like a blood sport, basically. A blood sport, you know, with a little more twist of slightly more intellectual blood sport, you know? I mean good acting performance. And they had the two dramas between the two brothers. Right, exactly. So I would definitely recommend it. It's one of those that actually did really good review. I was one of the ones I was looking at Rod and Tomatoes, I know you do too. It is 93% of the critics liked it, so that's extremely high number. So I think pretty much anybody who went to it walked away liking it, which is a good, puts it pretty solidly in the brain. And Nick Nolt, you played a drunk and father. Got nominated for an Oscar for that movie. I didn't even know that. Wow, there you go. Yeah. Number seven. My number seven was Midnight Perse, same as you. Again, Woody Allen movie, one of his best in years, like you said, very well written. That's what I liked about this movie. It was very, very good comedy. And you know, bringing back all these old characters, it was like it's like us going back to Arnold's era. And we get, we get to meet Arnold in Franco and Sergio Leeville and they're young, and you get to see him. And you know, that's what this guy, because he's an artist, or screenwriter. And he's trying to, you know, he imagines, he romanticizes that era. You know, the F Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway. And then Marion Coutilard was in a two and she was very good. She was, remember the girlfriend of Picasso. So he gets his Picasso, Salvador Dally. You know, so it was a really good movie really well done. All right. For me, number seven was 5050. And this is the story. 5050 is based on the main character. He finds out that he gets, he has cancer. Young guy, I probably what? Late 20s, maybe? Yeah, 26, I think. 26. Yeah. Well, good memory. Look at the memory on John here. Oh, he just saw it. Okay. So anyway, he finds out that he has cancer in the doctor say you got a 5050 chance to live. And it's an interesting mix. This is another one that was a comedy slash drama. And he had a lot of actually very funny moments. And I remember when I heard about it, I was kind of almost hesitant to see it because I wasn't in the mood for a sad movie. And I was actually very happy that I saw it because it was funny. And I enjoyed it. And it actually came away like almost like a feel good movie in the long run. So it was very moving too in the end. Very moved. Didn't know what was going to happen if he was going to die. And this is a guy who was contemplating death at 26 years old. Yeah. That's tough. Definitely tough. So that was my number seven. My number six was margin call, which was a movie basically about the 2008 mortgage crisis. And this is basically like the last night before the bottom fell out, you know. And it's not a true story, but I think it's based on Lehman Brothers, what happened with them. Basically Stanley Tucci is the analyst at the firm. And he's let go and there's big layoff that they have. And before he leaves, he gives this computer chip to this guy's secretary, secretary Quinto, the guy who played Spock in the Star Trek movie. And he's this upcoming you know, Wiz Kid. And he says, you know, hey, I found something you better check this out. And he looks at it and he says, oh man, we are going to lose money. You know, this whole industry is going to go down the tubes. So it's basically about what happens in one night. They call in the big wigs from who run the firm. And Kevin Spacey is another actor in it. A lot of really acting performances. It's almost like a drama. It's it's very tense as you're watching it, because you know what's going on in fold. You know, it's going to happen. So really well done, called margin call. That was one that you know, people will find this interesting. This is a little side note. A lot of the movies that we are putting in our top 10 are movies that we reviewed in the last two shows. It just goes to shit. People might be wondering why that is. A lot of times it turns out movies get held towards the end to the awards because they want they want to make it to the award show. Obviously, if you put a movie way earlier on in the year, there's a good chance that people will forget about it unless it's really a big impact. So a lot of times these movies that you guys are hearing on our list is because they literally save these things, right? Exactly. Yeah. The summertime is mostly escapeous type movies and the real serious movies start coming out in the fall. All right. For me, number six was Sena. And this is one that is actually a documentary, a documentary. It's a documentary. It documentary. A documentary on the race car driver. And I can't pronounce his name. His first name is Brazilian guy, Atoia. I think it's a Toia Sena. And I never heard of him before. F1 Racing is not something that I've ever really been into. Although I'm going to the Australia and Graham Prey at the same time, there's the F1 Racing. So I may be all end up seeing one. But anyway, he was like, almost like a prodigy of F1 Racing. And it's not a secret because it tells you in the back of the film, the guy dies in a race. And it kind of gives the whole life story of this guy and how he came to be so great at racing. And it was really a cool movie. It's one of those ones that got really good reviews. And because those reviews I saw it, and I was happy I did. And it actually came in at sex, which is pretty good. Okay. My number five was the movie that's really surprised everybody. The whole year was the artist. It's a silent black and white movie. And it's basically about the silent film era. And there's this guy who was a star as name in the movie is George Valentin. And he's a big star in the movie. And right around the time of the movie, the talkies are coming in. And then he meets this girl whose name is Peppy Miller. And he sort of helps her get into the movies. And then she becomes a big star because she's got a great voice. And he's actually French. So he can't make America movie. You know, you know, here's her voice. Oh, she just said, no, yeah, the whole movie silent. And it's just a very entertaining, feel good movie. There's no, you know, vulgarity in this movie, no violence. Really great, you know, really well done movie. And it was really entertaining. And it's probably going to be the favorite to win the Oscar. Believe it or not? Who would have thought in this day and age, a black and white silent movie would be possibly wouldn't would get this kind of reception and do this. Exactly. I was a total, total surprise and real challenge, you know, for the filmmaker to even get a maid. But paid off. That's one I guess I got to put on my list. I'll have to see that by myself. In time is my number five. If your movie was the artsy, farcey, high-browen. In time will be the low-brow entertainment. Basically it's just in timber lake. And, you know, a lot of people might not see it just on that. But in reality, the plot is what got me. And we'd review this one. I'd really like to before is that in time was original. In the fact that he basically has to, he uses his money. Everybody at this period and this like alternate reality uses time as money. So you don't use a dollar bill or currency. There's no currency like any kind of funds or goods. It's all time. And it's actually on their wrist. So if you want to buy something you use time. If you want to get paid, you use time when you run out you die. And so it's so different than in the other movie I saw, the ideal loan being original. And even the society, the hierarchy, you know, the poor people live in the ghetto where things are cheaper. And if you want to go to where things are more expensive where they have luxury, it costs money to even get there. So they prevent the poor people from moving up in society. They're working for very little time. And the top of the line where you see Justin Timberlake eventually get there literally you have people that are buying, you know, millions of hours or even millions of years houses. So I'll have a billion years to live. Pretty amazing.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Vote, our 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday August 17th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I'm not a huge martial arts guy, not because I don't like it. It's just not a thing that I've gotten into. But I will say this, if I wanted to go for my black belt in hard-body karate, Brandon Hendrickson would be my go-to guy. I have it on going to farty. The brand has been handing out some serious ass kickings every time he steps into the gym. And you could almost feel that level of focus and determination coming through in his photos. This isn't a new brand, and this is the old brand with new upgrades. Only this time around he isn't pulling any punches. He's on the hunt again, and I don't think he'll be satisfied with anything less than winning back is a one-be a title. But I'd be honest with you guys for a second. I woke up this morning. I was feeling good. I got to work out in, and then someone sent me these videos of Nathan De Asher, and it immediately made me realize that I'm so weak right now that it's not even funny. And you can see Nathan celebrating international chess day the only way he knows how, which is basically getting under a bar or machine and knocking out four plates for reps. The last I heard Nathan didn't have any plans set in stone as far as future shows are concerned, because all the uncertainty surrounding international travel is what it is. But depending on how these things shake out over the next few weeks, I wouldn't completely rule out seeing him on an Olympia stage this December. Believe it or not, we're actually one month away from the New York pro. And one of the things that makes this year show so compelling decides the fact that it's moved to Tampa is how important this show is for athletes looking to grab one of the last few remaining Olympia qualifications. And considering how last year season ended, Fama Dolphus Keoda, I would love to erase some of that sour taste with the win here. I know this seems like a million years ago now, but right before last year's Olympia, a Dolphus was actually denied entry to the US when he was at the airport about to board his flight for Vegas. So it's been a long journey since then, but I'm a firm believer that everything in life happens for a reason. But if he ends up clenching the win in New York and riding the momentum all the way to Planet Hollywood, and it's on strange way the universe will have gotten him exactly where he was supposed to be. And finally, we're closing out today's show with more sad news on the competition front, following the announcement that this year's Japan Pro was being canceled. We heard the news from Heade Yamagishi who said that the event was forced to shut down due to COVID-19 restrictions, which seemed like it's just part of the course. With the show being canceled for November 15th, it was actually one of the last events on the regular season calendar that served as an Olympia qualifier, which is a real shame for any athletes who were scheduled to compete here. But again, what do you do at the end of the day? We all have to take it and try to put one foot in front of the other and take advantage of whatever opportunities we can. Because if there's anything we should all learn from this whole thing, it's that tomorrow is never promised. And that does it. The at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The IFPB Europa Pro in Aliconti Spain has let out Nathan the Asha has been crowned the champion for Nathan after that horrible year he's had with COVID and his gym shut down and arrests because he wouldn't shut his gym and I mean just all kinds of mishaps Nathan and over the last year this guy has really just been standing up for his right to own a business and basically you know have a life he would and man what nice retrovue to this is he this the Olympia last year couldn't travel and now he is going back to be to one Olympia beating a very good ruling winkler and this was a huge win for Nathan and I think that we have to really take our hats off to what he went through and how great he looked at this show. Really certainly was not the rule that we're used to seeing on stage. There's definitely something that hasn't restored itself if you want. Chris Asita said that he felt they really hadn't really gained back to size that lost over the last year or so that we hadn't seen him on stage and I think that that might be the truth but really look good here and we're going to see some momentary rouls and footage from a website that had some of this event and you know it's thank god for them because there's really not that much out there and if you look it was a two man show essentially here Nathan the Esheroly winkler and through the poses one by one from the front size they're pretty equal you know and I mean it's not like a blowout by any means on Nathan's bucket when they turn around you just see the crispness of Nathan the Esheroly he's glued to handstrings around really really doesn't have that conditioning back in those areas even really his lower back is really not you know outstanding it's got a lot of thicknesses up or back of course but Nathan's got a lot of wow a lot of pop and he can tell that he suffered. He absolutely gained that a lot of muscle that he had lost we had seen Nathan you know lose a couple of shows and not really looked at great the greatest you know about a year and half ago he was competing before this whole COVID thing where that makes it because he rested his body and man that he bounced back he's got those crazy genetics that you know if the Levrony hyper responder type genetics where you always got to just get back in the gym and really focus on what he's doing 100 and that muscle comes back he looks fresher here than really I I think he easily beats really you know it's to every pose obviously this is more for the audience I think and you know a lot of people about third place should have possibly snuck in there but I think really was a solid second thing Nathan was a solid first what's going on with really I don't know I think really might just need another season to really get back to his old form obviously he had some issues as well but you can see Nathan's with here also really works as a fashion and we think of really wayfler is being so crazy wide but at the end of the day you know Nathan is his bigger he's got a bigger structure and I said yesterday you know when I did my wrap up of the Texas prop I wish I could have seen Kouplo come out to see what a fairer against Nathan yes I don't know if he would have been a really good battle because they both have a lot of width and a lot of pop through that physique a lot of wow but the European audience got their money's worth for sure and Nathan the Esher really proves once for all the hey you know what I'm back number one I'm going to the Olympia and I'm going to give these guys a the Olympia and that top six a big run for their money and that's that's a bold statement on his part and I think that you know we've got to add into the list people out there I mean he doesn't really have a lot of weaknesses and when he's when he's sharp like he was here he will be very difficult to beat because of his taper because of his small ways because of his wow he must have roots his arms his shoulders when turns around his back double was really good he's got glutes and hamstrings and everything ties in very nicely and flows nicely and that's important especially on the Olympia stage sometimes guys like Nathan have trouble winning these these smaller shows because sometimes oranges but on that Olympia stage there's a lot of structural guys in that top six and if you don't have structure usually you get ejected immediately so I think that Nathan's going to be a factor and we know this is this too we'll Nathan display something I don't know what is really way to have to do he's got to go back through the drawing board and do what got him there to begin with train heavy have a solid rough season and come back and dominate again but he's got to put that size back on maybe he didn't give himself enough time all I know is that it's been a super exciting weekend for shows we're going to do a full wrap up of all these shows tomorrow with Milo Sars have lied to him that's Monday 12 new Easter Santa time for now I'm Dave Alumbo but then our ex muscle

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, there's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. curious question here, are there any full words that get bodybuilding fans more fired up online than new big rammy picks? Okay, so you missed it a few days ago, rammy set the internet on fire when he released and never before seen photo of himself looking so ridiculously shredded that it was like something right out of a Marvel movie. Now to be clear, rammy news team didn't say whether or not the photo was recent. But since it's been so long since we've seen anything like this from rammy, I don't think it really matters if it's recent or not. This version of rammy is what people think of when they talk about him as a legitimate title contender for the Olympia throne, because when he's in this kind of shape, he's without a doubt one of the most unstoppable forces in the ISBB. And if this is a recent photo, it means he could be getting ready to release a whole world of hurt on some people, a lot sooner than expected. If the best training partner is the one who pushed you past your limits and into uncharted territory, the crew flexed Lewis has been running with lately are definitely the right people for the job. Recently flexed managed to team up with four-time world-trogest man Brian Shaw and power lift the slash internet sensation big boy from the strength cartel for what had to be one of the most punishing workouts he's had in a very long time. One of the things that really stood out to me after seeing flex in this group is how small he looks standing next to these two guys that tip the scales at three and 400 pounds. Even for flex who I'm told is sitting somewhere in the neighborhood of 250 trying to keep pace with these guys had to be a humbling experience. And that's what training partners do. They humble you and sometimes that means taking you into deep order. But at the end of the day if this is what gives flex that extra pushy needs to contend for the Olympia title I guess it's all worth it in the end. Team sports culture is huge. Winning and losing are both things that have to be learned and the culture that surround to Natalie is a huge part of that process. So for someone like Alex Cabernero who's one of the few people who knows what it takes to win at the highest level in classic physique. I think having that culture well established heading into the early stages of this year's Olympia prep is a huge advantage. Winning the Arnold title at the start of the year essentially primed his mindset for excellence which is exactly what you need when you're trying to challenge guys like Chris Bumstead and Breonna Ansley so if you can really bear down and dig deep into the roots of that winning culture I think that in the end it could be enough to push him over the top. You should be wary of the man who walks softly and carries a big stick. And if you were surveying the landscape of the 212 division right now you'd have a hard time finding someone who walks off there and carried a bigger stick than Noah Adani. Throughout his entire year, Noah's been hold up and working quietly down at his home base in Mexico trying to erase the sting of a rough outing it last year's Olympia. He won the indie pro last March and the lineup that featured some pretty high level guys. It showed how good he can be when he's completely locked in so if you can get back to that level of conditioning I'd look out for him to catch some people by surprise between now and October. And that does it. At another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Pombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Dave Palomo here with an RX muscle news update guys just just in exciting news from the Arnold Classic people. Really winkler and Nick Walker entering the lineup. Wow, that's a breaking news story for sure. You know, Sergio, I'll leave a junior on our TV show and on his Instagram set a couple weeks ago. Bring everyone to that stage. Let's get the best of the best. Let's battle it out. I don't care if I win or lose. I want to be up there with the best and you know what? It seems like that's what's happening. We got Sergio with that lineup. We got E-invol year in that lineup. We got William Bowen at the lineup. We got a key Williams in that lineup and now adding to that mix. I'm not going to think of Justin Rodriguez's been hot as hell this past year. Just tearing up the seniors at it over 300 pounds of that. Now we add Nick Walker who just won New York and then we have really winkler the beast himself. I mean, that's the guy that we're all waiting to win the Mr. Olympia. He might be the greatest hope to beat big Randy because he can match him for his size. Now we see really entering that on a plastic. A month out from the Olympia. This is a very good move. I think on Rullies Park. Use this as a warm up. If he wins here, that's tremendous momentum going into the Olympia competition and all eyes will be on the winner of this on a plastic. Even though this on will qualify guys for the following year, this is a good move for all these guys to enter because you know what? It's going to be a warm up for the Olympia. Randy can just sit back and watch and see who's going to be his challengers. And I think we're going to see a tremendous show. I know the Arnold people have to be super excited because obviously how do you to move the show from the usual date and mark now to September is got to be messing up their whole act. And of course, hopefully next year they're going to be back to normal. But having a line up like this has got to make it all that much more sweeter. I only can wish to take an add more money to the pot so to speak so that the prize would be higher. But this is tremendous news. This is going to be so. This might be the best Arnold plastic of all time, at least on paper the lineup. If everyone shows up in shape, we've never happened. But if most of the people show up in shape, we could have a tremendous balance. We're basically having the Olympia line up here minus hot and chupin and big ramming up there. And that's going to be, you know, I mean, how much forward side can that get? And I told you know, you want to interview to Kim Williams this past week. I said, you know, how much would this mean this victory do you? He goes, this is almost better than winning the Olympia. The Arnold is just as big to have Arnold raise your hand to win all that prize money. And then obviously get to go to the Olympia three, four weeks later. I mean, it's like a bananas. I think it's, it's foolish for anyone to skip it on the lab. We're seeing all the big names entering this show and battling it out on that stage. You never know who could be a dark horse mount lineup that I didn't mention. So I think this is tremendous, tremendous excitement for the body building world. We haven't, you know, felt this infused about a show. I don't think since before COVID. So I'm looking forward to it. I know as a fan and as a press person who's going to cover the show, a great job on the Arnold people convincing Nick Walker and really to jump into that line up and for letting them in late because let's face it. This is only going to make this show that much better. Day to level with an RX muscle news update.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday September 14th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. In some ways, winning your pro-card is the end of a culminating moment for a lot of athletes. It represents years of blood, sweat, and tears, all finally come together at the right time. But in other ways, winning your pro-card is also the start of an even longer journey with their greater purpose. And if I had a guest, North American, overall champ, Nick Walker probably feels like he's experiencing both ends of that spectrum right now. After his big win two weeks ago, I saw a lot of people saying that they thought Nick was ready to step on to a pro stage right now, and he could possibly even crack the top five in the right lineup. At this point, we haven't heard anything from Nick's team about whether or not something that that is even on the radar, although he told me he'll be answering Chicago. So I guess in some sense that means they haven't ruled it out. Given that they are so few Olympia qualifiers left, I don't know if jumping in right now makes a ton of sense on paper, but this guy has undeniable talent. There are plenty of people who would be interested in seeing how he stacks up on an IFBB stage. The older I get, the more I find myself agreeing with people who say that age is only a member. And I think that probably applies double for someone like Victor Martinez, even though Victor officially hung up the trunks. They have to be the Arnold Classic. You wouldn't know it by just looking at him. Victor released a clip from an arm training session not too long ago. Where it didn't look to me like he was showing any signs of slowing down. Before we started today's show, I actually went back and looked up some of Victor's career numbers and it's almost hard to fathom how he stayed at the top of the pyramid for so long. And to be honest, it's not just the numbers. The lucky brought to the O7 Olympia is still one of the greatest of all time. And it speaks volumes about how special of a talent he was. Even though he says he's retired, we still have guys like Sean Roding competing in his late 40s and Dexter into his 50s now. So even though it might be a slim chance, I'm still holding on to hope that we might get one more vintage Victor Martinez performance before he steps away for good. At some point in their life, everyone has that one friend who they absolutely refuse to train legs with because they know they won't be able to walk for a week after they're done. And I bet everything in my bank account that Sean Calaritas that someone over the weekend Sean's camp released footage of another one of his ridiculous leg sessions that showed one of the most dangerous athletes in the 2012 firing on all cylinders according to Sean yes. Something to prove coming into this year's contest apparently he heard whispers last year that people thought he was tapped out. And if there was no way he could add any more muscle to his frame. Well, knowing Sean the way I do, that stuff probably served as a bolt and board material for the entire off season just so we could come back and throw it back in the faces of the haters. So if he does come in bigger and better the way he says he will, he could easily challenge for a top two spot. For people who are object goal oriented, having a clear target to work towards is a huge factor for triggering their intrinsic motivational drive. So now that Nadia Wyatt's officially signed to her Olympia contract, my guess is that we're about to see her take things to a whole new level. Late last week Nadia announced on Instagram that she'd finally short up her contract to compete in this year's Olympia, which means the top three at Planet Hollywood just got a whole lot more crowded. This year is actually the first time a Nadia's career that she hasn't competed in her regular season event, which might actually end up being a good thing in the end. Now that she's rested and had almost a full year to concentrate on taking care of her body, she has the opportunity to attack this year's prep without any bumps or bruises. And as an athlete as good as Nadia Wyatt is, when she shows up, ready to rock, she's his dangerous as anyone in the division. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on the Apollumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

诡互文编号一会有一 neuros�察 Sing to BangkokAfterworking hard at the gym You need a mattress that works as hard as you do Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you at your active lifestyle To compromise your recovery with inferior sleep What are your spinaline mattress today?這輩子是約 BereatsRiseificCorex麗娩 drone它沒有重甄因為購送US3000我們今天要為遭提登下輔寒將公開與打工率enn然後再加在這幫忙這就表示各位RX Television on RXMuscle.comThis is assay of better note As hashtag as day of your 30 minute question and answer show with day plumber all your questions diet training, supplementation Anything in everything going on in and outside of the body building brothers now bringing table on what they've you have recorded I want to say about 8 to 10 hours over the course of the last two days a lot of content obviously earlier today we released the Iron Rage with Lee priest where he I guess responds to his thick accusations from Kenny K.O if you want to give the audience a little primer a little tease as far as what they can expect over the course of the next few days Yeah we got a lot of great stuff you know I got to interview I don't know if a lot of people know who he is Doug Bergnoli who might be one of the most intuitive educated and insightful people in terms of training the guys been competing for 40 years and he he he he he's a he was a regular on rick's corner all the time with with Rick Dreson may rest of this and I got him on here we talked about training functional training how to train properly how to really target muscles how the muscles work I put it this way I enjoy the interview because it was it was that you know enlightening and so I think I know I know all our viewers and fans that they love they want more training stuff they're always telling me this is a great training interview we're going to probably do way more with him in the future too because he's a very knowledgeable guy written a bunch of books also I got an interview that I've been wanting to do for quite a long time I know where Tom Prince texted me and was telling you how much he liked our content on the side who's you know he was checking it out and I said Tom I've been wanting to interview you ironically a man and my wife had just mentioned him the other day and today she said you should get Tom Prince on so it was like it was like the universe telling me here it is so we interviewed Tom and what a great interview was I probably could have talked them for three hours to be honest with you and so I think people are going to really enjoy that and it's a two-part interview I'll have you put them up you know right back to back on each other because it's that good and so that you know and then Lee priests you know is that up so far we have not put that up that is up yeah okay so you guys got to check that one out because obviously Kenny Kayl coldly out for using fake weights Lee basically of course they're fake so check that out Lee's response to Kenny Kayl was very entertaining as well as always let's go to the questions of course the first two questions from the Dave Blumbo experience after first questioning Dave your thoughts on coconut oil for his anti viral offense you know coconut oil in terms of using it in terms of a fat source in your diet is probably you know not that first choice I would pick only because it's really not an essential you don't oil in the sense that if you if I'm going to use fat to my diet I like them to actually have functionality to whether they be anti inflammatory like the Omega 3 fats or have them be you know hard healthy like the the Amano and saturated fats like we have in macadamia that oil coconut oil is kind of an it's an MCT fat it's a fuel source basically but it does have a good you know it does have good immune system enhancing effects according to some of the studies that I've read I know a lot of the back of the Dave HIV patients were using it you know in terms of helping to enhance their immune system and it seemed to work pretty well I use it more as a topical believe it or not it's really good you know for if you have injuries or you know you know you like you know skin abrasions it really I find it has anti scarring properties also in my lower legs for some reason I guess from being like 300 over 300 pounds for many years I had a lot of this coloration there and I rubbed it on there and it works really well if you ever take a bad shot you get a bruise you rub the coconut oil on there and you'll be shocked how quickly it disperses that bruise uh apple cider vinegar will do the same thing yeah I ironically enough so I do like coconut oil but like I said it wouldn't be my first choice in terms of a fatty acid source second question again from the Dave Hと思box experience app would you to lies in the matt not oil or olive oil in place of nut butters possibly speed up my metabolism I'm a big believer that the amount of it's saturated fats do speed metabolic rate to a certain degree now if you start exceeding what your body needs energy-wise per day you can't store some of that obviously so you can't just drink an unlimited amount of mac oil you know if you saw how much mac oil however I put on my food you'd be shocked I don't even measure it I just poured on there because in my metabolism in the fact that I don't really eat a very high carb diet I'm probably you know eating probably under the caloric you know intake that I need for the day sometimes so I can eat a lot of fat and it just it just revs my metabolism but I have that kind of a metabolic rate too I have a very fast metabolism so you've got to judge what your metabolism if you're a girl and you're taking in you know six tablespoons of mac oil per day that's a lot of calories that's a lot of energy that your body does might not need so you've got to judge it based on that and my suggestion is if you don't have a very fast metabolism measure it you know now is mac and demon on a oil better than say a tablespoon of all natural peanut butter my answer to that is it's different okay so I like to vary the fatty-estants sources you know every day I don't like to take in the same type of fat at every single meal so I think it's good to have a tablespoon of almond butter or peanut butter or tablespoon or two of mac and demon out of all some whole eggs you know for the egg yolks and the saturated fats and there is good some wild caught salmon for the omega 3s and there I like to vary my sources of fats and I think that's the key I think it's it's not all or none it's balanced let's go to our Instagram question again if you're not already following us our handle is official underscore our ex muscle and as always if you're watching us on YouTube you're watching us for the first time and you haven't already subscribed hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell you're not going to miss any of our upcoming shows segments obviously partly but here we are in September usually when we be breaking down what just happened at the Olympia but we are if my math is correct less than 12 weeks away from the Olympia so obviously in about through weeks or so we're going to be getting the ball rolling eventually with the preview segment starting to get interviews for our iron rodent the Olympia series all kinds of segments relating to previewing the Olympian of course our pro shows over the course of the next six weeks as well Chicago pro coming up in a three and a half week so again subscribe below hit the notification bell if you like what you're watching hit the like button comment below obviously that helps us and as always we appreciate you our ex nation couple of pre-contest questions start to saw first from Ivan bodybuilding if somebody is not completely peeled one week out but very lean almost there but not quite yet would you still recommend depletion protocols or would you just keep them doing cardio until the day of the show I would never continue cardio to the day of the show I would I would kill them probably earlier in the week doing a ton of cardio cutting their food back increasing their fat burners if depending what they're taking if they're taking anything those last two days before the competition are sacred in the sense that you need to let the body rest rest reduces inflammation which can cloud the muscle you know clarity and definition rest helps the muscles rebuild themselves okay from being in a broken down state which is going to make them look more separated and rest allows the body to store glycogen and and fill out the muscle see you can't be if you're going into a show and you're still training the day before you break down stuff it's not going to end well now if you if you did that out of shape that you that you feel like you have you need every single day to try to you know get rid of the last bit of fact you probably should be doing the show you know that that's the truth so at some point you have to say to yourself okay i'm a week out am i ready am i'm not going to be ready am i going to make a fool of myself if you're going to make a fool yourself don't do the show if you can squeeze in hey i got i can lose the like three four pounds this last week then do it but you got to give you body that was last two days to kind of rest recuperate and come back and you can pose and stuff like that but you be shocked once you start carving you'll burn a lot of calories those last couple days people think all meeting carbs i'm going to get fat now you're not going to get fat you're going to rev your metabolism for a couple days while you're carving you probably will get leaner okay but the problem is it depends on how much body fat you still have left if it's too much hey you blow it you know you shouldn't you shouldn't have waited for the last minute or either that or you need to be not self enough times to die and then at that point you have to have a you know talk with yourself and a reality check second question from Benny and that's Ivan you talked about the carb consumption leading in the was show he wants to know what if you cutting the protein in half the last week before the show replacing it with carbs i know you don't advise people doing anything crazy or a cookie in your words but just as a test sort of as an experiment he's considering that last couple of weeks heading into a show testing and experimenting or not things that you do to excel from a show testing and experimenting some of you do eight or ten or twelve weeks out from a show so bad idea okay if you've established hey this is how much protein i need to maintain my muscle mass while I'm dieting and you cut your protein down i'm not talking the last for a day or two you're cutting it down two weeks out you probably will lose muscle so i wouldn't say that would be a good idea to do two weeks out especially you've never tried it before it's questions from team band band me it's a very long question i'll try to boil it down a little bit um he talks about in terms of weighing in how i guess procedure lead's done in a room with people in it um any goals want to ask or say how you know people who want to stick around they want to see what somebody looks like or you know have their coach value weight them so i think he's talking about sort of the spectacle of potentially i guess having you know competitors weigh in as sort of how they would do in boxing or mma where it is sort of a public event as a sneak preview as far as what fans could expect anything that's viable in this sport weighing the meal you did it i think at the Olympia one year i believe or maybe even more than one year and then he weighed in those pros you know because if you ask the pros they're weight and they just give you their weight they're going to lie they all lie they all pump up their weight so i think if the press conference would be great to put these guys on a scale hey the fill he from the United States step onto the scale you get to the scale uh two fifty two whatever you know whatever he weighs and i think the fans would love i think i would rather he see that press conference then have these uh they didn't have bobchick or real ask him dumb questions that didn't that no one wants to answer i think that would be more exciting to see hey you know and then this people can get a sneak peek at what these guys look like because they'd have to weigh in there in their opposing trunk so i think would be a great idea to be honest with this specially if if most of us are going to watch the Olympia on on a live stream that would be super exciting it would be like you said like like a boxing match and you know then you could kind of make it and then you can have everyone put their sweats back on and get to get on the stage and if you want to ask them a couple questions like a press conference type of thing you can do that for 15 20 minutes and then i think that would be way more exciting and tolerable than having these guys sit up there you know bunching on their food because they're up there so long they got to eat a meal you know i think 15 20 minutes up there would be better have a couple questions asked to the top guys and uh everyone weighs in so everyone kind of gets there they're their their moment in the in the sun so to speak that's a great idea i think um so this question is about Nick Walker they we posted a picture that he posted uh i want to say late last week uh leap pre-saving common thought do you know which picture i'm talking about yeah okay so specifically it's about his legs it's about veins it's questions from CRG uh he has veins sticking out on his legs especially around his calves and elite priest has opinions on it a lot of people have weighed in first off is that normal second of all i guess in general just to ask a lot of people question what did you think about that picture in the veins specifically he's a freak i mean maybe Tyler can find the picture in his Instagram right it was on i think we put it on our Instagram to write we put it on Instagram press the toilet i uh look at the veins i have in my neck i have those all of my body because i was crazy stride i was crazy vascular you know when i competed i still have the same name i'm just not as big now so the bigger you get and the heavier the weight you lift the more blood supply you need to those muscles so no we're talking about Nick Walker so you know those veins increase in diameter now when i was in high school i had veins all of my arms people always like wow you're a vascular as i got bigger and more muscular those veins got bigger in size so it's normal now sometimes you know when you have huge you know ropey looking veins some of them get dead varicose they're remembering freaks epi used to uh had some weird varicose veins on his on his legs he had to have removed but you know that's genetic you know it depends you know there's nothing wrong with it it the i expect in a big freaky body both to see a lot of big freaky veins you know look at Paul the leg he had crazy we are extremely veins all over his chest but he was huge you know that comes at the territory we pre-season those veins don't look too good well you know lee pre-season the doctor either so let's go to uh Brian leg any tips to pure wider with narrow cleftacles make the biggest cannon mold that's a good reader cannon mold else make the biggest delts you can laryscat used to write articles remember when i used to read the magazine laryscat was the first mr. Olympia and he had narrow cleftacles too but he had huge huge deltoids you know and uh Phil hef is not that wide but he's got huge delts and i i don't i'm not that wide either i had a i had to i had to get like a lot of muscle on my shoulders to really make myself look like i have a taper and so it's an illusion body you know you don't necessarily have to have a huge wide structure but if you have big delts that can compensate obviously you know it's funny people made fun of Jay Cutters' ways for being too wide but his clavicles were so crazy wide that he actually has a really good v-taper he doesn't have a small waste if you put a measurement a taper around it but it didn't matter because structurally he has the right taper you know to to be you know impressive on stage so once again bodybuilding's all in the illusion good question here on glad they asked it um we we've asked the question before Dave about you know if in your day social media was a thing as far as the bodybuilding scene was concerned so it's from long now our youngness such Dave up in prep which way would you have gone in social media was you know prominent during your bodybuilding career would you have a gone the way of say branding car you could recently have been posting a lot more progress pictures and you know like obviously he's an oxygen jams got the magic mirror but yeah again he's giving you a sneak preview or two like Phil who was pretty much made it known that he's going to stay low key off the grid and you know in the attempt to quote shot the world look I I would be the first guy to say that I didn't have the greatest you know structure okay on stage but I was one at the time at least I was probably one of the biggest guys out there and my gift was that I was always leaning if I would have been putting up pictures on like an Instagram account of me training at the gym off season to £315 with veins everywhere and and and strider glutes people would have gone nuts I would I would have had crazy crazy following because people like that that's free piece stuff I you know I looked you know like like a comic book creature with a tank top on and you would think that I was Mr. Olympi with a tank top on because it made me look tapered you know same to Dennis James imagine Dennis James had an Instagram you know when he was competing back in the day I mean he had crazy your freaky gym looking physique too so Jimmy Quinn another guy would have been crazy popular with crazy veins and just huge massive amounts of muscle that's what people like to see on an Instagram that those are the most popular people so I think I would have done really well I would have probably had to have like a training part of that who was filming me because I wouldn't want to be distracted but you know watching you know a £350 squat you know £650 for reps is pretty you know freaking I always wore like you know tank tops in the gym I wasn't one of these guys who covered up all the time I wore tank because I was sweating all the time because I was so hot my metabolism was so fast tank tops and shorts on you know what people were to lost their mind I really think that I would have had a tremendous following and I think the guys today should do that if they have the freakiness you know use it to your advantage Instagram is in and YouTube make you guys money that that's your salary that's your contract nowadays there's no there's no magazine contracts there's no very few supplement contracts if you want to make money for yourself it's nice that you can you can put the oneness of making money in your own hands if you want to you know if you don't want to have to carry your phone around and take selfies of yourself you know what pay a guy like chai has and Larry wheels has had pay a guy to do it to be a video guy to your social media guy let him come to the gym with you film you so you don't have to even concentrate he could just do it while you're training you know and it doesn't allow you to have to be distracted you can still stay focused on your workout but yet you can still get great content for your social media channels and you know kai greens got someone who films him too and I mean he's got great stuff on there he doesn't even put up that much stuff but when he puts up stuff they get millions and millions of likes are it because he's a freak and that's what people want to see interesting one here from one to all a couple of joe what pro buy builder have you seen become successful say top five and pro show yes it in matter where who started with the worst genetics I'll rephrase it as I guess in your opinion top body over some overcame bad genetics you know I don't know if I don't think there's any real like pro body bulls out that who had bad genetics I think there might have been guys that were not that you might have thought hey this guy is not going to ever look the way he did but then all of a sudden like one or two years you know later he puts on like you know you know a hundred pounds of muscle I mean they're walking when you know wasn't you know a phenom you know he put a ton of muscle on you know over the course of you know a couple years there were guys that just crawled that woodwork and like we were like when did these guys come from I mean look at who would have thought that William bone act would look the way he did when he first started he was a two twelve guy and he couldn't even win two twelve shows the extra Jackson was a bannamway I mean this this guy that made humongous game I mean I look like I was nothing you know when I first started I put a hundred pounds of muscle on in five years so that's these are things that you never expect I was told by a lot of people don't waste your time you're never going to be a top body bullder because you don't have that you don't have the structure for it and so I superseded that by putting on a lot of muscle and being very conditioned so never I always tell people never allow people to tell you you can't do something okay use that as motivation to prove them wrong and there's been a lot of guys that they fit that category I you know I I had to sit down and actually you know think about it for a minute but this plenty of people that that I think a that made it bodybuilding and people never expected them to be where they were they just to achieve the level of of greatness that I mean look at even Steve Cucalo I mean he he progressively got better and better and better he didn't win teenagers when he did it okay I think you want his class but you know he didn't win the overall he might even suck and he just got better and better and better and kept him pretty stolen proving and he's proven to everyone that he is the real deal so like I said there's so many people out there that that that maybe when they first started we're nothing and then because of their work ethic became great to put a shan water fit been seeing some insulin protocols that call for shooting around two units first thing in the morning before doing a fasted cardio whole premise is to lower blood glucose levels to be more in a fat burning mode is this accurate and if so what's specific relationship does lower blood glucose levels have with fat loss when you're doing cardio and you're low intensity cardio your body using fat as a fuel source so whether your blood sugar is 90 when you wake up where your blood sugar is 70 or 65 okay that's not going to affect how much fat you lose so it's a it's a ludicrous fucking theory okay not not to mention who wants to have low blood sugar while they're while they're on a cardio machine and just getting that cold sweat going on you lips go numb it's it's moronic anywhere it takes insulin before they train is is is is idiotic I'm telling you it's it's it's it's foolish because the people who do it for their way train and thinking they're going to be a carb dot more and they got to feed that insulin and I've had this this argument with me loash before um I don't mind post insulin post work at insulin but pre-work at insulin is silly if you're doing a shot of insulin in the morning what you're breakfast to car be self-up so that when you go hit the gym for hours later you feel you feel pumped that's fine but you don't think a shot before you go into the gym okay actually you don't take a shot before you go on and get on a bike or a treadmill and do your fast at cardio in the morning that's nuts that's just stupidity as far as I'm concerned let's go to uh just trying to get the quick one here Eccano Joe uh that it uh your best white fish for diet you know the probably the most popular white fish of people eat is tolopy which is probably the least healthy because it's all farm raised and you know they feed it stuff you know they feed it like corn based you know foods which is not which changes all the good fats and in the fish most of these tolopy are living and disgusting you know fish tank conditions where they're basically in the they're basically swimming in their poop so I I don't need to lobby even though it tastes good it tastes like chicken why does it taste like chicken is we feed it the same thing we feed the chickens corn so if I had to pick you know a white fish I would pick the wild you know caught ones like you know if you live a long island you can get flounder and and and fluke that's really good I really like those cod is really good hadic is all right you know the wild caught one um if you go to like Sam's club or some of these price clubs you can buy like frozen you know wild caught fishes um that they have usually it's like cod and that that I I think cod tastes the best of all the white fishes um it's it's tasty you can get it readily in the wild court form watch out for those farm raised fishes they're just not as good for you health wise now you know macro nutrient wise protein fat carbs it's the same thing so you can eat to lobby or you're gonna lose weight and something that because it's the same thing but for a mental health standpoint if you're gonna be eating that much fish you might as well eat stuff that has good stuff in it because you can get nowadays you can get frozen caught frozen wild caught just as easily as you can get the frozen you know farm raised just you gotta do some smart chopping in other words you gotta ask questions you gotta read labels some people just blindly grab whatever's there or whatever's cheapest and that's not always the way to go for a dollar more you can get you know a wild caught and I would always choose wild caught if I had the option let's go to Billy G Finn another good one here this is post contest um how to reset your sleep cycle after a contest some three weeks post show and still waking up at 334 a yeah you know I try to eat something before you go to bed so you'll it'll let you rest a little nicer what happens is after shows you're metabolism is rev and so crazy that your body wakes up because it's just hungry no matter how much you eat before bed you'll wake up hungry just you just to happen to me all the time and it could take could take a month or so months to months before your body actually regulated self um you could get up in the middle of the night and you're at the shake you know maybe so you can go back to sleep you know readily I used to do the ice a lot of night shakes you know because for me it was like an easy way to get protein down I got up to take up you know to go pee I would have a shake there my refrigerator I had to use to keep a little refrigerator in my room I'd go up the shake down you know and go back to bed and then wake up and that would kind of like buy me some time so to speak so I wouldn't be starving laying in bed and that's the the the the best day I could help you so you could to eat before you go to bed and then have a shake available in in case you wake up in the middle of the night you can drink and then you can go back to sleep because remember sleep is really important especially off season if you're trying to put muscle on you got to sleep enough let's go to search at arms time for a couple more questions as an over 50 classic physical competitor is there a certain age or are there certain drugs you would recommend staying away from because of their sign effects or do you feel it's more dose related than age you know I think over is you know over the age of 30 I wouldn't even I would not use any more orals and I'm talking I'm not doing my anamorph first of all I don't think I should use anamorph anyway it's too weak and but if you take in like windshield tabs you know the last six weeks that's fine I'm talking like harder orals like an amdrawl or Diana ball have a test and even I don't know if I would well most people take out tests only for two weeks but I would not use the harder oral drugs I think that they're unnecessary the injectables do everything the orals do and this very little toxicity associated with longer acting injectables that's something I would probably stay away from I'd also keep very close tabs on my blood pressure a lot of drugs like tremble on raised blood pressure up especially in guys that are older so you gotta keep an eye on that you know because because if you high blood pressure will destroy your kidneys we know that already so we don't want that to happen other than that you know I think that you know you have to come to grips of the fact that it's 50-something years old you're probably not going to put a lot more muscle on so thinking that oh I'm going to take 2,000 milligrams of testosterone a week and then some amount of ox on top of that with the ton of GH it's probably overkill at that point because you're probably not going to be able to put more significantly more muscle on like you did when you were in your 20s and early 30s so taking that in that idea of mine that you you can keep your dosage is more reasonable okay because taking utils of drugs is not going to do anything if anything it's probably going to hurt you because an older body can't handle those drugs as well as a young person the young person has better detoxification they deliver works better their kidneys work better why put the body on unnecessary stress what isn't even doing anything to benefit you so I think once you can come to grips with that that concept of hey you know when I'm 50 I can make some gains but I'm not going to make ridiculous gains so why I'm not going to put myself in a situation where I'm going to really talk to find my body a lot. It's questions from a trade bit odd he references AJ since we're by the way Dave we're going to have on forgot to tell you this we're going to have him on I think I would just want to read you guys in a couple of weeks I hope risks to this specific date Justin Rodgers of course looking phenomenal we actually posted a proxpertor he sent to us a couple of nights ago he is three and a half weeks out from the Chicago. The question is about keeping it as bodybuilder is keeping stomach acidity in check how it one fix it and in a sense will it have a significant effect on a bodybuilder's physique. Being overly acidic obviously is not good for your body because if your body is overly acidic it's not going to be concerned with burning fat and building and repairing muscle it's going to be worried about trying to balance the pH of the body so you can do stuff like at brags apple cider vinegar which is an unfiltered apple cider vinegar table spoon that two three to five times a day in six to eight ounces of water that'll help neutralize a lot of acidity in the body taking a good greens product like I usually recommend people take juice plus I've been using that for 25 years I have a link on Davepalumma.com if you want to see what I'm talking about I do the fruit and vegetable you know the fruit in the morning the vegetable pills at night and that also helps with neutralization of acidity drinking alkaline is water can help as well in between your meals not with meals of course because that's like I've do anything and you know just allowing your body to detox you know I offer a free three week detox cleanse program that I've written I've given that to thousands of people already what you got to do is email me and I'll send you a copy of it. Doing that once a year let your bodies organs of digest and get a break reducing all the toxic you know and acidifying foods in your diet you know for that three week period allows your body to cleanse itself and so I think as long as you can do that and understand that you can't keep bombarding the body without giving it a reprieve or a break I think it'll be fine but that's you know those are the little tricks that I've used over the years to try to neutralize the city using a good five or something like fiber-liced to help remove waste from the body the longer waste sits in your colon okay the more likely you are to re-reabsorb the toxins in that way so the quicker it moves three of body using a good five or supplement you have less likely of a chance of re-absorbing the toxins last question is from the classic physique Nash going back to Europe career when you were walking around 275 to 300 plus mass monster back in the day what kind of reactions would you get from the ladies he says the question is that's what I'll split it into two obviously there is the ladies in the fitness industry obviously they're going to be a little bit more used to seeing the mass monster but the non-fitness related you walking around at Roosevelt field more kind of leave you the action I think that most people were probably horrified by the way I like to be honest yeah I think most women would think it was it was disgusting I would think you know the people in our industry probably thought it was cool because they can relate to it and they can appreciate it but I think for the average person you know walking around at 300 pounds you know just was like I was a monster like the incredible Hulk walking around you know now there's always the peat the the groupy you know girls that like that kind of a look they like the big freaky body builders the must-you're a look that's something that for whatever reason that they like you know but I think the majority of people you know didn't like it I'll tell you why because my lost a lot of weight and when I walk around now and people who knew me from before and after a lot of people tell me a lot at least women will say oh you look so much better now okay so we think women are attracted to like big freaky guys but for the majority of them they don't give us should have you look women are women more care more about your personality and if you have a good job then if you if you have 25 inch arms you know and that's just the reality I think more guy I had more guys that were way more impressed like when I would go to shows I didn't have groups of women around my both I had tons of guys wanting to know how I got big and I had a million questions for me and then anything I had groupy guys that were like interested in learning from me and finding out what secret to had and what drugs they took and what foods I ate and how I trained that was really I think the majority of the people that were grouping around me the women could carry less about most of them you know like I said unless there was like someone who really women that were just really into muscle you know but this that was a minority not a majority so chicks take the long ball but not 300 combat spots right is the oral of Dave's tour yeah I think if I if I think I've had like you know a better jump shot I think I had a word out of the chat and on that note it's gonna do for this episode of Ask Dave again a reminder if you haven't already subscribed hit the subscribe but low we have tons and I mean tons of interviews right now on our us muscle.com and of course the YouTube channel I am rage of lead priest lead priest responding to Kenny KO if you haven't watched it you're not gonna want to miss it episode is absolutely absolutely hilarious for Dave Lobbo and a producer Tyler Shore Obsidian for OGeek we'll see you next time

It's Wacky Wednesday here at Musselin the Morning and I'm Dave Pulum. Going today is Wednesday, July 11th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again. Welcome back to another edition of Recap Wednesday. We're going to hop right into today's show with a huge weekend in the Midwest out of the Chicago Pro. For the second straight year in the men's open division, Michael Lockett was announced as the winner after he put on what was by far the best performance of his pro career. Now, early edging out, the sensational Surgeoli, Virginia. In 2012, division Craig Richardson brought down the house with his home run at the night show. While Wesley Vister's turned out to be one of the more exciting moments of the weekend as he saw it to the win in his classic physique debut. Top honors and men's physique went to Michael Bevin's and over on the women's physique side, Sarah Villagas, crueced home for her first win of the season. Jill Blondon held down the top spot in women's bodybuilding and much to delight of everyone in the audience. It was a nice day of Danielle Chickelli's brought home the crown and fitness. Lori Chapados came out and crushed it to take home the bikini division and rounding out the action here for the weekend with a gigantic win in figure. Was it Julia Waring? Now he shift gears and head up north for another big weekend up at the Vancouver Pro. Where the seam of the show was conditioning, conditioning, conditioning. And nowhere was that more true than in the men's open. We're a sliced and diced Lucas Osloodle, showed up and cleaned house on the way to punching his ticket back to the Olympia stage. In the 2012 division, two-time Canadian National Champ, Mamudel D'Araq was absolutely brilliant on his way to soaring to a well deserved victory. And just as we predicted right here on the show two weeks ago, the classic physique division went to our old friend, Khalid Chicke, who looked like he was the clear winner from the word go. The men's physique crown went to Mexican import,ish my old domain guys, and the women's physique division went to homegrown Canadian product, a list of Copalino. Allison Efear, brought home the fitness title and in the figure division Bojana Vassalajavic, delivered her best look ever on the way to another win. And wrapping things up with another first round TKO performance in the bikini division was former Olympia champ, Ashley Kaltwasser, who looks like she's probably unbeatable at this point. For the full contest photos, check it out at rxmuscle.com. For our last show of the weekend, we head out to Sin City where we had some red hot action in the bikini division that certainly turned up the heat on the Vegas strip at this year's Patriot Pro. All it took was a season best effort from veteran Karen Hinnich to lock up the win as she held off a strong push from runner up Ely Fernandez. Hometown favorite Stacy McLeod pulled out all the stops on the way to her big third place finish, which she managed to fight back a strong push down the home stretch from Brazilian bombshell, Nahara Shubbert, and wrapping things up. The Mithop 5 was another homegrown Vegas talent in emerging star Francesca Lauren. Flex Lewis stepping away from the 212 division opens up the door for a new king to rise up and grab the throne next year. And based on the ways looking right now, I have a hard time not putting second year superstar in training Nick Bullyad on my short list. Last weekend we saw the Bullyad camp release a handful of new updates that made more than a few people stop and do a double take. Right now this kid might be packing more muscle per square inch than anyone else in the division, and that doesn't even factor in the insane 3D around this in conditioning that he's got right now. With all these crazy gym shots he almost looks like a really winkler of the 212 division. But without a sitting Olympia champion who's still in his prime to stand in his way, maybe we should all start taking a good hard look at whether or not we're seeing the makings of the divisions next 10 year champion right before our eyes. With his win at last weekend's UFC 226 Daniel Cormier became the first man in history to hold both the light heavyweight and heavyweight belts at the same time after knocking out the former champ early in the first round. And right now it looks like we're as shade under 10 weeks away from seeing 212 powerhouse Alex Cabernero come out and try to land a few heymakers of his own up on the Olympia stage. Two weeks after his huge win down at the Dallas Europa pro the pride of Puerto Rico already looks like he's loading up to make a strong push at the title. I don't know what the heck he's been eating for the last week or so, but in his latest round of updates Cabernero definitely has the feel of someone who's recharge and ready to make a strong push down the stretch. So now that he seems like he's got everything moving in the right direction it'll be interesting to see if he can sustain the momentum and ride this thing out for another two months all the way in the big dance. And that does it yet another edition of muscle in the morning on day polo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

This is Dave Palombo with RXMuscle.com. I'm here at the 2011 NPC Master's Nationals. I am here with two gyms that have a very special significance here in this scheme of things. With NPC President Jim Manion here and seven year old Jim Carrus, who just got off stage. Is it true that you guys competed against each other back in the day? Absolutely. Both of them are still sitting guys. Both from Pittsburgh? Yes. Both in the Mr. Pittsburgh. No. From what I understand, who has the most wins between the two of you had to head competition? Well, I stayed in it longer than him. Well, I'm saying head to head. When you guys went up against Chau-The-Mano, who won the most times? I can't remember. He was a big cheese whenever I come in there and he was beat me all the time. Then I start beating him and then we go back and forth. Now, I heard that there was a show called the Super Pittsburgh Devil, former Pittsburgh champions. And I heard you won Jim. I did. I did. Was that 70, what? Five, six, four. 75 or six. I can't remember. Was that the year you went on that streak? Were you one? No. That was 71. How many shows did you win against consecutively? Four and one month. We started with show every week somewhere. How many shows? Every week. We went to Pittsburgh, Catanning, what was the other one? Pittsburgh, Boys Club, Golden Triangle, Wednesday. And we had Eerie, Ray Lakes or something like that. Yeah. What do you think when you hear these guys complaining about doing one show now? They can't pick for a second show a week later. Oh my gosh. We used to pick three times a month. Oh yeah. Three, four, five, a month. It was fun to buy it. After we all competed, we all went on head beers together. Wasn't like life and death. And it was fun. Everybody did their thing. And I was at some point stopped competing. What year was that? I stopped competing. I got a game in 73, and we came back for the 75, 76, Uber Pittsburgh. And then you were sorry to have to do that? Yeah. And when did you take any breaks? Yeah. Did you take any breaks in the action? 1981, I won the over 40 America, the NDBA Cat Test show up in you to go to New York. Wow. We never heard of that show. And I give it up till 1991 and I turn 50, and I told my wife. I said like they have a, I have, I have I need to go again. She says, go ahead and do it. So I did three shows in a six week period. I won the Space Coast, South Eastern USA, and the Southern States. And I said, you know what? I like to do the nationals again. So 1992, I went to Palm Beach and won the over 50 national. Wow. When you see him up there, Jim on stage, you say to yourself, man, I can't believe he's still going. No, I can't believe him. If I didn't know, he just like when Diffson Derexson is mine, did. I got married a little bit young and so I had other responsibilities. But I made kept going to who knows. I still train all the time. I just think you can make a comeback against this guy in the States. When they went. No, no. I don't have to discipline the diet anymore. You couldn't, you wouldn't get up there against this guy. No, not at all. Just the two of you. In a real dark room, maybe. Three years to catch up to me. He's on the 67. Are you going to keep going? No. This is my last one. Do you believe him? No. He said that about five, six years ago. I want him to come back. I got to come back. Keep going. What are you quitting for? That's what people ask me if I'm going to be tired being president and PC. I go, no, what for? Where am I going to do? Travel around. I do that now. You retire when you die, right? That's it. Guys, thank you very much. Okay, day. First, fathers of body building in Pittsburgh. Jim Manion, Jim Carrus. Okay, Jim. Together again. Here in Pittsburgh. You're now. Good job. Good job. Day, Palombo. RXMOSL.COM.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today is Wednesday, August 4th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we're back in better than ever with another brand new edition of Recap Wednesday. And we're kicking off the show today by bringing you a recap of last weekend's Asia Grand Pre. Classic physique division for the second time in this career. The top honors went to South Korea's own, Songwon Kim, a runner-up slot with a Ji-Hoon bang and rounding out the top three we had J1 Park. In men's physique, a Bong Si-A Choi collected the first win of his pro career which landed him a well deserved Olympia qualification. Bum su Park slid comfortably to second and we're wrapping up our coverage here with your third place finisher, Jung-Jun Lee who looked like he might have made some solid improvements since we saw him last time. Down in Port of I-Octa, Mexico we saw plenty of fireworks in the 2012 division and bikini at the first annual Port of I-Octa pro where we were starting things off here with the two-twelfth division and winner No-Oladami looking pretty damn impressive in his season debut. The second we had Columbia's own is the Bon Bravo who looked great in his I-F-E-B debut here and Leonidas Cardoza caps off a surprisingly strong top-free group here. On the bikini side of things it was all about I-O-Lis Francisco Stoico who snagged her first win of the season thanks in large part to bringing in the best look of her career. Second place went to Mexico's own Ellie Fernandez who seems to be picking up steam all of a sudden and sliding comfortably to third was none other than Jasmine Gonzalez as she continues to build on her strong 2021 campaign. Down here in my neck of the woods raining and defending bikini Olympia champ Janet Lyak stepped into the role of promoter for the first time last weekend and she weld them in some of her friends to the first annual Battle of the Body's Pro Am. To know and surprise this was the bikini only event on the pro side of things. What when the dust finally did settle there was a surprise in the winter circle as more rain blankwi-stose stepped into collect her first W since 2019 on the way to punching her ticket back to the Olympia stage. Second place went to Georgia Hill who looks like she's starting to get it going now. Chris Bahades did enough to slide to third which gives her three straight top three finishes on the year and Rey Juana Harley took fourth in her season debut as we're around the out our coverage here with rookie Ivana Fernandez who found herself finishing in the top five for the second straight week. In case you missed it we also had some prime time action on the amateur side of things last weekend too at the USA Championships as the pro league opened up its doors to the next generation of Superstars. Now we're starting off our coverage here with the men's bodybuilding where Jordan Hutchinson won the heavyweight and overall became the star of the weekend. The overall in classic physique went to Ruben Salis and in men's physique overall Mark Robinson punched his ticket to the big leagues after a hard fought performance. On the women's side of things Hunter Henderson showed up and showed out on her way to take in the overall in women's bodybuilding. Women's physique went to carry Hughes who crueysed to a big time victory as did the overall wellness winner Alyssa Sernah. Amy Mott stole the show on her way to claim in the overall in figure and in the bikini division Diana Dang looked like a future star in the making on her way to capturing the overall crown. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Paloma reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

What's up, bodybuilding fans? Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update, USA Championships and now in the bags. And it was a great competition out there and blisteringly hot, lost Vegas in Nevada this past weekend. We have a new overall champion in Shane Stewart. We don't see the light heavyweight when the overall very often in bodybuilding. But when he does, it's usually pretty damn impressive and Shane Stewart proved to be a very impressive competitor. Winning the overall and really spectacular fashion once again because he beats some guys in her a lot bigger than him and that heavyweight super heavyweight class. Remember Shane's weight limit is only 198 pounds. And when I looked at pictures of him, you know, the first thing that came to mind was a young branch Warren just thick thick quads, a lot of density in his muscle. I bet this guy packs a lot of weight. I bet he's 250 in the offseason. He's just dense. He's got a lot of mass on him. It flows well. It flows well. He doesn't have the smallest waist up there. But he flows and he's got taper and he's got some serious legs on him with a lot of detail and graininess. And I'm sure it looked I wasn't there in person, but I'm sure in person they were even more impressive on stage. I could just see the kind of muscle he has. It's mature. It's dense. His back is great. His skin is really tight and clean and his tan was good. Presentation was good. I'm from one I hear. And that's what wins overalls. You know, these judges are up there looking for someone who looks professional, who looks polished. A guy who can step into the pros and do some damage. And that changed to it. He wins that light heavyweight class, which was by no means an easy. And then he wins that overall against the bigger super heavy and heavyweight. But let's talk about some of the other divisions that took place. Obviously the super heavyweight division is always one of the most exciting, at least for me probably because I competed in the super heavyweight division. But you know, everyone wants to see the big guys battling it out of there. And I remember I interviewed a couple years back Henry Jackson when he won the Junior USA. No one had even known this guy. He just really started and I said, man, this guy is going to be a pro one day. He's just to proweight and happen. He's going to make a few improvements. And he does it here. He doesn't hear. He wins the heavyweight. He excels me the super heavyweight class against a really, really good Ron Gordon. We'll talk about Ron in a second. But Henry Jackson's just got flow to his body. He's got a small waist. He's a big guy. He's very well balanced on top and bottom. Having said that, I think he needs to hold more mass on his upper and lower body. But he's balanced. And he brings conditioning to the stage. And he's a guy when he poses and opens up things happen. Alachy Green. Detail shows muscle separate. This is just this is a combination of great genetics. And obviously impressive work ethic because he's been adding muscle over the years to his body and making improvements. But you know, this guy has just been given a structure from the heavens. And he's exploited it. And he's done his homework here. But he won a very close battle. Ron Gordon was tremendous. I felt that Ron had cleaner muscle. I thought he had better conditioning. More graining as to his body. I think it was a great battle. I wasn't there once again. Henry Jackson had the little bit of darker skin cone. Once again, a slightly bigger structure than Ron. But I think both of these guys were pro-card worthy. I mean, too bad, it wasn't in the nationality. Both of these guys were to gotten pro-cards. And you know what? No one would have complained. And no one would have complained if Ron would have won this class. I got a new studio. He's that good. He's just the pro-weighting to happen at this point. Whether he's going to do North American or wait for nationals, I don't know. North American is coming up soon. So it might be an easy year way to go. But I would maybe try to win the nationals. I think this guy can win the overall. I think he's that good. It gives him more time to maybe have a little bit of a growth spurt and then go back into dieting. I don't have been talking to him. Maybe we'll get him on the show and discuss it. I mean, this is a great class because you got a guy like Matt Burzak, who has to settle the third here. And he's probably next in line. So to speak, to get the pro-card. I don't think anyone saw Henry Jackson or Ron Gordon coming. But a great, super heavyweight class. And once again, you could make an argument for these guys winning. But I think that Shane Stewart and the White Heavy is just too complete to take these guys out. Same thing when you talk about Lucas Carroll, who wins the heavyweight class, tremendous talent. Back in post from hell, great, small ways, great structure. Impressive. And once again, Shane Stewart to beat the heavyweight winner, Lucas Carroll, and the super is just a testament once again, what I said earlier. Goody is. But Lucas is really good. This is a guy who's going to be an impact pro. I believe he might take another year or two to really put on a little bit more muscle still out that frame. Here's an impact pro for certain. Once again, clean muscle, good lines, nasty conditioning. And that's what I like when I see a winner of a pro-claw fireweight class. I want to see a guy with density and a guy with shape and structure and can present it. And Lucas Carroll brought that to the stage in Udles. He beats Drew Schaffer and second in Matt Jensen and third who were terrifically conditioned. But I think Lucas is just more complete than they are. And that's what you ask for. Once again, and when you see it, people say, and all the bodybuilding is not as good as it used to be. I don't believe that one second. I think the winners of these weight classes are tremendous. Sean Williams wins the middle weight class. This guy's got quads from hell. This guy is good to be super dangerous in that 212 division. He's just got to add a little bit more muscle to his frame. He spends the next year to bumping up a little bit. Watch him. He's dangerous from hell. And this is a guy. You know, look at him alone. You're like, this guy could win the overall. You know, obviously he gets outside by the other way class winters. But tremendous effort by Sean Williams. And then once again, when you look at that overall, Shane Stewart just bringing it. I guess you could say, when you look for an overall winner at the pro-claw fire level, you're looking for someone who's going to be an impact pro from day one. A guy who's complete. And that's Shane Stewart. Some of these other guys are bigger than he is. Maybe some of these guys are as conditioned to him. But he's got the whole package and he looks complete. He's not lacking anything in any body part. And that's what's going to make a really good pro right off the bat. I looked to see him jump into a 212 show and see how he fares. Maybe we'll see him in Tampa. I don't know. But we'll get him on the show for sure. Congratulations to all the pro-card winners and all the competitors from this past week and John Lindsay on throwing another great USA championships on day polonbo with an RX muscle news update.

Ohhh rotaryéeORT Ohh.... OH WSTAUCH Nooooooooooo HEACHNNNNNN OH.... Oh Oh Oh Oh

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of net carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Monday July 5th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen. I hope you had a great 4th of July weekend. It's a new day to new week and I'm sure you've heard by now we have a brand new Arnold Classic on our hands in large part to this man Nick Walker. In case you missed it last week, the Arnold Sports team announced that they were adding Nick and really winked to their signature event in October. It sent out shock waves for a few different reasons. For Nick this feels like a balsie move because he doesn't need to do it. He already has the Olympia qualification which tells me that he wanted to just for the experience and to test himself against the other all stars we'll see in that lineup. Also for a strategic standpoint, competing here also gives him a chance to feel things out before he peaks for the Olympia. Which feels like a smart play on his end. I see this as Nick playing with other people's money. If he does well, all it does is add to his legend. And if he doesn't, he can say that picking for the Arnold was never the goal anyway, which turns us into a win-win situation. In Rullies case this news feels completely different to me. For one, the sheer fact that he's in the show now demystifies what his plans for the season are. Now we know for sure that we're going to at least see him here. And here's the caveat. Unless he wins. Okay. And even if he does win, the Arnold doesn't qualify him for the Olympia, which means he could be on the outside looking in for the second year in a row. But with that being said, just because he's competing at the Arnold doesn't mean he's probably also not competing at another show earlier like the Tampa Pro, which is five weeks from now. Because that would also give him the opportunity to qualify here for the Olympia. But if his plan is Arnold or bust, it does still leave a lot of things up in the air, which is just another thing to keep in mind while we see what happens with a ruling wing blur between now and then. Even though Brian Jones' name wasn't added into the Arnold roster last week, like Nick and Rullies was, if you're a classic physique fan to stuff you've seen from him lately, might be almost as exciting as what we just talked about. Even though he hasn't competed since the Olympia last year, the updates we've seen from his camp over the last month or so had been out of control. Right now he looks bigger than he was at any point last year. Not to mention the fact that he also looks like he might be ready to step on stage again in a few weeks. Brian actually earned his Olympia qualification last year by winning the Chicago Pro. And since Chicago is only three or four weeks away now, that might be a potential destination for him to make his season debut. This guy might be the most improved athlete in the division over the span of the last two years. So if he can successfully defend his title in Chicago, I think it'll go a long way towards letting people know that he won't be going anywhere soon. And finally, I wanted to send you guys off today with a feel good story that came across my radar a few days ago. Two weeks ago, at the Brucini Classic, Mark Farron is Dorner Sheridan made history when they became the first father, Dorner combo to compete in the show together. Believe it or not, Mark says that it was his daughter who actually pushed him to come back to the stage after not competing for almost 30 years. And it was a good thing she did because he won the novice middleweight took second in the masters over 50 and fourth in the open. But they tell you the truth, Sheridan was the real star of the family here because she took second in the true novice in figure, fourth in the novice in fourth in the open at 17 years old, which is amazing. So congratulations to these two for making history and more importantly for making memories because at the end of the day nothing's more important than creating memories that last a lifetime with your family. And that doesn't yet another addition of muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Holumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Wednesday July 7th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Bellman once again, Wednesday is back in bed of the never. There was only one pro show on the Docket last weekend and it was the Orlando Europa Pro. And we're cooking off our coverage with a recap of the action from the figure division. But a second week in a road Jessica raised a pediaton went out and dominated as she crueys to another big which gives her a ton of momentum heading into the second half of the season. Second place finisher, Rhea Gale looked great in her season debut. As she managed to gain the edge over eventual third place finisher, Ivana Ivusik, who had the best conditioning of her career just for the record. Fourth place went to Julia Shapplin and Donya Jackson around it out one of the best top five groups that we've seen so far this year. We are through the men's physique, the big winner here was Ramsey's Rams, who locked up his first career win along with a trip back to the Olympia stage for the first time since 19. Our red hot John Saramento continued his strong season with another strong second place effort here. Third place went to Steven Cow, who looked close to his all-time best in his season debut. Ishmayel Demingas slid into a very comfortable fourth position and we're wrapping things up with our coverage here with Gerardo Gabriel as he managed to crack the top five in his season debut. Like the Arnold Classic lineup for release a few weeks ago, you knew it was only a matter of time before we started to see some sort of drama flare up between some of these athletes. And right on cue a few days ago we saw some exchanges go down between William Bonac and Nick Walker that caught everyone's attention. As far as I can tell this started when William threw a not so subtle insult in Nick's direction on social media after Nick said in an interview that he saw himself winning the Arnold in October. As a defending champ I guess William didn't take too kindly to that and why would he? And now here we are off to the races. Now up to this point in his career Nick hasn't been one to bite his tongue so when a fan asked him about William's comments during a Q&A on a life feed, Nick was pretty directed as response. He said that he didn't know what William's problem was and that he'll be happy to settle this on stage, which has been pretty much his response every single time someone has called him out. Even though he's young, Nick's been a put up or shut up type of guy from day one. And so far all he's done is put up. Just knowing how both of these guys are, I don't expect this to be the last time we hear this between now and the Arnold. Neither one of them is the type to back down. And as a fan, I think it only adds to the intrigue and excitement to a show that's already going to be one of the best that we've seen all season long. There were also some words exchanging classic physique over the last week and two. Only this was more of a one-sided exchange coming from Chris Bumstead's camp. Apparently during a Q&A someone asked a member of Chris's team whether or not they saw the two-time camp Breon Anzley as a threat. If he came in and ended his old time best this year. And their answer was a pretty emphatic no. As far as they're concerned, Chris is so far ahead of everyone else in the division that they don't see anyone being a threat. If he's completely dialed in and I think there were a lot of people out there who also happened to agree with that. But at the end of the day, titles are awarded on stage not in the comment section. And in a few months the world will have a chance to see firsthand if they were right. And that does it the end another edition of Musselin the Morning on Day, Belombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polomba, today is Wednesday, June 23rd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's that time again. Recap Wednesday is back and better than ever. We have another great show lined up for you today starting with this recap of last weekends your Ropa Dallas Pro. We're starting off with classic music. We're our free show favorite, Tony Tavaris, showed up and showed out big time on his way to earning his second pro win and a well deserved Olympia qualification. Second place went to Leland, Nevada and another strong effort from Harold Bright rounded out this top three group. In bikini, Jimmy Morley looked fantastic on her way to bring him home the first winter career which also secures her first Olympiac qualification. Congratulations. The run-rub slot went to Houston's own, Brittian, and a strong performance from Julia Walsh Lego was enough to earn her the first top three finish of her career. Before we move on, we wouldn't be doing our job if we didn't highlight our first pro wheelchair action of the year. Incredible Bradley, Dats, Brothal, well deserved win here. But there was also a lot to be said for second place finish her Chad McCary because he also delivered our herkially in effort here as well. We have one more note here on the Dallas Shroop Pro before we move on. A few weeks ago, we spotlighted Amanda Cover as a pre-show favorite in the NPC wellness division and thankfully for us, she did not disappoint. Not only did she show up at the best conditioning out of everyone in her class, she also walked away with the overall title, which sets her up perfectly to slide into the universe in a few weeks to win her pro card. According to Amanda's team, this was the plan from day one and now it's just a matter of time to bring that to fruition. As long as she stays the course, I don't see any reason why she can't seal the deal at the universe to end her year on a high note. As I mentioned right before the last segment, we did have one more show on the dock at last weekend, just outside her nation's capital where we saw plenty of high level action at the first annual DC Pro Am. We're starting off our coverage with the bikini division this time where the big headline was Perennial Olympian, Ellie Hernandez finally hitting her stride as she crews to her first win in the season. Second place finish her, Regina Harley looked great in her season debut and once again, on Yannick Wilson put together another tremendous effort that closed out this top-three group. In the men's physique division, it was all about Charger Grant, who finally earned his first win of his career, along with the second straight trip to the Olympia, so congratulations to him for another job. Well done, Adrian Horton looked tremendous in his second place effort here. Look out for him to keep improving as the season progresses, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with your third place finisher, John Saramento, who definitely put together his best look of the season so far. And finally we're closing up the show today by sending shoutouts to Sean Clarita, Nick Walker and Brett Wilkins, who all put on one of the best guest-posing performance of the year at the NPC Junior Nationals last weekend. As you see in these photos, all three of them were incredible shade, especially Brett, who's only about a month out from making his season debut with the Chicago Pro. Sean and Nick are both obviously dialed in for their Olympia prep at this point, and the both of them looked like they're on track to do some serious damage when they hit the stage again in October. All in all, I'm sure this had to be a great experience for all the amazing fans and athletes who were in the building last weekend. And they know I'm not alone in saying that I would love to see more of this in the future. It's great for the venue, great for the fans, and even better for the body building and fit this community in general when stars come together to do things like this. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning on April 1, reminding you always be sure to your passions if they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

VIRTIVAL Slide PD님 거기ì count 뒤에서 LARS reporting 이제 phone phone

10 and 9 You're not an honorable group! There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true board we can be! Lumball! Chris Asito! Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle! What a deal! Watch us! Welcome to another episode of Heavy. Muscle Radio on day to the London. I'm joined by the technician, Boris Asito, on this last and final day of August, August 31, 2020. And it was my daughter's first birthday. Two days ago. You guys said that for a splash, you have like an amusement park in the backyard. I'm handed it to the cold up and she rented this slide. Did you rent this slide? I thought it was a permanent fixed jeep. Yeah, where's your permanent fixed jeep? My kids love it. It's a good idea. It's amazing this thing. But what she didn't get to really use it. My other two kids really used it. I actually went on it. I knew I saw you. I wasn't going to do it. I was like, can I want to get hurt? Yes, but I thought it was. The first thing I saw you, I said he's going to get hurt. The two days I didn't do it. I said I'm not going on. I'm going to get hurt. And then the very last minute, when the house ran out of water, we used to use the water system. We used to put the whole water tank. I'm like, I'll try it. And then there's no water. So bad around a hose from my well. I'm going to get right into it. And I was like, this isn't so bad. I didn't get hurt. You know what it was? I was always afraid to do some rides like that because every time I went on because my shoulders were so bad in years past, I couldn't stabilize myself. And so it was very uncomfortable. I went up, you know, feeling like I was going to fall off. I didn't have control. Now I don't have any pain in my shoulders. Not come wood. So it was like nothing. It was like I felt like I was like, you know, low-consaging. I was still worried for your shoulder. I thought you can blow it out. I'm dead serious. When I saw the video, I cringed on my shoulders. I didn't get hurt. Let me put, let me sit if I can get this thing going. Let me do that. I got to get the subject of people to waste. I thought you were going to start along. All right. First of all, anyone who hasn't, who hasn't joined Chris's nice Instagram, you know, follow it. Go follow our Instagrams. I'm huge 285. He's the real technician. There's my plug. Here I go. Here it is. Watch this Chris. My daughter got into a, I grabbed her. Look at that. Howdy has that food. That's dirty. I'm waiting for the shoulder to blow out. Yeah, that was pretty good. Oh, then I saw that picture of you. I said, right? I said, you look like put that picture up there. I said, you look just like John Schrulde there from my welcome back. It's funny because my uncle used to always say, every time I go to holidays, he'd be like, John Schrulde and John Schrulde. But that was when I had short hair. Then he actually started calling me Mel Gibson. That's why I said, no, Gibson, from me to weapon with the long hair. Oh, yeah. No, this is, I see that Schrulde. This, yeah, it's still got the Schrulde. But this is when I really just first started body building. Seriously, I was probably like maybe about a buck 90 there. And how old are you there? Man, it doesn't a good thing I was waiting that much. But I said, I was 20 exactly how old I was. I was graduated with 1990 graduate at high school. I had college excuse me, so I was 21 or 22 somewhere around. 21. I probably, I told him, despite I had gone from 230 pounds to, I went from 130 pounds to 135 pounds by lowest running. And then I was up to about 185 million 90. It was 60 pounds. You've sipping on my copy, I realized protein. No, I'm not, but I'm going to send that to you. That's, that's one of our secret flavors coming out that you just revealed. That this is a new branch chain to our new amino evolve flavors we kind of will come out with. I'm not allowed to say them in the manner right now. I'm sorry, they're secret, but they're good. I'm sipping it right here. Baker coffee one and something out to it. Coffee, I mean, I was probably wouldn't be good, but I, but I, the coffee, I realized we're going to come out with this going to be really good. But I'm not giving you the details of it. But that's, so that's me, that's me in 1990. Yeah. You know what, I was such an idiot because I had short hair in my whole life. I decided to become a rebel last year of my college, which is when I was going for my med school interviews. So I went to these medical school interviews. I got about three or four interviews I went for, which is good because if you, it's hard enough to get into the school, but it's hard to get into the interview too. So I went to the interview, I had these long hair. So I was like, slick in a back and, I figured, well, you know what, if they don't like me, then I don't want to go to the school. They want to take you with luck, yeah, then you know, I was like in this like rebellious. You know, they, they count you looks on those interviews. I would think so. I thought I came off well on the infrared, you know, I got into one school, so someone like me. It's, it's very hard. People don't realize it. And I don't know what it is nowadays, but back in the 90s, it was extremely difficult to get into medical school. I think statistics were like one and every thousand per people who applied to it. Yeah, it was like, basically, we're ridiculous amount of people that applied. So a lot of guys had to either take the year off or they would try to apply to like go to like coordinator or these. Yeah, I knew you were going to say how to come in. What were we going to do to, we're going to go to, they would go to osteopathic school, you know, that was easier to get. One out of one thousand. I believe that was just, just, just, just, so what did, what was the, what was the 999 other people do not become doctors or not going to go to the, I was going to go to the osteopathic school, car practice school that would take a year off and then you could take these courses to like enhance. Here's a funny story. One of the guys I was very close with, this guy Steve's fail like. He didn't get in the first year, he didn't get any men in school. So he worked in a car wash, kind of car wash for the whole year. The kid was a mechanical genius with his hand. So when he got into school, it was this, you know, it's here to apply the year before we did. So he got in, he was in my class, he used to go to the gym together. He looked exactly like Andreas Munzer. The guy is like one of the premier plastic surgeons and they're definitely hills now. This is the guy that said, not only could he not get into school, but he actually, in the, the second year, right before you start your rotations, you have to take this test. It's like the part one of the boards, the medical boards. And he didn't do well enough on it because he was, he wasn't a good test taker. And they made of like repeat the same, like repeat, he had to go like summer school, obviously, you know. The kid was really smart too. And I don't know, I just think he just, I don't know, maybe didn't have confidence in himself. Me, hear me, I get a great score of the thing that I can drop out after like three months later. Yeah. I'm going to be a bodybuilder. Yeah. What about, so osteopaths, why was the osteopathic medicine easy to get into? Because I actually think osteopathic school I would have liked better because you know, I didn't even know you said that. I don't even know how to actually get there. Yeah. But it's, you know, the thing, snubbed this snubbed nose, the doctor's, medical, medical fraternity, you know. They don't see them as like real doctors. Yeah. My mother always told me there was a hospital named my house called the osteopathic hospital of Maine. There was a hospital. Yeah. And my mother used to tell me what else kid they're not real doctors. Which is stupid. You know, and it's usually because of that, it's so much harder for them to get residency. It's usually the smarter kids get into the, if you see a doctor is actually an osteopath and is like in a high position. It's usually because they're really smart. Getting into school is like, it's like, it's a formula almost, you know. I'm shocked that I got in because I had good grades, but I didn't have great grades. I had good MCAT scores, which is like the SAT footprint, but I didn't have great ones. And I had like a sport, maybe because I was well around that sports and, you know, I wrote this like essay that my father rewrote for me. He didn't really rewrite. He just spruced it up. Because I wrote an essay about my mom, like losing my mother and what it meant and it was, it was good, but my father made it like amazing. Okay. You still have him? You know, I don't, I, I'd love to read it if I said that. I would too. I don't know, because I like to read it because he's forced it up. Yeah, yeah, he just, he added a little, little twins to it. So I don't know if that helped you know, it's, it's everything together, you know, I think. And then of course, you know, you go for an interview and they see a personality. Yeah. So that helps, you know, obviously, you know, I was, you know, whatever. I don't know. I don't know. I, I, I, I, I got lucky, I guess. Plus, you know, when I went to a good school, going to a school that's like a pre-med factory, small liberal arts college, they have a high percentage people getting into medical, that definitely helps too. I think, you know, so. And then, of course, they did everything right. And then, but I didn't stay in school. I'm down. I'm out of here. Yeah, yeah. I just hope you guys are learning about it. I hope to help people get in shape for body-blowing competitions, you know. It's pretty much what it meant to, so I, I hate to, you know, I hate to report this, another death in our industry. Yeah, that's a pretty good front of yours. Yeah. My, I mean, yeah, he was a good, good, good front of our community. Really is what it, what it, what it meant to, Rick Dreson dive. You guys probably follow his YouTube channel. How old was he gave? 76 years old. I didn't know he was 76. What was 76? And I'm around forever, man. Yeah. He, um, he was, you know, body-builder back in the day with Arnold and those guys. He trained with all those guys. He was into the professional wrestling. He did for a while. He, um, he probably, both, he, the Hulk body-double or something like that. He would, he, he, but they did was back in the incredible Hulk, a C, T, V, series days, you know, Lou Frey, that was the Hulk, but there was a transition. When Bruce Banner would actually was called David Banner, like that was put a transition into the Hulk. It was a middle. It was like, they, they didn't have, like, all the, the stuff they have today. Right. So they would have like, like, an in-between Hulk. And that was the, called, the Demi Hulk. And he played that. And I guess it was an episode where he got stuck. Banner, he couldn't get to the Hulk, but he couldn't get back to Banner. And he was in the Demi Hulk and it was a whole episode, the mode of him. And he was, he starred in that episode, actually. I actually put the picture up. I did a tribute video to Monarch's muscles. So he just can check that out. And I put the picture up of, of him as the Demi Hulk. He looked just like, for a, no, he looked like a thinner, for a, for a, that was crazy the way they put the makeup on. It was really, really impressive. He did that. But probably, I think he's probably most well known for doing the Gulge Jim logo. Yeah. Do you think the logo? Did he do the World Duke, too? He did the World Jim, one, too. He was very good friends with Joe Goldie. He do a little bit on an app kit, believe it or not. And, uh, stuck. That crazy. How, like, you probably did it in two seconds. Yeah. We talked about in the hey day. We talked about it in the show sometime, the numbers. I figured with it, we do a mid-Gold's Jim, the T-shirts in Venice a day. Right. This is before Ed took over, I think. Yeah. You know, I mean, it's a gold's picture up here. No, I know, but people were going into, when Ed had golds when I was a golds, they would do 30 grand a day in T-shirts, else. What they really do in that much? So, 30 grand a day from that store. Ed's going to text me, he's going to say, yeah, we did that here. Easy. It was given the right one. What does that amount? 10 to 300? Is that a million a month? Ed, you know, was giving away. Half the merchandise, and it's all the body bills. It's the top level of the bottles. We're doing photos shoots in there. Bob Bonham, you know, trying to charge the rock. Seven, thirteen bucks for a t-shirt. You heard that story, right? No, no, really. Craig's Valentino told the story. The rock came into the work that it golds. And Carl, Joseph, Carl, not a golds, excuse me, a strong shape of the ship. And Carl, Philoponies, to work there behind the counter. And Carl, it was getting ready for the G&USA. So, the rocks are, well, you look good, you know, you know, you work in there, he goes, no, no, I'm just going to bat the training. Because what do we train together? So, it's Carl, it's a train to the rock. And Bob wasn't at the gym, Bob. He was, I don't know, he was still home, he hadn't gotten there. So, they finished their workout. The rocks in the locker room washing up. What are you talking about? Take me back to what year? I don't remember, probably ten years ago. So, Carl was in the, you know, at the front desk hanging out. Bob walks in, he's like, oh, good, Bob, you're here. The rocks in the locker room, we just did a workout. He's like, oh, good. Did you know what? He always be 14 bucks. Or 13 bucks doesn't make that. But what? Our team, so like, so that's nice things to Carl, what are you on for? So, he goes, the rock comes out of the locker room. He goes, hey, Bob, thanks, you know, for the great appreciate to work out everything. He goes, but Bob's like, excuse me, you know, you owe me $13. So, the rocks, you know, he's taking back, you know, the rock doesn't want to owe anyone money. He doesn't need to, you know, he's got plenty. Bob, what do I owe you money for? Remember, I gave you a t-shirt last time when you were in here? I guess the rock didn't have a shirt, the wear, something like that. Bob threw him a strong shape with t-shirt. You would think Bob would want to be like, you know, keep it, you know, wear it, right? You know, I mean, put us in Instagram and tell you a truth. You think everybody tries the rocks with the sculpture tight. And would give anything away back the day. Well, because it was marketing, it was franchising, you know, and had the first idea, but you know, there was pinch tripping around all the mirrors that said gold's gym. I didn't know why they did that. It told me they did that. So when they did the photo shoots at the gym, you would see the golds. Otherwise you wouldn't know a gym you were here. Brilliant. Yeah. It is so. Anyway, said, um, that's a funny story. That one Valentino tells it, actually, but that's logo was was drawn by Rick Dreson. So, and he had a very popular YouTube channel. You know, he was really an artist. It's really what he was. He would call himself a bodybuilder, I'm sure, but he was an artist. He could draw anything. He actually drew me a an original using the Golshim logo guy. He drew me like like an original thing and said, hey Dave, best, you know, wishes or something like that, Rick. And signed it, you know, numbered it. And so I have an original Rick Dreson piece of art. I have hanging in my, my office, which is pretty cool. It wasn't due to a lot of an athlete that was on a nice piece of paper. See that that napkin would have been a great addition to the bodybuilder and the whole thing. Do you imagine that Dave? I wonder if it still exists. I wonder if Rick has someone. I've been at Rick Dreson sketched the goldshim logo on. There you go. Put it up on, put it in the, like, the museum. Next. Yeah. Now that I have all this new property we bought, we probably have, I have a space. We can build the whole family. I can't have been saying all the 50 years. It's chocolate. We can put it in the gym. How about we, in the gym mobility, we'll build the whole family around the perimeter. You need that door and you get the door and pull over machine. Yeah. I think I'm not going to sell that. Yeah. I think I'm going to have that gym. I'm not going to have that machine. Yeah. Yeah. I think, why don't you guys, the machine, but he has, he does have the nodalist pull over machine. I think he bought it for door and someone during when comes to the gym. It is. Samaritan give you the program that he refused to sign the 90 degrees. He was in the hospital. Costs in the Olympia. Costs in the Olympia. Costs in the Olympia. Where the judge came up to him, what did the morning, would you sign? This is like promise. Everybody, no more. I can't sign everything. I'm too tired. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. Black Panther died. You heard that. It's going to go in the whole world. Hard that. Yeah. It's horrible, right? No, it no one even knew he was sick. Colin cancer 43. Yeah. Crazy. So I tell people, get you Colin, I'm going for Colin asked me that. I tell you. No, he didn't tell me. Yeah, I'm not done that. I'm not sure just a grand live at day. People would like to see it. Instagram at live, maybe I can get someone to, to film it while I'm getting the things shoved up by park, a camera. I told you, day today, I drove by. I do this maybe five years, four years. Yeah. I was like, I'm going to go to the right day pharmacy that I used to go to get into Ferron when I had stage three melanoma. Yeah, the most, the most, the most good thing. It's, no, it's just the most bizarre. It's not a nod of body experience, but it's just the most bizarre thing to drive by the pharmacy. Yeah, it was like, it was like your home away from home for a while about you. You knew everything was just like, you were there every day. It was just like the worst thing to have to go through. Go through. Yeah. You know, but you got to get the colonoscopy. You know, look, I, I put it off. I probably should have had 50 days. 50 days, I say. Now, I don't have any colon cancer in my family, but my, but there was cancer in my family, but my father had his polyps when he was later in my, but nothing cancer is they, he's clipped them out. So I don't know. I hope I don't have any. I'm convinced that my fiber license is protected in the safe guard of my colon. I hope. Yeah, you have to do that. The fiber can. I hope. I hope you should have no problems. Yeah, that's right. Put a lot of strength. You should have, she must think that you have no problems with the fiber. I don't know. I hope so. I don't, I don't have any symptoms of a black out. You don't have a copy of labor fiber. I'll let you know. No, I don't have a copy of labor fiber. You know, it's funny because, you know, I have this, the favorite lady, because I have the rhythm in. So I have to go get the colonoscopy done in a hospital as opposed to just like in the or what usually do in the office. I think they go through the, you know, this hospital. And now the new thing is, you know, you can't go into a hospital that's been testing you for COVID. It's not going to go back and I'm going to get tested the Monday before the, the colonoscopy. I'm getting on like a Thursday Friday. I'm Thursday. I'm getting the colonoscopy. So I got to go Monday this hospital. I have to get tested for COVID, which I'm not happy about because I don't want to be in the database. You know, not that I think I have it, but, you know, they say don't get the test. I don't know that they, you know, the conspiracy theory people say don't get tested. Don't get into the database. Bill Gates will have your name in your home address. He'll add extra chlorine to the pool. It's very, it's very. So I don't, so I got to do that. That's the end of September. I have a, I have a little ways up. I'm not really that nervous about it, but who the hell wants to get some, you know, camera shutter. You know, I have this, this, this, this, this, this, I have this, well, they are, they're shoving it up in the butt. Well, how is my supposed to say? What am I supposed to say? They're going to put the camera in up my anus. I mean, I don't have to do with you from his anus. You have to do it from his anus. I'm trying to add humor to the whole thing. It is fun. My brother died. I'm funny in the sense of what they're doing. I'm not, I'm saying, I'm trying to give him, I'm, I'm getting yelled at. It, I'm giving good advice to the people that they should get it, but I have to make some humor to it because it's sort of take away the, the stigma of the people. A lot of people don't go for a colonoscis because they're afraid of it, and they shouldn't be. They already, but I have to get my job to a, a swage everything and make them feel good about the whole procedure and not be worried about it. That's why I have to be a foreign, chronicler. If I do it, if anyone could do it, right? I've got to have this inequality given their opinion in the back of that. So anyway, we're very sad about Rick and obviously, Black Panther, you know what was that anywhere? What else is going on? I have a whole list. I had to make a list of as many things going on. So I interviewed Gary Udett yesterday. We obviously have the North American championships coming up this weekend. We must talk about bodybuilding, all we're at it, right? This is the bodybuilding podcast. And Gary has been jumping through hoops trying to get this thing off the road. You know, they've been... Did you ask for my head to check, did they force some change? Telled it, they can't... Well, this is the deal. You know, the hotel they normally have at it, that really nice one. One you love it, we love that. Yeah, I love it. We were talking about Gary and I mean, he's been having it for years. They're out of business. Can you believe it? Is it COVID? Yeah? What's the name of it? They were sold. It was the Sheridan Station Square. It's being sold because they couldn't stay open and they told Gary, Look, we can't do it. We just... We can't be installed in maintainers in a hotel. Are they going to change it and do it? No, they think it's another hotel chain is buying them or something like that. I don't know how it's... Gary's at there in the process of redoing it and being sold. Wow. And they told him that... It couldn't... That was a very expensive area that that hotel was in. And so I think it was very expensive to maintain it. I mean, the room rate there was very high. I mean, even with the special rate, I think it was like 250 and night. Now, people stayed there myself included because it was so convenient. But it was not like a cheap hotel. So I imagine if... For them to have to charge those rates, they probably had a very high overhead there. So, you... You're not... When you're not in this for six months, that can put you out of business. Yeah, it was. So yeah, that's... So he moved it to the... The wind them. And then they told him, because the governor... Just passed out some... Just... Saying, originally, it was supposed to be no more than 200 people were allowed in the venue. But now they said no more than 20. So he couldn't hold the show in the venue. So he said, the only other option was to take it outside. So he's like, well, we'll hold it outside. So evidently, you know, from what Gary told me, he was like, I didn't... You know, I said, let's rent the tent, but we're... We're going to put the tent. They'd be the parking lot, right? So I guess Jim... And then in him, knew some guy, his valet, who said they knew someone who owned the parking lots. So the guy's like, yeah, you could have it here. Something. So they had that and they got to bring in generators to run the lights and all the... You know, there's no air conditioner in there. They're not going to have fans, I guess. But they can only... They have to rotate people in and out of it because they can only have so many people. Even outside now, there's a rule. You can only have so many people. So it's... You know, he jumped through a lot of hoops and make this happen. And you know, I take my hat off to him because you know what? He kind of just can't sell it. You know, he could have pulled a plug. Yeah, but you know what? He knew how important it was. Matter of fact, it's funny, but you would think that there would be less people competing this year because of COVID. He actually has a record number of people. There was 1,400 people in the show over four days. Crazy. Yeah, crazy. But that's... But there's a lot of pro cards up for grabs. You'd be crazy enough to do this show this, you know? But you know, think about it. These people have been dining some of them for months and months. I have a lot of people in the show, so I know. Like, these people are troopers to be able to stick with it. You know, that long and everything like that. It really was a... it's not an easy thing to continue dieting. When you don't know when the show is going to happen or if it's going to happen. So, but then the people on Instagram on Instagram, like bashing them, saying, Oh, you... there's no, because the newest thing is they can be no crowd there. Because the state handed down, the governor said it had a meeting and said, Nope, can't have 125 people in the arena. Yeah, you have 25 staff members. What's the meeting to do? You know, doors. Even outdoors, you can't have them. Now they change that. So, there's... they're going to be playing around robbing people in and out, in and out, in and out. The pre-judging finals, you don't go home. And it's better than nothing, but you know what people are complaining of. People complaining, oh, I can't see my friends compete. Oh, I can't see my... husband compete. There's no audience. He's trying to set up a livestream that they'll be a typical watch from the hotel. But the bottom line is, you think the gallery doesn't want to sell tickets and make a shitload of money. Of course he does. You know, a lot of stress. He's lost his shirt this year. He knows how many shows of his book can't sell? Of course he wants to sell tickets and wants to have vendors. He can't do it. Then I let him. So don't bash the guy. You should be reporting him for still holding the show. Yeah, a lot of stress points. And look, I've had my run-ins with Gary in the fest, but this is... this is out of his hands. He's... he's bending over backwards to make this happen. With a lot of stress involved, you know. We have to have his backwards. We have to have his backwards. Maybe he's pulling us to the ease of 50 roll he's bending over. There you go. And that would be... that would be... that would be some more taste. Well, but it's midnight. What do you expect? Yeah. So anyway, so the master's... Pro World Championship or the Master's Pro World Championship, it's going to be taking place this weekend as well as the North American Championship, which is the open and the masters. So you have... it's a huge show because there's so many different divisions. Then the masters' nashals will be later this year. I think in October they moved that to. So this is a... this is a big show. This is... What's the 100? Crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Right? I mean, with everything that's been going on and just the whole idea of life, is the show going to go on. The show is going to go on. To get 1,400. I forget it. You know, what's the turn out this year? 200, 300? Yeah. All right. That's what Gary was afraid of. He was afraid no one was going to show it. Well, I hope he gets good brother. Yeah. Yeah. That's the... that's the... That's the... No, he said it for reins. They have to... they get to be busting people back and forth. They have a whole contingency plan set up. But he said that would really... It would be a big monkey wrench, you know, that that would certainly make me very difficult. But it's going to happen. They said, but not... but not give it up. So that's good news. Now, are you into the Tony Dardi? That's not the... but I want to show you. Maybe you're... By the way, subscribe to the Arts Council channel. There's a little subliminal. But I interviewed Tony Dardi this past week and also, who almost went bankrupt this past year, he admitted from the cancellation of the Arnold Australia. You don't want to know how much money that cost him to put on. Plus, all his shows, his local shows that he holds, you know, pro qualifiers, every... the whole year is canceled. And you know what he said, there's a very good chance that... and like a 90% chance that won't be an Arnold Australia 2021 either. I knew you were going to say that. Because they just can't get the international... people in there. That's a problem. Australia likes to... they want to... they'll never open the party. They don't want to ever let anyone in. Yeah. You know, so that's a tough one. That's a tough pill to swallow for him. That's his pride to join that show. Yeah, not only that, but you know what it is. It's like, if Gary didn't have the North America's this year, yeah, he never had an X-ray. But, you know, when you have a break in a year, it just throws off the momentum of, like, the show. Like, a lot of people might not. I mean, it's the Arnold. My point is maybe the Arnold may not be turned off Australia. Well, think about it. How do you get the competitors there? You know, you mean the year after, gave, let's say. Oh, I don't know. I think if it's up to Gary, I mean, if it's up to Tony, there'll be back. But, you know, who knows what the... In Tony's state where he is. Because, you know, they have different, like, look, you know, I guess the misspality is there. It's different from, like, where Lee priest is or the other point. In his area, you can't even... it's like martial law. You can't go into five kilometers from me house. You can't... You can only go to the park for, like, two hours a day. And that's it. It is a nighttime restriction. You can't go out at all. And it's crazy. And they find you. There's, like, like, five thousand dollars fine to get on the mask on outside. It's, like, really serious. And then you think we got to bed in the US to get them at. They got to really bed out there. So, and Tony can't even go to the Olympian issue. You know, he does all the interviews backstage usually to them. Because he's... But he can't travel. No, he can travel. But what they'll do is they'll quarantine him in a hotel and he gets off the plane in Australia for two weeks. And missp Christmas and New Year. So it's family. Because remember it's at the end of December there. So he's like, I can't do that. I said, yeah, it's not worth the Tony. I said to even just too much aggravation. So, I mean, you see, you know, we think we got a bed. They got a worse up there on Australia. So, that's, you know, there's a lot of craziness going on outside. What else do I have on my list here? Uh, boy. You know, I got to give a kudos to John Hanson who did a really good interview with Arnold's ex-girlfriend. Did you see that? Barbara Outland Baker. She dated Arnold. I don't know. She wrote a book and he sent that contact to her. He told me he did it. I watched the interview guys on as YouTube channel. And it was really good. If she dated Arnold for six years. But what I think she did was she interviewed him. Arnold allowed her to come in and interview him. Like, recently when she wrote the book, you know, a sex or something like that, whatever it was. And retock them and ask them all these questions. So the book was accurate. You know what I mean? But she gave some really, she gets a really good insight to Arnold. And his relationship with father. And you know, what, you know, if he was like a waitress, he met in some like, you know, a place and she was like working away through school. And Arnold could barely speak English. He had just come over there. You know, so she was with him from then till through his all as a limpia runs, you know. Boy, you said it was about 69. What was most insightful thing you learned? Um, I'm trying to think. I know, I guess Arnold was like just like the rest of us, like very immature, you know, when he first, you know, came about. He just, he was, he was a little, um, I don't know. She said that he, he, he, he found himself like he felt empowered by putting other people down and making a joke about it. You know what I mean? And I guess she, you know, he's still probably less than. I'm trying to put it in a go. What do you think he did? She would yell at him after she felt like that wasn't nice to say at the Franco or this one of that. But, evidently, from what she said that, you know, we didn't want to bring Franco up. Arnold was like insist and Arnold was like, I need someone to train with, I need Franco. And, you know, Joe didn't want to spend the money, you know, because he didn't think that Franco had the, obviously, the, the marketing appeal that Arnold had, you know. But he knew Arnold was like the press because Arnold didn't speak English that well and he was friends with Franco, so they brought Franco over. But she said he was like, you know, she was, he was, you know, how like, body bowls today just the only ones to talk body bully and are immersed in body and they'll want to hang out. That's the way Arnold was. Yeah, of course, look at it. I mean, you're like, you were right. You're like, well, he wanted to do his body bill. You're like, you're like, right? She's like, only he was talking about body bully and hanging out with body bully. Yeah. You know, crazy, right? He was traveling all over and she was like in school, you know, so she was like, you know, she, she, I don't think she, she took too kind of. I had, I had a feeling Arnold wasn't so loyal to her, you know, while he was dating her. Got that impression from her, you know, from the way she was revealing. That he wasn't that, but it was, it was insightful because she was there like she knew everyone. She knew all the players Jack Lane. She told the funny story. Jack Lane, she met, she meets Jack Lane. And she's like, you know, I had bought one of Jack Lane's exercise pieces, you know, back in whatever, six days when he was marketing and TV. And when I met him, I said, you know, Jack, you know, it's great to meet you, everything like that. And I had ordered what a year. I think, actually, he said, you never got it, you know, you took my money and I've just, you never said to me. And he's like, why didn't you contact me? But, but, but, but he was like, a little apologetic. Evidently, oh, it's picking a marketing. Arnold, and the hard had no money. You know, they were like, bro, Arnold was like, do anything to make money. You know, because there was no money coming in. So Arnold decided he was going to sell these courses online, like, you know, you sign up. It was expensive. Like, and they Arnold would write this whole program for you and everything like that. And, and basically Arnold collected all the money and then he had it and he had to send these courses out. He, he was, he was, he was, he was ready. Yeah, nothing. You're nothing. He had to sit down and just do it because it was good money and they, that's how they were supporting themselves. You know, which I was giving him like advertising pages. And she's like Arnold did it. I don't know. He sat down and he's the hammered out of all of them. And that that it wasn't like right on the computer. You had to do it wrong hand and type it. It was the nightmare. She's like, but he always found a way. She said, even I, you know, even when, you know, he, I guess he would hang out with a lot of, you know, wealthy people like Joe and a couple stars and they were like, you got to invest in real estate. So Arnold, you know, bought his first apartment complex and he lived in the, like, the superintendent's like, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not. That's what the right word. The manager's office. The manager's apartment. He lived it. So he lived in the manager's apartment and then he rented all the other units out. That's like a Chris, a suit of movement. Yeah. Well, I always say by the fool you and it live in one. Yeah. Yeah. And that I, I don't, I think it was more than four units, but I, I know, it was 12. Yeah. Was it 12? You know, it was a man. I'm somewhere red. He made good money from that. Yeah. And what did he sold it? He bought something serious after that. He was like a Jay color, Chris, Cidna movie made. Yeah. Maybe you guys copied him. But he must have scraped the entire nickel. He worked. Yeah. To buy that. Maybe somebody gave him a little extra money. So as a down payment. But you could do crazy stuff like that back in those days, Chris. You know, the, the banks would give you a mortgage, you know, like it wasn't so, it wasn't so difficult. He probably got Joe to co-sign or something like that. You could get a mortgage on like easy. I mean, not easy, but the infinitimal amount of paperwork was, that you have now was like, was pages. Yeah. It was, you know, it was, it was, it was an extra thing. So when I go to a closing game, I always say, I'm buying the building, not the block, right? Because paperwork is essentially says, you know, we will only if you don't pay us. Right. Right. So I'm going to go on all 100 pages. Yeah. Yeah. Who do you, that's why I don't want to read it. Sometimes it's like, I have a really good picture though. So all the bad news is, I got, I got to, I got to show you a good picture. Let me see if I could pull this thing up here. Good news. Who's this? That's that natural bounty in my glass. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a very good picture for his ruling. People were like Mr Henry Schoutes. Remember, it's me. I write it with Jack Nicholas in a luncheon and in Sean Ray cheated. Mulligan, heavy, heavy shuttty says Mulligan, Such alden. I'm only 200 tests to year, I'm going to react to it! But only on $30,000 and then we'll try to cloud it out. Yeah. Well in the end, it's behind that. his insulin protocol, the product's 45 pounds. I remember when he was a kid. Because he doesn't look as blown on the calves. NASA had crazy calves. Oh, crazy. He got insulted. Did I ever tell you that story? I have a lot of nasty stories. I always forget. Dave Pumble, he's fraud. He never went blind. I met NASA. He graduated at eighth grade. Listen, I met that. I met NASA in California. I'm trying to think what the why we hooked up in California somewhere. He came, I think I was at the Marina Pacific Hotel. He came and visited me. I cannot figure out why I don't know if he was going to be in Cal, it was going to be in Venice anyway. And we had a mutual friend. And he's like, oh, come by any. Any. He come by came by with me, my room, or maybe we ate together. And I said, holy man, you show me his calves. His calves were enormous. Like he's a, I'm like holy, back. I said, I said, using central on those calves. And he got insulted. But he didn't tell me he got insulted. He told my friend after what they were saying. So that's what I said. I said, thanks. He's funny. Yeah. I said, why would it be? That was a compliment if he didn't get used to. Yeah, he is so shocked. You were assume that you have to support him. Because he was asking me a million drug questions. You know, NASA trying to take it now. It's like, oh, how much insulin do you know? I'm just a bit of a geochib. So I'm like, I said, now it's holy. Look at those calves. And he was like grinning. He had that grin, you know, with the one eye, it was a little lazy. Like I got the calves. You know, I said, I thought, do you put sinful on those calves? They huge. Now I thought that was a relevant question. Given that he had asked me 400 questions before. Yeah, you know, you're not a log ask. You know, any questions? Yeah. He can ask you all the questions we've had. I said to him, so I, like two years later, we were best posed by us. And you were you insulted by me asking if he had sinful on calves? Yes. Yes. Yes. Very, uh. Did you guys go in? You guys do an appearance together at the Arnold and by imagining that. At the Arnold? At the Arnold? Way back. I'm talking 92. No. No. I didn't even know that. That's a little. He said, uh, I was very insulted because I work a very hard and I have a good calves. And why you would didn't. Tommy's at once the mass of jaws моейfa murderoni. Turn rearville or having painful joints, and no, and otherwise there's a huge explosion, but one of the most severe emotions that I admire often. Five, five, six, six, six, and five. Yeah. Right. Right. milligrams, after the third, I said, Scott, do you think that's it if you're not using Synthonic calves and I think you are using Syntholic, is that a compliment? Any stop for sukhan's? That even say anything. Maybe I jumped the gun too much. So now I had a whole juist up, you know, I had a more like, I was struck in Ziegol a little bit there about how great his calves were. I said, I think your calves might be bigger than Dorians. Then that was really good, you know, feeding them a line of, you know. He was once on, I'm kind of figure out he was getting ready for a show and he was at the goals. He was at goals Venice and he was on treadmill for three hours. Really three hours? Yes. Wow. What speed? Like one. Good. Barely on. So it's like, I mean, the slow it, like, try to probably. But his weight, you probably still was very in calories. It's like, you know, it's someone. Okay, you got it. Someone said to me, I forget who called me because I was no, I don't know what year was and they said, Nasser's been on there for this is going, you know, he's kind of on our number three. And machine is barely moving. And I said, well, listen, you know, if you drive a motorcycle from where I live, the Boston, you might earn four out, you know, 10 gallons a feel. But if you drive an 18 wheeler, even if you barely move the 18 wheeler, even if you go five miles an hour, you burn 20 tons of much feels the motor. Absolutely. He's probably burning a lot. He's got to be everything. Or he's got so much sent on the cab. He just can't walk past. Oh, my God. Anyway, New York pro coming up this weekend as well. We have a busy weekend in bodybuilding. Pretty exciting, right? That we actually have a pro show, folk photos. Only two people are a lot of me audience. I'm just kidding. I, yeah, I wonder what the rules are for, um, engine all the time, you know, or Florida. Is this a funny how we have so many cases you're in this number, friction to see. You have to go in the governor. The governor who he's afraid is one. He wants a good real life, that's one. Yeah. All right, let's, let's look at this, uh, they don't have the near pro lineup. So I actually texted Steve Wyberg. Oh, what's going on here? Where? Texted Steve Wyberg's and Steve. What's going on with New York pro? And he said to me, um, the list will be out tomorrow. I said, Steve, we're doing kind of a rakey I shot tonight to throw. Who's in the shot? He said, well, John Delirows is in the show. Um, let me see what his list was. Yeah, uh, Patrick Moore, right? Are you helping Patrick? Yeah, I'm helping him. I was standing. What does he, what does he weigh? I don't know. Stop playing. Let's go. Next Charles. Angerous. And he's pretty sure Evan sent the party's to. No, let's come back, Joe. So it's a pretty good lineup. I have Phil Klohar in the lineup as well. We are just place for the chance. So he's, I think he's going to be a surprise guy. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I, I think it might be a good show. I don't know who I'm sure there's going to be some other guys in that show. We're all right. Like 258. Yeah, that's great. Today. What was his last show? Uh, laughing that, but not as, in those conditions. Yeah, he's a great. I think he's, I think he was, I think, you know, he was good for Tampa. You got to remember. He was ready. He was competing earlier this year. You know, you know, and then they pulled the plugs. I had a DP, him, and then repeat them. And he just wasn't, he was good for Tampa, but he wasn't as fast. I think it'll be as fast as here in the yard, which is ironic that he lives in Tampa. So it's really convenient. He doesn't have to travel. He didn't have to travel with the Tampa. He doesn't have to travel to the New York Province. To the Tampa. And they moved this, the Chicago project. So that's, that's a, that's a, a plant that. He kidding me. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's happening. Same weekend, it's just going to be in Atlanta, which is probably easier to get to. I was thinking, well, it depends on you. I guess we're becoming from both. Yeah. Look, these promoters are jumping through hoop, but they're making it happen. I was talking to Gary about it. You know, Gary's like, look, you know, the great thing that we really have to be thankful for, and he's right, is that Jake Wood is running the Olympia. Because if AMI was running the Olympia, they wouldn't be an Olympia this year. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. What's his taste, can. Well, even if Packard didn't get that fired, AMI would never have helped the Olympia. They would have canceled it, you know. So the fact that Jake Wood is now owns the Olympia, he's a bodybuilder at heart. I mean, he's a fan at heart. He's a bodybuilder at heart. He loves the sport. He said he will make this show will happen. So, come high and hold a word of this going to be the Olympia. You know, so there might not be any audience there, but there's going to be an Olympia. Yeah. So that's good news for bodybuilding, especially since Phil Heads comes back. So I'm most excited to think that happened to bodybuilding in the whole year, please. So I was talking to one of my, Saudi, canterrutt and connections. I said there was a debate. They have a little private, once an app group, they talked about. And they were debating, I guess, how Brandon's going to do it. And I guess Brandon's trainer Abdullah was saying that there's no way Brandon's going to lose. Phil will never beat him. He's the best trainer, a lot of not a lot of not. So this guy in friends with supposedly, this is, you know, I didn't see that the actual chap, and he said he, this is the story I'm getting. Told Abdul, and he would bet him $100,000 that Phil will beat. Brandon. So Abdullah supposedly was taking the bet. And supposedly it was going to be a third party that actually held the money. So that, you know, this one gives 100 grand, this one gives 100 grand whoever wins. The third party gives it to the, the make sure that everyone gets paid because, you know, people don't pay on 100,000 all that. So this guy, um, sends the 100 grand to the third party. And then Abdul says, oh, no, I thought it was for $10,000. Well, it's not a show. And then he's back out of the $10,000, too. So there's no bet. I guess Abdul is not as confident as he was liking the boy. He said that he's the best trainer out there. Chris and Chad, they know matchfade. So we'll see what happens if Sean Rodin and Ramies in the show. Although, you say Ramies not working with Chad anymore. No, I hear from him as I hear. What's the rumor? I already was working with me. Oh, really that would that be like his tenth training. What? Well, I mean, of course, you can't be surprised if that's the truth. I'll tell you one thing. Ramie, my strategy might be that to become a great, the greatest trainer of all time. He can call everyone's, you know, from every single trainer he's worked with. He knows everyone's protocols, right? Chris, I've got the sodium. When we also take the insulin with the tennis James, I do this with this. You know, Phil is Phil is shown a time and time again that he's hard to beat. You know, I mean, it's going to be no walk in the park. We know that. He's never has carry even ever beaten and filled now. I think we've got a punch in. I mean, that's that's what you, you know, you can say. You know, even previous to Sean Beaton, Phil that he's got some punches in, you know, 2015, 2016. You know, Phil's shown, you know, then he's hard to beat. That's why I said ask for him. He asked Phil, ask Dexter, ask, Oh, neck, ask, hurry, ask, Roli, I mean, the list goes on. Yeah, he's being a mall pretty handling for us seven years. So, you know, he has to be considered. He's has to be considered the heavy favor. Yeah. Well, the difference is also he didn't lose because he had like half a lap like Ronnie did or half a bicep like Doran. You know, he, he has, he just, he had a, the distinction, an aesthetic problem, basically what an amount to two. And Sean just was at his best. No, I mean, he just, he's right. I was just going to say that Dave, you took the words he lost because of timing, meaning Sean was at his, if Sean was not at his absolute best. It's going to work. He went out of line. You could rewind it to 15. Sean was like, at that point in this career was at his absolute best and Phil wasn't until Saturday night. You know, I mean, the timing. So you, you have to be consistent both nights. There's just so much that goes on to one in that show. Yeah, really, right. Hey, we're getting back to New York pro. Where do you think given who we have mentioned? And I think there's probably a couple of names probably that we haven't, uh, better of the on that list that we haven't talked, we're not going to be talking about yet. But, you know, given if we haven't evidence-onsifying the lineup, you know, I don't know how his quad looks ever since he, you know, yet the tour of the quad few years ago. I'm sure it looks good, but evidence of everyone can feed of it didn't. We have John Delirosa who's always a threat up there. We have obviously passion more who's, you know, was the man of the, I guess the talk of the town last year. I think it'll be the talk of the town. That's Charles is always dangerous. I think it's dangerous too. It comes on, you know, that show depends who's at the best. It's a good matchup because you know, no one's really like hands above the other ones, you know. They all have weaknesses. Yeah. I mean, everybody has weaknesses. Period. There's not somebody like. Well, what's, let's go through every person. What's Matt Charles's weakness is legs. Back. His back is weakness. Back double doesn't have detail. Hamsters and glutes are vaguely there. I think it's the lower part, but it's probably his. Yeah. What's John Delirosa, he's pretty balanced. I mean, if you don't know, it's extremely balanced. He's saying maybe he doesn't bring that. He's shining. Paper fence again. You know, if it comes down to that, if it comes down to that. He can win the show if he brings it, if he brings it. But for sure. What's Patrick more as weakness? Um, overall size, but probably be hidden with outrageous condition. Yeah. Yeah. He's going to let me align a piece. He's got tough. It's tough because he's he's not big enough yet. But I mean, I don't know, he must have put on some size of the course of the last year. I'm sure. Well, I mean, there hasn't been any here. He did the look. He did the Arnold, he did this. So, but he's bigger. Yeah. Oh, he's these these bigaries dancers, but, you know, we're going for condition. Right. No, I'll. I'll let that guy scroll this week. Right. And evidence of the pine, you know, potentially like. I'll potentially. Yeah. I mean, It has a bent on stage. You know what I mean? It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's hard. It's all clear. You never really can be the one. But also if you haven't been on stage for a long period of time, sometimes. It's just hard to peak your body because you haven't done it. Right. It's funny how I haven't even seen. I don't think he's even put a picture on his Instagram. Basically. Yeah. He had a back shot somewhere. So one Sunday. Yeah, but was that the was that recent? Yeah, it was recent. The shoulders and arms are insane. I'm looking at his Instagram. I don't really see. What do you see? Cabbage and salmon? No. Yeah, pretty much. I like to be a. I mean, you know, the old. Cabbage, salmon, a tractor. Everything's got to last. And maybe probably the animal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's the name of the company's been with the 20 years? Animal. Animal. Universal. Universal. He's lucky. He's got. He has a they even put him on the containers. You know, the uses image. They don't let him go anytime. So they've very loyal to their people. They need to go on. He works for them for like 20 or 20 years. Yeah. Yeah. They stick with someone in the using. So I guess that's good to have. I mean, he wasted good looking. I use a marketable guy. You know, so. You don't have to compete to be, you know, to be a. Image of a product line, you know. They probably use them more now than they did when. When he actually was first coming up. You right. I always used to say that. How can they put you on in the any. It's a. I used to be like all the time. He's like, well, they have these weird ads. They run. They don't really put people's pictures in there. So put like by the police and arm. Company that's been around a long time. Yeah. Yeah. They were around from. Probably one of the first companies ever, right? Along with through twin rabbit back in those days. So I've remember from when I first started lifting. They had animal packs. Yeah. Like 400 pills. Yeah. I was thinking. Yeah. Actually, I think they gave up. We were looking. I was looking at the other day. They're webbing. I think I like do powders. I think everything's like powderized. Why? Because people would probably choke on all those pills. I don't know if those pills have any dissolve. Some of the pills look like like a pill. They were giving a horse, right? Yeah. Well, they were like that. They were tablets. And I don't the tablets don't really die. Desol very easily. So I think that they found the power. The powders are probably cheaper to make. You know, once you put everything in capsules and tates and it's a pain in the neck. So hey, you got to evolve at the times, right? So look at works. I think they probably sell more overseas than they do domestically. I think that's where they're really strong because they always do fibo and all those big shows overseas. Although fibos cancel this year. We may never see another fibo again. You may be right. It's crazy. We think about a thousand people under one group. Yeah. And the next year. No. That's the crazy thing. We're not going to be here. Like in 2021 and say, oh, everything's fine. You're going into the auto. Yeah. Pretty much. It's so dope. Not going to be the same. I think it's going to be illegal back to being close, but it won't be the same. Who knows when they get to tell everyone that it's okay to actually interact with other people. You know, Romano claims it's after the election because everything's going to be fine. He's going to want the elections over. There's only no more restrictions on anyone. I said, I hope you're right. I said, I don't think you're right, but I hope you're right. You know, speaking of restrictions. My theory is that I don't even know if I said this or I, well, I don't even want to put it out. Because you're like, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not putting it out. Because you're like, yeah, it's a real case, Terry. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm just talking about retracing it. I just think of my role and it's caused a death. So Steve Wymer is holding the show. And I get, you gotta take your hat off the Steve too. And I'll tell you why. Because Gary is making money. Obviously he's, he's, it's application fees, right? It's about two, fifty or something like that per person. Do the math, you know, don't be money. Steve is holding a pro show. These athletes don't pay entry fees. There's no audience that I know well, there's probably a limited audience I would think This is a very good cost to say what you have to do Yeah, I can't see him making any money and I you know I'm sure he's doing it just because we need a near-art problem We need to have some qualifiers for the Olympian See you got a really you got to really say you know good job Steve I mean I know Steve's made a lot of money over the years and everything like that But this is the rough year from his gym wasn't open for six months He hasn't held a single show like since you know the beginning of the year. You know so You know This is really a a labor of love he's doing you know because There's no money to be made at the show. He can only lose at this show you know Hopefully they can somehow one of he can get some of the amateur shows with his off I don't know they still hold the team universe or is that canceled? I don't know really I don't I almost like any of trying to keep why I didn't give up trying to keep track because everyone I know who is competing in a show anywhere on this earth has had it either post-poned or canceled I'm serious with the exception of The New York Pearl and the Tampa those are the only really two shows Actually we had the Omaha this past weekend Of the Savannah and the Omaha I mean it was this been some shows I mean they have been some shows Yeah, I feel I He's got a couple shows in English though, you know he's got a couple shows and I've told a team universe is Rescheduled for no member 12 through the fourth date so that that's a big show for him Yeah, oh, that'll be like You know what the mark with an exhilarating oh, I don't know where they're gonna hold it they're usually holding in Jersey I don't even have to be able to You know this poor guys and to tell us Jim Yes Yeah, they were they were being fine 500 all the day they lost their business license One of these guys running percent it made their Jim a campaign headquarters Yeah, well, you know he did that so then that the Jim's open they're they're actually have people working out there So it's not technically a Jim so they It's a campaign It has Finiscuitment right right these guys is you I mean I take my head off to them I would not want to get into it look at the loophole in the law Yeah, I wouldn't want to get into the campaign office and then have a Jim I mean Exercise equipment there's nothing worse than in antagonizing the in the governor of the state You have to hold your position they might have just moved the floor at this point open and Jim down there move the whole Jim So that's that's that but what else is going on with you guys? We had the you didn't review the Savannah All right, right we did have that hold up and the classic and you're right. Thank you. Thank you. I'm glad that you will mind of me the land of Murray Savannah Pro Land is a big conference promoter now All right, let's see Let's put this up here on the screen here Is it funny that lenders the only like Miscellenty that really you know Promote shows and as a Jim and Chad have oh that's true yeah, that's true. Yeah, I I am just a long time, you know just not a pro show Although they did have a pro show because they had that crazy lighting that people love the vine Wilson finally gets the wind Chris I'll be going to the Olivia 20 to various second Third place Jonathan hammer kid guy You disappointed are Oh, I mean I thought he looked tremendous You know I thought he looked tremendous I just you know to my Wilson looked tremendous in the guy I got second I don't know look tremendous well what your and Dad was fourth and his death was in that right here What do you think uh Let's see what some picture up here yeah, you tell me You tell me Enough that you $100,000 at your home I should really talk about the junior sails is best That's right that you know what's this weekend See you to go off galore date Here I was ready to wrap the show up that I know by the way the junior USA Legendary virtual happened okay, let's spend doing after the time Yeah, no Because you know at the shows is so when the shows are too big I think you don't even want to do anything with it because it's too big Well, you don't have to cover all the classes but yeah, oh, but it's still a bit I don't even know what you get that way on what the NPC news yeah, I don't know if I'm looking for pictures I don't see him and he's not yet Very good pictures no, I'm PC do I do it I see the the I if you'd be specific USA pro They actually call also one another show. I think this is a 20 first year Yeah, this year Crazy that's a They all have masks on to see this picture I did see it someone sent it to me Oh yeah, he did Where was that show how Dave? It's summer I think he was in California Yeah, because in California they're crazy about the masks Where was that hole there next next again to come be your computers and your guns To put making you wear a mask how funny is that it really levels the playing kill for some of these girls That right because No, I got some brother really good looking and it helps their placing in bikini You only look only look at the what next down now when I can't let you know the body yeah, believe I there was a girl there was a female who used to compete years ago. I'm like a sail she was like a machine She was she was not attractive but she had the the best physique I thought up there and I used to sit with jam I'm like man if the girl was better looking she would be mislippy like you're right So she would be doing great She'd be doing awesome if if this was the case Oh my god Chris we can't make this stuff up Let me see if I can find that one it's on NPC the one the merge NPC knows I've already looked at pictures they're great pictures I don't know why I can't find it NPC news online I want it come on I'm looking for the pictures with the optimum classic this past weekend too only macro yeah Jam was there interviewing people That's why I can't see it because there's so many people there's so many interviews from that show I think you click on the Lendon Murray's the van Aron then you can let's say gallo res here or something I'm receiving a fire they got a lot of GSA coverage that's the problem Jam interviewed everyone there Some Look I can't I can't be said let's let's talk about the junior I say for now when we go back to be on the one Kyle pocket money overall See this guy He's your video girl champ Nice guy good sweet I got to remember the overall Ben's body don't chamfer he does not get a pro card to junior I'll say we've Complained about this few years Yeah, thank you This is the uh this is the overall shirt No So look at the has super anyway Stack Stack Stameless This guy's thick This guy's thick That card good legs Gums Crazy arms yeah Let's go back I'll take a look at through one the Uh Cresharms is the heavyweight Good conditioning structure not great See oh Very weak very weak kind of body look at this is like no one in the body boy Joe That's called the writing on the wall day What do you give a pro card so no one wants to do it? I'm sorry to be the announcer of bad news about it I'm saying that for like three years It locked in things out of what I mean it Here's your classic winner now green really good right? Look fabulous Skin spring I'm shocked that he hasn't called you. This is a typical look acido Yeah, yeah, totally brown Good arms like those crazy arms Flurry quads Good separation. How many looks ten times better in real life do not know absolutely All right, well look we we we see this just goes to show you they're getting a give a pro card You get the best people out there if you don't give a pro card no one wants to do it It's just the way it goes That's that's the that's the society we live in now back in the day you would happy to place You know top five at the junior USA Like a you would be like yeah, it was a huge accomplishment Right, I mean they were like man you you really you did a great you know I should be kidding You know the crazy the competition was so crazy is you know this year you can make top you maybe get you know top 10 of the nationals You got fourth of the juniors maybe if you're lucky you'll crack the top 10 The right Right, if they were it was so competitive people don't mean don't know that it was So deep so many competitors per class they do the quarter turns as a cutoff Right, yep, and you walked up the stage and you maybe not even you didn't do pre judging that was it top I didn't even hit a front double Yeah, they did you you did how you front double look? I don't know I always 15 I got a vianis that was good. I never I ever experienced the like to see a mixture From them thank god now I found this a van of brush out pictures Let's look at the vine Wilson who won the show who looked tremendous here I think this is best these look first Just really I mean You can't almost you can't take it away from the guy. I mean he was I never stayed in the plane before yeah clean lines in the quads That's what we say all packs You know But some people put the comparison shuttle so yeah Go through the compulsory Sorry there is hammer in the middle. That's not the first call out Let me pull the comparison shots I have to pull it up certainly You You know handprint looks so impressive I'm sorry I'm not sure I did it but you look so impressive in those in the call outs Well the height and the frame I don't know how he doesn't win these shows because you know it It's like you like you don't want anyone else it's pretty zipper to this show too I will say with it. I mean the vine is good but I I Let's all pull the picture Now Dave you don't know I mean handprint looks pretty good in that picture right there Oh yeah yeah it looks like it's like 69 And he can tell he's squatting down a little bit too It's all in that picture yeah I'm shocked that he got fourth here I could say I could almost make a case for second You know But Let's let me pull up a back shot You sound like Jose Was he there? No that's what Jose said I would pull up a bunch of Well the abs his abs are just wacky yeah Not that it's an abshow Because it holds the hands of wacky too He's like a little Ronny takes forever to get into a shot this kid Is this a one-to-transition shots do you notice that yeah yeah LeVron would take forever right They you remember they would yell at him Yes Like hit the star right No, who could kill us right LeVron? Yeah, screaming out of like yeah right whatever So that's the line to the the second in the middle Yeah, yes, thick and then you got Hamburg to the left to him and then they got the second place guys to the to the right I can't judge from pictures it's hard Yeah, because you keep on You You I'm not being near the promise because it's not you're not there in person. I know it's it's not being it's not the same I look at food pictures online then I go to restaurants when you when you analyze the pictures Okay, as this coach I mean what do you see is would you like see better? Thickness is the only thing you can I mean Is that why divine when see her because he's got the thick upper back. Yeah, he's got you He's got the thick upper back. I mean I'll try to defend Jonathan and say look at he's got to try to lower Lats in the back double And it's glutes and heems a chisel Yeah, and he's gonna he's got a good V tape around it. You know what I mean? And Tony de Veres and second is no there's no joke No, no, very good. Well, very very good very good You're a public official that I divine here one second. I mean you're all very good. Yeah, yeah, it is like that You know, I think it might come down to muscle size. I think you know I think divine is also put in the taste of his hold it so He had some Close calls Look at that shot. Yeah, it looks tremendous in that shot. You know a lot of separation he did his homework here You know I came in when you lose to a guy who's who looks like this you really can't you really can't be too I mean, right how old is Amber guys still really young he's he'll be gay he'll be dead Well, he's still be able to make the the way class you think oh yeah, he's a plenty of Why on you yeah, but this is high right? Yeah, yeah, I gave the high gives him like an extra He can fill out like another he can weigh like two six dance stage problems He'll be if he puts on four pounds between now and the Olympi with this conditioning And he can just buy because he's 22 you know what I mean when you're 22 things like happening by the month Yeah, that was a dead I remember that year I cheated every day for a month and I gained 22 Well, you could you could actually you can gain muscle between shows like Remember the running between the 91 junior nationals and the nationals was like a week's in a game like what like 10 pounds of muscle Let's look at asha Ashley had Lee the asha had Lee the female bodybuilder who One this I have to say this is probably one the first female libel this year that I'm actually like kind of impressed with Where she looks oh yeah, I know exactly the image she looks very good and I agree shape She's in good shape and she's She's actually has a nice you know muscle It was great guys, you know great guys great all the size we you know Gary and I were talking on the Gary unit on the interview we did and we were saying how Hit Tyler and him are now like really talking to these these women's Physicurals that are coming up and say hey why did I do well or and he's like who women's bodybuilding We're putting we're pushing a lot of people to bodybuilding. I said I said you know You would say that for two years Well Gary why do you just combine the divisions if this I don't make the rules you know Gary Down at that one right quick, but but it's true. I mean they should combine the vision but if they don't And they're gonna keep the two Wives these women's physique girls should just go into bodybuilding at this point you know Jake's given away a ton of money for Price money at the long Yeah, so you'd be crazy not to someone like I should She's perfect. I mean this up. There's a lot of girls out there that that that easily can cross over and do well on women's bodybuilding These girls are afraid they think that women's bodybuilds of that pick who who would they have to be afraid of the only person that they really should be afraid of his Irish Kyle and Iris is not 30 years old Yeah, she's just girl commission right She's got a good structure to obviously, but um You know she's she's one 10 Olympia's already. It's not like she's not like fresh off the press of the Speed so Well see what happens. I mean look they get to do it Everything want to do I don't think that it's warranted to have two divisions at this point I told Gary that I said Gary and it's in there's no distinction unless you guys are gonna start Marking these women's physique girls down for being too big and too hard You know then It's meaningless to have two divisions, you know What they really should do we've said this before Chris is they should just make it like classic bodybuilding They should they should make a height weight restriction This way the girls can't get any bigger than a certain amount You know that would certainly limit the size of them and then you now you have two separate divisions You know your bodybuilding get as big as you want you have you know Women's physique you have to be be a certain weight for your height, you know Take it from you Right I'm that makes sense I mean That's the only way to limit them because you're not if you tell the judges to limit them They can't it doesn't first show one or two shows and then it goes right back to what it was because The body a judge looks at someone and they want to vote for the best person on stage So they can't just say but we're gonna mark this girl that even though she's the best one on stage The best one to muscular So what you do is you put a limit on the weight and then they if they can't make the weight then yeah, then that's the limit Right there That's the doing for the the classic bodybuilding. It's working great, right? I mean right No one's getting out of control in class body, but we just you can't Yeah, it's it is working Good All right, well Just as I said, boots and hands would become like peels out of what you see that you see these guys the top three in the show Cup five You said that would be the biggest mistake in class to make it I think boots and hands show it's a good it's back to what it's a ham show yeah well, you know in lieu of it I was wrong because it's fine Because they're rewarding still the whole body Yeah, sometimes a bodybuilding you can have the greatest glutes of ham to destroy people with no glutes in ham And the development's terrible True in here, you know they take it everything into consideration still because I Still I still see people Without great glutes and hands But better classic bodybuilding was beating people With better glutes and hands yeah, well structures much more important. Yes, I would say yeah, they're weighing that still heavily Which is what you're looking at is hammer true good looking at the condition in the structure and probably the size Still I think you he's got a big frame. He's got to fill it out still Once he does once he does he might be missed all Mr. Olympia If he does Yeah, it's still waiting for ramming it when he'll want to be a so How many years we worked wait ten years? 10 11 coaches ten years 11 coaches And he didn't even get people on year He didn't even get people 90 All right, well, you know what I want to send out the condolences once again to Rick a Jason's family and You know, it's very sad that we lost him but it was a good guy and a lot of people gonna miss him and miss his channel Channel still be there, but you know, obviously we'll see any new interviews and of course so good luck to all the competitors That are gonna be doing the New York pro this weekend and the North American championships Hopefully you get you will have a live stream so we can check that out now I don't know what is New York having a live stream I don't even know I've got to ask you I'm gonna suit me because I think you got to The only thing will be able to tell is pictures from one photographer's little probably No Because pictures and They're not always Yeah Christmas when remember you'd go to a show the 90s you all you'd have is like a like a little you remember the Camus the throw a Camus you'd be this you'd be like this big in the in the picture and it was blot and it was blurry at that you know So All right guys, you know what to do? Uh, it's that time again Heavy muscle radio Truth hearts good night everyone and we'll see you next week good luck to all the competitors this coming weekend Hope you're gonna see some great Olympia qualms Let's go

10th and 9th You're one and only There ready for two guys who can't hit a retreat The truth you can't handle it from what we can't be Lombon Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle LIM Watch out Welcome back to another episode of heavy muscle radio I'm Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always By the technicians Chris Asito On this I can't believe we're saying August 3rd 2000 and 20 evening and Chris We have a show to report on In your movie It's a great idea I know people are going to kill us for not talking anything Bodybuilding It's in the books Huntel Abraut, a pro debut Like his father, Wins it Going to the Olympia at the end of the year Are we seeing a dinosaur here? Another second generation We had surgery We did the duty first and now we have They both won the first pro shows The difference is Huntel Abraut has better genetics and his father He looks exactly like his father He does He's a big brother He's bigger And leave a barren I never really had a back That will buy some sort of speak Close your eyes and think of Sean Rays back To buy something that And then think of let's say Lee's who was a weak Very weak body part for him Lee was a lot shorter than Huntel He was a lot shorter than Huntel But better high five as mother for the extra genetics But the high... You're right The width It's a good... See? Big mom You know it's funny But Huntel looks exactly like Lee And everyone says that Lee was five foot six And Huntel is only five, five, five, five, five, nine It's not really that big He says that there's no way That... Hunt... I mean, Lee was five, six There's a picture of him next to Sean Rays To show He's like Sean Rays like towering over Did you see that picture? No, I didn't I thought that He may be five, five, five, five, five, five, four I'm telling you, unless he's drunk You know, I... I swear everyone shrinks a little bit when they get older I guess But Did you see the... A lifetime achievement award to Sean Rays? I think that's right Yeah, so... Let me see if I can find that poem Let me see if I can find the picture of... I've been giving out the... Telling you, Lee is like... Like Sean looks like he's like... Unless Sean will be shocked a bit when we were in Lifts in the show I mean, yeah, boo, see I'd get that award He might have... Right? No, so I'm... I'm used to with the... The DNC, right? Yeah, I'm used to it, right? I make him into a three-chist dollar, so maybe Sean did. Yes, the love... That's right. I read that. Didn't he have... Yeah. Like four-inch lifts or something like that? Yeah. That's funny. It had to be a tough show. I mean, I know everyone was like... They had a people, everyone had to be masked there. It had to be a real nuisance. You know, you see the combat is on stage and on a mask But I think everyone was masked backstage and all that stuff And... I don't know. It had to be difficult to cover the show there. I would imagine wearing a mask. It's got to be real. Think about the judging. They have to sit there all day in judge. You think they were... They must have no wearing masks, though, yes, right? I don't know. I would imagine. They'd have to be, right? I don't know. I thought I saw a picture. I mean, in Omaha, I saw people not wearing masks, were judges. Yeah. I think they'd... I think Florida's a lot different. I think they had a lot more stringent rules here. Yeah. Well, I don't know about Tampa, but Miami does. I know there was a really strict, really strict game. I... I... From what I understand, you know, even Australia is locked down at... You know, you know, that... Yeah, you know, that... You know, that... You know, that... You know, that... You know, that... You know, that... Six weeks, a lot of those guys thought... And I feel bad for those... I had a lot of clients here there and they were just like... I'm serious locked down. And New Zealand's got nothing. Isn't that weird? I mean, they're out of the separate islands. They're not right in the... I don't know. I don't know. But it still... It's still right in the... It's... It's... It's... Well, let's talk about the show a little bit. It was a... Two-man show. Well, a lot of it because people... Just... You know, many people text me and say, Just people just so excited that there's a show. Yeah. Yeah. But it really... It came out that I don't... You know, we can discuss if the... The play sings were right, you know. But let's... Let's talk about the... The two-man call out, you know. Ian Valier, who was, you know, being... You know, people gave us a flag because we didn't know Ian was doing the show. Like... Like... Like... He wasn't on the competitors list last week. Like, have a freak of reasons. So there's a travel bank, any retard, who may have said... And... Yeah, I was... I was... I didn't think he was going to come from Canada. That's what I thought. Amazing. It probably drove. I don't know. Anyway, Ian, you know, from what John Hanson reported on our rap, we did Saturday night. He said that Ian was like, tan was really bad. He was a little... He was very flat. He looked at the out of it. I don't know. If he was sick or something, I haven't talked to him or anything like that. But... Um... I think, you know what? Here's... Here's... What I see. Imagine how crappy... I was going to say, leave the bar on it. How bad does he look like, leave there? How many times they call them, we are saying the rap up here? No. Think how crappy, how to look, if I had his tan, and think how good Ian would look, he had just tan there. Hugs, tan is amazing. It's like just like leaves, right? Yeah. Well, it's a tan. It's a tan. And on the Richter scale, and Ian's does not register. I mean, his color is so bad, and how many times of you... I mean, color counts in when it's a close show between first and second. That is good. I go to the... Right? And sometimes when you call it's really good, you look harder than when you color is like pretty good. Yeah. So this was a... The first thing I noticed about Ian is absolutely horrible color. And then the second thing is horrible stage presence. Yeah, you think he was nervous? I mean, I mean, I can't even figure it out. I mean, he did on the Olympia stage before. So it's not like this is not as, you know, first to go around here. He's one show as well. Yeah. You know, I don't know. But it's just an interesting observation. At least I think it is that he has completely no color and have no stage presence. Right. And he has one shows. It's bad for me to me. Look at this shot. I love this shot. This back double. Great, great back double comparison. Look at the polish like I'm a broad. I mean, I almost, you know, you have to almost say like I feel like Ian has a better back double. But like it's just not being shown off. Like you said, that's why I felt like he was a little flat to me. Like I think, you know, he's so big in the off season. Even like two weeks after in the show, you see those pictures. He looks like it's like, you know, he goes as well to somebody. He has a, he's a tall guy, even though he doesn't look down much taller than. The barra right here, but he's a tall guy and he's got a lot of width. And that type of physique go flat and. Three. Oh, god. Yeah, you're right. And people in laugh, but there are some physics like that that can go flat in three hours. And I did see some pictures obviously of the night show and yes, he rectified. His hands, so that made him look much different, much improved. But he also look fuller. So I mean, you could have been flat here. I haven't said that. The barra looks tremendous here at the back. I was well. I love the shot. I love the shot. I think that, um, well, you know, Lee Priest seems to think that. That Hunter could be a potential Mr. Olympia with you. What do you think about that? Well, I think that he reminds me. He reminds me to some degree of. Uh, flex Lewis. Um. You know, they don't, they don't have crazy. V tapers. Uh, but what they have is cap delts, big arms, right? Right. You know, good deep muscle maturity. Um, which is surprising, considering the barra's young because it's hard to get that. Yeah. I think he's he's going to do well and he won't be this year. You do. Yeah, because you do this. Um, you just take the top 10 from last year and say five of the top 10 were off. And who's going to be able to make it actually make it out to the show, right? It's, it's, it's, it's crazy right now. Right? Yeah. I guess if, you know, right now, when you can't travel from Europe to the US, so that means that Bonac is out. We're getting ahead of ourselves. We still got to critique this show. Well, Bonac can't come. Um. Unless he gets over here and, you know, I was kind of like two months or all, you know, and just, stays in the US. I mean, I mean, we can't come now. True. But, you know, maybe there's a sports. Maybe they can go by boat or something like that. Maybe they make exceptions to the rule, you know, I mean, they make exceptions for medical people, so maybe they make exceptions for athletes. You know, they probably say, well, we make exceptions for athletes, but we don't consider bodybuilding in a sense. It's funny that I have to live this for 24, seven a day. But, but you know, I'm kidding. Who's making that decision? They don't consider me an athlete. I have no idea. I mean, it's like a sad that said unfortunately, it's sad. We're in 2000 for, can you imagine 2020 and you have people? Well, it's not really, it's not really athletes that are like, it's put on. It's kind of like a beauty pageant. It's a beauty pageant with muscle and. You have a governor. Arnold Schwarzenegger was well, he wasn't an athlete either. I think if, think if Arnold was like a basketball player, the NBA, became governor. Well, Bill Bradley, remember? Yeah, that's right. He was the, the state center in, with Jersey for like how many years? Yeah, long time. That was, that when I was growing up, that's what they always said. They were said, they were said, they were, they were very fond of Bill Bradley, because you know, he was, he was a, he went to, I think with a Princeton, right? He went to Princeton on a scholarship for basketball. So he was a very intelligent guy and then he had a great career in the NBA, and then he, and then he also went on to become a, you know, a senator, so like, like, that's Bill Bradley, that's he, you have to be like, that's, that was, that was a throwing in my face. I'm like, let, let, let, let he Dijkstra come to to mine, please. It's a, a baseball one, because it went to the pen for, yeah. Okay, so, for taxidation, scamming old people having their pensions. Yeah. Oh my God. So it was my impression. I mean, that was my impression, and I thought, it was, when you come out flat, like you came out and with, I think the, the color ratio is as bad as the, you know, quote, fullness issue. I think he had absolutely no chance, because if you're looking at, if you're probably, I mean, I'm not there, but you look, you're right there. You wouldn't even look at the guy. Yeah. I, you know, I feel bad for him. I, I, I, I, I, I definitely something is wrong, you know, you could tell. There's nothing, something went wrong with this, with this, where, where's, Pratt or something or maybe, I don't, maybe got into the last minute. I don't know, it just, he looked, he didn't even smile on stage. Well, I mean, I was a big, you know, you know, look at those, let me pop it out of the picture. That's what I said, page presence was terrible. I mean, I like a video. I just, I could tell from a couple pictures. Maybe you see this picture. Look at, look at that, look on his face. That is not a, it looked, LeBron is smiling, like everyone, you know, most of the matters smiling. It says Ian looks miserable up there. His underarms look like they had no tan on him. I mean, he, something is wrong. Maybe he's sick. I don't know, you know, I, I, I'm going to try to get him on the TV show, because he's a good guy. I, I like him a lot. And he's a, you know, talented kid. And he's been improving every year. I, I, something went wrong. I'm telling you. Maybe he, maybe he, maybe he realized his tan was terrible, then he had, like, freaked out with nervous and I'm serious. Yeah. Well, that's what, yeah, we were talking to Lee, pretty much. You've seen someone with a tan and you like, I don't think the tan is good enough. And then, you did it. That way, you're not going to be in a good mood of like, yeah, like I don't even say. If you don't look, if you know, you don't look like that. But you, you have to fake it. I mean, it looked as if it's been, the best body bowls in the world that had terrible hands before and they fake their way through it. And you come back, yes, walk risk. You come back to the night show. Okay. With a better tan, right? So you do someone tell him, hey, hey, in, your tan is terrible. Can you fix this thing at the night show? I'm sure people will call on them and tell him that. Right? Yeah. You know what, J.A. always says about the tan. You've got to have a genuine real base. That ice, I mentioned that all stood the rabbit. I said, you got, he's, he's his widest of ghosts. I know he's up in Canada, but you got it. Like, I got to land a tanning man. I don't know, maybe there's no tanning men's open, but that's COVID. I have no idea. You got to have, for a lot of people who are very pale, you have to have some type of base. Yeah. Branch weren't had a problem with tanning for many years. Because of that same reason. See, it was always so, so white. But you know what, he got dark. You know, he had liquid sun rays and one of those, I think, companies, you know, working on him or J.A. Someone wanted those. And they got his tan perfect after a while. You know, so, I mean, I just think that, let's, let's speculate. If Ian was at his best, does he have a broad? No, I don't, I don't, I don't know. I hate, I don't want to speculate because it takes away from the broad as, in person. I don't know, it doesn't think it's a little broad of show, but it's best in one. I can make a joke and say, yeah, I kill him though. But, you know, it would have been a hell of a lot more, close, exciting. Yeah, closer. Yeah. I mean, I ended the anger to show last year. I was there. I don't have to be there again to know that he was better last year. Right. No, you're right. All right. Let's, we'll, we'll brag about the Hunter and a little bit. Let's talk about Dwayne Walker who placed in Sir Who came in the second spot. Excuse me, a third spot. A lot, a lot of people thought he was good enough to come in second year. What do you think about him? I love his front double, Bicep, by the way. I love his front last bread. I mean, front, flat, if you like his front double, post up his front last bread. Smokes. Hey. Arguably the best. You're right. Not arguably. He has the best front last bread. All the top three without a doubt. Mm-hmm. What just saying? A ton. Even though he was in the top three. And instead of a top two, you think it was, that was like the, the pre-hype. Instagram post down or was, or was it legitimately those two guys were so separate? Because he looks like he could definitely be in that, in that group for sure. Well, he should be in that group. I mean, if you look like now, that's for, I mean, if condition is excellent, right? Yeah. It's good for that. It's great. It's great back double, too. Yeah. He's not, I mean, look, look, I mean, the guy is good. Look at that. That's a nice part. Do you dream about, right? Yeah. Yeah. I think the channel is, um, shredded packs. Yeah. Look at the ad thigh. Shut it. Put the quads. He's good. I mean, he doesn't really have any weaknesses. I think he, you know, I mean, he, I think the, I think the, I would have liked to have seen the top three, you know, just like the, a call out with top three. Yeah. But, um, that said, he definitely earned the spot. You know, you can make, you know, because And it's bigger still, you know, he's still bigger wider. He's not quite as, he's not quite as, he's not quite as, he's not quite as, quite as great. He's from behind as those guys out, I'll put up the back double. But he's got, he's got potential like oozing out of him, right? Yeah. He's got the, a common glutes there, right? Well, I wouldn't say common glutes. No, that's, that's the shape of the glutes. I'm not saying it. Looks like I'm saying he's got to be bigger, obviously. But I'm saying, I could, could, could hit from boys. He's very good, very impressed. He's got them all the makings of a, that's a great confetti. I don't know who, who, I'm surprised he hasn't called you yet. I don't even know who he is, or good. I've never, I mean, how impressive is that placing? Yeah. Never heard the name before. Now, now he did great. He was, you got to figure it out off them, you know. I, I, I agree. I, I, after looking at the pictures, I think he's got great potential. I think they got the, the top two corrects. Yeah. You think I don't know if you can see the, in a top three, you know, from the pictures upside. Does it, you know, we're not there, obviously. So we're, it's, I hate judging the show from the pictures. That's why I got John Hanson on the, on the wrap up yesterday, because he was sitting in the front row there. Even though he, even though I think he was having a few drinks. Chris, did you, I didn't even know John Hanson had out drank alcohol. Did you? Well, maybe that's why he, maybe he doesn't. He couldn't handle the alcohol. And that's like, there's a part on the wrap up. Oh, shit. That's fine. Oh, John, let's say this guy looks like a young, we're on the Coleman. Oh, man, of course, contest history, then it just, let's sit like it was, right? Like his home address, home, you know, had to break through the 92 taxes, of course. Brian Dodson trained him. Didn't take any antibiotics, so 1996. Here's, um, fourth place, Phil Colharr, who I helped actually. That's a fantastic day. Yeah, he's got some good work. Yeah, you know, I, I, I've seen him last year. What place did he get last year here? I don't remember. He should have placed high wherever he was. Yes, yeah, yeah, why not? Wherever he was, ended up, and that was a, you know, really good line. That was a great line up last year. Phil's got a hard worker, broad and great conditioning, you know, next year. These pictures don't do him. He has to. Okay, so he's, yeah. He was better at the night. So these are the pre-deaging pictures. He was really, really hard at the night show. Um, I kind of, I filled them up a little more. I think it's got one of those physics. And once he's in shape, you can feed him, like, you can't almost can't feed him too much, you know, that kind of thing. Yeah. But, you know, you get nerve, like, because I'm the big conditioning guy. So like, I'd rather him be a little on the flatter side, you know, and sorry, always air a little bit on the, I'm, I'm a free-deaging on the, on the wider side. And then, then I'll feed him a lot and he really filled that at night, tremendously. Uh, really good, you know, these, he's on the upswing. I'm trying to get into New York, do New York pro buddies from Tampa. He thinks they're gonna not get a lead him into New York. I said, boy, you know, you get into New York. I said, drive there if you have to. Can't. So anyway, Phil, I just want to take my time. So he's a super nice guy and he's a really hard worker. And this is my pleasure to work with him actually for the show. Now, a lot of people also were talking, and I love, and I love his physique as well. I don't know if you saw his physique. Ronald Gordon. Yeah, you look great. I love his physique. I love his physique. Right? Isn't that a great physique? Yeah. Just fix it a little bit. A lot of natural potentials. I mean, just shoulders, arms, legs. And look at this separation in the quads. Yeah, he looks tremendous. Great abs. Big, big structure. He probably can hold another 10, 15 pounds on that frame. And you know, and still look good, you know. How did you find the knock on that? Yeah, I think there was a lot of talent in this tampon line. If I really think it was a sleeper show, I think a lot of people, you know, didn't anticipate it because there was a lot of guys that just no one really was expecting. Who we're going to do this stuff that they did. Look at this. I mean, we haven't seen a show. Right? Yeah, but we're saying, you know, we kind of usually know who the front runners are. So speak. That's a reason. I mean, this guy is really good. I mean, you know, you could make a case for him. Yeah, third. He could, he could, you know, he could have placed his highest third, I thought. Yeah. Right? Absolutely. I wonder, I mean, what, what, the distinction between. Look at look home. Yeah. Back double. And the guy got there. I don't know. So I don't even know the names. The guy got there. Oh, but you're going to know the names soon now because these, both of them are going to do good in future shows without a doubt. All these guys were, were terrific. It was a picture. We had back double. And Ron Gordon. Very impressive. Yeah. I would say the whole top five was spectacular. Great talent. I think everyone was a really good shape. I look like Ron Harris with these classes. I should just look at what he wanted. But I think that this is, you know, it makes me feel kind of good to know that we have some new talent kind of coming into the open ranks, right? That have really good potential. We see new talent. But you don't see the potential to go far. You know, a lot of times these guys come in. You know, like, this guy's a good shape. You know, you don't see him ever like being in a lengthy guy. You know, put 15, 20 pounds on that on the, on everyone from third, fourth and fifth. I mean, how dangerous those three guys become. Extremely. You know, so, I mean, that devastating with dangerous life. This is fifth place, right? This is fifth place. Six or so, Dorian and Haywood. You made a lot of, you made a big jump in size, too. You looked really impressive. Yeah, well, these guys, I'm telling you that. Yeah, I think this, this, I think this quarantine made people have to die at longer. You know, because everyone thought they were going to compete earlier. And, and they didn't, they weren't able to. So a lot of these people have been dying since February, almost, you know. And, you know, for a lot of guys, they need to die at that long because it just brings in a better look. His Dorian. He was, you know, he's always hard. And, you know, I think that we got a really good show and for our money, which was zero. I didn't spend anything to be my house. But I know what I'm saying is, I thought that a lot of people, these are the guys who are dedicated. And I'm going to tell you why. Because they found a wage, Chris, to get to a gym during a time when there was, there was obviously gyms were closed. They found a way to continue dieting. They found a way to get the job done and get up on that stage and tamper. And I got to tell you, it wasn't easy for them because of everything that was going on. Look, I work with Phil and Phil couldn't go to the gym for a couple weeks. And I was like, fine to place the train, you know. And he, he made it happen, you know. He, he did it. And he worked through it. And if he had to do some body weight exercises for a couple weeks, but he found a way to get it done and got it, get up on that stage. And he still looked great. And I think he would look, had he not, you know, had we not had thick, obviously the quarantine. He would have competed probably three months earlier. And he, any would have, you know, maybe looked better because he would have, but he still made it to the stage. And so I really, you know, I'm impressed with these guys. Got up there and looked as good as they did. And, you know, that says a lot. People don't realize how hard that was. And I thought about just the body of those and talking about every division, you know, it was hard for because everyone had to face the same challenges. And they did. Well, how about the, putting on the show at all? Why, I, we talked about that last week. Tim Garderman hats off to him because, whew. How stressful was that? Oh my god. I, I, I, I, I should get him on. I should, I should interview him like through the week next week. And, and talk, he's got to have to be on blood pressure medication. There's no doubt about it. There's doubt for us. Furies, flories, right? I'm sure because he, I'm sure that the politics of just dealing with the state alone, of Florida and making, you know, kissing their ass enough to let them have him hold the show and the hotel. Think about it over. They had so many rules about how many people could get room in. Think about it. Back up. There was far less covered in the US at the Arnold. And they said, no context. You don't even have to have a context. You don't even have to have a context. You don't even have a context. Okay. You can have the prejudging with zero audience. Sure. And now it's running ramp hit, Florida's like the new epicenter. Tim Garderman pulls it off. It's a, it's a main question. How stressful is he? But, I mean, the point you made was the politics of it. Who knows how much whoops he ended up throwing during the show? Yeah. Yeah. I'd love to know the backstory behind it for sure. Let's talk about the two 12 division George Peterson first, two 12 show. He's got a victory already Chris in the books. How impressed with you? How many times on this show did I say he's not a classic guy? I was 100% right. Yeah. We've, we've, you know, everyone's not here. And I thought he could have been a little drier even and he still looked amazing. I think that this is a great, this is a fantastic. This is a very pastel looking. Yeah. That's very, yeah. He looks a little light tone. That's stuff. You're right. He looks great. I didn't even think about that, that you're right. That, that is great. Great, great stage presence, great posing, great condition, great fullness. I think that, like I said, I, even I talked to, you know, as coach Justin, who's obviously a good friend of mine and he's like, I think he could have been a lot of, he could have been a little harder. You know, but he goes obviously did enough to win here. And I agree, I think, you know, especially from the back, I've seen George Harder. I think it did night shows a little tighter, but once again, it just goes straight. Good, you know, he's, he's, he's that good that he doesn't even need to be at 100% to win. And, you know, they were upset that he couldn't do the open. How do you think he would have done in the open? I think he would have been very competitive to some degree, you know, I mean, I mean, your eyes would go to the condition and the midsection and the legs separation and the width. I mean, judges, we'll be crazy back. Right. Yeah, I agree. His back is better than, you know, the guy who was fifth place. Sure. Yeah. What did he do? I mean, I don't know what the stupid rules. They want to, they want to judge what he's doing. But I'm just, when you put a guy like him who's short and thick against a guy with a big huge structure like that, I mean, maybe what he got lost in the end. Did he want to do the open? He did. I don't know why they want to. I don't know. You just came from classic. You know, you know, you know, you wanted to do both. I better know why you know, it was on different days. Even if it was on the same day, I don't know why they went light up and who cares. Let him do both. I don't know what the stupid rules. They want to judge what he's going to do a rant on. I said, I do a rant every week on the show about it. I rant about it. I said, I don't know why they don't do it. So if you want to do wellness, they should let him do wellness too. Who cares? No, seriously. But yeah, I mean, right now I should stick for two to a while. When you look at this look, do you get a little nervous knowing that you coach a come all? No, no, I mean, just, you know, it because. George Peterson is, you know, I'm no dummy. He's a threat to come all for sure. And, you know, he's not the only threat to come all. Right. I mean, I've said that. I've said, you know, when I went road and was. Mr. Olympia. And we would talk about road and after the Olympia. I wouldn't say if Sean road and thinks he's going to repeat like. Easy or kind of sort of easy or I mean, he's got another thing coming. Who knew that Sean road and wouldn't be beat by another competitor, but by stupid. My point simply is that. I think, and I've said this about Brandon. Corrie B. and Mr. Olympia. I think Brandon can repeat. I think Brandon can lose. I think there's people who can beat Brandon. And I think that come all can repeat and I think Brandon come all can lose. I think there's more than one person who can beat Brandon. And I think there's more than one person who can beat come all. Yeah. It's just, you know, look at. Look at, uh, in Valier. I mean, yes, his 10 socks. And yes, you know, like a nervous wreck looking on pre-judging. But he looks a lot different at the night show. So sometimes peeking, right? So if come all is not at his best or, you know, this guy's not at his best. And someone shows that they're absolutely best. He changes the dynamics. So I think George Peterson is a threat to, you know, to come all for sure. Yeah. Detric poloist. Sandi, hoist. Another phenomenal. He was phenomenal in Puerto Rico last year. And he's even more phenomenal here. That's a great shot. I love that. It's like pulled out when I play really well. Side story steps should look like. Isn't it funny how we, we have such weak two 12 classes. And then all of a sudden we get Tampa here and it's like, Bam. When do we have weak two 12? What was it? Yeah, we haven't had a really dine dynamite. Look in two 12 classes for quite a while, you know. And all the way through like in depth. Yeah, I'm like talking like, you know, like up on stage, you know. And then now all of a sudden we have, you know, you know, guys that we haven't even seen before. It's great. I love it. Yeah, side story step is off the hook. Really, really good to load to that shot. Right. I mean great midsection, great shoulder arm tie in. Packs are still full. Hamstrings from the side and deep. I think he's, uh, I think he's another guy that we're going to see on that Olympia stage and. Yeah, without a doubt. And he's going to be very dangerous. What about, um, let's look at third place. I guess. Like, is that, I mean, Derek Oslin has been around for a long time. He's got a phenomenal physique. Derek Oslin improved so much that when I saw the comparison photos. Not only did I not recognize his physique, I didn't know who it was. Look, I didn't recognize his face. He's really tight here. Drive. I had no idea that was him when I saw the pictures. You know, like, I have a guy who's going to win when I saw the free judging pictures initially, you know, of the, in the comparison shots, he's very dominant. You know, he's really hard, you know. And he's got that's, that is a superb V tape right there. Oh, yeah. With the big flare on the thighs, thighs come, you know, better. He's a good poser too. This, this is a market jump in. Conditioning and size for I think what he's had, like, the last two years. Because he's placed well, you know, he's placed well in shows. And you know, he's always placed well in shows. And you can still be critical of certain areas. I think this was like perfect peak for him. I don't think. And look at the back double. I mean, he's got a lot of stuff going on there. He's just not as big as Peterson, which is funny when you say that because George came from class. I think you're like 15 pounds. I think he's the last year. But he's, he's good in the line. He's very good in the line. He's up, Dave, that's a great analysis. He's always, but where he plays good in the past, like, he came up by himself. And you say, well, he's pretty good. He's this guy's good. You know, good. He's good. And then you see him in the line up. He's, he looks better. He compares well with people because he doesn't have really many weaknesses. And his structure and shape is really good. Well, but, we're going to pop a comparison shot because. Well, he compared, he doesn't, his back doesn't look that good in this picture. But in the back double when he's compared to people looked really good. That's what I didn't recognize him. You know, I wasn't sure you'd be sure who it was. Look at the, here's the 2012 first call out shot. With Eric Mark obviously all the way on the right. Who looked really good to his comeback. Yeah. I got to say one thing though. I mean, a little bit looking Derek on the left there. I mean, he's got a good taper and everything like that. You know, George has just got some a little bit more wows. But it's not a blowout, you know, by any means. Yeah, no, it's just, yeah, he held his own. Again, I mean, he's always looks great in that. And that's not the idea of a good in that. Do you know how can gigantic arms? Now, I don't know how long you was away from the stage. But Aaron Clark. I mean, Aaron Clark was an Olympic. I mean, top five Olympians. People might not even remember that. You know. And the only thing to change is he has them in a hair now. I got to, you know, he reminds me of now he runs in Mike Morris. Remember Mike Morris? I have a question. But look at Mike Morris. My part of the game is that the same density is Mike Morris. Yeah. Super dense. Yeah, Mike had a lot of muscle on his body. Aaron's always in shape. You know, I don't even know. You know, he's also guy you struggled with his tan. And the tan is that terrible here. I think the bill is darker. It's almost terrible. It's almost terrible. But he always struggles with his tan. I remember the first show we ever did he, to even remind me. So Dave, you can tell me my tan is terrible. I said, well, you fixed it. I guarantee he's hard of looking, right? That this is an example of a bad tan. That's how you know. You know he's hard. You can see. Absolutely. Look at this. Look at this. This is a back double. He's getting great back double. You know, he's really a victim of just like going up against the, you know, really well. I mean, he's probably the biggest hardest guy in the class. Maybe the other guys have a little better structure than he does. But I mean, look at that back up. Yeah. Crazy. He's a man. It's a lot of muscle. Remember he moved up to the open. A lot of people don't realize. And then obviously he didn't work out well from the open. He came back there. I think he's a, he's a definite to 12. I mean, no doubt. He doesn't look flat here. This is a good look for him. Like you said, tan, tan when shows. Well, I think it's okay. I mean, this is a natural weight for him because I think when he turned Pearl, I can't remember when it was. What it was when he John Hanson. Get John Hans. He don't. I'll tell you when you turn Pearl. He beat Anthony Piscquale. You remember? That's right. That you say what you were talking about. I know my when you want the USA. Yeah. That was the battle versus the Piscquale. I don't know 2011. I don't know 10. I don't know. Yeah. Crazy. So, I mean, great to 12. Great open class. I mean, the Tim's got to be thrilled that they got such great competition here. Let me see if I could, uh, well, I'm going to pull up the, um, class of guys. They were really good too. I know you, I know you love the, the John Chae Campbell one. That's the, the dance, dance. That's it. He looks like, yeah. He looks like it, like almost like a, uh, what's his name? The Patrick Moore almost, what can we do? Yeah. That's a good front double. That's a Patrick Moore look today. That's a guy that who can definitely, you know, challenge at the Olympia. I think big arms, the big arms, big legs for a classic guy. Yeah. And that's, you know, a lot of those guys don't have the legs that he has. Holy hoax is nickname Chris. There's not a great nickname. Holy hoax. Holy hoax. Yeah. Holy hoax. H.U.L.K. Yeah. That's what it is on his Instagram. I love it. It gives a great nickname. phenomenal. Yeah. His back is extremely good too. I just had a couple of back shots. And, you know, he beats a really good divine Wilson. So, you know, it's not like these guys were both really good in this life. So, you know, you can't say, wow, you know, he beat a, like, a crappy wife. I mean, these guys were called out the other one too. And obviously, um, the entry just has a little bit, I think a little more wow, a little more muscle, probably. I love it more muscles. But the mind is a great shape too. Yeah. He can get very hard. His back shots are crazy, you know. He's like, I like a guy, a little mini-guy green, you know. Look at his back bubble. I mean, you know, you need to fast-respite to pick up. Try to get these pictures. Well, you're supposed to be talking while I'm doing it so that I'm not looking like, like, I'm dragging. You're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, like, like, my son, Logan for the next where we'll find the vertical. Well, Dave, you know what, you really should be, and then, I hear clicking in the background, that's what you do. What's the crispy tapping back there? Yeah. I'm texting Dave. Yeah. Well, that's why you're supposed to be talking about the person. You still didn't get me the great commentary on all these guys and why they're so wonderful. Remember, remember the guy that, right? Divine had the meltdown when he got second. Remember that year? Yeah. No, I bring that up, not to be critical. That's very good. Yeah. That's when the glorious beat him. And it was controversial and divine was like mega peeled. Yeah. And he got pissed or something and, you know, a testament to the judges. I mean, right? Because people would say, well, you know, you're blackballed for good. Yeah. Everyone looked at the guy. I think you guys got upset when they sometimes see everyone knows that. He apologized. Anyway, he came on the TV show. But great classic great classic group there. I mean, both guys were great. The whole lineup was good. Yeah. The whole lineup was really good. Yeah. What happened to Logan Franklin? I thought he was doing the show. I don't know. It's good question. Did he do classic? Did he do men's to see? No, he's to win. He's switched. I thought I thought so. I don't even seem to want it. Maybe didn't make it. No, he did not make it. But that's what's happening with him. I don't know. Maybe he held off. He's got a young kid. Maybe you don't want to be going to. COVID-19 fasted Tampa. Could be. You know, my zip code is got to be the most cases of COVID. Well, you don't need to get all of it. You don't need the grounds. No, we went to South Dakota. I was going to get 11. Yeah, I was going to get 11. You are. I took my son up from my from grandma's house today because he spent the night. First time in the while and he loved it. And so his whole thing is when he gets in the car, we got to go to South 11. So Maddie gave me the head a little mask from. You know, I take him in there with the mask. I told touch. You know, don't touch. You know, things stay away from people. Everything like that. And we sanitize his hands. You know, the whole the whole shit. He was he was like, it was like letting a person out of a loony bed going into there. He ran in there. He couldn't get to the surgery machine fast enough because he likes to take the cops. You know, and he's a little bit of self. Oh, if you let him. Yeah, so I don't have to choice. He grabbed the cup and he starts. He took every smart is like six or seven different flavors. He'll put everyone in the cop like he'll do a mixture. Do you get the diet? Go on. I don't let him yet. There's a coconut. I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Too much caffeine. He knows. Because caffeine. I know caffeine. He comes on. He's like, mom, I got caffeine. He has only. How do you get the diet? Coquan. No, I don't. Now, they don't have a diet coke one here. Why? Why? Why? Someone on the other hand has a diet coke. They don't have a regular coke one here. They have a reduced sugar one. I said, I want to use to pick them up from school. There's a week to go every day. And when he was in school. And I used to get the sugar free one. Yeah, it was pretty good. They're good, especially when it's really hot out there. I suck the whole thing down before we even get home. I'm like, I can't control myself. He had to get ice cream and he got like skittles. And then he was like, I've tell him. He was like a person who was like an addict. It was like, I don't know. But I feel bad. The kids can't go anywhere. You know, it's like seven and eleven is a big deal for him. Yeah, play the ones are closed. Even the playgrounds here. I don't know, but the playgrounds here are open. But I'm afraid to take them there. Who knows. Because the last time we went, we went once. I think since the whole COVID, I think there was a million kids there. Because these kids are, they're like, you need activity. Yeah, they go crazy. I mean, luckily we have the pool in the backyard. I mean, that helps a lot. We're getting ready to do the show and gave us. My kids are going to the pool. What time was that? 9.45. 9.30. They were in the pool. It's the first time for the day. The whole was only the first time. He was at grandma's house and they had taken a nap. And then it was going to rain here. So we couldn't do that. And then it just never rains. So we said, alright, let's put him in. Andre Ferguson, Chris. I'll tell you what I love about Andre Ferguson. Here's a guy who wins the Arnold, right? He's second if he'll want to be at it. I mean, he's he's one every show. He's like the dexter of the defense physique. He's got balls. He doesn't care. He just does every show. And he even says, when I end up in music, I don't count to an every show. He doesn't even care. It's not about the money or anything that he's like, I like to compete. Yeah, well, a lot of people in this position would be afraid to put it on the line. It'd be afraid to lose. It doesn't care. Obviously. That's why you're so good. I think the more you're on stage, especially in the end, it's the more comfortable you become too. So when I used to when I competed, I used to be very uncomfortable when I first started. But once I started doing gas posing, Chris, like every weekend, I lost the stage fear and became much more natural. So I think for Andre, he's so natural on stage because he's on stage all the time. I knew I was talking the same thing. You know, when he competed so much, he's like, it wasn't even like a big deal. It was like just like another day at the office. So the men's physique, I should be, you know, he's always in shape on Andre. He died for six weeks, he's in New Justice Show and he wins. He'll do more. And you'll see, he's not done. I guarantee whatever shows a lot for the fight to every, he'll probably win every pro show this year. They might not be any guys in the in the Olympic because it's going to think of the way. You don't have to come up with a different. It will be him and Ray Edmonds, you know, the rematch. Yeah, he looks, he looks phenomenal here. I think he's close. Both of the list, everyone top five are like insane. Yeah, you know, I wanted to make a ninth place by the way, was Michael Anderson, who also won the masters 40 and over. Now the reason I mentioned it, you know, when we first started reporting on men's physique Chris, you were very big on Michael Anderson. He was winning shows left in the right. And he lost his, he had his liking and pitaed. That's right. And he still could be looking at the name. Top nine, one leg and wins the masters. You got to take, you got to say, holy, macro to this guy. You, if you can't get motivated by him. You're great. Remember he gave you, you're becoming John Hanson that he was like, he was like, my favorite guy. You know why he was my favorite, what year was that? When did men's physique start? I don't even know. So crazy dialed for the time. You know, guys were like, I get kind of like a beach body, but I'm pretty darn tight. He just came in like. Creepy guy. I'm really either back then and, and so he was really like he was right in there. You know, he was able to win shows because no one was out muslims. They didn't really want people to forget. They didn't want big guys in this way. They wanted condition. They wanted pex and add as pex and adds and arms and something that. But they didn't want like giant. Now they want giant guys. They want body goes basically up or body. He, his upper body came up a lot. I think he's amazing. Yeah. The fact that he can train, you know, people don't realize, you know, think people say, well, he doesn't they don't judge legs. But you know what, when you train your upper body, your legs are your base. You know, you need to use your legs to train your upper body. Try doing a bent over row with one leg. I mean, you can't do that. You can't do that. You can maybe bench pressing is not quite. So I've been trying to balance yourself on a bench with one leg. Doesn't work. So easy. So I'll take my head off to him. Really, really impressive. And then I, you know, got go through run through the guys because I was still impressed with this class. Yeah. I wanted to bring him up because I think he's a special case. He's a special. He's a special. Yeah. Anthony Gilks places that second position. He was really good. So I'll post picture. I'll just give him some, give him some props. And this was the biggest class. You had it was a million guys in it. Right. So I'm crazy. I'm crazy. You can. I just found a, that's the thing guys can play around and they can, they can do it. You can go 15 deep. Two. Like top 15, more really, really, really good. I'm not making pull up or whatever. But the needless to say, I think there was like 30, 30, 40 guys in the class. And there was a master's class as well. There was someone in this class. I think the guy got forth like was, I thought was completely off the hook here. I was surprised he didn't get second. I'm full of no disrespect to, even though it's just a bit of a different way. Just my personal preference. Cory Morris. I know him when I see him. Yeah, I know Cory. I've seen him before. Oh, look at him. It's like a six scene in twice. Yeah. No, no, no, the next guy. He was another guy. No, this is the guy you're talking about. I'm impressed that my figure out about him actually. I actually posted. I was so impressed that I actually put a picture of him on my Instagram. And I never do like I never usually put competitors that I don't help on my Instagram. He's that good. This guy. That way slide. Yeah, you know, this guy looked tremendous too, but it's not him. It's the next guy. I don't know. Let's see. This guy had a crazy small waist. Oh, yeah. I know I Daniel A. I haven't seen this physically. I'll pull him up. Yeah. Did all these guys. I mean, the men. I think guys are always all in shape. I mean, if you want to see a class that's routinely, you know, shredded. It's them because the, that's what they're being judged on. Yeah. Is this your guy? No. He'll be confused. Fulfur. You're going to make me, you're going to make me. Not going to. I'll be the third place guy. You're talking around. Yeah. Probably Rashad Watson. Yeah, this is, this is your kind of physically. Come sure. Crazy. That's a healthy look. Maybe not. That him. Yeah. I guess I don't know Dave. I think he might be still not. I think he might come right. I'm sure. I'm going to have to go to pictures. Yeah. I'm going to make a lot of noise to you. You can make open noise to one. I'm pulling up another. I'm, I'm Adam Men's Physicur, I'm going to. I'm going ready to do your supposed. Great. My fitness. That's the place I. Real bit. I'm going to ask. Dave loves to fitness class. It do because it's the most entertaining. I can't. I think the Olympics is going to be great. You got a Dallowed coming back this year. You got like son of Rashad coming back. You got the Raining Champion. And you got it. And now you have our real good dark coming to. And I'll tell you a story about our real good dark. My wife likes to say it name wrong. Ariel Kodar. I met a mom brought Ariel to my house with her. You did 15 or 16. Oh yeah, you told me to start. Yeah, but you said again because people have had it. Very, very good story. She was a gymnast and she wanted to get into fitness, which was a good. I don't know why more gymnasts don't get into fitness to be honest. Yeah. And she just loved like she knew all the people who were competing. And she was like, like, like, like star strike over them. But she she had some amazing skills in gymnastics. Obviously. And she just didn't understand. She didn't know that much of a diet. So I helped her with a first diet. And went over a lot of stuff with her and a mom. And just, you know, supplements to take and stuff like that. And she, I think at the time she was the youngest. I would be proud in the fitness division. I think someone. These that record. But she was, you know, you could tell me. She was, you know, you could tell her routine was so much better than everyone else's that, you know, it wasn't even close. Now it, now in the days, you know, her physique is really coming to its own. And she's really short. She's under five feet, you know, and but in today's fitness world, there's not that many good routines anymore. So she really shines. So she's watching her. Why is she not good with teens so explain. I don't know. You know, I, I just don't think you can. I just don't think you can. For the class that needs routines. I mean, based on everything. I mean, I don't know. It's, it's, look, it's a very expensive sport that they have a choreographer, right? To, to the choreographer routine unless you're just a prodigy like like oxanas. And you have to practice thinking about how much money an effort it takes. It's enough to go to the gym. It's enough to do your cardio and you dieting. And now you got to practice your routine for an hour an hour and a half a day or more. How can you say more of that? I think you're making it more. I'm going to say I'm making it more of a big deal. The more stimulus is not going to be the last. I'm going to be the last. You're going to be the last. You're going to be the last. I'm going to be the last. I'm going to be the last. So what's the man to say? Why is it? The, no. The, the, the more people doing it. The big shot. I think about it. And I think it's all started right. Oh, she's saying that the gymness themselves, like the real gymnast don't go into because they think like it's all steroids. It's all the time. They don't want to do it. You don't want to do it. It has to have it. And the parents don't want to do it. Who knows. I guess like it's a dying division. I don't think it's, I think it could be rekindled with the, if they, if they really nurture it. You know what you do Dave, you know what you do. You know what, when you have supplement line, you have a supplement line. Yeah. And you have eight products and six sell really well. And the seven to eight to seven sells kind of sort of in the eight is like, why would you say, why are we selling this product? Nobody likes nobody buys it. It's always the product that I love the most. Yeah. Yeah. In that term, say, we get, that's why you keep it. Yeah. Maybe they keep it for nostalgia, but I mean, it's just interesting to say, Well, it just be a kind of dying class. Like the ones that you know, both that detaining class, you know, at the show, see, I know. But you can't even, who gets entertained with these shows? I don't, you know, because I actually like that. Yeah, you know, unfortunately you're right, but I actually like it. It's hard to be, you know, it's hard to be entertained when the, when the shows are so long. Right. No, it's true. But you know what, it is, it is, it is, there's no, it's my scrolls because it doesn't last as long, you know, you get, and routines and that's it. You don't, that's enough. I remember I was at the first fitness national, was it? I was at the team universe. I felt it at the team universe. And I forget what year it was. This is, remember, they only had bodybuilding. Women's bodybuilding. The first time they've been having another class of women, it was golf, it's fit, they called it fitness, you had a routine, you know, where one piece, and a two piece. Oh, I remember that, that's right. Rest they had like, at the fitness national, I remember it was in Jersey, I know, it was it was a, it tried back a performing arts center, Weinberg, a held a day. They had to be 55 girls in this show. Okay. Okay. Every girl had to do the routine, which was like two and a half, three minutes. I, I remember, I was, I was sleeping from the front, I felt asleep because the, the routine, the routine, around took so long. Yeah. That was the beginning of the end for the, so the quick show, you know, before that, it was just bodybuilding moments, bodybuilding, men's bodybuilding, you're out of it. Now, they added an extra three hours to the, to the program, so to speak. Yeah. Three minutes, three minutes routine, right? Come on. Actually, got rid of the one piece because it was taking too long because it was redundant, you know, and who wants, why would you judge someone with, with their abs being covered, you know, and then the routines, I think got cut down and size a little bit, and then the competitors, then when they started figure, you'll lost most of the fitness girls, you know, just quite the figure. But yeah. I remember Jenny, Jenny Lynn actually won the fitness nationals. And, and on the same day, she won her class in the figure of the nationals. A lot of people don't realize that. You were like a giant. You're like a giant. Oh, look at one of the fitness and figure nationals on the same day. I think both overalls, too. Oh, that's right. So, there's a little trivia for you. You can feel your triby above's. So, can you congratulations, I wrote the door. Women's bodybuilding. Well, let's do women's physique first. Ivy rain. I like her physique a lot. Women's see what you probably have been looking for the pictures of it when they, when they, when they're going to pull her up. Women's physique. Women's physique. Which to me, there's no distinction between women's, women's physique and when that's bodybuilding. Well, she just can't walk away. Exactly where I said it like that. Women's physique. Great condition, you know, good presentation. Yeah, she's a bodybuilder. Go ahead. Now, now I'll pull up. Now, she won the physique, okay. So, congratulations. She's going through the Olympia. The physique class was great, by the way, there's a lot of girls in it. And then I'm going to pull women's bodybuilding who, you know, lived on McDay. She's been around quite a while. She's got a really good physique. She, she, she struggles with the brain, the conditioning. I think that she needs to end. She brought enough here to win. Who wins? Showdown. Women's physique overall. Women's bodybuilding overall. Physic. I get it. Easy. Why these physico girls don't, don't catch on and start doing bodybuilding. If it's saying that, they, I would be jumping in there and doing bodybuilding. Because, you know what, like you said, you know Jake, what is going to make a huge huge prize package for the money. Why would you make it? I think it's going to be $401,000 more than that. Whether the net, no, it doesn't make sense anymore to have two divisions. They're the same, the criteria, the same. You can't be too big in physique or you can't be too big in. Combine them. Compare second and second. So this, my analysis to my, my personal opinion on first. How about second, second from physique? I was going to be second of my going who I know, you know, my task case. I was going to go, you guys, I don't, I don't do it. I'm more, but let's do gene. And, you know, let's take a look at pictures of her. She looked really good here. Right there's, there's second place. And, in body. Okay, she's a little bigger. She could be harder from behind, but she looks good. She definitely, you know, could have made a case for her winning show. I mean, if you wanted to. And here's second place, Jeannie Feldman and physique. And she's probably the hardest girl. She could be a little bit, you know, she's not as big, but. Let's pull her up. Let's do this comparison. Alright, let's-Jey Ling. There's, there's- Yes, there's someone. Oh, they would crush the girls. Like, I told Sheila Bleicha, Scchilly, who doesn't do it. You know, you could only judge work for them. I understand that. And there wasn't that many. But I think that the problem now is that there's no new. I don't see new people coming into women's body building. I see just the existing people that were there already. And there's nothing wrong with that. Because I know a lot of these girls. They're hard workers. But I want to see new talent coming to that division. Especially if you get a hold of the celebrity again. I don't want to just see, I don't want to see a senior tour. You know what I mean? I want to see Iris versus the lady. I don't want to see Iris versus Lender again. Even though I would love to nostalgia-wise, I want to see the best of the best of there. And Iris probably is still the best of the best. And she'll probably win again. I want to see these, but put these women physique girls on there. I want to see what's your name? Shini Grant against Iris Kyle on that stage. That's Miss Olympia, right? Yeah. That's like the old Lender and Iris battles, you know? Kim and Lender Mari battles. Like the best of both the divisions combined them and let's see you wins. Once again, Iris has some change. They're the same criteria. I've never seen them say in recent times that a woman's physique girl was too hard a two-bed. Yeah. Hasn't happened. Right? No. And obviously the criteria are the same. I haven't heard them. I just don't know what the reason is for having two divisions anymore. You have a missing feedback. We have a guy in Jake Wood who supports women's body building and supports that and in the sport. It's not going anywhere. Put the Olympia back in place. We don't need physique anymore. The physique was created because whoever was in charge didn't like women's body girl. I felt it wasn't marketable. Now it's back and vote because we have someone supporting it financially, throw it together again. You're reading the FDQL Women's Body Building, but you're called Miss Olympia. You have one class. You want to call it women's physique fine. I don't have a problem with that. That's a smart thing you said on the show today. Just call it Miss Olympia. Don't even call it women's body building. Just call it yeah. Yep. And you know what? You'll know it when you see it. In other words, you just should be judged in physique. Now, the true reason I had you here, Chris, on this show is not really to break down by the audience. Nobody else will do it at midnight. John, he might be drunk. Just very drunk. I love it. Now, it's for you to explain and to break down wellness for me. Because here's our wellness champion Renee Hartley. I don't understand all this. She got, it's funny. She got a great physique. I don't even know really what distinguishes this as wellness versus, you know. Well, I thought there was some like big hips and big glutes. Yeah. I understand also that they can only judge really what's what's available to judge. But to me, I mean, this could be a slightly, you know, this looks like figuratively, or like a bikini girl almost, like with a really good commission. Yeah, because bikini should be like 10 times less, right? A variety of tip over. The problem is the only real wellness girls, not mentally. Like a stare at everything. It's not like you know, all the way to the top of the top of the world. This out the American, you know. Those those big, you know, glute women. That's wellness, you know. That's great. Oh, let's see second and third. Let's see the call out. Yeah. All right, I'll get the call out. You know, the technician. So you should be able to break this down, you know. You should only get a breakdown body, believe me. You should be the oldest, the oldest of the very first. I mean, the division is created to, I couldn't tell you with the, it's crazy. Here's your call out. Yeah, let's see the. They look like like women's physique girls standing like body. I'm standing like bikini competitors. That's what it's for. Is it the first show? I think it's the first pro. Right. I mean, what's going to happen is it's going to evolve and you're going to find someone, right? The, the Linda Murray or the Flex Wheel or you. But it, but does it warranted? I mean, it's because it's like I said, it's, I mean, you're going to get some Brazilian. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's going to win it. Right? Who's going to dominate for Ted, I was just going to say, that people's going to say juicy that girl with the big legs, but she's like, his cashier, I don't know, hey, pronounce, M. K. K. Shea Rivera. Okay. So how, what would happen if she did bikini judges would say what? She's too thick around the hip. Yeah. But what about if she did women's physique? Oh, women's physique? She looks more like a woman's physique down. I'm afraid women's physique. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Look, the whole thing is about a big lower body. You know, but the problem is when you build the, very few people, except the the, the things, just don't know lower body. They build the upper body. They, they, the title is odd. Yeah. That's this. That's it. It's like a healthy look. That's a good look. How did the most unhappy division out there? Why is it the most unhappy? Because the girl's a big, you know, I don't know. It, it, look, it's a South, it's like, it's almost like a, um, look at how you're just, you have a certain cuisine that you just can't get any place out. So you gotta go to that. Regional regional regional. Regional regional. We're not. That's why you, you spit out Brazil right away. You can't have like this, US people just don't have the genetics for that division. You know, it's a, it's, I understand it brings business into the, uh, into the NPC and the IPB and that's good for our business, you know. So the more people who participate, I guess the better off it is, I just think sometimes these divisions get, I, I was making a joke and I said, you know, they should, they can have that for women. Why don't they have the bare division for men? For guys like who want to just be hairy. Now, hairy guys, they have beards and like like guys, you know, let their chest hair grow back hair. They still get ripped and have a lot of muscle, but it's at the bare division, you know, like again, why not, right? I mean, we can make a division of guys like that who just want to be hairy on stage. They don't want to shave down, you know, they want to have like a tough, rough look, you know. And I know there's a whole population of gay guys out there who like bare men, you know, that like they have a lot of like hair on it. Why not? You can make a division. Well, we people enter it. I guess it would be someone else has to start the division of be successful with it first. So, just a beard division. Guys with the biggest crazies beards with crazy physis, you know? Yeah, Mike, go off. I know. Nice to meet you. We'll be right up there. You have Seth Feroshi, right? Well, this is also sport one of those crazy deers. Jason, how had a great beard like that also. It's great. But I think I think in wellness, you'll see someone like you'll see, Chris, what do you see this wellness girl? I know, I say, wow, that she looks crazy. Right. You're going to get one girl like that, you know, unless you get a whole of your gender. I think there's no yet. So, I mean, that's fine. I don't have a problem with that, you know? Maybe. And then, you know, cultural thing down there. They just they just they, that's what's like a track of the men find a track, the big, big, booty, big legs. And so these women, they train like maniacs, the legs and get huge legs. It's at a proportion to their upper body, but that's the division. You don't have to have a portion upper and lower. The lower body should actually be bigger. I think, according to the criteria. Is this going to be an Olympia event this year? Yeah, there's an Olympia. Wow. The price money is going to be. Maybe. Probably more. Probably more. More than you get. We, yeah, I don't know. Who knows? You know, we sound like I sound like an old man in the city, but you know what? The truth is that, you know, there should be some, I don't know, like some, surety preserved in the sport, like, like you can't have a division for everyone. But with every other. Every other. Every physique, you know, category. Like kindergarten one, they say, you know, thinking about 10,000 wars at the end of the kindergarten here. Right. You know, whereas, you know, 40 years ago, maybe they gave up. You know, best fellow smartest enough. And they made everyone else feel bad. Now they have like the guy who's best at Lincoln Lodge and the kid who who can put the best legos together. And then they have just attendance in January. Exactly. I had one of my friends. I don't think he ever missed a day of school. He had a perfect attendance his whole school career. What a street that is. Imagine you get sick one day. You're like, toward the end of your thing. And you're like, I got to go to school. I got to least check in. Oh, I. That was one. That was one record I was looking to break. I thought maybe Jake can bring back, you know, with Hanson was talking about when they used to have the body part of wars. Those were good. Right. Maybe it'd be a little bit. They can have the best body part of wars. And you know, people on Instagram would say, oh, my gosh, Holy should be Mr. Lippy. He won best calves who have best tries. I think he might have done well. How can he possibly not be Mr. Lippy? He want to be as little as little as a little bit more to it. No, that was good. I liked it. But I think best pose rewards are good to give out because it really kind of really pushes guys to be, you know, better on stage and there routines. If you go back to the, I do something like Johnny. So if you go back to the Olympia, when it was in Los Angeles, watch the video of the night show, the routines were insane. Like people worked hours and hours and hours on their routine. Yeah. I mean, they were proud of you. Phil Hill had a crazy, I just watched it the other day. If someone had sent it to me, what's it? Hanson, maybe he had sent it to me. A snippet of it. Sean Ray's routine was probably the best he's ever done. Didn't he make up to, I don't think he made up ten. Oh, really? I think it was like 23 or something. But you know, that's, that's, you know, it's a lost art. I've been sending everyone now. You nailed it right there, Dave. It's a lost art. Since I think that, you know, the Anthony video came out, interview came out this past week, the two parts. I don't know if you saw the whole thing. He talks a lot about posing in there. And you know, I'm sending guys down to Chris Quarmear and Melvin to do, to do posing, you know, for routines and stuff like that. I send a lot of my amateur people to Kenny Wallach, just because, you know, he's patient with them. But for the bodybuilders, they need to like work on presentation and who need to really work on their routine. You know, I'm sending a couple of guys that were just in Melvin and to Chris and they were working with them. And they wanted to job because I think the presentation is aspect is just terrible. I mean, what's the point? Well, I think, what would you say? I think figure is the most entertaining. It used to be men's bodybuilding was most entertaining. I mean, there wasn't all these other divisions, but it was entertaining in and of itself. And that is like gone. Who had like, who has crazy, Olympia routines now? Two or three people are very good routines. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Melvin talks about when he, I think we mentioned this before. But when I feel it was one article classic where they gave it best pose or they always give best pose. But it was him, Darym, Charles and Kai all competing for the best pose or award. And Melvin went last. I think Darym went on first and did his usual real great routine. He always does. You know, Kai came on and did his routine. Kai's so weird the way he does his routine. He kind of came out slow on music. Then he went into crazy whatever he was doing Michael Jackson type stuff. And then he kind of ended slow, which is not some of your really melvin. So that's something the biggest mistake you can make you never end slow. You always end up a hind-out. And then Melvin and Dax was breaking Melvin's balls because Melvin was watching on the monitor. And Dax was like, I don't know, you're going to be able to take him. You're going to be able to take him. Like I got Melvin knew he had it. Because Melvin went on just like whacked and crazy routine and one best pose. And that's a huge accolade. Say I beat those two guys. That's positive. On one night, you know, we always try to say who's the best pose or both time. He beat Darym and he beat Kai on the same night as in the same show. I mean, that's what I mean. I mean, that wasn't someone's opinion. And he got the thousand bucks for it. Yes. So who's better than Melvin? You know, Melvin's the most entertaining. I think of all time, you know, and he just by beating those two guys on that night, you got to give it to him. Yeah. He won't be discussed about Melvin. Yeah. Never came close to reaching. I mean, his music people don't come. Yeah. Yeah. He could have been made way better. Yeah. How old does he know? I don't know. I guess he's, I think he's in his late 40s. He must be, he's kind of because to me. I mean, he's, I don't know if he's 50, but he's, he's properly laid 40s. Probably like around J. Z. Yeah. He, he, he's a, he's a super entertaining. He's so fine. I got, I'm trying to get him. I want to get him on a, I am rage because, right now, I rage on, I am a debate because he's got so many strong opinions on the page. Yeah. He's just, he's a brilliant, interesting guy. You know, you can debate him with free priests. I don't know. He could debate anyone. That's the great thing. I would, he's another guy like the extra. You don't, you don't want to get into a debate with him. And I mean, you, you'll never win with, with Melvin. He's, he'll, first of all, he'll make you laugh so high, but you, you, you don't want to even take your opinion serious, you know, but yeah, he's right about everything, you know, because he'll convince you he's right about that. And that's what's a good, that's what makes you debate him. That's why he dexterously, so funny. Like, even if dexterously is wrong about something, he is. You can't argue with the guy, you know, he'll come up with sort of logic that, that will, that will make you think that you don't know what you're talking about, you know. Yeah, throw you off your game. Right. And the interview to this past week, Sarah Piana, which is Rich Piana's ex-wife. She wanted, she has never done an interview or talked about Rich since Rich passed. And so we got a, a good two-parter of people who checked that out. You know, I'm talking about that interview. She contacted me. She wanted to, she wanted to do it. So, you can figure out if you can contact my official. She told the story, you know, when it was like to be with Rich Piana, you got to watch the, watch the interview, I think it was very entertaining. You know, a lot of people vilified her is like the bad guy. And I think they just don't really know what the true story was. So, you know, I'm not talking about, because of the death I'm talking about, just the relationship in general, because they broke up well before, you know, Rich passed away. But, you know, it was great, you know, Rich is like being married to like a rock star, you know. It was a crazy, like the whirlwind, you know, Tor, he was at the show every weekend, you know. She was there filming with him and, you know, all the craziness that goes on at Rich is booth and, you know, it was a wild, wild, you know, bright. So, just be, and she was from, you know, another country and she, you know, it was just, you know, it is what it is, you know. She tells the whole story, the real truth, at least, heart truth, you know. What the real truth is, I guess no one will ever know. But, I believe that she came off as very authentic to me. So, and that's it. We got a lot of good stuff up on the site this past week, so you missed all the stuff, you can go watch the replays of it, obviously we got,

Dave Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The New York Pro, which took place in Tampa, Florida, is now in the history books. And Ian Valier has the new champion, not only did he win the men's open, he will be now qualified to compete at the Mr. Olympia contest, come December, congratulations to Ian, Ian had a little bit of trouble against Hunter LeBraut, a few weeks ago at the actual Tampa, probably was in Tampa. I know it's confusing nowadays and these COVID times, but he looked a little off, he wasn't picked out properly by his own admission on the TV show where I interviewed him, he said that he had some problems in terms of anxiety and things didn't go right for that show. It seemed like he rectified some of them here, maybe not all of them. If we look at Ian here, we see a huge, structured bodybuilder with all the tools set to compete very successfully in that top five of the Mr. Olympia competition. He's got a lot of muscle, he's got a lot of conditioning. It seemed like it was a little flat here. He didn't, once again, his tan was better here, wasn't the best at candy. He still needs to work on that. I think that Ian did look happy to be here. I haven't seen a smile on his face in the last two shows. I don't see any reason why. If you're winning the show, you should be gleaming from the side of your mouth because that's the greatest. We work so hard for this thing. Then when it comes to fruition, it's none of us. You can enjoy the fruits of our labor. Obviously, winning a controversial show in the sense that there was a lot of maneuvering from pre-judging the finals. If you take a look at the pre-judging callouts, it was a seven-man callout. The judges didn't seem like they knew what they wanted to do with that callout. I think that that was a little disturbing the fans in the sense. The fans want to see defendiveness. They want to see, like, hey, this is what's going on. The judges have it down. The truth is that sometimes, when everyone's not 100%, it's very difficult for the judges to decide who's going to go where. After pre-judging a lot of the people watching the livestream, which doesn't mean anything, obviously, you've got to be there a person who's saying Justin Rodriguez look great. I heard Hassan Masafa look great. John Del Arroz, it looked great. It seemed like after pre-judging the judges were favoring Ian Valier and John Del Arroz, that they were in the middle of the last callout. That's something that usually indicates that these guys are going to be one-two. The problem was that there was a lot of guys and a lot of people in the industry experts, I call them, myself included, who watched the livestream and felt that who's on Masafa got, was getting overlooked here. Here's a guy who was an even in the top four last callout. Here's a guy who looked like he could have won the show. Turns out he moved up into play things. When it was all set and done, and why I'm replacing fourth, but could he have been higher possibly? Let's take a look and break down this line up a little bit because it was controversial. The reason is because not everyone was 100%. We like to say, I like to say, conditioning when shows. Sometimes it doesn't. If people are not all perfect, and I think that's important to understand. Let's look at second place, Finisher, Justin Rodriguez, who reminds me of Victor Martinez when he was just starting out. He even hits his front double bicep with that little twist to the waist, and Victor does. I believe he's Dominican as well. You get this whole Victor Martinez flow look. You know what the Finisher's legs were never his strongest body part, he had good legs, but they were not great legs. Justin's same thing. He didn't have bad legs. He just doesn't have the level of, I guess you can say, leg mass that he has in that upper body. He is arguably the most conditioned guy in the show. If we go by the, I guess by the moniker or the theory that conditioning when shows, assuming you have all the other tools to go with it, Justin should have been the champion. Is he in Valier bigger? Does he have more muscle? Yes, but he was flat and he wasn't as crisp as Justin. I think what hurt Justin was he didn't get a fair look at pretty judging. Even though he came back and on the scorecards, he placed very high and he could potentially won this thing. I think he was too far behind point-wise after pretty judging. So, he was a victim of maybe just being overlooked, is really what it amounts to. I'm glad that they judged the finals because when they came back, usually we go right to routines, you know, and what they did first is they re-judged the, it was almost the second prejudging. And that was good because you know, it kind of changed around a lot of placings. And I think it got a few things that were not right, right. And that's, look at the end of the day, you know, you want to have the right placings with the right guy. So, but, you know, it is what it is, you know, and sometimes people do get overlooked from that happens. John Del Rosen, a lot of people thought, could have won this thing after pretty judging, especially the way the judges had lined them up on stage. I think John probably went back to his hotel room saying, I won this thing as well, for a lot of people were telling him that. And John looked good. I mean, John is one of these body-ups, and I said this on my preview, you know, he has no gaps in this physique. And because he has no gaps in his physique, he, everything flows real nice. And you really can't say, hey, that's a bad body part, that's a great body part because it just flows. And that's what body goes about, it's about harmony and symmetry of the body parts. I think his condition is really good here, too. I think he's a little flat, and he's losing some of the pop to his physique, especially from behind. So there's no body fat on him. I mean, I can tell that because I can see his face, and I know John's got around face. The other reason when he's in shape is face-litch chisel, and he's got that chisel look. So I think he did his homework here. I think he came in a little flat, maybe he needed to eat a little bit more or stay a little more hydrated. I don't know. But he could have easily, in one this show, had he been a little, a little four, maybe. And that's unfortunate. You hate to say that, because it's an athlete's only here, but that's the case. I think his placing here was probably about right, maybe. And I probably could have swapped him out, maybe with Hassan Masad Loth, had to be honest with you. Because Hassan has got some freaky body parts to talk about him now. I mean, here's a guy who last year made an impression on a lot of people, and people saying, hey, this guy is going to be very, very dangerous moving forward. And you know what, he proved this all right, here he is. I mean, the guy's got the best quads in body bully. I mean, there's no, you think Rammy's got quads. Rammy's got big quads, but he doesn't have the separation in his quads that Hassan was stopped. I was got the feathering in the vastest muscles, the separation in the sartorious muscle. He's got huge arms, he's got a great back. I mean, he really is not missing anything, you know. He's could have been a little tighter. Yes. And I think that is why he didn't win this show. Had Hassan Masad Loth had been 100% conditioning wise and dry, no one would have beat him. I think that this guy's going to be very dangerous to the Olympian. If he makes it there, I know his guy's, believe his competing next week in California at the Calprough. If he can qualify for the Olympian win that, I think this guy is super dangerous at the Olympian level because he's got Olympian level, muskil, muskil, muskilature. He's just got to bring that dry, dry heart conditioning where you're going to see crazy separation in his muscles. When you see the deceptive thing, as you see his quads flexed down, he's got the cross-traded quads, he probably has those new rough season. That's just separation, it's naturally the muscle. We want to see grainy conditioning, you know, for mine. He's right there, he's a couple pounds off. I think this is a great showing for him. I think that, I think his place was kind of, I probably could have flipped a lot to maybe with John. But John's got a nice physique as well, but I think that they were pretty evenly matched conditioning wise these guys. I probably would have liked to see him have some one-place higher in this lineup. But I think that he's going to be a dangerous guy moving forward. He might be the most dangerous guy to enter that realm of what I call the elite pro, where when we get to the Olympian level, watch out for this guy, you know, he's going to do some serious damage. And that's not many guys like that. You don't have, there's not everyone out there who can pull that off, but he certainly can't. Let's talk about Max Charles, who brought, I know he's working with me, let's now, brought a really good look to this stage. Probably the tightest we've seen him in a long time. Legs, to me, didn't look too bad. Usually they look small, they weren't, they were full. And I'm sure Milos' protocols probably have a lot. But Max was in shape too, and I think that's the main thing here. Once again, could Max have been a place higher or so, maybe. But I think Top 5 was the right call. It was a tough line, up, it was a deep line, up. There was a lot of good guys in the lineup. And I know Max probably wanted to be high, and I know Milos wanted to be higher. And I'm sure I'll get Milos in the show. We'll talk about that, but I think this is a good show from Max. I think that if he keeps hitting a couple of shows, I think we'll see him on Olympia stage. It's weird times, because there's very few shows. What's happening is we're seeing deeper lineups at the shows that we're getting. Because when there was a lot more qualifiers, it was spread out more. It was a little easier for the win shows. Now you're going to have a much more competitive type of situation. Maybe Max should go to, I don't know if you can fly to Europe. I don't know what the quarantine situation. Maybe she should go there and compete at that Alokante Spancia, but it's a top 3. Going to the Olympia. It's a buzzword, but I think Max should be commendative for a lot of hard work and Milos good job with Max. You're definitely brought a different look than we've seen from Max in quite a while. I think he's got to be pretty happy about that. Patrick Moore. He's finishing next in the sixth position. Here's a guy we were saying was the next coming of Ronnie Coleman. At the Arnold he proved that he could get in shape for sure, but he was a little on the smaller side. I think he suffered here as well. It's finishing was, you couldn't say anything better. It's finishing was spectacular. Sanning alone, he looks like he's the winner. When you put him next to guys, you see that he still needs to add more size. As it a mistake to compete again and rather than wait till the fall, you're probably. I would have liked to seem Patrick continue to grow all year round and then die down maybe for the Arnold Classic in 2021 or maybe even the near-prome in the spring of 2021. I think it was a mistake to die down again and lose part of the year. But look, he knows what he's doing, him and Chris Estito. This is a good look. We're going to see him in California next week and then he's going to shut it down. So we'll see where that takes him. Who knows, maybe he'll come out with a victory and he'll be who'll wind up on a low-end stage. You never know. Antoine Valliant coming back from a torn bicep injury in 2019. I think this is a good comeback for him. I think what happens is people are very deceived. They see these insane pictures he puts on his Instagram. I think in the offseason he has a lot of fullness and hydration to his muscle and roundness. I think he's too over-depleted here. This is just my opinion. I haven't talked to him at all or anything like that. I think that he needs to fill up more. He needs to be better hydrated. He's probably to eat a little junk food because his condition is really good. He's just lost some of his wow. He's got a lot of wow. If you look at his pictures, then he posts in the weeks leading up to the show. I was super impressed but I saw him there. When I saw him here, I felt like he was definitely over-depleted. Antoine have a few McDonald's. She's Burgess on me. I think that's going to solve you problem. Don't stop drinking. Before I wrap this up, this is going to be a quick update. I want to talk about Phil Klohaar. He's a guy I worked with. I was very impressed with what we brought to Tampa a couple weeks ago. He placed fourth there in the open and that showed that Hunter LeBrona won. And in Valier was second. Phil brought in a much forward and hard to look here. He was bigger. I thought he was better. I was shocked that he was not in that first call out. I know he was very upset about it but I explained him what this is the way body-building works. He's still not a known guy. He's going to be known now because this was a great look that he brought to the stage. He worked so hard for this. He looked great and I think that the next show, which I believe we're going to be doing a Chicago which takes place in Atlanta, is going to be a big show for Phil. I think this was a tough lineup. I think that you might have gotten a little overlook like I said but in Chicago which is in Atlanta, I think we're going to see a Phil Klohaar really coming to his own. So keep up your chin, champ and we'll see you back on stage and we're going to get him on our next muscle probably this coming week for a little interview too. Just to kind of get people up there on what's going on in his life and his body-building journey, which is a little incondetial because he got started a much later age and I think that people are going to really enjoy that story. That's the pretty much the New York pro update. Once again, congratulations to Ian Valier for winning the show. While fine for the Olympia, great lineup. I'm glad all these guys were able to make it out for the show here and I like to say in New York in Tampa but for the New York pro. It's still the same title. Ian's got that beautiful ring to show it for his efforts and we'll see him on Olympia stage. I hope he can get his act together and I hope he can focus his mind a little bit more and enjoy the process because that's what it's after all guys. At the end of the day, you got to enjoy the journey. And day polembo with an RX muscle news update.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro. There's 30-year-in-a-row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbo and today is Tuesday's September 1st, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. When I was growing up, I can remember my grandmother telling me that they don't make things like they used to. And I didn't understand what that meant until I started to get just a little bit older. But now that I'm here and I see how true it is in some instances, especially for someone like Dexter Jackson. Yesterday there was a clip posted of Dexter from one of his latest chess workouts. And if it wasn't for all that salt and pepper in his beard, you would have sworn that the video was from at least 10 years ago. The fact that he looks just as good today as he did then is a testament to how special the athlete he is. And I think it's pretty safe back to say that it could be a while before we see another athlete built for the long haul like Dexter. There's going to see a fully healed fill-heath and we already know what I'm capable of if I'm healthy. And in case you were wondering that quote came right from fill-heath himself during a sit-down interview with Dan Solomon with a seven-time Olympia champ walked in sound that like the guy we saw dominate bodybuilding for the better part of a decade. At 40 years old, Phil is still relatively young in terms of his bodybuilding career, which means that he could legitimately have another handful of peak years left in the tank. So if we take fill at his word and assume that he's good to go, I think we should all be ready to see some Christmas fireworks at Planet Hollywood. Believe it or not, we're actually only a couple of weeks away from the New York pro. And rumor has that match trials is coming in hot this year and talking to people close to Max's team last weekend, they believe that he's on track to beat the look that he had at the Arnold. And that when he's planning to bring in here, we'll make a mysterious contender for the win. By and large, when we get the full bore, full locked in version of Max, he could be an absolute nightmare to deal with. So that is the Max that we're about to see in New York. Watchy and Tampa, he could easily walk away with the win. The fourth and great, Jocco-Willing discipline equals freedom. And that's especially true for something like bodybuilding that can require discipline over decades before you ever reach the top of the mountain, just ask Sergio Leaver Jr. Over the last two years, we started to see Sergio come into his own and the freedom that comes with that level of success is really just a by-product of his discipline. Someone like Sergio is exactly what the Jocco quote is all about, that I'm having the willingness and discipline to make the short-term sacrifices so you can reap the long-term rewards. That's the thing that separates the good from the great and it has to be your guiding principle if you want to live a life that is truly fulfilling. And that does it the end in another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

You're the one who does you belong to To keep you safe now This winter I can feel it Let's take your word Girl, let's take it out This winter I can't walk Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh This winter I can't walk Oh Oh

Wake up everyone, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning and on day polo I'm going today is July 23rd 2018 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. I read this book of coyote America that talked about coyotes being one of the fastest growing and most adaptable species in North America. But if I were walking around the strip in Vegas, it's not the coyotes I'd be worried about. It's the thought of running into a Persian wolf that really scares me. After his huge win last weekend at the Portugal Pro, once again, hotly chupin is managed to make himself the number one topic of conversation in the 212 division. Anyone who saw the photos can attest to the fact that this guy might have some of the craziest muscle density we've ever seen on it to 12 athletes. With the fact that his visa status still seems a giant question mark might end up keeping him off the Olympia stage for the 2nd straight year. Whether or not this guy ends up making it today, this is a complete mystery at this point. But I know if I were one planning flex Lewis's post show party, I think I'd be keeping my fingers crossed that they don't figure out how to get him here anytime soon. A few weeks ago, Oklahoma City Thunder GM, Sam Presty famously said, Scared Money don't make no money. And from way down here, Classic Physique standout, Steve Lorrius, sure doesn't look scared to me. Now that year one can officially be declared a success, the rookie standout is already hard at work sculpting the nest phase of his masterpiece after teaming up with Neil Hill, longtime trainer of 6th time, 212 Olympia champ Flex Lewis. For Lorrius, I think the fact that he's passed the point now where there's any sort of pressure on him will end up being the best thing for him in the long run. Now that he can just figure out how to train and prove and focus on learning how to get better in his craft. And give him how much more room this kid still has left to grow. I think in another year or two he'll really be ready to step up and tackle some of the more elite guys in the division. You know what? I'm going to be honest here and say that I actually hate most sports movies, but that doesn't mean that I don't love a great real life comeback story. And I'll go on record right now and say that there's no better comeback story in the industry this year than the return of Michael Anderson to the men's physique stage. After making one of the most awesome comebacks I've ever seen a few weeks ago at the Chicago Pro Anderson and his team decided to bring their talents east to the Pittsburgh Pro Masters Championships, which is set to go down in the steel city six weeks from now. To his credit Anderson looks like he's 90% of the guy he was a few years ago when he was tearing it up on the Olympia stage. And I know I will be the only one out there rooting for him in Pittsburgh, hoping that he can snag the victory and stand in the winter circle, bringing this whole thing full circle. You know that story about the three pigs and the big bad wolf? Well, I dare a wolf to show up and start huffing and puffing anywhere near Luke Sandow to see what happens because this guy is a fully certified monster. This week the UK powerhouse was spotted destroying another insane back workout as operation 2019 takeover starts to pick up some more steam. Even though he may not have had the impact he did in his rookie year year two for Sandow and his team brought a ton of improvements to the stage which is really all you want as an athlete. So as long as he keeps plugging away, I think this guy will have some real success somewhere down the line once everything finally falls into place. I think if somebody sat down and made a list of athletes who won their pro-card at the NPC USA over the last 15 years, you guys would be shocked at how many of today's stars came from that USA circuit. And a little less than two weeks from now, species nutrition athlete, Dominic Mutasio is hoping to become the next guy to come out of that pipeline and add his name to the list. Back in 2016, it came down to a split decision between Mutasio and eventual well-to-weight winter Jason Perez right there on that same USA stage. So you know this time around that he wants to come back to settle a little bit of unfinished business from a conditioning standpoint, Mutasio is always one of the few guys I've seen who almost never misses the mark. So if he pulls it all together this time, I think it'll be awfully hard to stop him from finally putting an explanation point at the end of this final chapter. And that does if he had another edition of muscle in the morning. Undaableumbo reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Columbus. Today is Thursday, August 16th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. To pull the legendary Jeff Goldloom in Jurassic Park, life always finds a way. From where I'm standing, it looks like classic physics standout, Panacea Pierre is storing the find his way now, he's a little more than a month out from his Olympia debut. This week we saw some new updates from Pierre and his team that showed the old vet looking like he's ready to show up and kick a little butt at the biggest bodybuilding show on the planet. In retrospect now, making the move over to classic gave this guy's career a huge shot of momentum. So hopefully he can keep riding that wave all the way to Vegas, so he can walk out of there with a top 10 placing to add to a fairytale ending to this magical season. I've had more than a few people come up to me lately and say that he think that the women's physical Olympia is going to be epic this year. And if things really start to get crazy up there, it wouldn't surprise me even a little bit if Michaela Icock somehow found a way to be up there right in the middle of the whole thing. True to form, Icock has spent most of her prep with her head down plugging away day in and day out. And now all of a sudden it feels like things are starting to really come together. The last few updates that we've seen from Team Icock have been right up there with the best of the best, which makes me think that she's right on target to come in and be a serious top 5 threat. At our best, Icock has a sort of compact, streamlined look that can give some of the top girls in the lineup some real problems. So as long as she can stay the course, she has a legitimate shot to be one of the real surprises to come out of the women's physique. Olympia. Now that we're already talking about women's physique, this feels like the perfect time to show some love to another one of the more underrated athletes, making their way to the Olympia stage a few weeks from now. A Russian sleeper cell who goes by the name Valentina Machina. Earlier this week, Team Machina released a few new training clips that showed the second year pro looking as dangerous as I've ever seen her. To our credit, it looks like Machina's done a nice job of balancing out her look over the last few months, which is definitely going to pay some dividends when she's up there competing against some of the other thorough breads that will be up there on that stage. Every time I've seen her, Machina has been a straight A student as far as her conditioning is concerned. So she can just cross a few more teas and dot a few more eyes between now and September. You never know how things might shake out once the judging starts to get rolling. If anyone else remembers those old Pac-Man Machines where you ate that big dot, you turned into that super Pac-Man monster who killed everything in sight. Well, it's to me like Wendy Fartino must have gotten her hands in some bigger than life dots or something because she is flat out, killing it right now. The latest news coming out of Team Fartino is that the four time pro champ is locked loaded and ready to blast off down the final stretch of her prep. And you look at the level of decals she brings every time she steps on stage. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that she's got this thing worked out from Deer Nian every angle. And a 100% Wendy Fartino is absolutely good enough to be a top finisher this year with a few things and uppricing her way. Everything I've ever seen about wolves talks about how important the pack is for the health and safety of the individual. But if I look as mean as Heidi Schouppen, I think I'd probably go ahead and fly solo too. Late last week we saw a few new photos trickle out from Schouppen and his team that gave us a quick glimpse at how the Persian wolf is looking a few weeks after that monster win he had back at the Portugal pro. I don't know what kind of strings people need to pull to get this whole travel thing solve, but somebody needs to figure it out ASAP because this guy deserves to be up on that Olympia stage. And it's seriousness that there's one guy on the planet who could possibly make this a scary situation for Flex Lewis in his grand-to-12 Olympia finale. It's certainly Schouppen. And that does it. The yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day below, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

Alright, we have some special features for you here today at Bros. vs. Bros. 8 Squad to the Adrop. I am here with Liquid at Sunraise, one of our main sponsors here today, and I have a challenge I put to them. I said, are you guys willing to risk your products to show us how good you guys actually are? Because I send a lot of people to them, and I see a lot of bodybuilders up on the stage of fantastic tans that are there. I have a guy who works for RX muscle called PTIntern. Like the intern is so pale that I said, you can get PTIntern dark. You will sell your product to everybody builder out there because they'll know that no matter how light the eye they could possibly get dark. I got Brenna from Liquid Sunraise here who's going to be doing the honors. Now, do you guys have the capability to take technology to make PTIntern tan? Absolutely. Absolutely. We'll get him three or four shades darker in one application. If we can get PTIntern dark, he might have a chance, you know, we might send him at on the town tonight to get a date or something like that. I told him, I told him, we'll get him dark enough that he could get anybody he wants pretty much. Do you like Brenna rubbing you down? Is that a feel good? It would if nobody else was here. If we were alone. Now, Brenna, do people get it? Do you guys have to get aroused and you do this? Never happen to me. Thank God. What you know, it is because it's a very antiseptic environment. So I'm assuming that it's not like conducive to that. PTIntern has his posing chunks here. So we had to have some make shift to hains. I think I'm going to try to get hains as a sponsor of a future event. I'm excited. I'm really excited to see if PTIntern can get a tan here. PTIntern, why does they come? No tan. He never goes into the sun. The funny thing is he's Armenian in Italian. So he probably tans very well if he decided to, but he's lazy. So here we go. Liquid sun rays. Let's see what they can do. Here's the before. Bill, did you get some before pictures? And here we go. All right. Right up from Liquid Sun rays. And the tan on PTIntern here. It's going on very evenly. Much better than the old way we did it with the brush. We used to use a brush. It hated the brush. And the brush never was as good. This is like Jersey's Sharpie. You know, you get spray tan and then you've got to get hit the club down. Yeah, we got to go close shop. I'm sure we're going to finish this. That's right. That's right. We got to get you a big gold chain too. I'm going to let Brian take all the control of this thing. What does it feel like as this stuff goes on to me? It just feels like air. It's a little bit cold, but it just feels like it's cool in your off everything, right? Yeah, it actually feels a lot better than standing out there and he's kind of like air finishing from free. I look at that difference. You can see his lat right there. The line where she sprayed or where she didn't spray and wow. What a difference. Look at his legs are ready. They're already dark. The same thing going. Light application. I'm sure she's going to give another one after that. It's pretty impressive. I'm pretty impressed. He was a little upset because he wasn't in contact with shape, but he wasn't going to come on the two of us. He's still pretty lean. He's probably leaner than most guys. Brenna is very patient. I think he's enjoying himself. Yeah. I think he's enjoying himself. Pete D. Intern is being a very good sport. I think he's enjoying himself. Yeah. I think he's enjoying himself. Yeah. You can see the difference in the level of conditioning and physique with the tan versus not the pin. But so like that. He's a little bit. Look at this separation. You can see already. And he hardly has a coat on already. He looks like a different person already. He looks like a different person already. He looks like a different person already. He looks like a different person already. She knows what little mixing crannies he had to miss. And probably more worried. That's the exact time. I'm impressed. It's like watching an artist create a portrait. At first, it doesn't look like much. It looks like just splotches. And then all of a sudden, the picture starts coming at the frame. And you get an idea of what's going on and what the intent was of the artist. I'm starting to see Pete D. Intern taking shape here. It looks like his side of his body is not really that dark, though. I don't know. He just keeps getting darker and darker. He actually looks better than some of the competitors yesterday at the shop. Cool cups like this. Pete the Intern have a potential for men's physique. I'm no. What do you think he has to pay for it? Commercial modeling. One for the model. Pete's elite. I mean, Bill Copsick believes that he can be a model. Might have to get him into New York City to go on the conditions. I'm, I'm, I'm, is legs are like unbelievable. You have to what it was. Give us an app post, yeah. He was standing there. I got some great. I was trying to have pizza apps I really do. I never worked much sharper when he's in contact with Shane. Believe me, man. Would you use liquid sun rays when you have to compete next? Yeah, I mean, I tried to always stop before and it never came out with this color. And she only put less than one cup. Do you want to have a post? Yeah, that's not even two full-coast on him. Do you want to have more on your own? Yeah, yeah. Well, I am convinced I was convinced before. But now you guys have seen it for yourself. Pete the Intern went from white, pasty, white to can in one single application. You would normally do a lot more than that. If you guys want to check out liquid sun rays, what's the website? www.liquid sunrareswithazee.com. And you guys can go on there and sign up for your appointments at all the various shows. You can schedule all your appointments online. You can even pay for your service online. We have a retail line as well, where you can buy all the before and after products. I love it. Pete, we're going to get you some liquid sunrares free product because you have a such a great support. Are you happy? Very, yeah. I like it a lot, actually. Alright, Pete, I'm happy. Brandon's happy. Roseverse Pros 8 weekend is officially over. We're going out to eat someplace. I don't know where, but it's going to be a great one. We'll catch you at Roseverse Pros 9. Chicago Illinois, December of 2011.

Daypalombo here with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic, Phil Heath. Phil's in the news. He's grabbed all the headlines as of late with that big announcement that he's entering the Mr. Olympia 2020 at the end of the year in December. He's going to try to make it eight wins, which would tie the record of Lee Haney and the Roddy Coleman. Phil took a lot of heat toward the end of his reign, I guess you could say, it's on last year. Specifically from social media, I think more so than anything. The YouTubers, the Instagram, you know, giants out there. Well, the people I've tremendous followings. And understandably, you know, Phil has been one of the only champions that really had to deal with this kind of scrutiny, you know, throughout his reign. The last seven years is really when social media got huge when YouTube blew up Instagram, you know, took off Facebook, really, you know, got a life of its own. So Phil's been dealing with this for seven years. And then obviously the last two years that he hasn't been really around competing, he's still dealing with obviously it. But you know, I would say, you know, the last couple years of that reign, he really was taking a lot of heat. And Phil likes to get in it. He doesn't just take it. He doesn't just, you know, sit quietly like a lot of these former champions. He's in the trenches fighting these guys and arguing with them or something that which is probably nothing great to say to you. But you know what, you know, in the world of social media, you have to participate. If you don't, you know, you kind of get left in the dust. So I guess from a marketing perspective, it was something that was good for Phil. But at the same time, you know, it wasn't good for Phil's psyche. And it also probably wasn't good the way he was judged on the Olympia stage because let's face it all. These judges watch social media as well. So Phil was doing a little Instagram live video with Dan Solomon and Dan who runs the Olympia now. He's in charge of all that production of it. And you know, he was, I guess, asking Phil, you know, how he got along with his fan to me, says I got a good relationship with my fans. And he kind of took like a little mini shot at like the Louis Marco, Nick's Stremp and Power sights as, you know, maybe like, you know, the term he kind of used was all the ads they put up. I think he meant all the advertising they get from the videos they use and about him, you know, because let's face it. When Phil was hot, they were reporting on him all the time. And specifically, Louis Marco started with the bubble gut thing and Nick's Power shot kind of followed up with the whole, you know, controversy about Phil's stomach. And describe if you would your connection with the fans. Because I know it's always been sort of a hot cold journey for you. And you're never afraid to connect with fans. You're not afraid to get into it with fans at times. It's something that you've always been kind of, you were your heart on your sleeve. So talk about that relationship with the fans. Because for you, I think it's a very unique one compared to other champions we've had. You know, I actually think I have a very good relationship with my fans. And I think what you're describing is from years past. Okay. And I also think it's because of the consistent narrative that vloggers have used to try to get more follow. They'll run, let's be honest, we had guys like Louis Marco run at after Ad after Ad. Ad after Ad after Ad. We had Nick Power guy, whatever the hell his name is, Ad after Ad after Ad. All to give themselves more love online. You know, I think Phil and I understand where he's coming from. It's got to work a little bit when he has guys that are social media guys. They're not like, they're not body builders who have competed professionally. They're not analysts. They're not media websites that cover the sport. Like, you know, like, our ex muscle muscle development, when flexed online was around. These were legitimate sites that, you know, kind of covered the sport like ESPN would or ABC or NBC because there is no coverage for bodybuilding. So, you know, he expects it to be judged and analyzed by the experts and these websites. But then he's got also the, you know, the regular average guys who just, you know, do it because they're fans of the sport. And they have huge, much bigger followings than a lot of times than the legitimate agencies do because let's face it. The average guy can relate to the average guy, you know, analyzing it. You know, the average guy will watch the, you know, the experts. But then they also want to know what their friends think about it. And that's, you know, Nick's strength and power, Louis Marco. That sounds like it's like the guy you can go and have a drink at the bar with, you know, reviewing these things and putting a lot of hard work into doing their research and everything like that. But after at the end of the day, you know, these are guys that are just, you know, making observations that may or may not be accurate and that may or may not sway public opinion because they have such a big following. So I think I think what was happening. I think I don't have to guess. I can kind of surmise it that Phil is irked by this. And he probably figures, you know, when I probably lost the last Olympia because these guys made such a big deal about my midsection that normally would have just been lost over in years past. I mean, Dorian had midsection issues for while Ronnie had midsection issues at the end of his reign. Even Jay had some midsection issues at certain points in his career. So, you know, when there was no one to point it out other than, you know, a couple, you know, guys who competed with these guys bitch and complaining at the press conference, it didn't really get much notice. But when you have guys, with with huge social media following, pointing out over and over and over again because let's face it. They do that because they get lots of hits from that and they get lots of views and they make money from that because they monetize these videos. And you know, it's fun because they know the fans love it. So, you know, why if I'm Phil Heath Mr. Olympian, I know I lost $400,000 Olympia and my Aph Olympia, you know, predominantly because of what's going on in social media because on to any other circumstances at any other point in time that probably never would have happened because Phil looked pretty damn good on that stage. So let's face it. You know, Rodeon was great, you know, and best he was. But you know, it could have gone either way. I mean, the judge, it was, it was a very close decision. You know, had, you know, people not been making a big deal about his midsection, he might have gone on on one that Olympia. I don't know, you know, we don't really know what could have happened or whatnot. So when someone like Nick at Nick's strength and power speculates like that, that Phil doesn't like him or that this and that or Phil's taking a shot and well, can he expect, and what do you expect, you know, I mean, this is a guy who lost the, and the Olympia, a lot of money and a legacy and essentially. So you know, you know, need you guys going after, you know, likewise, you guys have every right to go after. And that's your job. That's how you make your money. But I could understand where Phil's coming from at that point. You know, I reached out to Phil for an interview after I heard the announcement and Phil got back to me and said, you know, Dave, I'm not going to be doing a million interviews now because I'm really going to focus on the show and you know, when the show comes and we get closer, you know, we can do something. And that's, and I can respect that because you know, if the guy's got to focus, okay, he's got to focus on winning this show. People think always going to run in there and it's going to be an easy cake walk, nothing's an easy cake walk, not if the Olympia level Phil knows that everyone else knows that the judges know that Phil's going to be at his best if he wants to win this Olympia and establish himself as an eight time winner and possibly go on to nine wins. He's taking this seriously. That's why he took a year off. He took a year off to recharge. Now he's ready to go again. He's got to expect his going to get a lot of scrutiny, you know, going into this show obviously because these guys are looking for that because that's how they get hits. And it's not just Nick and, and, and we'll look at Mark is really not around him, but it's not just Nick and these other, there's a lot of sites out there. That's what they do. They get their traffic based off of finding weaknesses and bodybuilders that are out there and pointing them out. And that's, and that's once again, that's fine. That's entertainment. That's entertainment. Look at the celebrities out there in Hollywood. If I was a celebrity, I would, I, you know, I don't know if I could take it with the star and national and choir, and TMZ and everything you do is scrutinize. And if you, if you don't close the car, do our properly and you kids in the car, they point out everything. You're under a microscope and no one's perfect out there. Okay. That's what I was looking at as vulnerabilities and it, it's uncomfortable when you're so popular that every side out there, YouTube, Instagram are pointing out all the things that you know are your weaknesses. Because believe me, Phil knows what his weaknesses are and what his strengths are. He knows better than all of us because he has to look at himself in the mirror every day. When I would look in the mirror, I would look at all I would see was that was the things that didn't look good. I never saw the great things because I was always trying to fix the things that I felt needed work. So I understand Phil's relationship or non-relationship with some of these sites out there because he feels that they're not legitimate and why should they be pointing out these things and making his job even harder than it already is trying to win in Olympia. I also see the social media side of it because look, this is how these guys are in their living. This is what they do. They're fans, Nick said it best on his site. He's like, I'm a fan. I'm a fan that points out things that other fans are seeing in their mind and that's why they can relate to me and that's why they subscribe to my channel and that's why his channel is doing well. And I understand that. They're not subscribing to his channel for his analysis of what's going on. They're subscribing because they want to know what a regular guy who is a bodybuilder who works out, who's a fan of the sport, thinks about the sport. It's a different perspective. This room for everyone. Everyone can find a niche for themselves in this marketplace. Some people complain about everything. Some people like to show the great motivational aspect of the sport. Some people like myself, I try to get to the bottom in the root of the truth of what's going on and reveal it. Everyone has their own little niche that they fall into. And Nick's niche is a very popularist niche. In other words, here's what people want to know. It might not be the most in-depth analysis, but it's what I'm thinking in my brain as a fan. And because of that, he has a lot of traffic and a lot of people who watch his stuff because that's what most people are thinking. I think differently. I'm like, all right, well, I'm like, what is causing this? What how do we fix this? How do we get to the bottom in the root of what really is going on? If I'm interviewing someone, what makes this person tick? That's what gets me excited about doing an interview or doing a video. Just like this video. Is this still really have this hate relationship with the press? No, he does not. I interviewed him. He was a great interview after he lost that alimpiate. It was very honest on his part. I think he's an honest guy. I think he's trying to do something that no one else has ever done before. It's a difficult task. It's a lot of stress and anxiety. That's probably why he stopped for a while. It was too much from the take. He needed a break. He's retards now. Luckily, his body is still in good shape. He has no injuries. He's still relatively young. And I think he's going to win that at the limpia. I think he can do it. But he's still got Brandon Curry who's the raining champ in the way. He's got flex Lewis who's coming up. He possibly has Sean Roden if he takes care of his case coming. So he's got a lot of work to do. And I understand why he's so mentally tough and focused. He couldn't be that any other way than that. Or he would never want to win seven Olympias. He wants to go to war against everyone. Whether you're on stage with them or not. And that's why he's a winner because he has that killer mentality inside that killer instinct that enables him to focus in on someone and go after them. You don't have to like what he says or not. But his body and his physique speak for itself. And it has for seven years. He's going to be a champion and several years before that and up until now. So really winning Olympia. We're going to have to wait and see what's the screw you're going to be. I'm sure all you guys out there who say, oh, okay. You're all going to report every little nuance of every little piece of gossip that comes out there because that's what you do. And that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But expect that Phil's not going to sit back and take it lightly. He's going to come after you guys because that's what he does. He's a hunter. He's not going to let anyone else hunt him. And that's why he's so successful what he does. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle rant.

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonvo and today is Tuesday, August 3rd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Tuesday, everyone. If you didn't catch yesterday's show, we did a few segments on the possibility of high green and big rampy, spraying off at the Olympia in a few months. So you should definitely check out that if you haven't already. But I want to put those two aside for now in concentrate on fill he for a minute. Because the photo he posted of himself last week is worth talking about right now. I had a doubt in carrying enough muscle to get to the right of his name into the Olympia mix at any point between now and October without missing a B. Now, just to be clear, I don't know if Phil is planning to compete or not. I'm not trying to start our groomer saying that he is. All I'm saying is that the former champ looks like he could be ready for action at a moment's notice. And if that moment happens to come sometime in late October, it looks like we'll have ourselves a good old fashioned showdown on our hands. We'll put the tap of pro coming up in a little less than a week now. There are a lot of eyes on a lot of athletes looking to make a statement at one of the biggest events of the season. So if you're in the market for a potential dark horse contended to make some waves in the figure division, you might want to take a hard look at cup of shini, La Conte. A few days ago, we got our hands on these exclusive behind the scenes, update photos from her coach and friend of the show, King Kamali, who tells us that she's never been more dialed in for a show at any point in her career. And that they believe she has a legitimate shot at earning her Olympia qualification. And when you think about how much talent we're projected to see on that stage next weekend, if she ends up bringing home the win, not only would secure hard the qualification, it will give her a lot of momentum heading into the next half of the season, which could be a huge factor when it comes to figuring out who ends up sliding into the top 10 at the Olympia a few months from now. After the Chicago pro wrapped up a few weeks ago, one of the biggest storylines coming out of the men's division was Brett Wilkin, and how impressive he was in his open debut with his huge third-place finish heading into the show, Brett this team said the plan was to hit Chicago, regroup, and then hit Tampa this weekend with the goal being to earn an Olympia qualification at one of those two places. But at least for the moment, it looks like those plans have changed. Earlier this week, Brett announced that he was planning to shut it down for the rest of the season to give himself more time to go back to the lab and do what he needs to do, so he can come back in 2022, ready to pick back up where he left off. If you're a fan of Brett, it might be a little disappointing to know that he won't be seeing competing in the Tampa this weekend. But given what he was able to do in his last off season, the thought of him being able to repeat that again and come back even better next year has to be exciting. And at the very least, it'll be fun to watch him transform into whatever the next version of Brett 3.0 ends up being. And since we're already talking about some of the action we might see in Tampa this weekend, I want to take a second to highlight the fact that this looks like it'll be the biggest bikini lineup that we've seen in a long time in terms of the number of athletes that are scheduled to compete. But that being said, I still think the smart money might be in my lowerly shapatoes to keep her win streak alive, or really looked at her all-time best in Chicago two weeks ago. And it's hard not to think that she wouldn't be coming into the weekend with a ton of momentum considering how dominant she was there, even with some of the other perennial Olympians were expecting to see on stage this weekend. I don't think any of them have enough gas in the tank to be able to keep up with her if she's firing when all cylinders. And if she can go back to back, I think it sets up a big time showdown between her and Ashley Callwasser when it's time to step back onto that Olympia stage. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polon bow and today is Friday June 25th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. We talk a lot in this show about first impressions and how important they are to establish a good tone for an athlete season. And even though it's still early, at this point I think you can make the argument that no one did a better job of setting the tone for their season and wellness this year than Angela Borges. She started off by winning the Pittsburgh Pro despite no one really talking about her as a contender heading in. And then three weeks later she followed that up with a really strong second place effort at the New York Pro. Where some people thought she actually deserved to beat your rich Nihala. So when you take into account the fact that she's probably been the most impressive athlete in this division since day one, it isn't hard to see why there are so many people dubbing her as the favorite to win the Olympia. And being the first ever Olympia wellness champ would be one hell of a way to leave a first impression on the history books if that's how it turns out. A few weeks ago Ben Pakalsky interviewed Dorian Yates on his podcast and during the interview Ben quoted Flex Wheeler saying that Dorian was one of the only people he'd ever been around who had a physical presence that changed the energy of the room. And I'm not about to go as far as to say the Derek Lundsford and Dorian Yates have that same thing going on, but I'll tell you what. People are definitely noticing when he's in the room these days. Now that his Olympia preface in full swing, Derek really looks like he's operating on another level this year. Derek's always been someone who looked great while he was dieting. But this is different. He's bigger, his conditioning is better and he has separation in detail in places that he didn't have before. It's still way too early to tell if this will be the version of Derek that we've been waiting for, but the vibe that he's been getting off right now is different. And people are starting to take notice. Anyone who knows me knows that I'm not a big fan of Starbucks. I'm not about all the sugars and all the syrup so all the prices for that matter. But I will say this if there's something I appreciate about Starbucks, it's consistency. It doesn't matter where you go. If you show up and want to drink, no, he times out of ten, it tastes the same. Regardless of where you go and get it from, there's tremendous value in being consistent. Because that alone can make you the best at what you do. And as far as men's physique is concerned, it's hard to find anyone who's more consistent than Andre Ferguson. Right now, Andre seven weeks out from the Tampa Pro. And as always, he looks like he's right on the money. So matter where he is or where the show is, you know it's going to be the Andre that we've all expected to show up and deliver. And that level of consistency is what separates the good from the great in this business. So if he ends up as the last man standing in Tampa, his commitment to being consistent will be the biggest reason why. Finally, I want to close out the week with an interesting story that caught my attention yesterday. At last week's Dallas Europa Pro, Edin Betty Paris, so put together a meetfield Olympians and athlete seminar that featured a lot of different people from the industry, including seven time Mr. Olympia, champ Phil Heath. And during this time on the mic, Phil said that the reason he believes he lost the Olympia last year was because he missed his peak for the show. According to Phil, he'd never missed a peak for any show in his career. So the fact that he missed the mark and still managed to come in third with something that we should take into account. Now, just so we're clear, Phil's opinion is what it is. So what I think is really irrelevant, but I'm interested in what you guys think. Do you believe that Phil would have won if he didn't miss his peak last year? And if you do, do you think he should try and come back one more time to see if he can tie Lee Haney and Ronnie Coleman in the record books? Let me know in the comments below. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle in the Morning on days of Olympia reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. I'm sure most of you have heard by now, Phil Heath announced on his Instagram that he will indeed be coming back to the Mr. Olympia in 2020 in December to try to win number 8 that would tie him for the all-time most wins and men's division with Lee Haney and Ronnie Coleman of course. Keith obviously not doing the Olympia last year. I don't know if he regretted not doing it or not. Obviously he was working on his business and focusing on making money, which is always a good thing to do, especially when you're at the end of your career. A lot of people speculated that it was a missed opportunity for Phil last year because he could have won the show. Your mindset has to be right if you're going to compete. I've talked to a lot of former champions about this formula, Sarchev, to all the people we bring on the show of dentist James. You got to be right up here and I think Phil is right up here. I think the time is right. We're in the middle of a pandemic here. A lot of people can't even make the show. People can't train. There's not as many people qualify. This could be a missed opportunity for Phil. I mean this is going to probably be one of the weaker lineups only because of the there's less people in the lineup. Now obviously got flexed Lewis coming into the line if it could have been his very dangerous. I don't think we're going to see how to shoot and be able to make it over here. The international guys are going to have a tough, tough time. I had mentioned it previously on another one of our shows that I felt that a lot of these guys should just move over here temporarily, at least till the end of the year so they can be in the country already prior to the Olympia. But the bottom line is that Phil feels this is the time for him to strike now, to try to win number eight. Obviously if he won number eight, I think I'm sure we would see him back the phone. You had to try to break the record at number nine. The all-time Olympia record is held by Iris Kyle who with 10 wins but in the men's division obviously that number eight seems to be the stumbling block that known he had over eight wins alone is monumental. Phil seven wins alone is monumental but obviously trying to make history but also obviously trying to regain his former, I guess, grandeur as the king of the body building the vision now. Here's an interesting thing. He felt when he lost, okay, was like the most hated guy, right? I mean he was the Mr. Olympia but yet he was hated because people wanted to see him lose. That's what happens. When you first start out they love you and then as you start winning too many times people want you out of there because they get bored. That's the mentality of the society we live in now. We get bored if we see the same thing over and over again and Phil had a very confident air that he carried himself with people to sort his cocky and whatever the case may be, people love to vilify their champions after a while because they wanted to see someone else in there so to speak. When Sean Roden beat, Phil was like the greatest thing and all the fans were against Phil and obviously Phil was upset with the win with the loss and he went on and did some interviews about it and people seemed like people were with a lot of backlash from people. Now that the sport is suffering because of the pandemic and we Brandon Curry won last year but it wasn't like a convincing thing. It's like when in the sense that people felt like well it was all a year and it was an asterisk Sean Roden couldn't defend his title and this is taking nothing away from Brandon Curry because he's a great champion and a great individual but all of a sudden now people are almost like disillusioned with what's going on in the open class. Now Phil has come back as the savior and everyone is raising him up like he is the greatest champion of all time. Just they should have been treating him like all along and it's just so funny people love they hate to see their champions win over and over again but then they love a great combat. Maybe it was a good move socially for the sport. Let people miss him and say he brought a lot of excitement to the Olympia stage because of his physique and the polarity between him and the other competitors. It was boring last year. We need Phil back. So now they're the handling him as the return of the king so to speak and that's good I guess for his public image it's like when George Forman made his comeback. Now people want to see him win. They want to see him regain that title. They want to see him win number eight. So in a sense it actually worked to fill the advantage to miss last year and to take himself out of the line like let people see hey you know what it's not so much fun without fill he there. So Phil's coming back obviously all the Olympia are you know I guess you could say promotional materials all have his face on it now everyone's posting it everywhere Phil obviously put you know time to you know for unfinished business now he's coming back he wants to win number eight and I guarantee he wants to win number nine as well and look he's going to make a lot of money doing it as well so that's it's a good move on his part you know from every standpoint of the way you see it assuming his health is good which it looks like it is and he took care of all his problems this is this is a win win for Phil he cannot lose here even if he doesn't win the the title he still wins okay because of all the excitement around his name and the sport and whatever he's promoting business wise people are going to be watching every movie makes now from now through the Olympia so very good move on Phil's part I really believe even though it brand of carries the rainy mr. Olympia I believe it's Phil's show to lose and let's see lost something along the way I don't know you know he's he's not a young guy anymore he's in his 40s but at the same time he's still from you know what we can see he's still he's still guided so to speak the question now is now that Phil throws his hat to the ring do we see someone like high green have motivation now to want to come back I know we we're always debating Kai Kai Kai and everyone's sick of the whole debate but now Kai always needs a motivation you know he's like like in acting you have to have some sort of something that's going to move you to be able to get into that character and play that character right Kai can't play his character the way he wants to embody building unless he has motivation Phil he feels his motivation is this is the guy who is the stumbling block to him winning and let's face it if Kai jumped in and won Olympia title without Phil there people would say well but he doesn't be so he so this would be great motivation now for for Kai to say you know I'm gonna come back because I want to win the Olympia number one and number two I want to beat Phil Heath because I never did it it's well he's done it before but he didn't do it on the Olympia stage when Phil was the rain champion so this would be a perfect opportunity so the show could turn into you know a blockbuster who knows what Phil Heath stepping back into that ring might help bring along with it will Sean Rodin's case decetal before that we might see Sean on that stage should what it what would it be a reed like a for rematch between Sean Rodin and Phil Heath the only guy the beat Phil in the last you know seven years so that would also be another great story so this Phil putting himself back into the picture is great for body building it's exciting for the fans it also opens up the doors for other people to possibly come back into the ring and create a lot of excitement around it obviously we got the reigning mr. Olympia Brandon Curry we have Dexter Jackson who's always dangerous former mr. Olympia the winning is body multiple time in this lineup you know that that's cool you know that's cool big ranny hopefully will qualify be in the show it can turn into one of the best Olympias of all time so fingers crossed Phil good move on your part congratulations on the throwing you hat back into the ring and body going is the winner at the end of the day i'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle rant

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Thursday September 10th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. According to a report from NASA, 2019 was actually the third hottest year ever recorded. So even though we've been lucky with the weather so far this year, people need to remember that Tion Pearson hasn't competed yet, and that alone could raise the global temperature by a few degrees. The anticipation of Kion's 212-day view has been building and building for months, and so far he's checked every single box along the way. So five weeks from now, when he is ready to touch down, the division better be ready, because this kid might be bringing more heat than anything you've seen all year long. Even though I do believe in psychics and clairvoyance, I also believe what my eyes tell me. When I look at Nathan the Asher, I don't need to channel any sort of supernatural force to figure out that he has big things in his future. On Tuesday, Nathan's team released a handful of videos from a shoulder workout that showed Nathan looking as strong as I've seen him since last year as postal and beer run. This version of Nathan, the one that completely dialed himself in, is not dealing with any major distractions this year, and that is one of the scariest things in body building, because when he's locked in like this, he's one of the few athletes who can actually beat anyone on any given night. So if they can figure out a way to get on stage between now and December, this could end up being one of the best performances of his career. It's hard to have a true consensus about anything in sports, especially one that's subjective like body building. But I think if you ask current athletes what the best Mr. Olympia look of all time was, that the majority of them would say 2300 Ronnie Coleman. So when Phil Heath is seven-time Olympia champ himself goes on record to say that he wants to shock the world in a way Ronnie did back in O3, that friends is what we call a bold statement. Look, I'm glad to see that Phil's confident, that's the way a former champion is supposed to think. But we're talking about O3 Ronnie here, which is a level that the greatest bodybuilder of all time could only hit. It's the unicorn of body building. Never seen before, probably won't ever be seen again, but Phil's one of the most talented athletes in history. So if anyone can get close, he's probably the man to get the job done. And that does it, yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. On Day Palombo and today we have a very exciting guest. He's an up and coming rising talent in the IFBB. He has his pro-ade use this year. We're going to talk to him a little bit about that and how he went. Man, I'm talking about his Patrick Moore. Yeah, I was on one day. I like the shirt and cream killer. Where did you get that? Man, from my man, Phil, he's man. You know, God, God quite a few of these shirts, man. So it's really cool to be with those guys and be able to have some cool clothes and training. Yeah, your friends are Phil. He's got a very small group of friends that he deals with. He doesn't really know everyone that type of thing. He's very guarded. How did you become friendly with him and how is that? That's going to. I know he's a bit of a mentor to you. Yeah, so I did a show back in 2014 and I wanted to overall. I'm going to have to chance to chat with him a little bit then. That was my first time actually meeting him in person. So of course, you know, I started bodybuilding because of him, you know, the former basketball player, Marker. So when I actually saw him in 2011 and I decided that, you know, okay, bodybuilding is pretty cool. You know, it's something that I could do. And I kind of have my site said, okay, I want to be Mr. Olympian. So I saw him in person. I saw him backstage and I was like, all right. So that I want to be that guy. So I had a chance to talk with him a little bit. And of course, it was super busy. He was guestballing in the show. So time went on. You know, obviously I kept up with him and you know, follow his career and stuff. And just shortly before the USA is last year, you know, I mentioned him a couple of times with social media and I actually came in contact with him and met him formally again, you know, in a better setting, more private setting this year, in the field he classished and Dallas. So we had dinner. You know, with him, there's lovely fiance. And I'm had a chance to really send down with him and get to know him as a person. You know, advice versus. And since then, man, I mean, it's really kind of surreal to go back and forth with him. You know, I'm the kind of guy, you know, because that's the guy that I realized when I started. So, you know, recently, you know, you picked me up with give to that ladies with the clothing. So it's cool, man. I mean, he's an amazing person. I mean, you know, he does have a small circle. But I mean, that guy is, you know, I don't know, you know, many people had no a small personally, but, you know, you really couldn't have a better mental at the end. You know, a lot of people, I think, I think Phil's a miss understood guy because, you know, I've sat down with him and talked him for like a couple of hours. It like shows and stuff like that where we were just kind of like alone. And I had a very, you know, I was very great. I had great talks with him and I thought he was a really cool guy and down to earth. And then, you know, his persona and the public the way he comes off, people think he's arrogant and that he's cocky. But, you know, I think it's really just confidence. Would you say that you have a different, a different, I guess understanding of who Phil is as opposed to what his persona is in the in social media? Oh, yeah. I mean, he, usually, I mean, it's, it's vastly different as in, you know, for him, you remember when he turned, I mean, I mean, I turned, probably, first one on Olympia 2011, you know, everyone. And that I could think of was pro-field. He, you know, so it's crazy that over the time, the years, that of course, if he's winning, you know, he's going to have a target under his back. So, you know, he's seven times champion now, you know, I'm pretty sure I'll go on and win a few more. But, you know, at some point, you know, I guess when, have people have said enough and I guess when you bite back, you know, and you start to rebuttal or, you know, say things and people can take that as arrogance. But I mean, if you're the best in the world, you're the best in the world. I mean, I don't really see that you can, you know, try and get off as being arrogant. I mean, he's really speaking to truth that if he's the best he's the best. But, you know, on the flip side of that, you know, talking to him personally, you don't get that arrogant, demeanor for him at all. I mean, he's done tremendous things that you a lot of stuff that people don't even know that he doesn't even, you know, advertise. You know, so he, he does a lot for the community. Obviously, I'm, I'm just getting started and this guy has the, you know, put it, we actually sat down and had an hour and a half on conversation. You know, he could have been on about his day during whatever and, you know, I'm, I'm new here. We're going to take that amount of time out and talk to me and, you know, to tell me, you know, the type, what I should be working towards, you know, what I can kind of expect if I want to be at that top level. I mean, I don't think he's arrogant at all. I mean, he's a phenomenal athlete and he proves that time and time again on and off stage. You, as his friend, you like to say to him, like someone's when he gets crazy and he starts addressing the social media guys, do you like to say, hey, Phil, what are you doing? Leave these guys. Oh, cares about these idiots. Yeah, they're going to a couple of times, you know, I've caught his comments and, you know, I'll come in on there and I just applaud him because, you know, the trolls are out man and, you know, they go on there and they say all the different things that they want to say and, you know, he gets attacked, you know, just crazy. I mean, I see the comments that go at him and, you know, he's become an expert at just, you know, using that to fuel himself to be better. I mean, that's, you know, it's unfortunate that people are like that. But I mean, you know, he, he's a great athlete and he told me himself, you know, you just got to expect that. It's going to come with you. Now, you turn pro at the USA in the super heavyweight class last year at 232 pounds. You're about 10 pounds heavier this year for your pro debut. New York was a bit of a disappointment in 13 place. I actually don't, you should have been higher. Kristen Seedon, I talked about this on our TV show and in the analysis that we thought you should have been a little higher. You came back to the town and you were a place there, which a lot of people also thought you could have been a little higher. But you, you know, you, you know, I think you finally made an impression on the judges. Everyone knows who you are now. With this, would you consider this as successful rookie season for you? Oh, yeah, absolutely. You know, for me, I, I, I tend to not try to judge success, not only just my placing, but how I come into the show. And, you know, working with Kristen Seedon, I mean, the difference was, you know, was like for one in 10. I mean, my condition and was great, you know, I had, I was more fluent in California. So, you know, I definitely appeared harder there. But I mean, in both shrooms, I thought they were tremendous. I come to the show that I wanted to accomplish. I mean, it was really me kind of going in. I knew it was deep orders at the New York pro. I mean, I didn't not want to choose, you know, a, I guess you could say an easier show, not the New York pro show. It's easy. But I knew the talent that was going to the New York pro. And I wanted to go in and line up with those guys. Like, hey, I'm here now. So, and I'm only going to get better. So, would you, would you just support the New York? Because, you know, like I said, a lot of people thought you should have been higher. You can understand what was really good there. Was that when you walked away from the stage, would you like to jack that a little bit? Yeah, I was. I mean, because, you know, you go there and of course, you're hoping for a top spot, you know, a first call out. And when that didn't happen, then the second call out went by, I was like, okay, it's, it's come on now. Let me get out there. And when it finally got my chance and I went out there, I have to, you know, of course, this play a certain level of professionalism. So, I was going to let the disappointment show through one stage. But, you know, for me, it's not a familiar territory because, you know, I did them, my aminationals. That was my first attempt to turn the pro and actually play 16th of that show. Wow. So, what happened there? You know, I didn't know what bodybuilding in jail. You know, so what I had a little more experience. And I learned from the guys that have done it. And I actually applied myself, you know, a harder than I came back and I got first place. So, for me, that 13th place is just like, okay, cool, no biggie because, wait till I come back, you know. So, how long you even competing now? This is, I'm in my fifth year. I'm full of years. Yeah. So, I'm still pretty new. It's been, you know, this was my first prep. Actually, you know, the last prep of the USA is, you know, me really trying to, you know, give it 100% and, you know, because I didn't have Chris with me at the last prep for the USA. So, I really learned what it was to be a bodybuilding and actually prep hard, you know, for my pro debut. So, it's, you know, it's, I love it. I mean, I guess it's only been a short amount of time, but I plan to be here for a long time. What, what's your relationship, I know you were in a little brother, you know, sure. I know you and Hunter LeBrauto and LeBrauto son, our friends, how did that relationship come about? Is that because you're in the Houston area? Yeah. So, funny story with that, I actually saw Lee before I even, bodybuilding was even a thought because I was boxing then. And, uh, someone that told me that we're having a contest and, search for athletes, that was a good long, you know, probably 2007. Okay. So, I know who Lee was, you know, four before I started competing. And so what happened was, I was a dinner manager at LA Fitness down here in Houston. And Hunter will come in and train from time to time. Of course, you know, I knew him we introduced, you know, we met. And he, he did his thing and I did my thing at several times. And in 2015, after that, things, I could say, we left the nationals on the do so well. Once, I, I stepped out stage, you know, Lee and Hunter were there. Of course, they were supporting us, Sergio. Right. And, Sergio turned pro. And so that's when I formally met Lee. And then coming back home, the Houston, you know, they extended his sponsorship. And I started training with Hunter, you know, he was doing his first show at the time. And so we kind of, you know, just kind of became training partners. You know, whenever we can connect, you know, from then. And Lee has just been awesome. I mean, he's there for whatever I need him, you know, anytime I can pick up the phone and call him. Ask him for some advice. And, you know, like I said, me, sponsored by his company. You know, I have access to some great self-imits and stuff like that. So it's, it's really like they had a part of a family with those guys. Yeah, that's great. That you had that relationship with them and that you're right in town with them. So it makes you kind of like the perfect, the perfect matchup. I talked to me a little bit about, you know, as a bodybuilder, we know it's very expensive to compete. I know you have a little bit of a sponsorship with those guys. But obviously you work, you're at raw gym right there. We can see it in the background a little silent and walk. What do you do there? And, and how have you parlaid body building into making yourself more money? So yeah, here I choose a personal training. And I started that, you know, before I was really 100% going with the body building thing. So it's, yeah, it can be expensive, you know, with the food and the substance stuff like that. But, you know, I have managed to land a pretty good clientele. So where, you know, when I go and compete and if I can tear myself in good shape, you're around, which I do because of body building, I make it pretty easy to mark it myself as an excellent personal trainer. So I haven't had that big, you know, sponsorship, they'll come through yet where I can just eat, sleep, and try it, but you know, I'm sure it'll come, you know, at some point. Yeah, sometimes it's better that you're actually doing something because sometimes when you we don't do anything, you sometimes waste time. So it's kind of good that you're busy, keeps you, you know, focus. I think, especially earlier in the career. Yeah. Moving forward, looking forward into the future at this point. What's the next mark? I know right now you're trying to grow, put on more size, especially on the legs. What's the, you figured out a game plan for 2019? So I'll be going back and forth to Prince Heo shortly, but I definitely will be returned to that near your first stage because I'm not a guy that lets something like that go by so easily and, you know, not go back to finish what I started because that's kind of unfinished business. You know, for me, if I said a goal and I didn't have a problem to it, I will be back. So possibly maybe the indie pro where I showed earlier next year, but I will take this you know, time because that's the thing is, you know, with boxing, there was never any focus on, you know, we didn't focus when we strengthened. There wasn't any focus on growing the legs. I mean, you can't boxing by the other the same time. So when I started by the building, I had to let that go. And so the next one, the one thing that had to come up. So I can, you know, say with confidence that, you know, I do respond to the strength of trying to very well. So I have been able to improve, show the show and get more and more sides on my leg. So that's the focus as it was from, you know, the USA's to my pro debut and they improved a lot. And so they'll definitely improve a lot more with having Chris, you know, kind of guy me going, it's the next season. How far did you go in boxing, you mean, how good were you and why did you say, hey, you know what, I don't want to do this anymore? It's, you know, it's a long road. I mean, it's definitely one of those deals where you can be very good, which I was and you're going to only go as far as I guess your promotional team can kind of carry. Because it's kind of like, you know, it's, it's in that aspect, you know, kind of like what bodybuilding, if you come from, you know, maybe a well known last name or maybe a well known training camp or something, you're going to get kind of that immediate attention. And then everyone want to pull you up in the ranks. And for boxing, I mean, there's so many guys in the amateur ranks that it takes a while to kind of climb up and, you know, you may have 20, 30, you know, pro fights before you even have halfway decent, you know, fading. Right. And I mean, it's very, you know, it's talking to somebody just like bodybuilding. But, you know, it's, it was an easy transition in the bodybuilding because it is one of those sports where you are only going to get out of it, what you put into it, you know, nothing more than that. Did you like boxing? Oh, yeah, I mean, it's, you know, it's, it's, I love it because it was a chess match. You know, it's, it's not one of those things where you can just go in there. And I was the biggest, I was, you know, I was at the top of my way class, you know, in heavyweight, you know, I boxed at 202. So it was, I can never just, you can't just go in there, you know, crazy. You have to have a game plan. Right. And it was not only, you had to overcome the other guy physically, but mentally as well. So it was cool to get in there with guys that were trained as much as I was and, you know, you were just taught to go in there and take the other guy out and then get back to work. So I, I love it. I mean, if I could still do it now, would, but, you know, physically, that would be a stretch. No, I can't imagine what, what was your record? Oh, it was, um, man, I had out of 100, 100 fights, um, 10 losses. Oh, okay. Now, as far as boxing goes, did you have aspirations of going to the Olympics or doing anything like that? Or was it just like, I'm going to get into the pros and I'm just trying to make some money? Yeah, no, it was definitely something I don't want it to go to the Olympics, because, you know, guys that tend to go to the Olympics and do well to the course you're fighting with other countries, you know, coming out of that, um, that, that you're going to get some best of the best. So it's kind of like, if you go to the Olympics, it's kind of like going to a national body doing competition, it's like, you get to see some of the best guys and then you go to the next level. So I didn't want to just jump that, because once you have 10 fights, you know, in boxing, you can go to the front. I mean, and you can have those 10 fights anywhere. So it was definitely I wanted to go and, you know, be one of those guys that got on the history that earns a gold or silver medal or would have you and then go into the front right, you know, with that. Right. You know, it's, it's tough when you go to two sports after pick one of the other, but like you said, they're really not, you can't do both at the same time. It's impossible. So no, I have to believe the bodybuilding was more in your blood than maybe boxing. Yeah, it, it, it was the one thing after, um, you know, coming from the only boxing it was like, you know, you had to put everything in the bodybuilding and it was the, the eating was different. The training was different. So I had to make a choice and I just love being in the gym. And I mean, from the time I was 17 years old, I just like to live weight. So I, you know, eventually I was just like, all right, I'm going to hang up the gloves and, you know, and I'm just going to go for what I feel like I can, you know, move up, you know, and, and that's what happened. I moved up and bodybuilding faster than I was moving up, you know, in boxing. So it was an easy choice at the end of the day. I just kind of follow what I love. Yeah, smart. Now I understand also that you have been in a, and one of the few people that I know in the bodybuilding world who's had a relationship with their high school sweetheart, the whole life. Is that, is that, is that tough in the bodybuilding world? Have you know, the view or is it, is it easier because it gives you stability? Yeah, um, if you're mentally strong, it's, it's easier. I can't say it's, it's easy, but um, it's definitely tough. Um, I've been with our team going on 10 years and, um, you know, because it's, she has whatever I go through, she has to go through them. So if, you know, if I'm on prep, even though she doesn't have to eat the food or do whatever, you know, we're still limited in what we can do. There's there's no going out to restaurants and often there's not, you know, traveling is a little bit limited. So, um, and then of course, I drag around everywhere I go. So, if there's an ex-hole or so, you know, she's going and she's, most of the time she's willing to go and, and other times, you know, she's tired, and she's not afforded, and I just go do what I have to do and come back. But um, it can be taxing because when I'm frustrated on hungry, you know, sometimes the other person, she won't understand that. You know, and, and she can take that as me having a problem with her, right, or if there's anything with the relationship and that's just not the case. You just have to be open and communicate with the person that, hey, you know, this is just what I have to do for right now. This is some time that I need to commit to myself, you know, and ultimately it'll be better meant for us. So, if you can do that at other person is, you know, it helps when they have something going on, she's the therapist. So, you know, she did old school of being, and got her master than whatnot. So, um, whenever I get start acting crazy, then she's going to realize you're, and that's what you know, and that's what you know, and that's what you know, yeah. You know, it's funny, bodybuilding. When you're in the bodybuilding world, especially the pro bodybuilding world, you see more countries and more great places than you can ever have imagined in your life. But the only part of it you see is usually the hotel room in the airport and I have a board to it. Yep. That's it. I'd make the more countries. I can't even remember what I saw because most of it was nothing. It was just, it was a bodybuilding arena. But having said that, you know, like I said, I think bodybuilding does afford people a lot of different opportunities to go abroad to meet international people, and sometimes they connections that are, they're invaluable. But, you know, Patrick, I wanted to showcase you here today on the show because I think you're a great rising young talent. Chris Cito speaks very highly of you. Of course, and we thought you both him and I thought you both should place a little higher. You should place both at higher, both of those shows. So once again, he Congratulations on a successful rookie season and good luck in 2019. All right. Thank you so much. Dave, I appreciate it, man. All right. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition. Visit species nutrition.com. On Dave, we'll see you next time.

All right, PJ. So we're here at the Wimpya. We have no shirts on. We're drinking vodka. We bought a file for $100. This is the last shot. It was a very small bottle. We'll show it after. Pour a pour of Jewish business, fine. I do feel a little bit sad that I spent $40 on a bottle that last two pretty sizes. That's a large amount. It's going to be disgusting PJ, but I think we can do it. We've got to start this week and off right. This is how we do Wednesday night in Vegas, right? Ready? Let's do it. You nervous? Oh, okay. Cheers. That was pretty good, right? Should we have a shower? Let's get a shower.

PJ Braun here for rxmuscle.com. I am here at the Branch Warren Classic. I made the trip all the way from Connecticut to Texas to see one man and one man only our own Aaron Drew Bacca, Stingerman, Aaron. You just got done doing your first ever men's physique competition or men's bikini as I like to call it. And we all thought you looked fantastic. You didn't place in the top five. Tell us how you feel. Honestly, I'm a little disappointed but I understand. You know, the guys that they picked were much smaller than me. You know, like you said in back there, they were looking at me like the, and then you look at like a huge super heavyweight backstage kind of like intimidated. And that's probably not the best thing, you know, to look for in men's physique. So I'm not that surprised. And I'm a little disappointed, but I'm also, you know, okay. Well, Aaron was probably, I would say 20 to 25 pounds larger than the next biggest competitor in the class. That being said, he did bring in a very impressive level of conditioning. He was probably better conditioned now in his men's physique competition than he wasn't his bodybuilding show last year, which brings me to an important question that I've been feeling all day. Since you are pretty much a monster, a mass monster in men's physique, do you train harder and go back to bodybuilding or do you strip some size off to stay competitive in men's physique? I definitely don't go back to bodybuilding, obviously. And the main reason is because my legs, if I had bigger legs, then yeah, it'd be very tempted to go and do bodybuilding again. But what I'm going to do, I think, I don't know yet, but I think what I'll do is I'll hopefully wait and men's physique guys will continue to grow a little bit. And maybe next year, the physique division will move up a little bit as far as the size that they're looking for in competitors. And I'll try my hand again next year at the same either this show or maybe their honey, comb and maybe wherever, you know, maybe in national, hopefully, qualifies somewhere into a national level show. Steve Cook who won his bro card in Chicago, in Chicago, in Chicago, out of your nationals, he's a little short of the me and he was 210 on stage. So I guess if I paired it down a little bit, you know, maybe that would be, that's what they're looking for. I don't know. It was fun and that's the important thing. Well, we all know he was using the Iron Mag lab supplements. You're like a huge doing doing my, my, plugging form. Well, I was going to get inside. We've all watched his Cardio confessional. I'm assuming that you're going to want to talk about that a little bit. Anything else you want to talk about? Anybody that helped you? Any really like special people that it may be been in your life for like 16, 17 days now that you want to bring in to this. I'll bring Daria in in one second. Daria again's my girlfriend, but what I want to talk about first is Iron Mag Labs and Tadadi coach. Two people that were intrinsic in this, there were required in this transformation. And Robert Demasio, who owns Iron Mag Labs, has sponsored my transformation, has made me a national spokesperson for their company. And I've been very happy with the results. If people look at my transformation from before, there's three main factors. Why I didn't do good in bodybuilding before and why I did well in men's physique or the transformation at least has been impressive. One is the supplements that Iron Mag Labs provides, which are as you know, they're really good. They work. Two is Tadadi coach who's helped me with this whole thing. And three is eating whole foods. Don't try to eat out. If you're dieting, don't try to eat out a lot. You got to cook your food. Well, he did make a quite the transition last year. I mean, he ate horribly last year. He was on a kick to try to prove that you could eat terrible food and look good. I was trying to be good, but I was low quality protein. That's for sure. No, it was pretty much terrible food. Lots of fast food. In this year, he prepared lots of his food himself. He ate real whole food choices. He ate very clean for probably 99% of his diet. Versus 25% I would say last year. It paid off in his physique. I think we should probably bring Darryl in before we keep on bragging us on. I would like to bring her in. She's got my glasses on. So Darryl, you are a bikini competitor. And you are now dating a men's physique competitor, very similar lifestyle. What was it like going through this like grueling process? It was like of like 12 days. It was a tough day. It was 12 days in my life. It was I couldn't have it. No, I know. It was it was really nice being able to be there for him. Because he was there for me. I'll turn my competitions in the short time that we've been together. So it was a nice return the favor and watch him go through the torture that I went through. Do you have any stories that we may want to know about? Maybe him like not like perhaps questioning his abilities and mental zeic like not getting his poses down at night. Were you like you know pep talked him or anything like that? It was more of the once every five minute abshot of. Are they still there? Not surprised by that at all. I know a lot of questioning but I knew he would pull through and make first call out. That's good. I was very happy with that. There are 28 people in the class and the fact that I was in the top eight. Yeah, I was better than 20 of them. Hey, that's pretty good. Very good. Very good. First call out. That's a victory. Your first show you got a first call out. You beat half the guys. Yeah, you beat more than 70 percent. You beat a little credit. What was it? In all reality from from here down he blew everybody away. But the boss does not like very long interviews. So is there anything else that you want to say before we wrap this up? I just want to thank both of you especially you for coming to support me. And it's been an absolute pleasure. I just want to thank you for coming. And it's been a fun journey. And when we are in other, you know, I'm going to figure out the next step in this process and you'll be the first one to know. We're going to do bikini together. Yeah. Absolutely. If they bring next pair's back, I think that it's something for you guys to think about for the future. And all seriousness, I'm very proud of you. You died at hard. You trained hard. You impressed a lot of people by how you looked. Thank you. So for rxmuscle.com. They're in Sirgerman, Darryl Gaines, P.J. Ron, signing out.

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. Today's guest is Good Friend of mine, Client and all around good guy and new IFVV Pro. Mind you, Nick Lopano. Welcome. Thank you. How are you? Nick, what you had a checklist. You told me of things you wanted to accomplish this year. Well, actually, in bodybuilding in general, and you did them all this past week. And the first one was to turn pro in the IFVV, which he did. We'll talk about that in a minute. Second was to get interviewed by me on our Ex muscle, which we're doing right now. And the third was to sign the wall at the month in area of brother's super gym up there and Connecticut, the IFVV Pro wall, and you're going to get to do that too, obviously. That's right. I knocked out three, three Michaels in one weekend. That's pretty awesome. It's a knock-on. Now, you know, it's funny because you have an interesting bodybuilding career, because you started back when I did in the 90s. And then you kind of just stopped. Tell us first, or tell us how you got into it in the 90s and where you competed. Well, I did one of the IPC shows back then. And back then, when we started, and I would time a bodybuilding, back then it was the old timers. Everyone's walking around with the baggy pants that people looked like they threw paint on it. Back then, the bodybuilders didn't want to be bothered. So I would go up to them and ask questions and then I go, do this, do this, leave me a little kid, and stuff like that. So I wind up getting the baggy as you eat, reading about it, and back then it was like flexed wheeler. It was like, Richie can spare, and all those guys, and I couldn't wait to watch it to the stands. And then, finally, I'm like, you know what, I could do this. I'm going to try it. So I did it. I didn't do well back then. But, you know, I enjoyed it. I always worked out, I always played sports. And then, you know, I went into the military, set the fight, I went into the military. You're captain in the Marines. That's pretty impressive. And then, yeah, and then everything winded up, just take it off, like life itself, and it tells you, like, that's how fast life goes. And next to, you know, I have a Korean law enforcement, a Korean military. I'm juggling this. I have a son. I got married. It was a lot of things. And next to, you know, it's like almost 20 years. But I'm like, wow. And then, classic physique came out a few years ago. And I was like, I liked that. I mean, that's the era that I was really brought up. Like that Richie's fairie, the Bob Paris, the Leath Brought it. That was like classic physique for me. Sure. And I wind up doing it. And I wind up joining the first show. I took first the masters. And I started windin' all these shows, coming in second place, and getting nationally qualified six times. And then I did the National's Leash here for the first time, I did the universe. And I've experienced fifth. Let me take a step back, because in 1992, the early 1990s, you did enter the military into the Marines. Did you go in there because you were a bad kid or like, what made you decide you want to go to the Marines? So, you know what? Like, um, I don't know, back then, in the high school, I was just, I went to a Catholic high school in the Bronx. It was all boys. And back then, my cousin, he joined the Marines, and I looked up to him. And I'm like, you know what? What am I going to do? I'll do it. Let me try it. And I just wind up doing it. That's just something I do. Whenever I put my mind to it, it's done. I get it done. No matter what. Now, when you, uh, in any kind of, did you say any action? Because that was around the time that we were bush was in the first bush was, uh, invading Iraq there, right? Yeah, I did, I did see anything. I caught that. I caught everything afterwards. But, um, then after that, it was, I did three deployments. I did three deployments. It's totally right. It won an Afghanistan. Wow. 2000 and two, 2000 and four, the end of 2005 until like 2006. Was that pretty scary? I don't know if there was. It was. It was. It was. And, um, you know, I'm just glad. I lost, I lost, you know, friends. I lost people that I loved. But, um, I'm just happy to be here, you know, and it's kind of funny because every show that I would do or if I'm in the gym and I'm like, try to push myself. I would always think back of like, to people who I lost and try to dedicate something to them to get me through it. It'd always happen. It always worked. Isn't it always amazing when you're really hungry and you're, and you're dieting and you see these guys like cheating on their diet and you're saying to yourself, like, I was out there in Afghanistan with no food, with nothing, you know, with crap, you know, living in the worst conditions, content's dieting is like a fucking piece of cake in France of that. All right. I'll pull it out these M.R.E.s, like it's nothing. It's like eating cardboard and then, you know, people complain it to me all of this diet prep, but I'm like, or it's hot, but this, I'm like, dude, I was in a 130, 140 degree weather, like, like, stuff on a rooftop in fullusion, not even shit and being paid down for like a week, you know, it's nothing, you know, what if, you know, I still rather take this weather, you know, over anything else. Right. Well, you know, it's funny because when you put it in perspective like that, it almost seems laughable, but you know, people complain about, oh, I got to eat, I can only eat six times a day and I have to do cardio, I guess what, some people don't have the luxury doing anything like that. So, yeah, it's that's put in perspective. Now, when you, when you got out of the military, you know, at least, you know, doing your tours of duty and you kind of went into the reserve, was the law enforcement transition pretty seamless few, is that something you liked, wanted to do, or did we just so qualified to do, you know? Um, yeah, so it's funny how I became a cop. It was a good friend of mine. He was, he was, so I came out of active activity and I was still like working with, like, with dad and stuff, it's just trying to still figure stuff out. I was still in the reserve at the time and my friends like, hey, let's take the police test and I'm like, all right, why not? And that's another thing. So, I just find the doing it and then like 20 years later, I'm still doing it and I love what I do. I'm glad I took it. It was one of the best things they have have done. What was that like, one of the craziest, like, arrest you ever had? Um, just I was like in a plain clothes, they had the soap Bronx when I was with the NYPD. And it was just like strictly guns and, you know, work it by a gay, gay stadiums like one of the worst creases of the four, four priests and back then. And it was just, it was good. It was a lot of good guys I worked with, the whole the cops, the solid guys and I would just wish the times were like that again. But this is time's changing, you know, so you got to accept that and move on with it. So what would you do? You're doing the cover gunbies and something like that? Well, yeah, we just drive around and, you know, going to the, and to the areas that would be targeted for like burglaries and crime drugs. And then we would just basically, you know, look around and see who's around and get, you know, the individuals, because you're working in a, you're working in a precinct where, like, that precinct was like two square miles, but it was one of the busiest precincts in the five burrows. That's brilliant. So, you know, we, you're doing like 300, 400 radio runs a year. A couple of two square miles. So you kind of know like who the people off, who the players are and everything. So they're like, like, street, what flies before. So you know, you know, every character in the neighborhood pretty much, what's inside? No, yeah, like if I know if I see this guy and he got locked up five times already for gun possession, he's still out on the street. Yeah. That had a time. He, nine out of ten, he's going to have something off. Right. Right. So it was kind of easy. It was kind of easy. Is it scary being a cop in that type of environment, especially in the bronze there, or is it kind of like to become numb to it after well? You know what it is? I guess like we have a special calling for things. I never really got scared. I never had the time. You don't have time to get scared because your life is on the line as well. Right. I mean, we have one tenth of a second to make a decision to where it can either like take someone's life, take our life, ruin somebody's life. You know, you don't have time to think like that. It's just a quick jump and it's based off reaction. And based off of your training. And I got training a lot. You know, I did a lot of training. So you know, that was reduced. Did your military training help you a lot with the big and cop? Um, yes and no. Yes and no. I mean, it actually, the cop stuff helped me when I was out when I was deployed. I don't know. That's like looking at people and you know, something that you're rising the area is where I was and everything. So that worked. That worked. I mean, you waited basically, you know, almost like over 20 years to get back to the body building, you know. And you see in 2016, you say, hey, this is new division classic physique, who can convince you to start competing? Someone obviously got interested in it. So my sister, my sister Susan, she was a, a piqueddy pro and she's a nutritionist. And she's on to, and she's like, hey, this is new classic physique going on, you know, a bodybuilder. And at the time, you know, I was going through some hard stuff like in my personal life. And I'm like, yeah, I don't know. She's like, no, no, you got to check it out. So I went online, I'm looking at the pictures and I'm like, wow, this is pretty cool. So she actually did my first prep for me for a, I did a mountain every show. Right. And I'm going to a place of first. And, um, yes, she got me going. She got me going. She's the one who'll get the fire. It's an amazing thing about, you know, you rekindled your body building career over 40 years of age. I'm sure people thought you were crazy. And now you're, you're laughing. We didn't team the universe together. You, you placed second there, just missed the pro card. You actually lost to your best one of your best friends. How did that feel? You know what? So I'm on stage. It's, it's my friend Joe told me he just won his IFBB a couple weeks ago. And we're on stage. And it was, it was so close. I mean, they moved me towards the middle and they moved everybody else around me. Yeah. And then they were like, thank you. And I'm like, that's great. He's dated for me. Everybody else got moved. Right. So they had the nighttime. They were like, second place. And then they called me out. And I was like, kind of stunned for a minute. I just stood there frozen. And I'm like, what? And then, but you know what? If he, he deserved it. He breaks his ass. I mean, he's in the day and day out. He's a police officer too. Oh, yes, I didn't know that. Okay. That's funny. He was in the military too. And he, he transges his heart. We both trained hard. I trained within a million times. He's a great guy. And I was actually so happy that he got it. So it wasn't that bad. If he was anybody else, I would have, I would have flip tables. But, you know. He did good. I was proud of him. And then he, he backstage, you know, he's like, you got to do Pittsburgh. And a couple of the other judges grabbed me. And they were like, you have to go to Pittsburgh. It was by one point. Right. I mean, I looked at the official scorecard. He had seven. I had eight. And then everybody else behind us was like 15 to 20. So we were right there. And the funny thing is, you were asking me, should I do it? You were almost back in that of it. I remember one point. I was like, are you nuts? I was so in my head. And I was so angry. That's what I'm texting you on my pitch. I do it. And you have like, calm down. You get to do it. I was like, all right, I'm going to do it. I'm going to listen to you. I'm going to get out of my head. And that's the problem. You know, like, I tell a lot of people, because a lot of people come up to me, and now congratulate me. And I like what is it? I'm like the most important thing you could do is you have to surround yourself with positive people. People who can push you, because listen, we all get into our heads. It's the sport. It's the sport. You could look at yourself and say, I look too small. Or I look too big. I might diss, am I this? And you get into your head. But you need that positive circle of people that actually pull you and help you with things. Sure. You know, it's funny because then speaking of listening to people, then we say, okay, we're going to do Masters Nationals. Now, you have this cockamame idea that I am only bringing up because I got it because I always tell people when you compete, make your life as simple as possible. I know. You know, I used to go to shows we would wait for the shuttle buses to take us to the hotels and these, these farms. I'm like, after I did that once, never again. I always jumped in a cab myself, paid for it. I didn't care because you don't want to feed stress out right before I show up. So Nick got this idea, hey, you know what? I'm going to, I'm not competing until Friday, but I'll go and fly to Pittsburgh on Tuesday and weigh in to get it out of the way. I'll fly there and fly back and then I'll drive back from New York to Pittsburgh, which is eight hours, by the way. On Thursday and I'll compete on Friday. I said, you're ready, you're freaking mine. You're like, no, no, it's not going to be so big. So tell what happened. So I was at it, my mind. So what I wanted to do was see a lot of guys that they would display, as you know, people, I mean, we have our timing right, you and I, we know our timing, we know what to fill out and everything like that. And I wind it up. I, I would have told you I said, Dave, I'm going to fly out on Tuesday to 55 minutes flight from Maguario. I'm going to jump on the scale. I'm going to come back. I'm going to fill out and we're driving out the Thursday and that's it. We're wrecking shit on Friday. And you're like, are you ready to mine? You're like, no way. And I'm like, no, Dave, it's going to work. Trust me, trust me. And you're like, all right, whatever, do what you guys do. So sure enough, I get to look water, and what is like big monsoon coming down. I'm just up on the top, I'm at from 10.45, not eating anything to four o'clock. And that's what I was like, you're right, Dave. We're going to Thursday, we're going to fill it up. We'll lean it up Thursday. And then that's it, you know. So we had to go all the way back home. And he had to eat all day because he thought he was going to try to make way on Tuesday, luckily, you know, we still had it. It was early enough for the week that it didn't matter. Probably got him hard because he burned the little fat. You started eating again. And then we just did it the right way on Thursday. But yeah. So the moral of the story is, don't make your life complicated right before a show. Oh, don't. And then, you know, because I trained, I trained with Marco Rivera. Right. So Marco Rivera is my trainer. And he told me the same thing. He's like, no way. I'm like, God, you guys don't know what you're talking about. There you go. You do it all. Good. So he's like, how was the trip? I said, this is Wednesday. I'm like, I didn't know. He goes, what do you need to go? I said, no, it was all the fights of canceled. And he was like, dude, he goes, welcome to the world, a pro bodybuilding. He's like, we, he goes, he goes, he goes, this before I got my card. But he was like, basically, he goes, listen, your pro. He goes, basically, we're like, less minute things. And you don't want to stress the body out. It's just, it is what it is. He's like, when he went out to the Olympia, he flew in at 10 o'clock, that making him way in. He was like, I was out of play for five hours. There. Jump on the scale. So he told me, too. He goes, you have to make things very less stress to on the body. And now I will. Now put it listen to you guys. There's no such thing as getting in and out of an airport quickly, especially in New York airport. That's for sure. I know, especially the audience. All right, now you know your dream has always been to step on that New York pro stage. And that's pretty much the plan for 2019 to make your pro debut in New York. Why is that important to you? Well, you know what it is. They move to venue, not to what's just the county. Right. And it's good, because now my son could be there. He don't have to travel. I don't have to worry. All my family and friends are there. And New York pro is a big show. I mean, listen, this top athlete from the world that come into these shows to try to make it to the Olympia. And you know, for even for me, just to say, hey, I jumped on the New York pro stage. And then maybe take off another year, a plan something with you. And then you know, just put it on some mess and then come in with something else. I mean, I'm ready to rock a roll. You know, I'm ready. You should have just done Tampa this past weekend. This is an, I should say next week, because get it out of your system ready. I know. I know. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Don't get any ideas in your head. Relax. You just want your pro card earned. I always say enjoy the spoils of your victory. You know? Yeah. And you know what? I still like they interviewed me. I've been interviewing Pittsburgh. And they were like, how do you think about the show? And I was just like, the show was well organized and stuff like that. And I said, you know what? If I had to do another national show, I would be Pittsburgh. I mean, it was well read. I mean, all the national shows are well read. But this one was a little bit different from the other ones. And you know, they heard me. I think it was, I don't know if it was, it was somebody from the I of B.B. But they heard me and they came up to me. Because I said in the interview, I'm like, you know what? If I have to do this next year, I'm like, wait a minute. I'm an I of B.B. pro. I'm just, I'll come back next year. And I'll say, kids would everybody and hang out with people. So the guys like, so the person's like, that's what we want in the I of B.B. We need people to be an ambassador to the sport. Right. Right. Right. Like, you know, if you set that without even, but you know, I love people. I love hanging out. I love helping people, you know. The next is Nationals Nick is a great show. And if people haven't gone, I'll tell you why. Because it's, it's, yeah, this is the team and collegiate guys there. But they're very far and free to be seen. It's the, oh, it's mostly guys over the age of 35. It's a different mindset. It's the guys that started usually a lot of these guys in the, in the 90s. They have a lot of respect for each other. No one's like got a big ego there. Most people just, they just, they're happy. They're competing. It's a good atmosphere. It's fun. It doesn't seem competitive at all. It seems very relaxed whenever I've gone there in the past. I enjoy that show. It's, to me, it's too long now. But that's a good thing. But it's, it's, it's, it is a long weekend. But I always enjoy the show because everyone was very thankful to be there and people kind of had, you know, jobs are ready. It wasn't just a bunch of young guys who didn't know what they wanted to do with the rest of the life. These were people that were established to ready, who just loved competing, you know? It's, yeah, it's just like, yeah, exactly right. I mean, listen, I love this sport. I love bodybuilding. I love it, you know, but at, you know, my first profession is I'm a police officer. You know, so that comes first. But I love this sport. But you're exactly right. It's so relaxed when everybody being older. And you know what? It's a lot tough for this show because my flesh, everybody has muscle maturity. We're on the same boat. It's not like I'm going to get up some tin in the open. Who's like, holy shit, how do I, how do I feel out like that? You know, after you turn 35 baby. Yeah. You know, so it was, it was a tough show. I was behind stage. And I, I was impressed with all the athletes out there. I mean, even the guys, even the older guys, like, I can't believe some of the guys that are like in the 60s, you know, even even Larry, like out front Larry, the competing place second. And Larry's physique is unbelievable for 60 years old. I see. Yeah, I told Larry, so Larry, everyone else looked like they might have been in their 60s. You actually look like you're in your 40s, because he doesn't, he looked very young. And I remember about 15 years ago when I helped my good friend Charlie arms, he won one of the first 60 and over. I guess he won twice there. And that's when they first started giving the pro-cards in the 60. And there was three guys in the 60 and over the whole class. Now it's like, they got weight classes. They got like probably 50 guys in 60 and over in their wall. Amazing, you know? Yeah, I think there was three or four classes in the over 60. And I was impressed. I was impressed. Yeah. I couldn't believe it. But like you said, you know, these guys who's been doing it for so long, and they just love the sport. And, you know, are they going to get something with it? You know, no, but they do it for the love of the sport. Yeah. And to say that you're an IFBB pro now, that's a prestigious thing. Sure. You know, break your rest of the gym day to day out. I mean, I gave a solid, full, included Pittsburgh almost 20 weeks of, of what's what in tears. You did a very proud of you, Nick, and congratulations on the huge win. And check that bucket list off and we'll be hitting the stage as a pro next year at the New York pro. So any final words you want to give out there? Any thanks. You want to say anyone? I just want to thank everybody who's been behind me. And also, I want to thank the people who were against me because without you guys, you know, I got to thank you guys as well. I have to. Because, you know, you give me the push. That's what happens. Well, words, wise words, well said, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode. The live with brought to you by species nutrition. Visit species nutrition.com. On day polo, we'll see you next time.

They belong to this species spotlight. Today we're going to talk about post-workout nutrition. So that everyone is consumed and obsessed with. And you know why? Because it's important. And we know post-workout. We want to do two things. We want to get protein into that muscle cells. And we want to get carbs in there. And the protein is important because it rebuilds muscle tissues. The carbs are important to regulate those muscles. Let's talk about what happens. Number one, you take an protein supplement. Right? This speed with which it gets into the bloodstream gets digested into the bloodstream. And just as the muscle cell is going to be the most important factor. Okay, why? Because we want those amino acids specifically loosened to go into the nucleus in the muscle cell and turn on something known as emitor. Emitor is the protein machinery. It's like the switch in the factory that makes things start to work. And when you turn on emitor, now the body starts preparing muscle tissue. Now we need to feed more protein into the system, which is exactly what a good quality 100% weight protein isolate is going to accomplish. We want a protein supplement that has nothing in it. Nothing that's going to confuse. Nothing that's going to stall or delay the absorption. Isolize is my number one selling product. There's a reason why it is. Because it's a 100% weight protein isolate. It's the purest one on the market. It's got 27.5 grams of protein per serving. And that is the highest yield in any other protein product out there on the market. There's a reason for that. I'll tell you why. Because I want the best. I don't want anyone to use anything less than the best. And I don't spare any expense. So I went out and procured the highest quality weight isolate with the least amount of what we like to call contaminants in there. Why should the stuff enters the muscle cells effortlessly? They digest effortlessly. And that's exactly what I utilize it does. However, that's only one part of the equation. Another part of the recovery processes replacing the glycogen that's inside the muscle cells. glycogen is basically stored glucose. It's stored sugar. That's the fuel source that the muscles use when you weight train. When you work out with high intensity activity, you use glucose as a fuel source. So when you're training in the gym and doing your work, that's your exhausting. The glycogen stores inside the muscle cells. Almost like the gas in the tank of your car. So we want to replace that. But we need to replace it with something that's easily absorbed. So we resort to using what we call a high molecular weight carbohydrate. Why? Because they're absorbed quicker from the stomach than sugar is. They don't cause stomach distress. And they pull, they pull, they have a pulling effect. They draw nutrients into the muscle cells, which is exactly what we want to post work out. So when you take a brood to quality weight protein isolate with a high molecular weight carbohydrate, like carbohydrates, okay? You're going to draw all the good stuff into the muscle cells and you're going to really speed up recovery. And that's what we want. We want to speed recovery. Carbolize is a high molecular weight amulopactin and that when you mix in water, okay? It basically dissolves and it goes right into your cells. And it doesn't cause that bloating to get when you take in high amounts of sugar. Back in the past we used to have to use grape juice. We used, you know, dextrose. And everyone had the same complaints to my stomach, my stomach feels terrible. Why? Because the stuff which is laying in there, high molecular weight carbohydrates entered the cells and entered the bloodstream very quickly. So when you combine a high quality weight protein isolate with a high molecular weight carbohydrate, which is exactly what carbohydrates and islizes, you get that bang bang effect of increasing the speed of recovery and muscle rebuilding. That's what we want. The people ask me, what do you make a shake like an MRE or a meal replacement shake that you just put it all together? So we don't have the thing. Well, here's the problem. Not everyone needs the same amount of protein in the same amount of carbs. I can't create 16 different ratio products because I would have 2800 skews. So what I did was I created two grape products. You're by both, you use what you want. Back in the day I would use two scoops of isolate, which would be 55 grams of protein. Now we do one or two scoops of carbohydrates, which would be 40 to 80 grams of carbs, depending on how much I was needing at the time. And that's exactly what you guys can do if you're a woman, if you're a man, if you're old, if you're young, you can customize your postwork adchick according to what you're protein and what your carbohydrate requirements are. Not everyone wants a lot of carbs. Maybe people only want 20 grams of carbs for their 50 grams of protein that they're going to be taking in. Or maybe they only want 30 grams of protein and they want more carbs because they're an endurance athlete. This gives you the flexibility to use what you want. It's stupid to sell everything all together because you're limiting your audience. Yeah, you probably make more money because when you put carbs into a protein pattern, it becomes a cheaper product. But I feel that the best way to do it is provide the best quality way and the best quality carbs. And then you guys decide how you want to mix it. Let's mix up a shake right now. All right, so I got my eyesolized here. One of the great things about is that it really tastes good too, which makes it really easy to get down. So we're going to do, I'm going to do since I'm not competing anymore. I'm going to do a one scoop, which is going to be 27.5 grams of protein. That's enough for me. I'm not doing crazy workouts anymore. And I'm going to go to my carbohydrates. Now, the advantage of a high-mallect weight carbohydrate is that it does all these great things. But a lot of problems that people have with these high-mallect weight carbohydrates, they don't mix very well. It's a goopy. When I did was I all for my granize this stuff, I made it almost like baby powder. And you'll see it's getting all over the place. It's like, you've got to be like a chemist to put this in there because otherwise you're going to make a mess. You can see it's all over the table because it's very finely powdered. The reason you do that is that when you mix it, it stays mixed. And you can mix this with a spoon. And I'm not even using enough water. But I'm just doing to show you. And you'll see that once I mix this, there's no goopyness. It doesn't settle at the bottom. It's mixed completely through. And I'm using my banana flavoring here. I also have an unflavored carbohydrates which will enable you to mix it with anything you want and not change the flavor of your protein. I happen to like banana. Banana is good with chocolate. It's good with vanilla. I'm actually mixing this with my favorite flavor of ice-lice. It's vanilla peanut butter. And once again, no goopyness. This is delicious. I love it. It's a banana peanut butter. Now a flavor. I'm telling you this is, I can drink this. Well, I sometimes have two with three these a day because I get so busy. I can't eat. It does smell. Mmm. I'm tireless as it smells good too. And that's important as well. Guys, if you want to maximize your postwork at recovery, you've got to use high-quality protein, a high-quality carbohydrate, and mix it to your own needs. That's isolize and carbolize all day long. Give it a shot at speciesnutrition.com.

Day Palumba with another RX muscle rant. Today's topic hair loss. How to stop it? How to grow new hair? What to do? Look, in the bodybuilder world, there's a lot of problems with hair loss. There's a lot of shade head body mows. I mean, probably the old cliche is what do you call a guy who's got a lot of muscle and a shave head and a bodybuilder is the answer. They all look the same. I happen to have enormous head. If I shave, I would look like a murderer. So I have to try to do all kinds of crazy tricks for my hair. I'll tell you some of the things I have done. But the truth is that when I first started to notice some hair loss in the 90s, the only thing really out there, there were two drugs. Two remedies I guess you could say. One was a row game. And row game was basically, it was an old, believe it or not, a blood pressure medication years and years and years ago, that they found great regroup hair in some people. So they put it into some kind of a topical solution and you would spray it and you could still get it in the drug source. You spray it and you head you rub it in and it smells like who knows. It opens up the pores back there. It opens the hair plug holes. I don't know. I used it for when I first started losing hair and all I noticed was I got a flaky scalp from it. I got like, it made my scalp peel. And it also something I noticed was when I went for blood work, it would really increase my clotting time. So my clotting time took much longer to happen. So I was noticing I was bleeding more. I would bleed longer on it. Now I went and actually got what something called PT and PTT times, pro-framin time is done. And while I was on that rogue-ing stuff, mine were elevated. And it's funny. But the doctor was really shocked to catch it because I in a million years would never guess because that's what it was that did it. Anyway, I stopped using because it wasn't really doing anything anyway. And then I went to the pill remedy which I really didn't want to go to because that's something you have to use all the time to the rest of your life. If you don't keep using it, it doesn't. You'll lose the hair. You grew from it. And it was basically finasterized which they call the brand name is Pro-Pisha. The Pro-Pisha is the 2.5 milligram or 2 milligram. It looks to me. 1 milligram is Pro-Pisha. 5 milligram is something called pro-scroutes which was prescribed for prostate enlargement. Now the way these drugs work is they actually inhibit the conversion of testosterone into die-hide-dure testosterone, also known as DHT. DHT being responsible in adults for hair loss, prostate enlargement, acne breakouts. And young men who are just growing and hitting puberty, it helps you develop your secondary sex characteristics. They can draw hair growth for the face, muscle growth. That's up is necessary. It's sex drive. It's a certain degree. When you get older, you don't really need as much of it anymore. I started taking Pro-Pisha back in 90, something or another. I think it was like 99 or something like that. I noticed that my hair was losing it anymore. I stopped losing it. I didn't really regrow much hair, but I did stop losing the hair. So I stayed on it. I'd been on it since forever. It was 15 years now. Like I said, I'm afraid to go off and it's like, I don't want to lose it. The benefit of it, I noticed was that I didn't break out as much because I was prone to breaking out as a bodybuilder because it lowered my DHT levels. And I also never had a prostate problem, not going to work for 50 years old. But my dad had prostate issues. So I think it would be prostate protective. That worked okay. But it didn't take care of the hair that I was sitting here on. And I was losing on my head. Or I had lost already. They say that when you notice you're losing hair, you've already lost 50% of your hair. So it's kind of like, it's too late almost. So recently they've come at, well, also back then, I remember Bill Phillips doing an article on a hair loss that he was talking about using Nizzerol shampoo. Nizzerol shampoo is an anti-fungal shampoo. So if you have a penny of a petest, which is, I believe it's been a penny of corp. It's got the tinny which is bring warm on your head. I have to go with 20 days. If you use the Nizzerol shampoo, it will get rid of it. But they found that I had also been caused hair, you know, regrew. So I was using Nizzerol shampoo like a nutcase twice a day. Overdried my scalp, same problem with the rugging, flaky scalp. And I'm like, through this, I've rather no hair than have the answerable of everything. You know, you always see that one person is going to like the suit on. I think that the answerable of a suit, I don't want to be that guy. So I scrapped the Nizzerol shampoo. Recently, like I said, they've been doing something, you know, and they've been talking about stem cells, you know, for a hundred years. stem cells will be the answer to hair loss that you'll regrew hair with them and everything like that. So now they're doing these generalized stem cell injections into your scalp along with some PRP, which is platelet rich plasma, they spin your blood down, they separate the blood cells from the plasma, the liquid portion, the plasma has the growth factors that it's usually with the use for injury or repair. But they're probably that if they use the stem cells and the PRP and your scalp supposedly you regrew hair. Now, if it worked that good, everyone would be doing it and everyone would be talking about it. I haven't heard convincing evidence to prove that it does anything to be honest with you. So I mean, you can try it, it can't hurt, I guess, but it can hurt your pocketbook a lot. Because the stem cell injections are very, you know, cost prohibitive in most people. So what does the answer? What do you do? Well, if you're just starting to know it's a little bit of thinning, you might consider using like a formula like my testolize, which will block or belong to DHC production, but not get rid of it completely. We won't really super low rate. That might be a first line of the fence. Second line of the fence is if you're really losing it, you know, and you say, you know what, I'm screwed, I have a family history of it. I would go on not one million grand, which is propitious. I would go on two and a half milligrams. That's it. That would be tell your doctor to prescribe finasteride, which is the 5 million grand one and it also noticed pro scar. And then just crack them in half and you got two days worth to point 2.5 one day, 2.5 the next day. And that's what I do. And it seems to work well. I don't have any sexual side effects. I'm not lowering my THDHT levels too low. And so I'm not affecting anything negatively in my body. And now how do you know if you do HZ2 low? We get to go for blood work. So the blood work will tell you what your DHT levels are. You want them in the low side of normal. So you don't want them below normal. You want them normal, but on the low side of normal. And that's what the ideal balance would be for that. I've tried all kinds of different weird champos and stuff like that, because everyone's in a log it on this like bad haircut. My solution has been, you know, you can make fun of me all you want or whatever, is I just dye my hair alive. So right after I dye it, it looked very dark and maybe too dark my scalp. But at least I have cover for me. I do it for myself. So when I look at the videos online or when I watch, when I see pictures we take outside, the kids are in there that I don't look so well. Okay, let's face it. So everyone has their own, Donald Trump just comes over. I wish I had as much hair to come over as he does, but I don't have as much hair to come over. I only have enough to push right back a little bit here and cover a little bit of the top. You know, we all try our own things. You know, not everyone cares about hair. Some guys have good heads and they have good facial features. They can get away with, you know, with the shades head. Not all of us can. A lot of us want hair. So, you know, if you don't want to go to hair club for men and get a fake hair piece on, and you know, you're probably your best bet with me to try the, the propicia or what's again, I would probably do 2.5 milligrams of just generic. The finasterized is generic things for propicia and proscades. You did 2.5 milligrams every day. I think you'd be fine. You could throw the test to lies in, like I said, if you just started to see some hair loss, see if that helps. And, you know, don't forget, check your blood levels of DHCs to make sure you're not going to low or they're not too high. I hope this helped a lot of people you've been asking me what to do for hair loss. I know they also have these lasers. You can go. It's a lot of these hair club doctors have the lasers. And then you can sit on them and these cold lasers and they expose the stingy length of follicles to grow yet. Once again, I don't know anyone who says, Dave, it worked on me. So once again, I would stick with what I know seems to work right now. And if in a couple of six months, a year, two years, three, and five years, take just all of a sudden they grow and hair and petri dishes and so on and back in your head, believe me, I'll be the first guy in line. For now, the Humpeh Palumbo. With another Red Con 1, our X-Muscle Ram.

I'm Dave Holumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. See you! Roger stayed! Like I said, do you like my tail? For a shoot. Welcome back to Iron Rage on Dave Palombo. Here with Lee Priest as always and Lee, I got to be a scadden. You got me off guard. I didn't hear their like I said, like my tail bit. That's how you lift it out. I don't know. Well, we didn't leave it out, but I ran the commercials the opposite so you don't get to hear that. But I will say this. We were talking off camera. I decided I want to start my own puppet show and I want Lee, I want to go into business that you were going to make puppet show. But I figured that, seeing the one you're talking on your show, you're doing stuff like that. That's weird. If Jim Henderson wasn't dead, you'd be like, you'd be definitely a co-run of a fucking sesame street or something. You probably actually, you'd probably look good as big bird. Jim Hansen, Jim Hansen, you. Jim Hansen, Jim Hansen, you know. The guy, when I was a kid, I came up the other day on, I guess I was looking on YouTube or somewhere, but the guy that played Big Bird, he's played Big Bird for like 60, 70 odd years at that guy. Has been, like he's been the only Big Bird. He's almost like, I didn't know that. Got his, he's still got his one. I think so, because it came up in his being, huh? That's just a charity, right? Exactly. Job security, nobody knows who you really are. That's right. That's right. I know a couple people who I think are Big Bird, but I guess they really weren't. We know, I know a few people too, that are a bit weird, but you know what Dave, you'd be good at it, cause look. Oh, you got poppettled, I got poppettled. Oh, I like my child. You like my child? Oh, my child. Hey, you like my, can we? Oh, hello Steve. Hello Steve. Oh, you look very good, hold on. Hey, I think we need to give you another contract. I have an idea for marketing. Oh, what would that be, Steve? What would that be? Please tell me, please tell me I'm very excited, Steve. I'll tell you what, I'll put you on the cover. How about that? The cover, Steve. Can you show my tail on the cover? Look, Steve, look at my tail. Look at my tail. I'll make you a star. I know I've done it before. I'll make you a star. I know I've done it before. Oh, a star. I've always wanted to be a star. Everything's like, how do you copy, with the queen? Oh, that's so brush is going to be a star. Oh, this is going to be so exciting. Wait, so I turn on my mother. Oh, please, please. Please, please, please. So we prisma's flat slow is. Woo! Oh, Steve, Steve, you know what, Steve? Can you give me a good contract? What's this, Steve? What's this, Steve? I've been practicing just for the contract. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Steve, did you see that? Yes, you see, guys go three, three, three, we did. They're, they're very strieted. I don't have to you know this time. Oh, with my tail, Steve, it doesn't matter. Look, you can't really see my roots of style, baby. But look, I have a place where you can go. Oh, oh, oh, the up nerve, up nerve. Oh, oh. Yes, Steve, very wonderful. It'll be wonderful. But take you for the contract and look very forward to it. And Victor here is making it come back to. Maybe we can put you guys in a photo shoot together. I'll call Pairbendown. What do you think at that buzzer? Would you like to be in a contract, total? Yeah. Oh, yes. Yes, he said he'll be very happy. What's that? Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Oh, yes. That'll be very good. Thank you. Thank you. I'm very happy. Oh, can we get Melvin Anthony to come back to and call the let. Oh, yes, it'll be wonderful. We'll one the full. Let's get. Let's get. We'll get Dory and under contract, too, because he's a he's a legend. Oh, Dory. Oh, yes, Dory. He's from England too, like me. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh. What did you think about this, uh, I have a question for you, because, you know, social media is then we've been debating social media a lot on the arts, Russell channel. I just did a big after hour show with Greg Valentino and Ramanow, and we were talking a lot about the social media of aspect of body building and competition. And, you know, what do you think about Brian Anzley attacking. Nick from Nick strength and power channel. Obviously, you know, saying, you know, it's not a real, you know, media guy. He's not a body builder. I mean, do you think it was appropriate? Or do you think that, you know, as he ride or is this Nick pretty much having, you know, he can say what every once, you know, he's got his own channel. That's ridiculous. Cause you know, Nick, when you watch Nick's channel, he's never, well, I've never seen him be abusive to anyone or attack anyone personally. He's like, okay, he can't use the excuse. But, you know, when you're not a body builder, not a pro, they don't train. They don't, they don't, they don't train. They don't, they don't, they don't train. Look at back in the day, Link conquer like Lonnie Tapper, half these people weren't body builders. They're born like everything. They don't have them work. They went to the shows and they reported along what they saw. They'd be like, fuck me dead. Imagine, look at every other sport, baseball football and their fail and all these other things. They mean, those sports report as a people to commentate, have actually ever played the game. Sure, you sometimes get now a retired one or two that goes on TV. Yeah. But most of the ones that ride in the magazine, they've never played a game in their life. So his whole aspect of, and what he said too wasn't that bad. He just figured he just said, going on how Chris looks and how he looked and how everyone looks, he goes, he thinks Chris has got the better physical probably winning. He's like, yeah, shout out, I think that's not he should end up like, Jesus Christ, you fucking men with muscles. You're not girls wearing fucking toothed. Not, not, not fucking, like it's though. Oh, that act like you don't go on, don't die. Okay, shout out. So you know, I agree, I think you've got to write to their opinion. You don't have to, it doesn't have to be wrong to agree with it. And people shouldn't take a personal. I think a lot of people had offended by the critiques. Even we give on this show here. I get people mad at me because they don't like the opinion I gave. And that's, you know, just my opinion. This is, I mean, I don't like his person, you know? Have you heard the comments sometimes under a video's dive? Yeah. But what gets me is, though, could you imagine if Nick had to come out and said, with the Olympia coming up and blah, blah, blah, blah, Breones looking great. If he had said Breone was number one and Breone was going to be Chris, there wouldn't have been a fucking problem. Breone would have been, oh, that's great. Thanks, Nick. Wonderful report. Right. Of course. Because he said it. Because he said it the other way around. It's like, it's like this whole thing going on with me, Loss and Ian and shit. And when that kept blowing up and blowing up, I'm like, okay, you're trying to max. We understand max. You think I'd overlook because you're his train. You're a bit more personally involved. But I'm still saying it's like Ian was number one. Max was number five. Me, Loss, why aren't you fucking pissed off at the guy that got fucking 4-3 in second? Why are you going from fucking fifth and you're attacking Ian first? Right. There's three other fucking people are so in between. Right. You're not going, well, such as such, it got 4th, 4th, max should have been him. And then something's such to got 3rd, max should have been him. You know, look, if Max, if it was the in first and max second, and it was super close, then you can maybe go, oh shit, it was really close. I think Max should have got it, but then it could have gone either way. But when Ian's first and max is fifth, this people in between, so why aren't you getting mad at them? Why are you getting fucking mad at Ian? Ian doesn't control the judging even right away. Me, Loss, look at me. I so like you, but come on, it's like, go, speak to the judge and be polite to the judge. No, me, Loss, sometimes goes off when you go down there. Yeah, we can't understand why you just live in him. Fuckin' walls, but fuck you know, they go off. Yeah, it's like, yeah, he was like, I think we should get mad at him. Maybe because sometimes when I want to show, and then someone got 6 or 7, only 3 should know why, and I should have beat him. I'm like, wait a minute, you're in 7. I can understand. I can understand that if you got fucking second, I should have, you know. Right. What about all these other people that are between you, me and you, as the same with Ian, Ian was first. Max was fifth, and Maylson is a tech and Ian for some reason when there's a few other people in between him. But I didn't get it. Basil doesn't get it either. No. You make a very good point because you're right. If you read the magazine's back in the day, it wasn't being written by bodybuilders, most of these articles. They were being written by regular people who didn't really compete, and they would just be had had been established as people who were assigned to cover the show. They became experts by the fact that they did it for many, many, many years. And if people like watching, you know, or reading their articles or they like watching a certain YouTube channel for their analysis, then that's up to that, really. It doesn't, you know. I mean, Nick even states, he's like, look, I'm not an expert. I'm not portraying myself to me next word. I'm just a fan who's given my fan to me. Exactly. And sometimes I'd rather eat a thing to opinion because they're passionate, and you know, pretty much too, when someone like Nick's been around the sport for that long, and he's followed the sport, and he's always given. Yeah, pretty much all the stuff he says. He's pretty fair. Like I said, you might disagree or agree with him. Sometimes the general is pretty spot on, but it's just like he said, he's opinion. He's, you know, he's got a key in eyes like it. So why can't he do it? And like I said, if he had had said something nice, there would have been a problem. And what he said wasn't bad. He just thinks Chris, the way Chris is looking to weigh it's judged, he thinks Chris will get, you know, to nod for the in first place. Now, someone said that about me, I've got, okay, well, you know, what I'm going to go fucking train hard and knuckle down and fucking bust my ass, and I'll prove you wrong. You don't need to get upset about it. You're just smiling, go, oh, I know. That's what Nick thinks I'll show him come day to show. But the go on, like Nick said with that half hour rent, and then say no one watches you channel when we know Nick's got almost a million subscribers. I think I can pre-on better check again and see what's going on. But, you know, that's like, well, you know, another thing we also pointed out when I was interviewing a John and Greg Valentino earlier today, we were talking about, you know, why certain channels have a lot of viewers. And, you know, Greg was complaining that, you know, the sport has lost the hard core following. I said, no, the hard core following is still there. The hard core following just was never huge. So, you know, whoever on our channel is the hard core following. I mean, but the mainstream media people, or the mainstream people who watch and just are interested in by building from a fan perspective, way out numbers, the hard core people. And that's why I can see a channel like Nick's who has almost, you know, millions subscribers versus us who has a quarter million subscribers because there's way more general people who work out than there are in hard core, you know, fanatics, you know, and and troll. I think it's the troll. Well, the trolls are there for, they're all of the things that the trolls are. Yeah, but the thing is, you know, it's not a hard core people. Like me, I might look at someone's channel read something and then watch it. But they don't comment the hard core people were just looking at the information or watch it. But the trolls and the idiots are the ones that seem to post the most she could watch any video or anything that goes up or to be the trolls. Yeah. It's back there. There's like, there's like, there's a one's that take a board of time. And then I tell you, Dave, when you click on those trolls profile, like I said, they look like they got no business in the sport of body building. Fuck me. It's like if they want to say 30 bucks a month, he's their quickest tip cancel your gym membership, you dickage, you're wasting your fucking time. It's like fuck me there. I just saved your 35 bucks whatever you pay in monthly. Go spend it at your local pub on the fucking Dark Board. You probably do better. But yeah, it's like, yeah, but they all go on, but, you know, you remember that wasn't bad. You remember when the message boards were like big, a big deal like the forums and stuff like that when they first were like, get big, get big, what's the main one? Yeah. But I'm saying most of those guys were also that all the like the Miss Crians and all the like people who have no right who being even calling themselves a bodybuilder, all the people who like couldn't hold the job strap of like any pro bodybuilder this. Those are the guys that were causing the most problems on those message boards. And it used to drive me crazy. You know, why can't black men would watch those message boards and they say, Salon Salos said, I said, Steve, Dave, it's a troll. The cares would that's not what 99% of the population believes. It's one retard who's who's causing trouble on there. He's like the class clown who just wants to get a lot of attention. I said, I know we got to tell me he would take it like seriously like these guys. I take I take a fence that you call me to one troll and I did my job well. But man, but everybody's going to make the get big. It's like, fuck, we're on everything used to stir shit up on the get big. He's still doing it on. He's still doing it. He's still doing it. I can't even believe that board still functioning, you know, but it is. You know, what the two, I probably haven't looked at that board for years. I didn't even think it was still going. It's exactly the same. The links, it looks like it's from the, you know, the 1990s, the way it's set up. He, I don't think Ryan is on the way. I don't think it like that. I just remember, I just remember those glasses he had. He could start a forest fire with those. Fuck, it's this light. My gosh. He's the boy. I just spent thousands on the telescope. You look at craters on the moon. He could just go, well, yeah, but you don't have to pay me that. Ryan is, Ryan is a true bodybuilding fan because he was making zero money from that important. He never would take advertising. Nothing. The only thing he took some advertising for was to pay for the, the, the, the server fees. It was, it was, it was total passion because there was no business model there. What's the other? When you, when you, when you, that, this is going to come as a shock to you. But when, when I tell you these two names, you got to see that they were separated of birth, run, have a thing and Steve niece. Yeah, oh yeah, you're right. If they weren't fucking twins, I don't know what. How about Ryan Harris and Woody Allen? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know if, as Ron married his, I'm, what is that? No, no, no. Step to order or fucking. But remember, Steve, me's would come into the gym. It always come into his tanks of one. Yeah, let's flare it out. To be carrying that little look like a little fucking school lunch box where he's camping. Come over. I mean, on, yeah, big arms. You go, uh, 21. You go 21, I, I got a take measure. Let's measure. Okay. You're so accurate. That's such an accurate. You're probably, you can get police take measure out. Oh, oh, oh, I didn't count. I hear you go and he made you go. You're correct, but he always said that take measure. So anyone that gave him a measurement, he would pull that thing in. Yeah, guys, like, nah, nah, I don't want to measure. I'm not, yeah, I'm not. Yeah, that's not true. Every time. Oh, he would say, go get on the scale. What do you want? Come down to the scale. What do you mean, I, I walked into the parking lot. And I walked into the gym. And he's like, uh, I looked, I, my face was like this. I was huge. I was like, what do you wait? I said 319. He's like, you want to get on the scale? I said, sure. I got on the scale. It was 319. You know, because I didn't lie. I never lied and have to lie. It was like, you wanted the biggest guy. So he's like, so we went to the parking lot. And he's like, let me get some pictures. And he actually has the only pictures of me at that way. And he put, I think he ran it muscle man. But he was, uh, as he was taking the picture, I told the story before. Makements are pulled up in that volar, station where I get me at. You remember that thing? He's the right. Look like it's from the fucking potridge family. Yeah. And he gets, and mentally, must be late for an appointment. He's meant to use to train people with goals. And he's, he's like circling me like a wolf. As niece is shooting me in the parking lot. You know, with the shirt off, and I'm like hitting the last bread. And he's like, holy shit. This guy's a freak. This guy's a freak. Holy shit. This guy's a freak. This guy's a freak. He was like, oh, this guy's having a coneption. And then after, he shot me on over to him and he was like, oh, man. What's your name again? That guy's a date to one boat. He was like, yeah, he goes, holy, Matt, go get your freak, your freak. Holy shit. What do you weigh? Fuck out. I had to go, I got to go and you ran into the changes. I was just printed on him. You're most, you almost said, like, Don Rossi went from, you went from like, meant to the fucking, yeah, what's that? Don Rossi, you're crazy of me, too. Yeah. Don Rossi. Don Rossi. You're a freak. You're a freak. You're a holy, a mactoral. This guy's a freak. Yeah. You're a freak. You're a freak. You're a cool people. People, people, people, people, people, people. Look at him. As he's spitting you guys. Yeah. He's not like these pants on next. They're like, oh, the fucking pants. They fucking pencil next to come into a fucking gym. They should've been fucking in here. They're like, that fucking pants on their car over there. And I used to get on cuffed by a returner around on him. I'd be like, Don, man, you're looking fucking baby and, and rip today. He'd be like, yeah, like you did. Yeah. And he always went on a bit of pencil next time. Fucking pants on next time. Fucking. We don't have characters like that anymore, Lee. And this is interesting. No. Well, even though he said even fucking Jerry Friedrich was a character down there. If he's fucking camera on, oh yeah. Oh, yeah. If he down there. Jerry will be down there with the girls. He'll always look like one of those fucking perfects with the girls. And I'll be telling the girls I said, these pictures ain't down anyway, but he's fucking bedroom. Oh, that's fucking. Show me his card. He got that little card. Yeah, he's my card. He's my card. The girls are like, oh, yes. Yeah, yeah. Jerry's got his little fucking camera down. Anything. Oh, big night for Jerry with the Vaseline and two shots tonight. I don't think. Well, I guess because the magazines are dying off. Like you see, because you always had Don Ross, there'd be party floating around. There would have been Jerry Friedrich's always floating around. Possible. These were, they have Paul McCrain's Steve. These would have been in there. It has always something going on in there with someone with a camera taking photos and the funny thing is Paul a train was probably the only one to work down in the whole group of them are. Or a hell. You know, if you're a girl, hell is it is it is a dealer and body building collectibles now. Did you know that? Is it not? No, what's he got just stuff that people have given him. I think he buys collections. He wanted a buy all of Bob. He heard Bob Grushkin had a huge filing cabinet full of the pictures and stuff and that he was dying to buy the collection. I don't know who got it, but he was asking him. So who we can contact? Where's he living of? Is he still in in California? He's got a huge body building collectibles things. I don't know what he's doing with it all. That's just all, all those collectibles are like, you know, when you did a photo shoot with him and you left the tank top behind. He has day, day, polambos tank top from the Muscleman shoot. There's like trees. I don't want to run. From the arena del Rey club. He's over there where we did it. I did some good pictures of you. I don't know how you had the patience. Right. It was the first one. I had another falling out. But when I first came to America, that's just before I got my contract. You know when you signed with where you did it, you got to wait a few weeks before you get the money. Right. The first week I was there was like in the unit hard. You see this picture actually on Goldstein ball in the unit hard. Yeah. Of the auto photos. Every day we get everybody part. Oh, he must be talking to you to death. Oh. For like seven days he tortured me all day long. And I think once he brought me lunch, I'm sitting up there on the bike. His like, how's that contract with weater came. He's like he hasn't paid me yet. He's like, oh, he hasn't. Oh, he goes. But I couldn't use you guys. You know, all those pictures I took of you and that are sent on the Robert Kennedy and he brought every one of them. Oh, well, fuck someone's money. Yeah, yeah. So many of my money on me. Exactly. I'm happy for you. You know, in the beginning publicity is good, but shit, you know, like, you could have brought me more than one fucking lunch. Yeah. You know, he never bought me lunch at all. I think he had, matter of fact, I think he made me pay. I think I paid for lunch for both of us after shooting the whole day. The pretty crafty summer days people. They don't know. They do that. So, oh, I've left my wallet back in my camera bag at the gym. You know what it was? And I think that you owe it a bunch because for you to do that photo shoot, he probably got you like maybe a T-shirt, two golds gym day. Yeah, 10% of fucking and a water bottle. That was your payment. Yeah, and get your ad through it. Because the ad didn't get it. He was like, take whatever you want, basically. No, yeah, and it would give it a golds gym bags and go, go in there and fill up with whatever you want. Just let me know what you got. Yeah, that's it. Because he was smart. That's free branding. He was getting off of these guys. Oh, I remember, I remember the rest of us were pulling up in the limousines and coming to training when they're restless. They would be taking bags and bags. Oh, yeah. Golds. Because they're where they get on TV. And I have the golds. Yeah, and think about that was that was huge branding for those guys. Yeah, I'm not because sometimes I think of Hulk Hogan or even some of those names. Back then, as soon as I walk out in the ring, they were in a golds gym tank. Tank top or a golds gym T-shirt. And it was brilliant. Brilliant. Brilliant. Yeah. Meanwhile, the rock walked into the strong and shapely gym and Bob Bonham said, you owe me 12 bucks or something like that from a t-shirt. He had given him like last time he was in the gym, huh? Oh, he was doing this. He really, the rocks like what? Because yeah, I gave you, I liked your t-shirt last time. Well, you know, you think Bob would be like, well, you know, that's good publicity for the gym for the rock to wear my shirt. Well, maybe Bob was upset because they're rocking in the ward anyway. I'm so excited. He says, well, you know, but they could take a picture with the rock at the gym. So the rock would be carried. You could have put it up on the wall. So I don't, you know. But like you said, that is character's like, so when I was in golds, when I was over there last time, I think you still got some of the trainers ever, the good characters like that just don't exist anymore. Yeah. That will walk around and they were like a stable there and there's somebody else. I was trying to think of similar to Don Ross, but he had that silly crazy passion that would, if you got stuck to a cat member's name, never. If you got stuck, talking to him, you'd just go on and on about the old days. Did you ever meet that guy? And he's a funny one. He was a German guy, trained at world a lot. He usually came over to golds. You probably would have seen him, but he's claimed the fame was who killed people. Back in the early days, you know, that girl in the photo we've Arnold and that was my wife and that Arnold slept with my wife. That was his challenge when he was frowned out. Yeah, don't be a black guy. He's telling you, he'll tell you, yeah, Arnold's slipped with my wife. Who was that old guy? He looked like Santa Claus almost. He knew everyone's birthday. We chose that one. He was like a former judge, NPC judge. He knew everyone. He was always at all the shows. I really sort of heavy, heavy set. Yeah. You know what I'm talking about? Yeah. He was the first person to tell me the gym man and I had the same birthday. This was early in my career when I was competing. He probably meant me because it's such an such a thing. He knew everyone's birthday in the industry. He is sort of really sort of big and round, like solid, big sort of big. His white hair was white beard. Yeah, remember his name? Joe Valdez. Joe Valdez. Oh, fuck, that's gone back. I brought that one up. Yeah. You always said the walk. You know who used to look like. He looked exactly like welcome to Jurassic Park. Yes, yes. Yes. Yeah, that's what I was thinking of. I couldn't think of that. You're right. Yeah, the walk. Yeah, the walking. Yes. You're right. Yeah, it put his hand on the walking stick. Yeah, I guess I said no. Yeah. He's exactly like the guy at Jurassic Park. Oh my god. You're right. Rory. Rory little mile. 7th for January and 19th. Yeah. He did. Every time I saw it. He said, I saw it. I started with the junior USA. He's like, when did your birthday? I said February 17th. He's like, oh, Jim Manion. And you share the same birthday. Oh, yeah. Let's just hand on the walking stick like you think that. And then sometimes go, oh, yes. We shall. Your birthday is the same as Jim Manion's. That will be the same day where we'll be releasing the Velociraptors. And he did. Oh, it's, if he can find the people. Oh, picture of the 12 out there is a body building. If you could find that picture. He looks exactly identical to the rest of the story. I couldn't, you know, when I was visual, visualizing the guy, I actually visualized the guy from Jurassic Park now that I think about it. And I mean, he had the walk and stick to the other side. It wasn't David. What was he saying? There was a Richard Adam. It was Richard Adambriff from Jurassic Park. Yes. David David does the shows on the documentary. Yeah, Richard Adambriff. He haven't told my story. That's all I thought about Jurassic Park. He can even wear that sometimes. Is that, is that the guy, is all those voiceovers on the animal shows? Atmbert on which one? Is that David Adambriff? David, he's probably does all this brother. Oh, it's brother, okay. They got, they got his voice. Yeah. Yeah. David Adambriff's like, shit, I think it's in his 90s now. He still, there was yet more service to that. I think that was, I think that was free brother, David, Richard. I think there was another one. Yeah, but every time I saw him, I'd always pitch, because he was, I think he was pretty close, we've roaring. You're coming a lot, we've roaring, little by a bit. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then it always just walk around with his cane. I had to look on top of the cane to see if there was a fucking mosquito in the in-bush. I thought he was. But no, I'm back to the DNA. He's looking for a new duck. We should have polombocone. I get sure to do that. We're going to make him once. Yeah. That was a name. I didn't even know how he remembered that name. I forgot all about him, but yeah. He was a classic. Yeah. That's people. People don't have a clue that we're talking about. Oh, no. The people who have encountered him know exactly what we're talking about. They're laughing their asses up because it's so, Oh, I don't know. All right. You'd swear to our separate libertes. Those two from the scene. Yeah. You're already sorry. Even if you say, I'll put this same. I'll pull this to pick you up for next week. Just to show it. And can you just get where that hat? You'd wear the same hat. Maybe it wants him. We just did that. He's your right. Maybe it wants him. That's true. Good of it. He just went. But I think he used to, he's to help out a lot of bodybuilders. Because I've never heard what you're trying to then he'd be telling them how to pose and I was sort of stuck. Because I don't know. I don't know what the connection was before. But he was always there with Ferrari, helping Ferrari. I remember that. And it always talking about Ferrari a lot. So I'm not sure whether he was a Ferrari. Yeah. He wasn't a lead. Yeah. He was a Ferrari. And we got on good, but I don't think I was here as there. So wherever he helped Ferrari find an inch, I don't know. It's just been always there. But he'd come walking in the gym just like he'd just just walking. Look around, have a chat, then you know, just walk on out. Yeah. Yeah. I never saw him ever. What a chatter. I don't know that. But he might have been that guy on the end of the phone. That's it. Yeah. He goes. Yeah. And I know it's the boss's calling. I got to grab this up. Please, thank you. Basil and I, Basil and I are going to go bake a cake. Basil. Basil. Basil brush. You never seen Basil brush? No. Looking him up on YouTube. Basil brush. He was a kids cartoon, but he was like an early version of Alpha. Where he would say a lot of rude stuff that would go. I have to be kids head. Oh, oh. All right. That's it. Guys. We're out of time. Until next week, I'm day polumber with Basil and Lee Priest. We'll see you next week. You like my tail? You like my tail? Does.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Vote, there's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. Today is Monday, June 28, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, not only does another fine Monday, it's also international chest day, and luckily for you, we've got this brand new video Steve Cuclot to help you get your week started off right. A few days ago, Steve's camp released a video of taking a pair of 200 pound dumbbells for a ride, which feels like I'm not so subtle way of letting everyone know that he's firing on all cylinders. Last time I checked, Steve was still planning to bring his talents to the Texas Pro in a few weeks, and if that's still the case, it'll give him plenty of time to make adjustments between then and the Arnold. When Steve's in shape, we all know that he's one of the top ten athletes in the open, so if you can get himself off to a good start in Texas, they'll set the stage for him to finish strong down the stretch. Thanks to Steve, that last week, the official lineup for the Arnold UK was announced. And just as we said a few weeks ago, it looks like that will be the place where we see Samson down and make his season debut. According to reports, Samson is still weighing in and over 300 pounds, despite the fact that he's a few weeks into his prep, which is really impressive when you look at some of the photos and videos that have been coming out of his camp lately. When you look at the Arnold lineup on paper, Reging Grimes is the name that jumps out as the clear early favorite, but if Samson is in shape, I think his name deserves to be right there in the conversation as well. He checks all the boxes you look for from someone at a show like this, and he puts it all together. This could be a huge platform for him to show off how good he really is. Even though bodybuilding is an individual sport, we all know by now that surrounding yourself with the right people in your camp is one of the most important things anyone can do if they want to be successful in the wrong run. And for Patrick Moore, now that he's officially linking up with Chris Cormier to help guide him through the rest of his Olympia prep, that road to success feels like it might be a little bit clearer now. A few days ago, I heard from a source who confirmed to me that Chris and Patrick will be training together for the next 15 weeks or so as Patrick tries to pull out all the stops to get himself ready for the Olympia in October. For as impressive as Patrick was when he won the Cal Pro a few weeks ago, we all know that the Olympia is a completely different animal, but now that he has Chris in his corner to help give him that extra push from the gym, it will be a shooting to see if he can make enough improvements to help him break into that top 10 group. Come October. Finally, I want to close out the show today with a few thoughts on a story about Keon Pearson that someone brought to my attention over the weekend. Apparently, Keon was answering fan questions on Instagram last week when someone asked him when he thought he might well retire. Keon said that he plans to retire at 30, which would only be 4 years from now. When most body blows are just starting to enter their prime, now we all know that athletes say things like this all the time and then end up changing their minds later. And let's just say hypothetically of course that Keon is the 212 Olympia champ 4 years from now. Do we really think that he would retire at 30 considering how young he'd be and all the financial implications that would be tied to that? My guess would be no. But if I can predict stuff like this 4 years out, I'd be rich and retired somewhere. So what do I know? Keep that being said, I want to know what you guys think. Do you think Keon Pearson will retire at 30? Let me know in the comments below. And that doesn't yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Columbus reminding you to always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Hey! Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonbo and today is Thursday July 22nd 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you didn't catch our recap of the Portugal Pro yesterday, you definitely want to check that out on the YouTube channel. And even though there are a lot of amazing athletes competing on that stage last weekend, you can make a solid argument for Peter Molnar having the most impressive physique in the building after the performance he put on as one of the featured guest poses of the night. For the honest, I think this might be the first time that we've seen him live in action since he pulled the double dip at the remade muscle fest last year when he won his pro-part and his pro debut in the same weekend. But seeing what he looked like last week was a good reminder of why so many people were talking about him as a legitimate top-real and be a guy. He's got all the tools and all the experience you need to be able to compete at the highest level. And as we start getting closer to October, it'll be interesting to see if his name starts to get thrown around more with the rest of that top group. With this Chicago pro being less than 72 hours away now, there are a lot of conversations happening about the 212 division, especially with all the hype surrounding Keyon Pearson. But I'll tell you why. I think people are making a mistake if they're overlooking the impact that John Jewett can have in this lineup. John's already put together a couple of really strong performances this year, and if you look at where his conditioning is right now, it isn't the stretch to say that he could end up being in the best shape out of anyone in the building. I know it's almost cliche to say it now, but conditioning is what win shows in bodybuilding. So if there are windows of opportunity there, John's got the right game plan to be able to exploit them. Over the last few years, talking about someone's potential has been one of those buzz word terms in bodybuilding. And to be fair, we do it a lot on this show too, because it does help to create a narrative. With this honestly might be the first time we've ever done a story on an athlete who's going on the record to talk about what they believe their own potential is. In a case you missed it a few days ago, on an Instagram post Patrick Moore said that he believes that he's only reached about 50% of his potential in bodybuilding so far, and that he still has a few years until he actually reaches his peak. How he gets there, or what that looks like isn't entirely clear. With the sense you get from some of the other stuff that he shares from time to time, is that he believes there's a sandout trophy somewhere in his future. Now, whether or not that ever comes true, is anyone's guess, but I will say this, if 50% more means 50% bigger, 50% sharper, and 50% more complete than he is right now, this might not be as crazy as it seems. And finally, I'm closing up the show today with a very heavy heart, because it means that I have to wish a melancholy trails to a good friend Jenny Lynn Powell, the former two-time figure Olympia champ passed away from an apparent seizure earlier this week, the age of 49. And as soon as the news of her passing began to circulate, it's in shockwave through the bodybuilding and fitness community. I said a few days ago that I believe Jenny was a shining light and everything she did. And I feel that way even more today than I did then. If that's even possible. She was one of the most amazing people. I've ever had the privilege of meeting and I want to send my deepest condolences to her friends, family, and fans, rest in peace, Jenny. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day of Holumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they show to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

She's not a king....... NO plain Let's see! Alright! Come on! Oh, my gosh! Let's have that shot! Uh, you want to use tea, babe?

We launched the tasty pastry with the low carb hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning! On day polumbo and today is Monday, June 21, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Monday and happy first day of summer. Hopefully the sun is shining wherever you are in the world, so you can soak up some of those warm summer rays. I guess it will surely its cold. But if you do happen to feel a little chill in the air, stop and take a look around because of storming the name, a hotty chupin might be about to roll in. Over the weekend, hotty's camp released new training videos on his Persian wolf Instagram feed, and once again he somehow ended up looking like a being from another dimension. The level that he's been at for the last few weeks has been absolutely out of control. I don't know how much he weighs, or why he looks like he's ready to step on stage 24-7. All I know is that we're seeing is special, and if it turns into something more down the road, we'll be able to look back and say that we saw it coming. I'm leaving it in the office of Chicago, Pro, is about a month away now, which is crazy because it feels like we've been talking about it forever. And even though it's still too early for us to get all the names for the official lineup cards, we do know for a fact that Brett Wilkins will be in the building, making his open debut. And we also know that he's ready to go in there and drop some heat. Brett and his team spent a lot of time in the office, and focusing on being better from the back. And based on some of the stuff we've seen and put out, it looks like they succeeded. He says that he's added close to 40 pounds of muscles since the last time he competed two years ago. So if everything falls in the place from a conditioning standpoint, I don't think a top 10 finish is out of the question. I think I said this on a show last week, but it feels like there have been a lot of injuries this year. So when we get a chance to do a segment on someone like Chris Hester, who got bitten by the injury bug, and came out better on the other side, it does feel like it helps to change a little bit of the narrative. After essentially being out of commission from October to February, while he was recovering from a torn biceps, it looks like he's on track to pick up where things were before the injury last year. According to Chris's team, right now the plan is for him to compete once before the end of the summer, and then again at the North America's in the fall, where they think he'll be one of the first in line who win his pro-card as a super heavyweight. We've seen a Tudatown come through that North American pipeline over the last few years. Anity takes care of business, and won't be long before he becomes one of those athletes we talk about who's used in North Americans as a launching pad for the career. For the most part, there are too many good things that happen when you're in a adult and you're out after 1am. But there are exceptions to every rule, and considering the fact that Phil Heath has pretty much made a career out of being an exception to the rule, I think he gets a pass here. In case you missed it a few days ago, Phil posted a video of himself training arms at 1am in the morning inside Villain Arborus, Mile Hygim, which is basically his version of the fortress of solitude at that point, even though he's venturing off into other things that don't involve competing for Olympia titles, Phil still looks great, and he still seems to be training pretty consistently, considering the fact that he managed to make it out relatively unscathed from the injury standpoint that seems slow down anytime soon. And that does it at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Dayd. Pull-um-Ball reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbar today is Monday, July 12th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. For the most part, we really don't have a lot of rivalries between superstars and bodybuilding today like we did in the past, but I will say this, even though Kairine and Phil Heath are now both allegedly retired, all of a sudden the rivalry between these two has become one of the most entertaining subplots in bodybuilding. Two weeks ago we did a segment on Kai when he called down Phil after he posted those pictures of himself allegedly weighing 317 pounds. And now just a few days ago, Phil and Kai exchange a few jabes back and forth on Twitter and Instagram, which ended with Kai saying that a show down between him and Phil was basically inevitable. Now, if I'm being honest, I don't think there's any way in hell that these two are going to be competing on a bodybuilding stage at the same time together again. Note to me, that doesn't make this any less entertaining. They're two of the most popular athletes of their generation and two of the biggest personalities in the industry. And at the end of the day, if more eyes are on them, it means more eyes are on everyone, which is a win-win no matter which way you look at it. For 13 weeks out from the Olympia, and as far as the figure division is concerned, most of the conversation has been focused on the four-time champ Sid Gillin up to this point that is and rightfully so. But here's the thing, outside of Sid Gillin, the only other athlete in the lineup who can say that they've been a top three finisher, but three straight years is Nadia Wyatt. And it doesn't seem like she has any intention of ending that streak. As always, Nadia's been flying way under the radar all year long again up until recently when she poked her head out to post a new update. Pound for Pound, Nadia is one of the toughest athletes in the division, and she's proven that over and over again. And when it's all said and done, I don't think it's just surprised anyone if she ends up giving Sid Gillin all should get handled. I know they say that you should always be careful of backing an animal into a corner because you never know how the react when they feel threatened. Like to a certain degree, you almost need to feel the same way about Oxana, Grishina, heading into the start of her contest season. Because for all intents and purposes, she's got her back up against the wall right now. Even though she retired, then unretired and then came back to compete at the Olympia again last year. They never really felt like she had enough firepower to slow down Missy Trusscott. So now that she's had a full offseason to focus on getting herself right, this has to be the time. It's now or never because Missy goes back to back at the Arnold Analympia again, its game over Oxana is up against the corner now and the whole fitness world is waiting to see how she'll respond. I know the whole suns out guns out things overused and it's a cliche, but in this case, I think it's okay to bring it back because you can make a good argument for sunny Andrews having more weapons than anyone else in the world's division right now. And she started her prep a few weeks ago, sunny has been all gas and no breaks and there's a certain aura of confidence coming out of her camp now that wasn't there at the start of the season. In some ways, having to fight in a few more battles to earn her qualification than some of the other athletes in the division did work in her favor because it forced her to stay dialed in. And at the end of the day, having that mental advantage could end up being the thing that puts her over the top. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day of the Lumberal Reminding which always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

水水水水水水水- taa 唱 词风 turbulThat's spicy來策略什麼彩辣PJ Ramen

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Wednesday, July 21st, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are coming to you live from the ARX muscle studios with another jam-packed edition of Recap Wednesday, and we're starting off our coverage today with a recapt of the Portugal Pro. In the men's open, Italy's Andrea Presti delivered his all-time best, and the judges rewarded him with a well deserved win, and the first Olympia qualification of his career for his efforts. In the two 12 Brazil's Lucas Whalo was dominant from the Minidistaft on stage, and now it looks like he could be a potential top 10 Olympian this October to de-keep it up. In classic physique, our pre-show favorite Jose Maria Muarte, we're a very aka the metal man to care business to keep his win streak intact, and in then's physique, Felipe Franco, that we've been talking about lately, crews to an easy win. In women's bodybuilding rushes and Estasia, Leonardo da Liviter's strong performance on the way to collecting the first win of her career, and in women's physique another one of our pre-show favorites, Danny Castillo returned to the podium again after pulling together the best look that we've seen from her. In figure, Rea Gale continued her strong 2021 campaign by securing her first win of the season, and in fitness, Finland's Minna Pajolati, punch her ticket back to the Olympia stage with the big win, and finally we're wrapping up our coverage here with Christina Runeauer, who ended up taking home the top spot in bikini. If you were down in Tijuana last weekend, hopefully you had a chance to swing over to the hotel real, because we had some of the best classic physique athletes in the business, putting their talents on display. But at the end of the day, with the big story here was Mike Summerfield who brought in his all-time best on the way to earning a convincing win and another well-deserved trip back to the Olympia stage. Germany's Eurs Colisinski looked great in his second place ever here, as he managed to edge out a strong performance from Brazil's Julio Ballastrin de Fretis, fourth place went to Mexico's own Jorge Luis Gorrano, Galegas, and rookie Tom Connelly rounded out this solid top five group in his pro debut. We've been a nut. We actually had three pro shows here in the US last weekend too, and the first one, upon our dock, and today is the Republic of Texas Pro, and men's physique Andre Lincoln came saw and conquered in his season debut, bringing him the best look of his career, and I think to a certain degree, reestablish himself as a legitimate title contender. Another strong effort from veteran Jason Winne was enough to earn him the runner-up spot here, and Nick Koe put together his best effort of the season to earn a top three finish. The big headline in the bikini division came from second year pro to Rajahil. Who's going to the Olympia again after delivering another fantastic effort. Second place went to the goat, Aaron Stern as she continued her quest to make it to the bikini Olympia stage for the first time, and perennial Olympian Chris Bahades rounds out the top three, if the putting together a solid effort to start her season. This year's annual Battle of the Desert went down out in Baker's field California last weekend, and when the dust finally settled rookie Shoshana Karins, found herself as the last woman standing as she clenched the win and an Olympia qualification in her pro debut. Second place, finisher Jessica Delias put together her best effort of the season, which gave her the slight edge over eventual third place finisher Benaya Augusti. Fourth place went to Sierra Swan who collected her third straight top five finish to the season, and the dangerous one at Kaley, Howdy Shell, rounded out this strong top five group. And finally, we're wrapping up the busiest contest coverage weekend of the year so far with the lender Murray Pro, and we're starting with classic physique where Brady King managed to earn the first win of his pro career in impressive fashion. Clarence McSpade and continued his hot streak in men's physique, re-cruised to another easy win, while in women's body building LaDon McDay pulled it all together to finally earn her first win of the season. And we're wrapping things up with our coverage here with the figure division and your winner, Lola Montez, who looked as good as ever after a two year layoff. And that does it at the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Bring me here. brave who stand for me and the Holy

You have to do it! Take your grip on!

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Volumbo and today is Tuesday June 26th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Man for man, the classic physique division might be the tightest top six race that we see the entire Olympia weekend, especially if Danny Eugen drops in to crash the party. The second year pro is coming into this year's contest, writing a hot streak, after putting together three insane performances at the start of the year, which includes a highlight reel win that he had back at the fit pro world. Over the last month or so we've seen Eugen start to turn it on and take on more of that championship form that he had a few months ago and given how close some of these guys are at the top of the lineup, if one or two people come in, a little off their mark, it leaves room for a guy like you and into slide in there and capitalize on the opportunity. The older I get, the more I start to realize that some of us are pack animals, while some of us are more like the lone wolf. And I think classic physique stand out Ryland McDool might fall into the latter category. Over the weekend the McDool camp busted out of their long silence with the new shoulder training clip that features the 2017 top 8 Olympia finisher, earning some good ult, sweat equity. It's been a relatively quiet year on the whole front so far for the second year pro, who really just exploded onto the scene last year when he won the Vancouver pro. But now that we're finally starting to see signs of life, I'd be on the lookout for a Ryland McDool siding coming sometime soon as he tunes up for the Olympia. The young guys in the office tell me that at crew technology, his popular unsoulful media these days. And if there's one guy who can tell you firsthand what crew technology looks like right now, it's emerging to 12 powerhouse on my DELSA Donnie. The oxygen gym product was seen smashing another leg workout out of his home base last week. Where he's apparently been putting together the first phase of this year's offseason program. Elsa Donnie made some noise back at last month to New York pro when he came out and held his own against a pretty solid group of athletes in the 2012 lineup. So if they can keep that crew technology working on overdrive and come back with a few new weapons in his arsenal, he's someone to watch out for in the early part of the next year. The boxing world was buzzing last week after news broke that the Andre Wilder and Anthony Joshua had finally agreed to a fight that will unify the heavyweight division for the first time in three decades. But if you want to see a real brawl, my suggestion would be to tune into the men's physical Olympia this year. Because there are a lot of people out there who think that Andre Ferguson might be bringing the thunder. Less than 12 weeks out now from his return trip to the Olympia stage, the hottest athlete in the men's physical division looks like he's ready to take things up another level as phase two of its preparation prepares to take off. I don't think there should be any question as to whether or not Ferguson is ready for the challenge because what he's done over the last 18 months in the division has been flat out incredible, but unless he can top all that off with a title that secures his place in the record books, they'll still have to answer questions about whether or not he's got enough of the tank to be considered one of the all-time grades. One of the things that always seems to motivate the great ones is the fear of being outworked. And this year I haven't seen too many athletes working as hard as Raphael Brandeo. A few weeks after ripping off another strong top six performance at the Dallas Europa from dropping off another race. Franca is still out there putting in the long hours that the office bright nearly yesterday morning with a little bit of chest and shoulder action. Over these last six weeks it feels like Brandeo has made it his personal mission to hit every show on the calendar and to his credit he's been pretty every show on the calendar and he's been on stage. But if you can find a way to push his body just a little bit more and really choose his next move carefully he has a shot to finally punch his ticket to the Olympia stage that he's been chasing all season long. And that does it if you had another edition of Muscle in the morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

10th and 9th You're my and our Who? They're ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the truth But we can't be Lombon Chris Asito Our Exfossil.com presents every muscle What are you? What's up? Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle Radio on Dave Palombo and I'm joined as always By the technician Restucito on this What is it? A tober tenth No, October 1 5th 2020 Wow It's the fifth and it's almost midnight And tonight I'm awake Usually I'm like Yeah, I know it's too Very awake when I started talking to you I don't know why Maybe because How can you look so good on camera Like you have to I know you have to probably the oldest web Cam of all time. How come you're You want me that webcam? Oh, okay, that's great It's probably 10 years old Yeah, yeah Looks good It's looking Still holding it You're the microphone You're about me Yeah I want to make sure we have to high quality Production quality Now Obviously we have some shows coming up Soon this weekend We hear a lot of hype Now around the big rammy train You know, I didn't realize But I forgot Rammy is qualified for the Olympia So he didn't really need to do this show But I have a feeling that You know, because of his less than spectacular performance Earlier in the year at the Arnold How's he qualified? I don't know, he's he's there I got it Well, he's not qualified for the Olympia He is. I'm going to show you. I'm going to prove it to you Then they changed the qualifications I don't know how they did it But the top three, previously at the Arnold It was at least last year was not A qualification for the Olympia This is the this is the Olympia qualifications These are the things Let's look at this hold on It's I'm looking at the wrong glass So it's Branding curry William Bonac Heidi Schuppen, Dexter Jackson Rue Winkler, Phil Heath Sadrick Nathan Deascher, Juan Morrell Okay, they're right. He's not there James Lewis, Flex Lewis, Huntal Abrada Ian Valier, Lee Sung-Tool Antoine Valyant Yeah, so he's not Arnold, I saw him in the point He was that's why I saw it. He's third in points There he's third in points So I guess he figures he's got at least get some more points To make sure you know, because people Them start scoring points at these upcoming shows So Max Charles is the number one point Getter, Lucas Ossoville second Rami is tied for third with on win Rue Winkler and Steve Kuklo, Justin Rodriguez And that next couple slots So I'm sure we're going to see a lot of these guys Competing probably so Sergio is only seven Is Sergio competing? No he's not doing anything So he's not going to even try to get qualified for the Olympia? Yeah Why not? Because he had his qualification in By doing the Arnold Australia one week later And that was could put he would've qualified there on your own And then you know when you have your mind Your strategy set sometimes When you push off your you know your plan You don't want to take your second plan Had he been having has even having trouble staying focused I mean, or he's been training No he's he looks good he's big I mean, so he's just basically taking the euro Yeah, taking the euro Take it well taking take in probably until the Arnold if they have the Arnold they're going to have the Arnold The Arnold people didn't think so Well at least Tony Dardy didn't think so No I'm not coming yet. Just coming yet March Which is right Well Tony said in in Australia they probably wouldn't have it I'm sure the USA people will have it Yeah How do we know I don't know why I guess it's really hard to predict Chris because we don't really understand Because these quarantines are not going away I mean people still get in COVID And it seems like the getting COVID is not really the Scary part. It's like the after of math like you get over it And then all of a sudden you just get in blood clots And we are you know crazy shit happening I did see it's really study though It was done on an anesthetol system which is a precursor to glutathione And they found that it was like really good at like getting people over the Symptoms of disease Lessening the effects of like the if you have any kind of like us her What's it called? Fibrosis in the lungs It reduced that Now I take injectable glutathione every day because I get it from Titan Medical Center.com And you know I'm a big boy You know it's funny because Robbie Robinson told me that he takes School of the ion injectable. I don't even know he's been doing it since the 70s Like you know he gets you know California can get all that Cookies stuff out there Even before it was that anyone else knew about it And I feel good. I don't really get sick since I've been taking it I think I think it helps my immune system quite a bit But they just released a really a full blown study on it I'm going to do a little set our muscle supplement in science On it later this week to give people the full the full The full brunt of what it is about but it definitely is helpful. Now obviously since Trump got the COVID Think out of my memory from what I understand my inside source This Chris tells me that he's on every like modality You can't evolve. I know that's an inside source But yeah, you can't evolve to it is right everyone can figure it out I know they can Yeah, but it was the show you can figure out who is inside source Yeah, he's on the whole like as it's a Ramias in you know hydroxy chloroquine zinc Oh, they got a mic. That's how I was going to make fun of him actually And say just get on the hydroxy Yeah, he's on that they also got him on a monoclonal antibody So what they're doing is they get people's blood who's had the The disease and who have antibodies against it and they're using the antibodies That from their blood and they're using that against it and people who have active cases of it I don't know how it happened Well, it's see this the science seems pretty solid on it, you know, but in theory But usually sometimes in theory doesn't really work in reality unfortunately So if it worked 100% of the time we would have a cure for it Obviously, it's not in some people it does help supposedly and another people it does it And which tells me that it's Maybe it's not doing anything. I don't know Yeah, you know, that's a perfect summation day What you just said those three sentences because when I had melanoma I went to a very well known melanoma doctor and he used the melanoma cells from people Oh, okay, and I asked him should I do it? Does it work and he gave me the same explanation of view? He said some people have cancer. They just get better some people get you know We give them tons of drugs and they get better some people give tons of drugs and they die some people You know what I mean? Yeah, at the end of the day, we don't even we still don't know we quickly speculate Right Trump is so stubborn and such a bullish believer in his own rhetoric that he he'll probably get over I think he'll be there Yeah, well, you know a part of the bomb. Yeah, he'd probably never got it He'd be dead. Oh, seconds because he's so frail. I mean this fat is Trump is right. He's still energetic and yeah Yeah, and And robust yeah, he'd be like fuck he's probably like fuck this COVID. I'll fucking beat it Yeah, yeah, it's like remember and I think there was a was there was a Teddy Roosevelt Who was the president? I think it was Rosa. That was it who was a I think it was Teddy Roosevelt had like a he got shot someone Try to kill him and he had his like pair glasses and his like pocket here. Yeah, it was the bullet hit the thing So he was bleeding a little bit, but he wasn't it didn't ever punch. It really never went deep I think it's a continued the speech of the blood running that of like the show. There's a real red blood in America I didn't know that story. Yeah, but I but We'll see as Trump will say we'll see what happens. I mean, what do you think is going to happen? I think he's going to be over. Yeah, quickly Um, I don't know. That's a you know the question is will he become incapacitated when they would actually have to like have the vice president step in and take over for a few weeks I don't know that that would not be good not right before an election. I don't think Yeah, well, I mean, he's he's you know, he's sideline from running his election for the next 10 days Probably it's good way to get out of the next the beta. Yes, right? Yeah Yeah You see you went for a little torch tonight Of Um, no, he went as SUV and hands. Oh, yeah, I think I think he's doing that you know you Remember this I can only get quite it to you remember the soprano to do watch it What? No, no, no, it was a Tony soprano I had not not all of you. He had had a hard attack or something. I don't even know what happened I forgot you got something happened to him and he was not and so you wanted it when he was coming back He wanted to let everyone know that he stole was in charge So he had to be the correct get to beat the crap out of someone like you know and just to let the guys know that hey I'm not fucking weak. I'm not like there's no there's no there's no vulnerability here You know, exactly It's just like Trump. He had to go in his he had to go on a little tour of the letter when I I'm still here guys You know, don't pull this crap with me Yeah, it was Teddy Roosevelt time just looking it up 1912 assassination attempt When you when you get that from high school I remember from my head. Yeah, I learned a lot of high school Yeah, I know you did Roosevelt was shot at close range by John Shrank a psychotic New York Saloon keeper Shrank had his 38 galber pistol aimed at Roosevelt's head but a bystander so the gun and the selected shanks arm just as the trigger was pulled how funny is that People on try to kill the president anymore. I'm glad That was like a right thing to do that all the time make them yeah, whoa, it's a number one way to get you know Right attention Roosevelt didn't realize that he was hit until someone noticed the hole in his overcoat When Roosevelt reached inside his Cody found blood on his fingers He was extremely lucky out over. He had a manuscript out there I didn't know this is I had the wrong story, but it's similar outcome He had the manuscript of a long 50 page speech that his co-pocket folded into and the bullet no doubt was slowed as it passed through it He also had a steal oh he did have a spiel still spectacle case that is pocket and the bullet Traverse this two before entering Roosevelt's chest near the right nipple Thus one could say Roosevelt's long-winded in my open. I might be a saved The bullet trap traveled about three inches after breaking the skin it lies in the chest wall without entering the plural space How funny is that They didn't have alguva thigh on the he was a driver eight days in a chicago hospital And he was discharged on October 23rd 1912 only a few days before the election. How funny is that maybe they're coincidental with the Trump Maybe Trump will get out a couple days before too The bulletin effectively stop Roosevelt's campaign There you go. Similarities like the Kennedy Lincoln the bolt had never it was never removed because no difficulty after the room to yield So I get he lost the election He lost the Woodrow Wilson right in even not any lost that election You know it's interesting because he beat Teddy Roosevelt became president when the Kennedy was shot He was his vice president. Yeah, one month to the other It's crazy people was getting shot all the time back I Think I think no good does secret service back there It's really I think all right. Let's talk body boring big rammy He puts some pictures up on his Instagram. Let's pull these up what do you think Chris? Give me your impression first of all here's the picture Big rammy he looks scaled down So you don't think he looks as big as that what you're saying No, I think it's a mean is a video here to He looks he looks pretty big. I guess I mean his arms don't look as big as they normally do When I notice his shape looks really good, but he doesn't look that hard to me like his he doesn't have the grainy like Dorian look But I don't think rammy ever has that look does he? Well, I I don't think anyone's compared him ever to Dorian in terms of grading is what you compare him only to himself and he's been far around the than this running into shows unless this is like just to You know this could just be a game and it could be like five weeks out here or something leaks out. Yeah, we don't know we never Rammy is not only is like an enigma. He's the only guy that we don't really get accurate information on you know that knows that And I don't know if that's him doing it or if it's actually You know his people doing release these ambiguous You know updates what's on his Instagram True, but I would have to imagine that's pretty recent What doesn't the right you wrote Spain can't wait But that doesn't mean anything like you said yeah, yeah, I guess that it's some weeks out and He probably looks far better than that and it's trying to be a bulls of people It look as possible I Hope you know that in that is it is that is yeah, this is so the show is the aliconti Spain show we're talking about Hopefully Chris is still talking just which is a week out and I hope they just that we get here quickly before Spain goes on the lockdown because I have different parts of different parts of Europe and blah blah You know come all just flew from Turkey to the US You can't fly from Turkey to the US anymore because that was a strategy to get people to Not just buy bills, but get how do you get to the US? You go to Turkey quarantine below that Well he had to go two weeks you know I just said if he had two weeks and then like the US now you can't come I guess too much COVID I'm not sure And I think they've the local froze so he's probably trying to look for different people running into the show so You got double gig up there now. I like it. There's two of you up there. Yeah, not as long. I got to get rid of the the NASA one Everyone liked my NASA impressions. I did a I did a show with Tom Prince you saw that and then Milo I didn't see that show, but I you did the NASA impressions last week Well I did that I did better ones like Tom Prince in You know we did the Tom Prince interview and it was very popular two-parter and Tom said you know Tom's wanting to participate more on our muscle size. Did you sure? You know I love your insights and love stories So I got him out with Milo. So we talked about training We had all the segment on training people haven't seen it. This is two-parter up and then we did store funny stories from like the past And I heard stories that I had never heard before there were really really funny like you know Milo has told the story and we put it up we collected separately so if you guys want to listen to it It's it Ron Ronnie him and Alcuguroli and That was the It was the guy from into the dragon is that actor. He's just training called Venice. What is his name? Bolo You know who the guy was Chris is probably trained about the primary room of Stay over in Hong Kong together eating I mean doing some appearance some like the probably a weater appearance And they were eating at this place Tom wasn't there. This is Milo's telling us to her Milo's Ronnie Alcuguroli So Alcuguroli eating and Milo said I ordered a chicken salad and I get the chicken salad And he's like doesn't look like chicken in me And I realized it was all it was all just chicken skin and the fact and you know I could I could relate to Excellent I went to Hong Kong they think it's a delicacy when they when you order like chicken and something that it's They give you the you know the stuff that we cut off and throw in the garbage That's the stuff that eat I don't know where the good stuff is going because you can't get the you can't get the actual breast meat They're I don't know where they send me that stuff to but they all eat the gristle That's they find that appetizing for some reason That's like a delicacy there so Milo's is like this is terrible and he said so Milo starts talking at no one speak everyone speaks like a different language And Milo's probably speaks the most languages of anyone there So Milo's is able to like talk to someone and I don't even know what language he was trying to talk at guy You could do the Milo's impression. I don't do the Milo's impression Yeah, yeah Milo's is trying he's like what what are we eating here So the guy tells him that Ronnie whatever Ronnie's gobble you know Ronnie when he gets into eating He's just gobbling the food down, you know like like a hundred miles now Ronnie evidently is eating rat So Milo's like Ronnie you're eating rats And of course Ronnie looks up you know makes it a funny face I think Alq goes into the bathroom to throw up and Ronnie just keeps eating You know so I'm sure Ronnie was probably like man this rat is great. I don't have rat like this Ronnie probably put 10 miles a muscle on from from being that rat And okay, I like I said more more can't see now Yeah, I can't see rest of it so so Ronnie did the Eighth of rat Milo's didn't even I don't think Milo said anything of that Milo Probably had the Desert of some like that and Alq threw up so I am this is different countries different delicacies There was another great story that I told this I think I told you story on the phone But I don't think I told this on the radio show but NASA Tom Prince were in and in Milo's too. I think they were giving out gifts like the kids under privileged kids for weater in California someplace So the Congresswoman of the area she has showed up And she's like wanted to go up and you know say thank you to these guys, you know Thank you very generous you guys to give out toys and Christmas whatever the Unbrivileged kids and you know NASA took that as a as a lead in like to you know because NASA would hit on like any girl went around like that they've didn't matter So NASA was hitting on this they like we couldn't believe it NASA was hitting on this Congresswoman he's like trying to give in like number and you know like Talking stuff I said of course he wise they're like what do you get it? I said NASA probably was playing the old intellectual card on that oh yes Congresswoman I I'm so it's what a breath of fresh air to have a conversation an intellectual conversation with you with I'm I don't want these guys to hear me but I'm with these more ones you know they don't even graduate high school these guys you know They probably if they don't do bodybuilding they work in a garbage dump But I you know I speak eight languages and I mean to intellectual I go to college and I have these very nice classes on to you know why don't we get they wanted to give you my phone number I give you your phone I will take you out you know for for dinner oh yeah we will go for a good food and then we will go back to my place And I will have sex with you right Was with me losin and Tom Prince Tom's like you can you would not believe NASA did not was relentless on I said I believe it I say seen them in action And then meales tell the story about that That NASA and had invited him to go out to dinner with his mother Now yes, NASA's mother but either they were in Europe or NASA's mother came to visit him in the United States I'm not sure I don't remember what it was and NASA's mother is is Serbian like like meales is NASA's father was the Egyptian So I went out to dinner. He's like a meales he's like I'm a ask my mother you know he's to get that smart guy That's face like you're the guy going in one dark that ask my mother His one woman enough for for a man Husker and you know meales is like you know And as I did if you had the uncomfortable you're asking you I thought I was going to ask you mother Meales ask her You know he's like Aggie you're my semelis doesn't know what the fuck's going on so he's like Miss an insurbing you know I said it's probably a lot's funny insurbing to insurbing like Miss his NASA whatever you know else about but What do you think about women yeah, I mean it is one woman enough for the first for a man Not for my NASA no no no One woman could never have satisfied him Exhibited right meales now I understand NASA's whole problem right right up the bat You got NASA's whole shit because he was raised by His mother thinks that he needs more than one woman satisfied him because he's such a great me so great right He's a yeah He's an intellectual and a lover I see meales. I How would you not like laughing your ass off because I goes I was I didn't know what to do I didn't know what to say I didn't even want to ask of the question he said Oh, NASA's I miss him That was that was good some and there was a lot of other good stories too I don't want to give more way watch the episode tremendous really tremendous Also news from my our good friend Roman Fritz You know I know Romans since he's I think 18 or 19 which makes me feel really old He's used you know 30 He's got to be old in that I would think right it's gonna be this thing mid 30s That's Roman Isn'togram there and Roman that told me that he's you need to double hip place when I think He's got no cartilage left at his hips Like a hose I'm just promptly from training and probably it's got to be a component of Bogenetics and there too like you know and I mean like like if you're prone to that because you know We know people that have no problems with you know hips and they've trained hardcore their whole life Yeah, they've squatted forever Yeah, yeah Yeah, let me a video come squatted at 60 or something like that. Do you see that? No, I did he's gone he's doing some workout like work on his own crazy it on this I think at 60 Wow, this links is still big and peel Yeah, I imagine they probably are so good luck I don't know when Romans getting a surgery that I told him get it he can't even get out of bed. He told me he's just not much pain You know We're none of us none of us are immune we're all I mean when I saw Ronnie Coleman you told us surgery I thought I felt Ronnie would escape with nothing I think he'd be training to tell the way he's training out of police 90 Yeah, I really believed it. Yeah, what you were wrong about that. No, I was absolutely wrong about that I'm sorry I was a bread. I mean because everyone thought he was I mean his title to his video is VCR whatever it was Invincible yeah, and we thought he was Right yeah I got told I said he was unbreakable. That's what I said. Yeah, I hope I got to pull this Tom Plads video up here. This is crazy Look at this one to Chris He looks like it those legs still This is so amazing We talking about guys that when they're in their you know 50s and sick. This is a 65 They can't have big legs bulls it When I when I imagine in 87 he had that crazy black convertible that Mm-hmm. It was the only thing he liked better than body building I think was that bad It was it was gorgeous Do you see what is he has this thing uh It's 65 my response to Charles food the Charles's wife food suggestions plus the best tasting protein shake once a day My 28-ounce shaker only recipe coconut ice cream one level scoop two to three raw egg holl eggs And try added one tablespoon of raw honey today now. I'm not sure if it's manuka honey from George Farah Honeybee colony, but it it does say one tablespoon of honey in there. That's as I just shake it every day You know what's crazy How He 65 65, yeah, so when I met him in 87 We're gonna have to keep this that's crazy for 65. That's crazy Right I don't know if this might not be from 60 this might be Hold on Marks on is that leg extension yeah It's the same green yeah probably called he loved the call that that that that I think he's got it follows McLash far left 1982 85 86 I That's this this these these build awards So when I I was just saying when I met in my 87 he's probably like 20 he was probably like only 32 which means he'd been at the Olympia's already for 83 I think like 20 like as well He was in this hayday and his late 20. Yeah He made a lot of money That's during that period. Yeah, I think he was very popular to talk to him He used to use a tram and let me wear he's still popular. I bet he still gets a lot of books you know stuff in seven hours of all those now with COVID I don't think anyone's doing anything but So the question is getting back to the original question yeah Rami What's your predict your you're pretty good with predictions what your prediction is ramming at him Go in and and decimate Spain or is he gonna go in and lose to someone I think it looks like that a week out he might be a big trouble really I don't really know who's in the lineup. I don't know the whole of Breeding grimzes in the lineup. I know In the lineup because if you're judging the show your expectation is like Gigantic right you do okay. Let's just do this. Do you think he's 300 there? Now 255 right So I mean last show he was three 15 or three 10 or three or whatever so You know That doesn't look like 300 pounds so in other words what I'm saying is judges judge you based on what you have looked like So there may be a let down factor there But is there anyone in this lineup who's who's got enough to knock it man? That's the question I guess what I have to see you know, you know, I'm I'm surprised we're not seeing and I and maybe we will I don't know Because I this God forbid they release a List of holistic competitors like like a couple like a week out, you know, but Why wouldn't hot he's shooting do this show he's qualified No, but why I'm saying he might not be he's probably can't go he might not be able to get to the Olympia He should definitely do his show or though, you know I mean why would you do a show when you you if your goal is you know I'm sure he's He has to be getting ready for it. Oh, yeah, but he gets here or not He's getting ready for it. Yeah, so why why waste the You know the energy you know because this is like what can we tell from the Olympia? I mean it's it's hard to like okay Yeah, I just peeked with Spain. I'm gonna redo it again in weeks Right, what do you do you like like you wake up or yeah, you know you're playing with your microphone No, it's my chance Well, I I would I you know if ramming loses that's gotta be I mean if you lose this someone especially who's like a guy like a second to your guy, you know right now That would be like a huge blow to my would think yeah Rock for Brandeo that picture you sent me you look great Yeah, looks better than ever I want to pick him up with that picture Some of you too. I sent you a last bread in the front double No, I didn't you know I didn't even to be honest with you. I didn't even recognize him. He looks so you're I said to someone else to and they said who's that? I just you know, but we haven't seen him also what was the last time we lose on stage? Arnold when he was six the thing or You know maybe he did a couple shows after that oh Arnold Brazil when he was second to one Yeah, maybe yeah, yeah, that's a while ago, right? Yeah, but that's not the same body that was competing a year or year and a half ago He looks what is he right here, Chris? 258 Wow, that's a lot that's a lot of weight he put on huh? He's he's tall I mean though because he was what he was in the Arnold he was 250 so You know I mean when he looked really good at the Arnold that year Yeah, I think he was 250 but eight pounds on you know that structure right I'm impressed I know you'd be impressed look at the vlogs on what's his Instagram I don't even know Rafae I don't know because I taxed his I taxed him million I tagged a fan I just tried to tag someone he's got like 400 people that adds the accounts on me I know I know and someone I saw a tag someone and they go you're not even tagging tagging them I don't even want to tag anymore because I'm not anything I'm tagging the right person I'll find Because he t tagged me on something That was me We've got for big my phone goes too close to the microphone you know I don't even know what is his state believe it about he said I don't keep all What is this one we got? That's tonight again so Can you get it up there people like you get it up there yeah, all right people up with the high tech I should have put it up before What is the what is the grant what is this spoof just show call the grant pretty spanned Spain Pro show I call it The Europa you're you're right then to make a complicated the Europa championships Is it the Europa the Europa you know, I don't think it's our Europa. Oh, it's Europe Europa Yeah, it's not the free zoes Europa No Got a kind leg in right double up got a little good by the time to get get that up there There'll be some really good European guys some sure it's not gonna be a cake walk for ram because the damn sure Let's pull this up looking like that If he does look like that I mean Raphael is not as big as obviously ram me But he definitely brings ridiculous conditioning and the test is count for something you know Yeah, well, who's it who is this big is really been signed rolly Yeah, we I'm surprised we will we see like a really winked on there No, we're least probably I don't know but I don't know why these guys wouldn't want to warm up it means been a long year Because it's been a long year. I mean how many people every a lot of people have their Prep interrupted in some way shape of one yeah, there are areas maybe not people getting ready Because it will be a little bit qualified to lump here at nine by good shot Yeah, I'd like to see bigger legs on them. I'm kidding I'm always jealous of the guys that have the huge like tear drops. Yeah, well, yeah I see that in a lot in the the middle eastern guys we talked about that. I'm gonna say that. Yeah, well we talked about it. Yeah, but He's got good well, I guess you know The Brazilians have good likes to you got the front double on that now come on. Would you stop? I only uploaded one amount of plumbing on them I like this shot. I thought let's not totally priests go fund me campaign. What do you think about that? You're very you were very negative when I talked about it because lead priest would be very negative for any other body See think he's you think he's full of crap He's driving around and we're sick people don't like it. I was driving around people don't like All right, see if we're talking about the lead priest the neck and operation in stem cell treatment Go fund me trying to raise a hundred thousand he's got four two hundred already So people some people are outraged by it some people are you know fans supporters. I see this a lot of people don't any Actually they're not supporters if they're only bees on the race or grand Yeah people cheap to then and plus this these are tough times right now least least least I guess rhetoric on this is his take on this is look Every all these fans want me to compete, okay? It's gonna be a lot of money I'm gonna have to pay out of my pocket if I want to compete because I got to get the surgery I got to leave the country to do that. I got to get stem cell treatment as part of the process and then I got it You know then I got to prep you know buy all my stuff. I need to get ready for the show So and travel so he's like you know I figured you know what if they really want me to do it I'll do it if the fans get behind me and I raise the money and if they don't raise if they don't get the money I don't meet my goal. I think he said he needed really needs about 50 if he gets 50 he'll be happy He said I found I'll just refund everything I said they're right well then that that's reasonable. They're gonna refund it if you don't compete I guess that's that's a that's a you know I guess if it's if the fans want to pay it why not When these when these billionaires Chris go and buy buildings you did they use their own money? Of course not no of course not they use other people's money they use their own no variety to raise the money And to get people behind the project So at least kind of do the same thing. I can still Is there an expectation but yeah, but then people these the fans want to see the on stage It's not least I go and out and take in the money and buying House They have not they don't want to see my stage because he's only raised for you right if he doesn't raise the money now I guess you're right they don't want to see him on saves out badly So what point does he decide to start refunding the full grant? I don't know it's good question Oh It's an all in all and I'm as he can have yeah He said he wouldn't take the money if if he doesn't compete so Well if he doesn't reach a certain amount Why yeah, I said I said how much do you really how much do you really need? I said you know He's probably about 50 like I could do it with 50 I said that right well So if the reaches 50 grand is the only gonna train half as hard for the show or now if he gets 50 grand that'll be enough to get him I guess through and he's you know and he'll do the show He'll get the surgery well first of you get to get the surgery Which they got to do some kind of release and of the nerve and they say they want to give them stem cells to help the nerve regenerate But there's still no guarantee that he'll be up the brain you know get that that feeling back and and the I get to He has some nerve and pinch impingements Where it's preventing the muscle from firing properly so he's got some asymmetry to his body But we can always get what's his name the Jimmy him up you know catch you know If necessary right before you get some stage he wants to compete again He does I think Lee legitimately does want to get back on stage you know and and one more time And He's frustrated because you know he It wasn't like he heard himself in the gym. It was a car accident, you know And it cut us you know cut us for sure short you know and I think he realizes that you know something He'd take things for granted you know he was you know He was He was on top of his game and that's when he got kicked out of the IPB so to make a weird comments and then Anyone of doing that that nava universe that he won Which he might have looked the best he ever looked that show So Many didn't compete for a couple years so You know you kind of squandered away the the best years of his career He when he was at his peak of his powers So I think you know no one happens you kind of regret that a little never admit that but You know maybe well now that when I get on the TV show He'll tell me if it's true or not and You know I think he wants to try one more time, you know see what he's got I don't think he's I don't think he's deluding himself with a thinking that he'll be as good as he was at his best But he wants at least try to come back and see what he couldn't What he can deliver I guess at 50 years old For close to it. I don't think he's 50 Well, you know Two or models of their more 50 yeah, I got the interviewing this week Justin Miller you know my friend Justin He's training this guy It's his name Who's looks I showed you his picture you were pretty impressive But put Austin car Yeah, Austin car K.A.R.R He's five foot eight to 17 Right now. Oh, that's he's got to make two twelve he'll be at that show In Chicago which is really in Atlanta. I think that's the show he's doing So the show is on 17 days out must be yeah, so he's doing this. You got he looks really good. You know he looks really really good so We'll see how he does he might surprise a lot of people. He might be a dark horse guy in that two twelve division I think he'll do well if he won't be he's talking about Tom Platt's legs, right? Oh, yeah Crazy is what Crazy is we can go to shoulder wet, you know on the horizontal Yeah So I mean his condition in the he's in very good condition as well So it's just they're gonna be like side by side and of Justin like to do the interviews like right next to that Why I told Justin come on because Justin I like to hear Justin's hold the whole thing Oh, they want to be side that's right. They social distancing Who knows you know Justin does these stuff for real he's got he's got the George Peterson there There's an house, you know, let me pull up Austin car here. There we go Even more impressive the second time I see him. Oh, he's got this in really many weaknesses yeah Doesn't look at he's looking to tell him about Tom Platt's legs yeah, quite a superb Go back to that one table yeah Oh, go to the go to the one right there where you can see the back Open that up bigger Get a little bigger I mean he's got glutes got hands got thick back. Yeah, we got it's Very impressive so What am I on the cover game next issue how's that I'll put him I I'll give him a contract tell him we'll make him a star You're always making everyone a star Yeah, he won't let you forget about it either right now Nathan is star. Now that was his stick that was his that the heavy got people on stage. That was it How we got people on the To do his magazine We'll make his star Isn't it true though Chris everybody molded when they compete they they want to hear though at least back when we were competing You wanted to hear amazing publisher you wanted to hear of Tager for you wanting to hear someone like you man and tell you You're a star right I mean that you you've got potential you're gonna go all the way. I mean that That validation and it had it couldn't come from your girlfriend it couldn't come from your your best friend Had it come from like someone in the industry, you know, you could be like a like a blackman or a petamagov for Right, oh, J.M. Right. Yeah, yeah, Joe so J.M. could say like you know you got a good shot at Nationalists and winning it somebody will be like what I'm proud of not and then it was here His validation now the validation is Instagram likes right right well you notice you also you would hear like like Tom Prince Like told me when I was interviewing like Jim and he came up to me after I forget what show was and Did you got a can you got to do national's and you know when Jim and he's Jim Jim will never say like you're amazing If he says you should do national's that means that you look really good I said Jim never said that to me. I said tough He never told me how you doing David he you know he gave me compliment once which was the you know Which was amazing you know I thought after I did 94 National's Jay Cutler one I was fourth He's like, well, you know you go I don't even remember he said that he said something like you know Bring down something or work on this he says you know you couldn't want this class you know that was that was a No, that was a tremendous compliment to me so You know, but you know some of the some guys get really good compliments from Jim you get a compliment from Jim You know you you're on your way When I remember when I was helping L Evan said to Piny I think it was a 07 or something like that He played second at the Nationals behind Desmond Miller remember Desmond Yeah, that Oscar was helping him and it was really close But Evan was like you know still wet behind the years Well he was shredded he just needed to work on a couple things and he won look he did win the Eleanor after and and man told I come back you know do it just Next time's your your your turn, you know the everything and I said Evan I never heard those words out of his mouth I said so take it the heart Listen to what he told and I was fighting because I was I was ever was used to hit the side try Sip in a weird way with even like hold his hand rather than like this he would hold it like this I don't know why I thought his arm looked bigger and I was yelling at him before like and you know Evan is like very you know stubborn and he's like now I think it looks better I smell it I said I'm telling you doesn't look it so and Jim goes up and he gives me the compliment because I You know very close show you could have cooked on you the way you know come back, you know next time You know look at like this known as gonna beat you and then he's like by the way he goes Who taught you how to hit that side try set he's looking at me? It wasn't me I said I told not to do it that much He's like yeah, you got to tell you hand around yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it doesn't look right you know So Jim you know Jim the great thing about Jim man and he is you know you could love more hate him But the bottom line is he's a bodybuilder first and foremost so You could never say his opinion is not valid because he actually got up there and he competed He one shows you know back in his day. Yeah, he wasn't mr. Olympia But it didn't matter he he competed so he's got the in the trenches experience as well as being a guy who's been doing it for you know Whatever 40 years out of a long history business But he competed I mean that that it it's almost like you should you should you should be required to compete don't you think like if you want to like be a judge or if you're something like that I always believe that yeah, I mean I think it's a I think it helps for sure But the flip side is let's say you know Let's say he didn't if you've been looking at bodybuilden shows for 40 years You know it's like how long's white market been a judge between the yeah, but that but that competed he was Emersed it like to My point is if you're immersed in it for 40 years You yeah, I guess Pick one through ten and are extremely high level Oh absolutely yeah, but you can't but I'm saying sometimes it's hard to give advice to people if you're not actually doing it yourself like How to improve and what you need what you need work on what's because a lot of I've heard a lot of guy Judges tell all the time. I you're too flat you gotta come and full it no, they're not flat They just need more muscle, you know You know what I'm saying I've heard judge talk I've had people up health who I think look good Very good Chamendus and don't have enough muscle and a judge Give them an exact carpop protocol the last time And I say listen you need another At least year Goods all the training yeah We I told that to a came in in one and for many many years and around and they didn't like it believe me But they knew I was right you know and they made the improvements They arrived finally but I've seen judge just you know I had a judge telling you once Chris that I wasn't hard enough I said I said it hard enough I said it was the hardest guy in the in the whole show I said I don't think I'm I don't think I'm I don't think I'm over stepping my balance saying that he's like well you you are but I don't know said I get I think you need to have more Separation or I don't even know what the term used was well veins I said we watch in the school we watch in the same show Yeah, that's disappointing yeah, it's good but it's good to get constructive Criticism because it hurts sometimes right when it's how yeah criticism And I've got a lot of good I've had a lot of judge to tell me good like exact on the money you know And I'm like yep you're right absolutely I definitely work on that and you're right you know so Some some some guys have it some guys don't I but I find that the judges that have competed Ten to give the best advice when you go up and talk to them afterwards I would agree with that the John Natashax Linda Woodhoates Bed Francis You know Even Jim or I call was pretty good, you know he competed too Jim Manion Steve is Steve was great because Steve was in the trenches there would be a bit of a mean in Steve train You know he didn't compete in bodybuilding but he he would did he did everything but get on stage I mean so he knew all the new ones and These guys That's the best advice you get even Sandy Williamson competed you know people don't know she has good shit good insights sometimes But she's not really you know she's not she's more of the women's judge I'm talking about I've seen her give a critique to some of the women and I'm like yeah she's she's pretty right she's in the ball Sometimes she wasn't but sometimes she is so you You know if you're gonna be a person who wants to get involved in judging and doing that get on stage at least once just go through the process You know so you can say I did it What yeah Of course you get a guy like Bob Gross can he's a completed anomaly, you know There's no there's no explaining how he has such great insights just just like how did you do with them How did the William sisters get coached by their father he didn't even know he was doing no He just worked When they were you saw that it was documentary when he was Eventually they they went out just like work with the best 10th's pearl around And Bob had to take him over again and said yeah talking about It's the Venus Williams father training them for tennis would be like Sedrick make no one training his kids for tennis right he do all kinds of cocky make his own machines He'd be doing everything Yeah, they would in rackets and then he'd have years like the old wooden racket they had in the 70s He'd like man wood is much much better And these are fiberglass dad that crap, you know You gotta use wood You better but yeah the the the the the the the this brothers Vinsma sisters excuse me Father would make them do these crazy drills like throwing the tennis racket over the top of the the tennis gate Almost like you know like in the highland games they do that they throw the pole over the And people would come by and what the fricking is he doing I think he just I think it was just like He would just he would make up stuff he said like anything crazy that would involve the tennis rack Just having a better idea of the way of a good feel so the racket for the balls Juggling the balls he did him do crazy drills like The truth but you know what the truth is Chris? It's like when you see people Who can train like oh I got Texas Jackson's shape or oh I got you know Ronnie Coleman and shape And I'm not taking anything away from the people who's done that in the past But it ain't that hard these guys did the best in the world, you know Just the idea that he He disciplined them is what he did Chris it didn't matter what he did with him. He could have had him run in fucking circles, you know Well, I mean He made them work hard so they had a work ethic that Was second to none and then the skills will come with practice, you know I think that that's my belief. I think it was the fact that he was you know I'm sure they hated his guts while he was doing it initially and totally started winning should tournaments and then winning money, you know That's a good nice inspiration, you know You know, maybe dad was actually right after all we hated him. It's got to while we were running all these drills and doing all this crazy ship and now we're making like millions, you know So But then you know then you have the fathers who do the you know the same stuff and then the kids hate they got you know They just happened to you know He made it he made it fun for them like they wanted to spend time with daddy, you know, and that's what it was you know I bet if he had sons that he did that what they would they would have told me go have himself and would have probably walked off the court weren't they in the NFL, so might that I I don't know I think they were like top picks for the NFL Yeah, I haven't followed up that story. I actually want to get John Brown on the TV show in interview I haven't had him on I want to have I want to get his insights on the home, you know Melvin told some funny stories, you know Obviously we've heard plenty of Sean race stories about John. I've talked I interviewed John years and years ago on the radio show at Muscle Development I think it was So I kind of know who you know his story, but I think I remember anything I asked him now absolutely not and no the funny thing is this industry as a whole has a memory span of maybe six months You know that I can interview the same person probably every single year and do the same interview with the same questions And I would probably have more and more hits, you know And no one would say very few people say yeah, ask these questions last year already, you know Well, it's like a restaurant you know a small restaurant might have you know a couple hundred or two hundred hundred hundred fifty regulars, but they have thousands of people who come and go into their restaurant So you know people shows like this show get recycled people stop listening and they listen I'm afraid to tell the same story sometimes I'm afraid and I'm like you know I don't even know if you're in a room and it's the story so I'm out of the story tell it You probably can just like take last year's October 12 show next week And just right next week and running right October 12 yeah, that's what I'll do He was saying good job Yeah, just just a red label retidal and everything like that What else what else are going on my doc it here? So who are you helping for the upcoming show I get Raphael Let's see that's it. I get Raphael and I get Jamie DeWirgo in the Let's talk about these other divisions over that's I want to thank you for thank you for reminding It's not a list right so we'll do something No, but there's I wanted to go over the The list of the illiterate qualifiers qualifications All right As in which shows qualifier which people are qualified which people are qualified All right Got it our here it is yeah, let's go for it All right, so we talked about the men's open Yeah, go to the names aren't all the exact names. Okay, so we have brand and curry William Bowenack Hotty shootin Dexter Jackson really winkler Phil Heath Setric make millen Nathan the ash are one morale Flex Lewis Hunter LeBrautah in Valier Lee sung true that was from the set the Korean pro show and Antoine Valyant who just got the the way recently The top three will go on points so far the top three right now is max Charles Lucas Osloville and Big rammy tied with on-win A lot of these points I got a change obviously over the next couple weeks because we have a lot of people you know We're gonna be competed In these upcoming shows and The people who compete the most will probably be the people who wind up going you know the other ones who get the knot Now I thought it was always top five the qualifier on points. Maybe they change it this year I don't know now in Alaconti Spain you're gonna get three qualifiers. They're gonna get three spots So that's another three people you're gonna get another person at the Chicago and and of course you're gonna get points, but and then I don't know is there another show like break up for the end of the Olympia Yeah, there's the Romania so I think or maybe it's five or six weeks yeah, okay all right Civic that one goes off now the two 12 division the qualified guys are come all Who's the rating champ as people know Derek Lundsford Sean Clarita John Jewett Amon Ashkenani how did Ashkenani qualify? No idea David Henry he day Yamagishi angel called her own guy sister Nino Sungwon Kim George Peterson Detric Lewis Dr. Bolus and Kim Junghup and the top three Point get is right now our Derek Osslen you've got 12 points Jason low You're guy Arrow more those are top three then you got Aaron Clark Adam Young Kevin Johnson right below them And so once again We're gonna see a lot of people competing probably and that's gonna change I just showed you a picture Car over there was gonna kill Austin car it looks like he could do some series damage and you got obviously What's the guy you helping in the 2012 Can we do a little go oh First yeah second profile yeah In the classic physique we had the qualifier guys who are qualified as Ricky Moton Bumsted on a mod Ali Shum's Hummer Breon Anzley already call well I didn't already could qualify what did you want you must have won something at the end of the last year Danny Hester Danny Union Wesley Vissers David Hoffman, the Ross Rebar Terence Ruffin San again in Jose Marie Boopari Onosel Lane Alcabranero Christophe hunt Myon Goo Park and Deontre Campbell divine Wilson Logan Franklin we have a lot of people here Song J. Pille Peter Schalfo, Scalo excuse me and Sun-Jun Ham So we got a lot of them and then the top three point getters are Jose Marti Jonathan Hamburg your guy And why George Peterson was to this top point getter when he's already qualified He want to try I think they did not fade this so Supposedly up there, but Peter said his qualifier is It's a big lineup enough in the classic yeah Oh I see coquote He's doing two twelve years, okay, so he had points but that's the relevant So yeah, it's very big lineup The classic might be the most competitive of the whole 100% Now you know you talk to Jay at a real base Yeah, that does mean I mean I I might most competitive meeting a lot of people can move into different spots like you know Yeah, I might not be that top five don't be surprised if these five guys Not replace those yeah Also don't forget we didn't mention but you know Kian Pearson will be doing The two twelve So we're gonna see him and Chicago up against Austin Carr and a couple other great guys It looks like Chicago is turning out to be even though it's gonna mean Chicago It's gonna land it look like it's turning out to be a really good show So and once again people fighting for these final qualifications spots I would assume we're probably to see John Delorosa again probably to with that show Oh, he's shutting the values I can do the lunch I wonder why He likes to compete a lot usually I bet you can beat No, I think he's shutting it up because he's training with Cmol and flexed if they're training together Oh, so he's trying to help both Like this guy flexed told me he's he's flexed training Sun with Cmol and Delorosa and Raphael wants to come back Oh, really it's his I know his son must stop for saying out there too Oh, he's been there for a couple weeks. Is he going back home? Yeah, he's going to his way home soon. Okay, now he's that competing again. No, the hemorrhage is just yeah Oh, this he's still dealing with those huh? Wow The debacle You never sent me his address by the way so I can say oh yeah, he's the finalize so I did tell flexing So he's got Cmol who I work with Hassan who I work with and Cmol Hassan Who else is he training with they what do they do they all train together or they just train at his gym? They train together all of them all of them so Raphael wants to come back and and flex that that's to work with him flex that that's too much and I said well just have to kick John off the team So yeah, so just your guys another version Yeah, but John lives down permanently Well, it's still had to kick him off the team That's supposed to be that's what they should be filming down to those guys training Yeah, yeah I love it. I'm gonna grow. What a good group. Yeah, you know what the funny thing is though and and flex is gonna be laughing as I ask him when I say this Flex is the smart guy like flex just looks like like like Mrs. Havasham he looks like you know from critics But they just he looks like the greatest benefit of all time right? He's like bringing all these guys in given them place to train and and Really what he's doing as he's getting these guys there because they're making him they're getting his juices Yeah, he's already to make yeah Think about it. He has his own gym, but having your own gym doesn't create an environment or an energetic Enviament that that gets you motivated like you would if you walked in the goals gym Venice But if you bring in the five five of some of the best guys in the world training your gym and and work and being your workout partners That's gonna push flex to a better better place, you know a higher level so he's smart He's very smart in his generosity. He's also He might be pushing himself to greater you know levels as well. Yes. I only told him that by what he said when he brought When he invited Hassan become My god they knew each other Are you didn't he's never spoken to him ever text like he can't he doesn't speak a word English aside So I Told him I said flex that that is gonna come back to big time because I thought you knew him The invitation he said no, I just I think it you know he didn't He's bummed out you know he can't compete You know why not come down here and have some fun and train right? I've surprised you didn't get big rammy out there That's just but that's his competition there so maybe doesn't work Big rammy was with Neil and then he's with Chad so that oh Right right that's you got you got to read between the Line state yeah, all right this there's bad blood there. I forgot about that So well look at the seasons as as restricted as these shows might be and and you know I'd like to get Jay Cutler on the on the TV show at some point Talked him about what's going on in Vegas because no one knows better than he does because he he talks to everyone He probably knows all the hotel owners over there. He knows exactly what's going on and And you know this supposed to open everything up. I guess this week again This planet Hollywood just shut down a lot of people don't realize that but venue and the hotel where this Should be the Olympia's taking place is closed right now, but they're supposed to open it up. I think tomorrow or the next day And I'd like to see what Jay's take on the whole thing is in how it's going to go up but No matter what the restrictions are and then the changing of show venues and moving things We had a season see you know you gotta take your hat off to everyone who made it happen, you know Because it wasn't easy. There's no one sponsoring these shows there's No audiences allowed you got to do live streams and you know I'm glad that they they did something because it could have easily have canceled the whole season No and no one would have said a word yeah You know I wanted to bring up another thing Chris I want to jinx that I hope it goes don't jigsie You know I want to bring I you know I was so impressed with how Gary you did and and these Big shows have been running The competitions what they do is everyone stays in your hotel room basically and hangs out and then they say you shoot your text message When it's your classes turn to go and they kind of give you like a heads up okay You got a half hour or whatever you know head down to the venue And I'm like how the freak they had a 1400 people at the north of america and have the freak that they how would they coordinate all these text messages right it sounds almost unbelievable You know there's no way this this one person sitting there on a cell phone texting everyone right that's just I got to happen Well they on the NPC websites reading it they announced I guess yesterday that NPC muscle where they're calling it is being implemented Across the United States in 2021 now Muscle where is the platform I guess that runs all these competitions from the judging to the Sending out the at the notifications via text messages So I guess they import all the competitors in there and then the this this program it has the ability it's like to Send out whatever they need to do to quote to notify these people at a moment's notice It generates the athlete list the score cards the crossover reports expedite her sheets MC sheets and more It's pretty amazing right I'm I'm glad to hear that the NPC is so high techno Can you imagine blackburn trying to figure out the software? I'll waste why hot hot hot Can't get anything I can I can't see the competitor lists Steve you have 6,000 browser pay a page is up and you have to open you got to shut you got to shut at least two of them Oh how do I do that Where's my secretary Steve you don't have a secretary anymore you don't we don't make any money over here anymore we lose money Get me my red give me my yellow pad I'm getting a text something is digging over that day If they bring his text it's only from his wife yeah because I have her on emergency over right so that means that no matter what if I had the phone on time I still hear it because What's it said read it to one thing Right to a younger daughter was yelling so So Not one in the world where we're we're done with the show anyway, but I want to just say that you know what I want to wish everyone the best to luck all these competitors who are competing during these hard times and Making it happen and get on stage bringing their best you know if you guys can make it through this 2020 year and compete and make it to the Olympia you can do it anytime Anywhere any place because there's a lot of people that didn't compete this year a lot of people that took off because they couldn't handle The stress and they couldn't get to the gym and they couldn't get you know everything may need to done You can get through this you can get through anything. This is a breeze. I promise you I mean that next year will be a breeze compared to this or the year after that and you have to that But we'll remember I think 2020 will go down as you know you and I we talking about it like like two old And telling everyone how bad it was and no one will ever really know how bad it was because unless you live through it It's it's it's it's it really changed everyone's life You know and hopefully it's not on the permit based and hopefully when we go back to the way it was it was before And we'll have to see on that one but Anyway, we will be reporting from this show this is coming weekend and good luck to all the competitors For now we're out of time until next week remember with heavy must oh I wanted to bring one more thing up Oh goodness, I got a stop. I was getting ready to say the truth are you I can't do it no no sure third to this weekend. I have my secrets to becoming a died guru course online Okay, if you go to daypalamba.com you can you can the link there to sign up is is there the great thing about the course is if you take the course You can rewatch the course something you couldn't do when I do it live when you had a come in person And take it with me here in K corral now that it's online you can watch it for two weeks after that You can just watch uploads you can rewatch it over and over and over again. So if you missed stuff if you want to You know, you know kind of like really make sure that you understand the content of what's going on You have the ability to log in and at any time rewatch the course It's gonna be from nine in the morning to six at night. There's an hour break for lunch You can ask questions that you'll get my 100 page Manual secrets at beginning becoming a diegrew manually you get to download it and I'm telling you guys this is if you want to learn about how to be a coach in our business had a right diet nutritional supplement regimens Drug cycles anything related to bodybuilding at all It's all on the table guys. You can give a love this course. Make sure you sign up and we have limited Obviously space For now though we are officially out of time until next week remember with heavy muscle radio the truth hurts Talket

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Thursday, June 17, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Good morning and welcome back. Once again, thank you for joining us here today. We're jumping right into our biggest story of the day, which is news that broke a few days ago, when the internet almost exploded after Sergio Leavad Jr. and now Steve was pulling out of the Chicago Pro. I don't have time to get into all the details about what ultimately led to him making the decision. You can check out heavy muscle radio for that. But Sergio Leavad Jr. all out on his Instagram, if you're interested. But I will say this, not having Sergio in the show is a huge loss for everyone because he's a Chicago kid. And love him or hate him, he's still one of the biggest personalities in bodybuilding. And now that he won't be there, presumably occupying a spot in the top three, it leaves a door open for someone else to walk through and considering how big the show already feels on paper, a top three finish there could set the stage for something a whole lot bigger of a few weeks down the road. You know how people say that location location is the key to making a big and real estate? Well, in some ways, it almost feels like that's true in bodybuilding too, with the way athletes flock to certain gyms in different parts of the world. According to reports, Brandon Curry might be about to hop on a jet and head out to Kuwait to train at oxygen gym for the next few months as he gets ready for the Olympia. A few days ago, Brandon said that he was finally able to obtain a visa which would allow him to travel overseas again so he can link up with the team out there at oxygen that helped him win his Olympia title a few years ago. Whether or not this ends up being a deciding fact of for him this year still remains to be seen but for someone who is rooted in his home life here in the US as Brandon is, I think it speaks volumes about where his head is at right now and it shows you how far he's willing to go to win that title. Now, keep what I've just said about Brandon Curry and mind while you're looking at these photos of Big Rami because this is what he'll need to be if he wants to be the first athlete in the history of the open to win his title back the year after he lost it. I heard from more than a few people that Rami's been bolster the wall in the gym for the last few months and that he's probably paid more attention to detail for this prep than he has and any other show in his life. Rami doesn't want to be a one-time chef. He knows the history of body building and he knows what keeps this title would mean for his legacy. And I also think the fact that he's been there before plays an important role too because he knows what it takes to be at the top and I don't see him wanting to give that spot up anytime soon. And finally, we're closing out today with some big news from Jeremy Pothin who announced that he was leaving the men's physique division and switching over to classic physique next year. I think this announcement came as a major shock for men's physique fans because Jeremy just plays fourth at the Olivia last year and he looked a lot better than he did when he placed 10 to years ago. That being said, Jeremy did have one of the best backs in the division and he's definitely got the structure from the waist up so that he can add another size or two to give himself a chance to be competitive. I don't think making the Olympia as a classic athlete next year would be completely out of the question. Logan Franklin just did it last year so the blueprint is there. He just has to find his own way. And that does at the end another edition of Bustle in the Morning on Day for Lumbar Robinding. Always be true to your passions and be sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning! On day polumbo and today is Wednesday September 9th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Wednesday, and you already know what the deal is, so let's get right down to business by recapping last weekend's New York pro. In the men's open, Ian Valier finally nailed it, earning the biggest win of his career, and clenching a harder into limpia qualification in the process. In the two-twelfth vision, there was a tight battle between Voluus and Jason Low, but in the end, Louis went on the getting the nod to score his first win of the year. Logan Franklin called his shot a few weeks ago, a lot of people thought he was crazy, but he had the last laugh here as he earned his first win as a classic physique competitor. And women's bodybuilding veteran Mila Ash crossed over from the women's physique division for the first time, and walked right into a huge win. Heading into the show, we said Nicole's an Obiagram was the one to watch and figure, and she made us look smart again by cruising to the easy victory. And the Keenea Tiles Santiago got out to an early lead and never looked back looking great in her first show since the restart. And last but not least, was the amazing Rachel Daniels who walked up her first career win in women's physique with a really special performance. There was also a ton of action on the amateur end last weekend, including another huge turnout for the North American championships where Gary Eudit and his crew did an amazing job pulling that whole thing together at the last minute. The only place to start here is the men's open, where men's overall winner Nick Walker put on one of the most dominating performances in a pro qualifier that we've seen in the last decade. The classic physique group was highlighted by two athletes, Brady King and Duke Juan Hinton, who both looked like they could make an impact at the next level within the next year or two. Men's physique, Darrell Bryant, and Alexander Toplan managed to separate themselves from the pack with two really rounded efforts as they graduated on to the next level. On the women's side, we're starting with bodybuilding and the runaway performance of the overall winner, Jen Schmidt, who is easily the best in the show here. In the Keenea division overall winner Christina Heath is a name to remember. She's going to be a good one and figure two athletes really jumped out to me, Tara Vasuzin, who won the class A and Jessica Hoots, who looks like she could easily be a potential wellness crossover at some point down the road. Speaking of wellness overall winner is Ebel Annunez, who looks like she'll be an interesting addition to the next year, along with fitness overall winner Daniel Margarrell. And we're wrapping up our coverage here with women's physique where Pamela Kenfeld showed shades of a young Natalie Quaylo on her way to the easy win. I know all the parents out there will rejoicing now that the eternal summers finally over and hits her back in school. And for all of you bodybuilders out there who are looking to learn something, yet your notebooks and your pencils out because Rafa Bryant Day is giving out a lesson over the last week or so, Rafa's released a handful of photos that stirred up some buzz thanks to him showing off a classic size and shape combo that's made him one of the most exciting athletes in body building these last few years. As of now, Rafa still has yet to go on record about what show he might be targeting. But just based on his conditioning, you'd imagine that he must have something lined up between now and October. And if we do get a rejuvenated Rafa 3.0, all dialed in and ready to rumble, he seems like a lot to earn one of the last few remaining Olympia nods. Unfortunately for Toronto, Rafa stands your team fell flat on their faces Monday and game four against the Celtics. But if Nick Nurs can manage to pull some strings, it might not be too late to bring in my man, Ragan Grimes for a little bit of muscle off the bench. Right now, Ragan's five weeks out from the Europa Pro and Alacant they Spain, and according to the latest reports, this version is set to be his best one yet. There's so much on the line at this show in Spain that it's essentially a boomer bus situation for everyone in the lineup, which means that Ragan needs to drop the hammer if he wants to secure one of the qualification spots that are up for grabs. That said, 100% Ragan Grimes is a thought that gives a lot of people nightmares. So all he has to do is show up and bring it because that alone should be enough to push them into contention. And that does it at another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Daypalumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions to make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

It's the weekend here at Musselin the Morning and I'm day polo and today is Friday August 3rd, 2018 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Don't ask me how this is possible but I'm still one of the 50 people left on the planet. We'll be at to see the movie Black Panther. But luckily for me I managed to get a look at what 212 stand out Thomas Anderson did last week. So now I feel like I'm pretty much up to speed. Last week in Anderson hit the station full black Panther mode as the featured guest poseer at the NPC Knox Classic. We're fans in the building. Got a chance to see up close and personal but a real life superhero looks like. Based on the photos and video Anderson looks like he's walking around bigger and leaner than I've seen him. Maybe ever. And with a bunch of shows still left on the schedule between now and the end of the year. You can't help but wonder if he might think about jumping in somewhere to see how he stacks up. Sometimes you can learn a lot about a person from creeping on their Instagram page. And the thing we learned this week is that classic physique star Chris Bumstead is fixing the kick some butt at this year's Olympia. Six weeks out from making his second straight trip to the Olympia stage the current number two ranked athlete on the planet is still in the gym training like a man who has every intention of evening up the score with Breonna and Zleen Vegas next month. I think taking the early part of the season off was probably a good strategy for Bumstead, given the fact that he's been dealing with a few nagging injuries on and off last year. So hopefully now that he's healthy and fully loaded we've got to see round two of last year's epic showdown go down to the wire again like it did last season. Apparently Chris Bumstead isn't the only 20-something Canadian Classic physique all star looking to make a title run because 2018 New York pro champ, rigging rhyme seems like he's ready to step up and get an on a piece of the action too. Six weeks out from his first trip to the Olympia the first classic physique crossover looked as dangerous as ever in his latest update. Count for pound I think what we saw him do earlier this year was one of the more impressive performances we've seen from anyone in the division all season long and as long as he keeps playing to his strengths I have a hard time believing that he won't somehow manage a top three or better performance before it's all set and done. Once you have kids you start to realize how crazy it is that each person has their own little individual look and Michael Lock and is definitely one of those people who's got a unique look to him. The veteran pro is six weeks away from making his second straight trip to the Olympia stage after that blazing performance he had back at the Chicago pro a few weeks ago where he scored the third win of his career. When you see him put it all together like he did there you realize that this guy is one of the few people at this level who might actually still have some room to grow and develop but to something even more special. So don't be surprised to see Michael Lock it fighting it out for a top ten or better placing of Olympia time. I don't know why but this year feels like we've had a lot of fresh new faces take the podium at one time or another in the fitness division and rumor has that the one of those fresh faces might be considering a change of scenery at some point here in the near future. Earlier this week we caught word that two time Olympium, Misty Farrell was tossing around the idea of making the jump over to figure at some point this year after she's done with her Olympia run. If you're a fan of the fitness division it's probably doesn't come as a huge shock considering the fact that Farrell's probably got some of the best genetics and overall proportions in the division. But that being said it is in every day that you see athletes making the jump from fitness over to figure either. Whether or not there's any truth to the rumor still remains to be seen. But don't be shocked if she's stunned to figure worlds by making an immediate impact from the moment she steps. Another edition of the muscle in the morning. On day full of limbo reminding you the always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Alright, television on rxmuscle.com. This is astave, better known as hashtag astave. I'm your host of the FurogiVis. Is your 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Plumbo? All your questions on diet, training, supplementation, IFV, pros, competitions, life, whatever it is on your mind. It is all on the table. If we now bring in Dave Plumbo, Dave, a couple of days ago you did an interview with an Iranian bodybuilder, last week you did the rent about getting hotny chupin and 2v1, hotny chupin of course, lint you qualified but unable to get his visa to enter the United States. A very very telling interview with another rising star coming out of Iran right now in our rxmuscle.com. Yeah, Baru's Tabani is tremendous talent this guy and he's in the military now because I guess you know like Israel, Iran you have to serve 2 years in your country. If you go right to college out of high school then you can get a way within delay a little bit but he's now in the military for 2 years but he'll be done soon. Problem is Iran won't even let people out of their country anymore. So it's terrible when the political climate really dictates to the athletes what they can and can't do and you become almost like a victim of that but this guy is another 26 years old. I can't even believe the talent cool will see coming out of Iran with the bodybuilders but it's I got to give King Kamali credit because he predicted it. He said there's a bunch of guys running around there that you're not going to believe how good they are and he was right. He really is so I'm impressed whether they actually if we can break this cold war we have going on and allow the athletes to start crossing out of the country and coming to the United States to compete. I think it could change the landscape of a bodybuilding really. So again that interview live with Barruz Tabani right now at rxmusubah kam and the YouTube channel. Let's go to the questions. Our first two questions from the Dave Palombo experience at the first question from Melanie what do you think about T-ball for females and how would you don't sit? Here's the problem with T-ball back in the 50s when they developed steroids and all the East German women because back then Germany was split East Germany, West Germany. West Germany was like the United States type of government and East Germany was like Russia and Soviet Union and East German women were given a tyrannable which was T-ball. They created it so they haven't had an advantage and all the East German women look like East German men they couldn't tell the difference because they got so many side effects from T-ball because it was really just a cut rate diatable. T-ball is a very similar in their fact a diatable stronger but T-Ratable has got plenty of side effects to go along with it as well. Once again I'm not thrilled with with with with oral but in general but for women it's way too strong you will get a lot of side effects and here's the problem and I've said this before in the show side effects with women are not instantaneous because steroids don't act instantaneously they're cumulative. You could do four weeks of T-ball and you might not notice the side effects they're there believe me and they will come out even if you stop it after four weeks you will still see it continue. You cannot use this drug it's too strong for women to use it's unnecessary. Winstrel and anovar are fine to get the gains that you want as a woman. There's no massive bodybuilders anymore so it's not like women have to compete with all these huge women in the bodybuilding world. So you know the only reason why a woman would want to use a strong drug like that was because they're lazy and they don't want to work for a couple years to get where they need to be but I'll tell you something. If you can get the physique that you want and still have a beautiful face in that ruin your body and not ruin yourself with side effects that's the winning combination. Second question again from the Dave Palombo Experience app it's from Chris Dave I want to add some oral wind straw and anovar to my current TRT to increase things just a touch. Would you do them both at the same time or six weeks of one and six weeks of the other and at what dose do you suggest? If you're combining them with testosterone yeah you might as well just do one in one this way you have something to switch to you can even do eight weeks of each of you wanted to. They're both fast acting so it doesn't matter which one you start with. Winchels a little stronger some 80 start with the anovar 30 milligrams per day with your testosterone TRT and then you know do eight weeks of that and then another eight weeks of maybe like 25 milligrams of a winch stroke per day with your TRT testosterone that would be fine. Let's go to our Instagram questions again you can follow us at official.rxmuscle is going to make no lea monster I hate to show more. He's so much at rather sit through a kind green epiphany. Dave can you clarify the true difference in results from pharmacy grade H8 versus UGL generic HGH a lot of guys don't have the money for pharma but a lot of pros say you literally burning your cash behind genetics what are your thoughts. Here's the problem the thoughts are that you don't know what you're getting okay when you're buying a generic it could be it could be fully just look I've seen generics okay that that were probably higher dose than what they should be and I think we've discussed this a lot of people and I think what's happening is I don't think the Chinese people are putting out fake GH. I think what's happening is when it's being shipped over here it's not in a uh, a climate controlled environment and a lot of times if it gets really hot or even too cold because if GH is frozen it will destroy it it weakens it or and or kills it off. So I think a lot of these these products are actually good when they leave the factory and China but then when they get to the United States they're really not that functional. Back in the day when we would transport GH everything was on ice okay when we bought it when we you know it took it home when we moved it more you know it gave it to other people it was on ice all the time always climb a control we didn't that that was just the thing you did it was GH had to be refrigerated you know now I understand that some of the new ones like serostam some of them don't need to be refrigerated till the mix but that also means they that's only if you keep them at room temperature that doesn't mean you can heat it up to 90 degrees or bring it down to zero degrees so I think that's what the problem is most of the time when you're bringing over stuff from another country it's the climate control issues. Now there might be some other deceptive you know type of manufacturing going on as well what we do know is if you're getting American-made GH that's coming from you know from a pharmacy you know it's good you know that's the bottom line you know that that's good and that and that's why it's it's safe for the use and that's why I tell people if you could if you have access to something that's pharmacy grade you're better off taking that and using a lower dosage to this because there it might be more expensive than taking a large dosage of stuff that you don't even know what you're putting into your body so you know you could take two or three I use of serostam a day make each little bottle last year you know a week and you got seven weeks in a box I mean that that's even if you pay me seven hundred dollars for a box that's still pretty damn cheap you know considering you know that you're getting high potent CGH and you're gonna get we're good results because that's what I did back in the day three I used a day in some maybe four I used of of a new trope and that that was enough that's all people did and they got great results because the growth home on was real and it was full potency and I think that's where where people have issues. Carlston iron burner Dave did you ever take blood tonic during your bodybuilding career and it's so why blood tonic I don't even know what that is to be honest you know I always say I don't know something I don't know and I don't know I have to google it it might be a term for something that I do know but I never heard of the term blood is something let me throw something out there what if you meant by a blood purifier I don't even know what that would mean you know I don't I don't know I don't know what blood never heard the term before to be honest with you blood tonic it's going to be another question why something to clean the blood I don't I don't know I don't even know what to say I'm stopping. We'll take another question from Rob M.T.03 how do you feel about today's top classic physical predators as real in relation to the 80s physique such as the Bob Paris Variety or any one that has the classic look or rather the part B of the question is has the classic look advanced with modern times. I like the I like some of the classic physique as I think they're they're awesome but I like the classic physique guys that looked like more like you know bodybuilders almost that are more complete a lot of these classic guys are just guys that are kind of starting out and they just don't have enough muscle yet and so while they have nice lines I see gaps in their physique and I have a feeling a lot of those guys that are pros now once they do fill out the physics will go to the open category maybe even to 12th category but there are some guys that have really very you know like Breon and Ashley the reason I think he's such a good classic guy is that he has a complete physique with with mature muscle with no gaps in his physique and here's a guy who doesn't need to add any more muscle necessarily to his frame whereas there's a lot of guys like even I see a Chris Bumset he's got a great physique but there's a guy who could actually put on 20 pounds onto his physique and probably compete in the open if he if he wanted to so you know it they're different types of physics at that I think the great thing about the classic division is that you're always seeing a new talent come into it and it's like seems like there's always some guy with crazy or genetics in the neck so it's a division where you can make an impact right away because you don't have to put on a hundred pounds of muscle before you do whereas for body going to get a new guy to come in and and all of a sudden wow that the body building world it takes a long time for that and so we don't see as many of that but it seems to be classic every year we get two or three new guys that will like holy macawid this guy come from and that that's exciting for the sport. Matt Tracy Dave I'm getting gyna surgery soon what kind of diet do you recommend while in recovery? I think I would eat the normal food feed obviously before you get surgery you can't take any nutritional supplements two weeks before the surgery because a lot of them like fish oils and vitamin E will cause excessive bleeding and have it's clotting factors which is good on a regular basis but not when you're getting blood vessels sniped and stuff like that so that's just my you know my my my beliefs I wouldn't purposely lower or change anything. If I keep it still training in the gym because your body still bleeding recovery from gyna surgeries like recovery from a workout you still need to give you body raw materials that needs to do that. Josh Freeman Dave there seems to be mixed answers on whether or not fenasteride can be taken while on Deca can you give me your opinion also what dosage would you recommend? Yeah I don't know what with this fenasteride and deca or in tremble on look I took it with it I didn't have any problems I don't know I don't I think I think sometimes you you start looking into the my new shirt of things and you you overlook what's really happening. I don't think there's any problem taking tremble on it should be taking fenasteride with Deca you're not gonna cause you know worse hair loss or worse prostate issues it's just not gonna happen. A good dosage of fenasteride is probably anywhere from one milligram per day to 2.5 milligrams. I've been taking 2.5 milligrams per day for years I started at one milligram and I didn't feel like I got that much someone else told me you know what 2.5 is the sweet spot. I went to 2.5 milligrams per day and I like I said I've been honest since about 2001 and I continue to say I think the only time I stopped was when I was trying to get my wife pregnant because we read that fenasteride was you know we'd make it hard to get her pregnant and I don't know if that helped or not but I went right back on it after she got pregnant so maybe I took off you know three four or five weeks or something like that so to me I like it I'll tell you why I use it for my hair loss I don't know if I don't think it regor any hair but I think it might have stopped my hair loss from in capony but I will tell you this my dad had prostate issues you know it's in his life and my prostate's not gonna wood it seems perfect but I don't know if my PSA is good my DHC levels are in in line which is weird because I'm not on any hormone replacement I take 2.5 milligrams per day of fenasteride and my DHC levels are still normal you know they're there low normal but they're not like too too low which tells you I probably naturally produce a lot of the H.C. which is probably I'm a good candidate for taking that so I think that's important to understand that you know not everyone needs fenasteride but if you do our prone to high D.H.C levels and that usually means if you if you lose hair easily if you have acne if you do have any prostate issues you might want to stay on it and I look at it this way even if I'm not growing one hair it's kidney product it excuse me it's prostate protective. Nate Flex Dave the love of your showed you feel that low test high antibiotics cycles can be effective just low doses in general for example 250 mg testosterone stipulated and 400 mg of decar and copoise weekly for 16 weeks. Look anything any steroid cycles gonna build muscle okay I'm sure if I took that type of cycle right now I probably put on 20 pounds of muscle because I my body would you know muscle memory however if you're looking to be really big and put on significant amounts of muscle mass you're not gonna do it on low doses just like that that's not to say you need to take the 5000 mg a week but there is a certain threshold amount that you need to take and I believe the sweet spot is about a thousand mg of testosterone a week and you could debate me out and that's fine but my point is that you know you're not going to grow one small dose of just to the maximum effect so it depends on what your goals are. We have a question on stand effortings a vertical diet just so you know we do have plans to have stand on next week Wednesday on live weight Dave I know I didn't tell you that but he's just a couple of hours ago so he is good to go to appear on live with next Wednesday let's go to panels Dave your thoughts on combining fats and carbs together in a meal non-heryl season is a theoretically wrong it's a true because both of them are energy sources one of them will be stored as fat. They're energy sources but they get used differently fats get used in slow sustained movements okay carbs get used for fast you know explosive type movements so you need both also fat is used to build and repair muscle to make hormones and all kinds of stuff that's why fats are necessary in the diet they're not just a fuel source if you combine them in the same meal it doesn't matter because carbs cause insulin release insulin stores carbs in the muscles is glycogen it stores carbs as fat it doesn't store fat as fat so that's a that's a misnomer so there's nothing wrong with eating protein fats and carbs all in the same meal obviously you're going to eat a higher amount of protein because that's what we really need fats will be a certain you know based on your your weight anywhere from 15 grams per meal to 25 30 grams per meal depending on how heavy you are and then carbs is depending on you know what your fuel requirements are so nothing wrong with that you don't have to separate your foods Damian T5 says he just bought fiber lies can I take my T3 or clan or nova decks before or after having fiber lies I would probably take it you know and then maybe like 20 minutes later do your fiber shade I don't like to take I don't like to mix fiber really with anything it really theoretically should only block fat absorptions or fat absorption like fat soluble type stuff but who knows I just separate my fiber shade from everything else I do if I can do it you know sometimes I'm in a rush and I take everything at once pills fiber run out of the house for the day but most of the time I try to separate them let's go to Noah the Fox Dave your take on the Barbell bench press Arnold and Franco loved it and have some of the best chest development ever now a lot of pros are saying it's too risky and to do incline only instead is the reward for the risk you know at some point I of my career like after a couple years I started doing mostly all incline work because I found that you know when you do incline presses you're still working in the lower mid and mid packs you're just prefer I guess you say prefer for actually working the upper packs and what I find in my experiences that most people 99.9% of body bills have weaker weak er doesn't mean they have weak chest weak er upper chest and mid chest and lower chest that's just the way it works so I always did mostly incline stuff once in a while maybe once a month I would fly bench press and it's just because I just felt that I got more out of my chest workouts when I was targeting incline work and when I say incline I mean I'm not at a big steep angle I'm probably almost it looks like you're almost flat just a little bit maybe 20 30 degrees I was bench pressing it and I thought it made a world of difference it's got a glenter dude best way to hit legs if you're lower back a screwed also thoughts on spinal surgeries you know it's a tough question to answer because I don't know how bad you are I always tell people to limit themselves by what you know your pain level is and what your body is intuitively telling you to do and not do I guess theoretically you can do hacksquads and leg presses and and build leg mass I just think without freeway squatting you lose that beautiful shape to your legs but then again some of it's genetic anyway so look you got to do what you can do I'm not happy that when I go to the gym I can't do the workouts I want because my one bed shoulder that's last that I have to get replaced is still there and it's inhibiting me but I still do what I can do in the gym because it makes me feel good to leave the gym to know I did something and at some point when I get this fixed I'll be on the start training again I'm not going to train like I'm training for the Olympia but I could certainly train heavier and I have to worry about pain on everything I do and I understand that it's frustrating but you know stick with what your body intuitively tells you shock sales guy question I recently watched Victor Conti Sunday we haven't heard in a while yeah on Joe Rogan's podcast and he spoke of the importance of zinc they could you speak to that end and was zinc included in a past video were you spoke of six vitamins which are an absolute must no I talked about six nutritional products I thought were a must I have to zinc in my V mineralized formula look let's face it you can't be taking every single mineral and vitamin and net trace metal separately you be on you have 400 bottles a day I created a multi vitamin multi mineral formula with some fruit and vegetable extracts and it called V mineralized which makes everything easy all the minerals accumulated including zinc it's in there in the right proportions and the right amounts you take five toes twice a day you don't even have to worry about it you got everything you possibly need and the only thing I tell people to take a little extra is extra vitamin D3 I think you can do another five thousand units to that they can never forget too much of that I only have two thousand units which is still very high dosage in my multi vitamin the promise if you put too much in there is no room for all the other stuff zinc is important but it's an important component in conjunction with the other minerals magnesium and calcium and iodide and you know and the list goes on chromium so you can't just say one thing is more important than everything else it's the combination of all of them together protein king 95 and of course wedding the appetite for those looking for Olympia coverage of course roughly seven and a half weeks away he wants to know how you think regained rhymes stacks up against the likes of crispumstead and brian angley I think regained is a tremendous talent I think his biggest obstacle is going to be making weight you know he's got a lot of weight to drop it's not going to be easy to keep doing that I predicted that this would be his last year doing this classic division I think he just snuck down into that last show he you know he's going to have a problem with it but I think that the bumps that is could win the Olympia this year I think him and it's going to be once again between him and brian angley and I think that it's going to come down right for the end and it's going to be who the judges like better because I think both of these guys are going to look great. Two O'Mass your thoughts on front loading a a s according to lollin and a box tenth edition the most effective dosage of test was 680 g for 6 to 8 weeks after which it starts to have diminishing returns is there really that much more benefit for us assigned effects on running one gram of test compared to 600 mg if one gram is more effective when is the right time for a bodybuilder to start using this amount example after five cycles or after he's big enough I think a thousand milligrams for his ideal for for test loss and usage and building maximal mass and thickness I didn't someone else my friend Doug Wenson told me that you got to do and it's time I think it was over my 500 milligrams when I got him like you short size so much today people laugh at that but I said all right I'll try it and you know I grew like it was that was the perfect magic dosage for me to use that I started seeing results and I didn't have massive side effects for me I just think it works you know I just think that you know anything less than you're going to get results but it should you not going to maximize your results and how you know when she just started that who knows after maybe two of three cycles I mean you can you can work up to that you'll know when you're at that stage we are not responding from the weaker drugs and it's time to go to test and you'll know that when you're on test a couple cycles you know it's not working so good maybe I should bump it up to a thousand milligrams a week at this point rather than sticking with 250 or 500 or 750 and I think you'll see a big difference I really do Dean Nicholson here's one this a little out of the bodybuilding realm but what gear would you recommend for an MMA fighter? It's very tough question because you guys get taught the UFC guys get tested I don't know if it's random or not but I know that they that I think it might be but they definitely get tested in competition you know if you any tested in competition it becomes an IQ test of knowing when to start and stop things I'm not going to go over it on this show it's too complicated you can you know do a consultation with me if you're in that arena but you know you have to understand that there are rules you know and if you're breaking the rules you're subject to there you know management and your fines that they're going to put in there so you know think about it what you want to do before you really go ahead and do it and make a stupid mistake now the answer to this question might be as simple as ISO bag but I imagine this is a scenario that many bodybuilders and aspiring bodybuilders go in a daily basis so we'll ask the question is from TJ the jet I drive a tractor trailer for a living so most of my meals will be on the road I bring my eyes lines with me but I would also like to have actual food as well but I have a hard time coming up with a good high protein meal because to pack it in a lunch and eat cold because most of the time I don't have a microwave I know I can just suck it up and have cold chicken rice or whatever but just curious if you have any ideas or something that is yummy that I get uh stay on track you're talking to the king of the cold food I highly cold pizza other refrigerator I love it but the bottom line is if you like warm food pack your meals and like you said like an ISO bag you know we sell the species ISO bags they're awesome you pack your meals and you know if you like them warm up like I have you know a couple of guys in my office at work they stick their food in the microwave warm and up and they eat their food I mean that's the best way to do it I mean you got to prepare if you don't prepare your meals and bring them you won't eat them and you'll eat junk food and that's not going to build muscle Courtney Thompson is Synthall the only answer for getting abs to grow to get what to grow calves now I mean you you could train them too obviously I mean that's probably the number one reason but I mean Synthall usage like Chris Clark's pain was pumped it's been Chris Clark's synthesized and my friends Steve Lucas pain was pumped product that I saw on daypleman with that convulton them they're great they'll definitely help you calves but you know train your calves that's really what's going to build them the biggest you know it's a combination I always felt that calves grew best if you did two sets twice a week and two sets of 15 with heavy enough weight to stimulate the muscle but when I find as if you do too many sets of calves over and over and over again what happens is you can't even feel the calves anymore you're fatiguing the bottom of your foot so much so that you can't contract with that much weight on your back any more and you're getting a crappy work done stop me if you ask this question recently but syrucious R.D. wants to know how long before it's show would you cut out growth hormone altogether for some clients I cut it out two weeks before for other people I never cut it out because they look really good on it so it depends if a guy is very watery and he's a little sloppy looking you know in terms of he just his body was became a water balloon for me from eating it from takes him from taking G.H. I'll have them stop two weeks out sometimes I might put it back in the last two days because it takes a lot more than two days to have side effects but it really is at once again it's a perfect person it's specific type of thing. Third degree muscle Dave on friends with coach Trevor from Enhance and he advised me to cut growth 10 to 14 days out my current coach wants me to cut it a seven days I'm worried if I cut it at 14 days and keep going 50 minutes of stairs that I'll burn muscle without the growth in there and shrink up the last two weeks your thoughts. Well if you're on an avocesterage you're not shrinking it all okay the steroids will preserve the muscle the question is how lean you are you getting to stand in front of it if you are then it's probably a good idea to stop it maybe put it back in like I said the last two days that's really up to you you got to be honest with yourself you look better you look worse with the G.H. A lot of guys look way better you fall around her and that's just the way it is so if I don't I think I've got what he said he's taking but if you cut back the two I use a day you should have no problems staying on. We had a question recently about uh rear delts actually no I'm going to skip that one my cool lives and then it's another classic physique related question how many grams of healthy fat is best per meal or per day based on classic physique frame six foot two two hundred and forty five pounds. I'm going to make you I'm going to make you job real easy go buy my own mega-lice formula take three pills three capsules jump caps twice a day twice a day and you never have to worry about another essential fatty acid ever it's all in there and the right dosages from fish oil coming from salmon oil or or avocado and trophy oil to um um oh evening primrose oil excuse me for your omega six fats obviously they're making three fats your DHA EPA coming for fish oils and then you got your palmetalagic acid omega seven fats which are really good for insulin sensitization and for lowering total body inflammation that's all you need you don't need anything else it takes the idea purposely to make it easy to take your your supplemental uh essential fatty acid supplements three pills twice a day and none. Mr. Miyagi or Mr. Yaki rather uh where is Victor Richards and what is he doing today? I interview him a number of years ago and I believe him I radio show he's still around I think he's living in Portland to something like that or Oregon somewhere he's happy he's got his kids I work that I try to get you know he's got a lot of very strong political stances but that's just always been Victor Richards I don't think he'll ever compete again he didn't really look like yeah much muscle left on his body but you know what if he's happy then hey that's great he was one of the freaky skies though back in the 90s forever fitness 07 you might want to think a second before he answered this one the best moment of your bodybuilding career tough one um a great moment was placing second at the USA in 2003 it was also one of the most depressing moments because I really thought I was going to win and get my pro car I I thought I you know once they announced me in second I I really believed I was much better than Chris Cook he was really smooth that show I was more concerned with Matt Duvalme and Russell piece and Eddie Moison at that show and I beat them and then I said you know what what the hell's going on here you know and I want to take in second so that was a great highlight it was a terrible also terrible um I probably say that you know winning junior nation was really good in 95 I really enjoyed that when uh probably in the body building world getting a metrics contract was was my dream back from the day so that was huge meaning Scott Conley and all that stuff that was super exciting but you know it's tough because I never really won the USA in the national so you know I had so many seconds it was hard to say like what was really great I guess in 2002 when I play second my 20th frame into the NPC national in Dallas that was super excited because I didn't expect to get that um so placing second like that was was great and actually Tony and I were pretty close to that show so um that was a soup that was a highlight I guess and you know probably getting featured in Muscle Development and I guess he needs to be black when had paraburnal shoot me and there was some great photo shoots that were published in that those were probably I was probably more proud of that than of anything because it was it's installed it's you know it's there forever that is going to do for this episode of As Dave brought to you by Specy Nutrition again visit speciesnutrition.com for Dave Blumbo and our producer Tyler Shore I'm Sadie Furuki we'll see you next time.

10th and 9th You're one and only who? They're ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true worth we can't be humble Chris Asito Our explosive dot com presents every muscle Leave your watch out Welcome to another episode of Heavy Muscle radio on Dave Palo and I'm joined as always Five of the technician Paris Cicito August 17th, 2020 evening and Chris We're inching closer and closer To the New York Prog, as you could say That's not in New York now It's in Tampa as we mentioned on a previous show Also the North American championships are going to be that weekend We have like a I would call it super like a super Saturday weekend Come on up kind of like super Tuesday I do want to say Dave that our pre game show which we You do not record Is better than the actual TV show That's going away Why? Because it's it's it's we call ourselves the truth and mind of the link And we do tell the truth but Not really we don't tell the whole truth And that's the truth Go to the truth is the truth is we don't really We talk it with the truth We just don't mention some things you know That are two truth I feel like a politician You're too terrible Yeah, yeah, I feel like a politician like a pre game Get ready to give a big speech and they thought before they won't give the speech Talks about all the ice and asshole Oh, yeah, that guy's an asshole to Oh, he's a car that guy's an idiot And then he gives the speech and you know, it's like It's a nice flowery motivating speech So we have our pre game show where Dave fills me and on all the drama That's happened in the world of body of the From East Coast to West Coast all over Europe and beyond I don't even know anything anymore Oh, they give you something like Bob Gross can now I don't know anything He's on excite and chills I do know one thing Gary you did is got the North somehow managed to pull off this North American I first he did it and I have to I have to I have to I got in the back I'm sure he got turned out at every hotel to have this thing Because of the whole COVID and you know because the North American is like a thousand people could be in the show There's no way with all these regulations they got about you know people congregate There's no way no spread over two weeks he couldn't do it the right way So you know what we'll hold it outside So they give they get it they have a big tent It's going to pick a circus probably which is but bodybuilding the circus anyway Yeah, I can only I only hope why wonder if they can put air conditioning I guess nowadays they could do air conditioning inside I guess they have a you know I've seen that happen or yeah, they have AC intense at weddings and in Saudi and Kuwait Yeah, they see anything It's your patron in the show that it's doing you know these are the two shows the North American the North Americans I think we kid off air that it was going to go on the matter what we didn't know how But you know that show was grown into like the most massive colossal show Right and we were speculating on how or where they're going to have in it because I think the hotel had changed or something But the idea and let's say it pour us like crazy to have it outside under a tent is you know Even if it rains, it's just a whole tent I just if it's very hot No, we're already getting into September so and Pittsburgh September might not be that warm Absolutely human there, yeah But yeah, humidity doesn't do well for tans I'm just going to say we might have tans issues tans that was on the show That's the only thing I could think of the tan could tans could run and something that so It might be a little but he has it you know they haven't spaced out so like over four days and then of course They kind of text you which is great before your class I guess to give you time to get back there and so they don't want people congregating So it's it's like when I when I tell people you know when I go to the doctor's office now I love it because they don't want too many people in the waiting room So you literally when you come in for your appointment They take you almost immediately it's like there's no waiting anymore And that's I think what the show is going to be like they really want you at the show Until you're ready to go on stage So you can kind of hang out in your hotel room I guess you know relax eat they give you a text out I got to go down for the show okay down there within 20 minutes you're on stage and then and you're done And they're doing the finals of pre-charging together People who have last minute giving up their arms can really time it well Look at this text Okay, stop in the show So you get judged and then they actually give you the you know you do your night routine and then you're done It's like old one shot your whole all this this you know the whole weekend is It basically has been reduced for each competitor down to about about an hour Yeah, so Great Yeah Pretty soon they should just you know you should just be able to just pay for your pro card You don't even go They'll judge you virtually I think if you if you get two seconds it's like we said it's like first class in cattle class If you get two second place like at a national level show like say their nationals You might you should be able to maybe like I You can probably evolve on the prices right of one of those shows And in cattle class sometimes they'll say you know anyone we have one more ticket left And we'll see first class in one one of a great last minute pay 150 bucks So if you get second in the national three times You can pay like free granted move up we kid around But you know what these are such freaking weird times right now and you know what I you got a hand at the gallery I'm sure he's having a nervous ten nervous breakdowns trying to make this thing happen probably every every week The changing the rules he's got to move hotels he's got to move I mean that's that's a monstrosity of a show You really don't want to have to be moving around You know they had to check comfortable situation with the shared in station square there everything used to be comfortable Right I remember you get right you get a fielivator crescent you like literally a hundred feet from Going into the ballroom there, which is where they had the show and I remember when I used to go back Going back to the early 2000s when I was going to that show I and I even before that I went to but I'm saying when I would go there It was so comfortable it was like it was like just like a relaxing environment It was like you you walked out of the dining area there and you're in like the ballroom and you're watching the show And it's it's everyone is in a good mood there They're more friendly because it's all like you know masters And at least that was when they had the masters nationals North American has open end masters But you just think to get along if that show It's a it's a more laidback I'm except when I got choked up by Jim and that one time there For I You know you remember when I was with a collet they thought that she was tanning people in the room And Because you know the someone had an exclusive or something down the tanning there's no tanning in the hotel But she wasn't she had like a note under door that she was tanning people in another hotel Which is the truth but we were staying in the host hotel So I guess they got bad information someone tried to write a sad sound I'm gonna say trouble something like that some carry must have told Jim and Jim he's like Y'all on it me, you know I'm like Jim first of all wasn't even me, but I'm like Jim he's like I want you guys you know Like Jim we didn't she wasn't tanning anywhere So I was he pointed at me and so I got to talk to you You know and it's like embarrassing me and front of everyone's I pointed back at him And I said I got to talk to you because I heard that he was looking for us And he didn't like that so he came running to the camera and he's like I was big at this time So I was really big Was it resolved amicably? Yeah, he was even he apologized to me actually after because he you know he got bad information Nothing should have junked me anyway, but I he was over the he actually had a colonoscopy coming up And he was the following day or something like that two days later It was all like nervous season But it was all fine I had a lot of you know Jim and I you know we have the same birthday that's we have this commonality that we're always you know We text each other each was birthday and and I think it's sometimes we have like we we clash because we we think alike, you know That's dangerous sometimes you know They could be only one person who's you know in charge and gyms and charge so I have a lot of ideas You know that sometimes those I do just say you know They don't go over so well, so well, so well, you know I mean When you said you guys get the same birthday then that's the same obviously Zoni axon and you both created Yeah, yeah What did you do? What did you do? Jim created you made the whole thing Oh, that's yeah Pring this one thing into what it is today Well look going you've created I don't know what I've created Oh, you got species you've got Yeah, I guess so You did our ex muscle you got YouTube you got snakes Yeah, you got kids later in life you're killing it Yeah, well, you do the same thing you got your own little Your own little real estate empire that might be going up in the dust If they're not going to end this Don't end this COVID thing you like the You know, it's going to finish you said it's for you You're going to say it's going to go up and play I'm going to say what do you want to say? Properties I want to maybe see if it can pick up something Yeah, it reduced price Oh my gosh, I'll have to get Alan Dursher was to help me out with a You know The vagar The legal parts Yeah, what's the what's going on with the Miami You got condos those as you've been able to remember No, no, shut down It's not a bit shut down since March Poor Chris think of that It's terrible Yeah Ask anyone who was a Miami Beach condo And asked him how much the H08 Fiasmon What amount of cheese is it? The lowest is a thousand Wow So you're paying that Plus if you have a mortgage and the socks yeah So would do they Does anyone have any idea when they may open up again? This is the slow season for you anyway Probably but No, it's always busy It is even during the summer Yeah, yeah Nobody knows There's nobody has any forward vision On what's happening in Miami Beach Because Miami Beach is right It's an international city Right So it's like you know No one's traveling internationally Yeah Yeah, no one's but at the same time that that's why COVID is COVID Because you got to mix of people who did travel You know and out out in Right You know, I will say one thing There's a lot of people we had We had speculated and a lot of people were saying You know the Olympias, there's no You're not going to be any you know European guys in the Olympia What's going to happen? How they can get there I'm not going to say we told them I don't know if they wanted to tell you But there's a loophole I heard that today too Are you getting it? Okay, the loophole that I heard from my source Probably same source of your source He told me that what they're doing these bodyvels Is they're flying to like Dubai And if you hang out in Dubai for two weeks Quarantine yourself, then you can fly anywhere you want Oh no, I heard that they were Oh the night I know what you're talking about The initial DK No Which would be James James Yeah, that's right No, I heard that There was A exemption for like You know I'm commenting in that Say it's competing a big competition I got a big legal case I don't know I think that these guys are just like You know what they're not even trying to go through that route Because so many guys have been shut down Like a Samson doubt it was shut down At the London airport there These guys are just going to go to like Dubai Or Kuwait Hang out there You know train for two weeks at Oxford and Jim And then they'll just fly to the United States Because you can fly from Kuwait here It's only the European flights that are building block There are many things being quarantined I don't know why but it's kind of ridiculous Is that what it was? Yeah Yeah It's like a dozen Trump said Oh tip the tap Okay So I think these guys will figure out a way to get here There seems to be some loopholes Although they're canceling They seem to cancel that I felt bad when I heard about They cancel the Japanese from Japan Pro which is a heady Amigishi show They canceled something else Just got canceled too Japan And I don't know Hong Kong maybe you are not with the Japan And Let's see Oh look at this maximus or they got a Boston Pro It says post-sponed But it's really cancel because it's a post-pandled magazine Yeah Post-poned is only if you need to go ahead I'm going to send I'm going to post-poned pain on my bills Yeah Yeah I don't blame it What's going on with Since I mean I don't even have to know But what's going on with Sean Rodin I don't know Like I said I think that Right if there was a strong case It would have already gone to court Well I'm not saying If I'm sure If I'm sure on Rodin's lawyer And Sean Rodin And I know that I have an alipi that I can possibly be jumping into At the end of the year And you know I know that maybe the case is not strong Against me I want to push to go to trial wouldn't you? I can't push the government to go to trial No but they can't be able to Time-cable hold on The time-cable was exclusively set by me The government Not you The lawyer Right but I thought you I mean you're a I mean you're a real ape as you want No but you have a right to a speedy trial That's that's one of the constitutional rights we have Oh you're a good day It's how do you define speedy? Well I don't it's been going on for two years That's that speedy in my book Well you know what that's that's Why don't you do it in first to get every point in colour The you tar Prosecutor I gotta send Vermont put sicker amount That's a Romano job He was love it Yeah My name is John Romano my wife is a lawyer Right maybe it's a way to write a R&D It makes me exclusively like Oh I'm fine to be able to You know investigate this case I'll be here I'm sure sure and Ron you see He's going back if it's a show I'm sure he wants to go back into the Olympia right and go against him again Well my and you know Sean Roman Yeah Sean Roman goes up against Brandon Curry He's got his hands full Sean Roman goes up against Phil Heath He wins They're white he's say that Because Because Human nature In in in an athlete's mind The best there is the guy who's won at seven straight And in that show that Brandon won No disrespect to Brandon But it is disrespectful at the same time That The previous year's two winners and previous six straight winner Was not there So I don't think human nature being what it is That Sean can rise to the level of Where he needs to rise to To beat Brandon But to beat Phil it's easy for him to rise to that level Well then that's good then that that's so good Of course Excuse me that that road you can do so now You know they're not gonna let me I don't see them letting Road and do the show If his case is not settled and I mean we're right now We're almost in September right we're at the end of August At September October November that's three months I mean the odds of maybe he's going to try out before that I don't know Originally I heard October right Now I don't know if that's why I heard June Originally actually I don't know That day that day passed no one see I got to I don't know I don't know who I wouldn't I guess we should contact Robyn and ask him and why would he be talking about it Maybe he is going to talk in the shop Yeah, maybe I can like Yeah, it's possible It's possible I just love to see him in the show When did you go? Well, what I of course I would What we do know though is if if there was a strong case They would have held that guy into court Eons ago If it was remotely strong Remotely See you're saying to me that if you don't think it's his side delay You think it's this it's the state delay Of course And then the problem with the state is Once did not grant the charges they never ever ever Say oh, we sorry we're going to drop me there's no reason for them to drop them Right Makes him look like fools True True So I do I do I am I guessing that it's a week case I'm guessing that it's ridiculously weak Right But the same answer Since I looked into the girl who made the accusation Was a convicted bank transfer with her entire family I think that played into my decision that she's a crime Well, if it's fine, that way I hope it goes to I hope it goes to my words But I highly highly highly highly highly highly Don't know Yeah, I hope it goes to Charleston I so I had cars posted a picture on His Facebook of him in Montarosa I guess that was Montarosa's wedding it looks like Looks like it Right Me picture man Yeah I miss my car Ed Conner Ed Conner's is kind of like Not main man, oh my thinking of the Box of chocolates Life is like a box of chocolates Far scum He's forced company in that For scum, so many different world events Transpired through forced company movie So many buy building events and so many buy stories and success stories And not so successful stories To see if you can remember right right right right Mike Montarosa born November 8th 1965 I've died the year gold gym was founded Occasionally the year gold gym was founded when he was born He died 8 to 16 oh so that was oh that's why he posted it Okay, so yesterday was the The anniversary at the age of 48 Gone but not for forgotten one of the greatest Physiques and personalities during the golden age of body building You don't have so funny day one time Yeah The Laura and I picked up Somewhere in New York in a limo That Mike was gasposing at With Laura And we had like this three hour drive to go somewhere And I asked Mike How many I'll never forget this How many gasposes have you done Or appearances this year He said this is my 44th consecutive weekend That's crazy right 44 And Mike wasn't charging you know a thousand two thousand You know, it's charging a lot of money Yeah Crazy right Yeah, yeah, you know it his his non-concerning was to He could care less than he had crappy workouts because he enjoyed traveling Meeting people Sure Meeting to see different places Yeah, he was a popular gasposing Very popular Very sad You know, sad when we see the guys like that, you know, die I didn't realize it was 48 I actually thought it was younger But I talked to his wife on occasion She had contacted me after what some story became out And she's she's living up I think about you Really We talked about this before we talked about this But yeah, it's said You know, he was a good guy I used to talk about a lot in the phone We had similar mutual friends This was probably back in the late 90s And We were so loud Yeah It's funny because we didn't really we never hung out in person But we got someone connected us and we used to talk on the phone and just go Yeah, we talked bodybuilding and bodybuilding drugs and supplements and diet And all kinds of stuff And we talked about all the people we knew and come And he was just like, he could talk to anyone That just goes to show you You know, we we this was before, you know, the social media age And you know, where people would just text each other all the time So we we had to get on the actual physical telephone with each other You know Yeah, no, he got along with that He people got along competitors like them Yeah I went like We all liked them Even though he would talk crap about we all liked you You know, you know why they liked him though Because they respect because they were scared of him Because he was he was probably the toughest guy Like old there, even though those guys were like, you know, flex was a Good fight and something then Christian could fight and those guys But Montarazer was just like you could tell he was brutal You know, that no one wanted a mess with him, you know He came from boxing, right, but he was also I think he was a guy who could have himself just to wear his hands, you know, and any capacity, street or in the ring, you know Is that how many guys we've done? There's not any, they don't have to make tough guys like that How ridiculous is back with How about his, his calves and arms? Yeah, when one of you I say Yeah, they say Freakness to both Yeah Couldn't believe Yeah, it's calves so quickly had two words in them They didn't, right? They didn't look real, yeah, I mean it was a bit like, well they looked like Implants, I mean I had a few times No, it did, that's the weird thing Hey, they came out of the thing, took like a right angle They were ridiculous He had freaky body parts Yeah Yeah, it was really close, John, huh? Yeah, well, Ed is, I think that was one of his main discovery Ed claimed the fame on that one was that he, Remember he said he went and talked to his parents Something that told me he had to move the California Yeah, he did it Yeah, he tried to flow out there He flew to my house and talked to my dad and mom You know, that's pretty crazy, right? I tell you how much Ed believed in him, right? Yeah, I know, gold's gym, I started at the age of someone was born And he's going to be, you know, champion Yeah, right, this stuff Right now you'd said an email, you do FaceTime Right? Ed, you'd have to provide the airline tickets I'd be like this travel, yeah, I'd like to travel with it He knew Mike was a town and when Mike moved out there People didn't know who he was, right? And he was, I already was running around the gym Tell people I'm going to win the USA I want to keep Dave, I've told the story on the show before And I know we have new listeners and people who quit Yeah But Mike, I had my office in Gold's gym And Mike came to see me the day that he got there And I never met him yet He knew who you were Yeah, because he was training with Paul Fierre So I was helping Paul the mail And that's another story because Paul said, you think I'm impressed I'm sure it's in my training part I'm like, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? Right? Feel like we were saying, oh, I think I look good We should, you know, good flow You should see who I train with I don't know if I could get my office And he posed for me And he was so sloppy fat And he had like 22 weeks And I thought he'll need it It's nothing of weeks To burn out really bad The fat on his low back Love handles was like floppy Are you like bobby? You're like, hmmm Do the cigarette hang out, you know? I just, hmmm He told me I came out here I was like, what's your problem here? I'm winning the show It was just like a declaration Maybe he came from my office In case I was helping people to try to scare me or something Yeah, oh, he wanted to figure out But he wasn't in shape So what was he posing with you for? I don't know He, you know what people think they were in shape? Yeah And I was stunned that he had that even got into shape And what was he, did you watch him He was doing like mass amounts of cardio and stuff like that? He was starving at the end And he was starving at the end And he had this rivalry going with wheeler That they would shit talk and scream at each other Cross to gym every single day Oh really? Yeah And that's why he probably could start Because at that point He just had the mentality of like I'm just not eating if I need to not eat Look at him there Look at the legs that you're doing Yeah, I don't know what happens It's like... He likes more than everybody I'll tell you exactly what happens as legs I'm deaf Do you want to know what happens as legs? Right 44, guess poses in 44 weeks You could turn Yeah That was probably 2 years after He won that USA And I think he was resolved to like You know, I can't, it's hard to do both travel this much. You could see it as facing suffered for that show. Oh, he he he was on brutal low calories towards the end. What can those cans? How funny is that? This is when I when I sew evidence at the party that's what a reminder he reminded me. Yeah, Evan has that type of physique right there. And we got him when I helped him when he won the national's his face had that same look. They look like they could have been brothers almost. Yeah, totally suck down. And the funny thing is they have the very similar looks to the physique because Evan had, you know, the good rate arms and calves that is good as ice. But and they had the like problems both and they had the good front quads and but they just didn't have like the the girthy doctors, you know, that they both have good packs, but they don't look like they have good packs because they're so wide. Right, right, yes, and right because of the whip and both had great backs to obviously to but um, he is Evan's supposed to come back this year because he competing. I thought I was getting ready for the new year. Bro. Yeah. You can see it's quite about two years ago, I think, right? Yeah, if I before, I think was before. It's a verbal that's a verbal recovery, but you know, I haven't such a I'm sure he's some particular sort of thing he does it. He probably won't even be able to notice it. Yeah, you know, it's funny. I spoke to Evan Brightland COVID started or maybe like three weeks in I sent him a text message and I said, how you doing? He said, you know, with this COVID being home, he said, I love it. I'm getting so much done. Oh, yeah, he definitely loves it because he doesn't want to travel anywhere. He doesn't want to leave the house now. Yeah, he has a good read. He has a good read. He's 52 weeks out of the year. I'm you know, at some point, I'm like, you know what, I kind of like this, it's like, I don't have to like, I can't even know. No, there's no pressure. You know, you don't even go to the mall with the kids, right? Can't go to the mall. You know, anyway, yeah, because it's too risky. But, you know what the thing is, after a while, you don't even care anymore. You get used to it. That's they want us to. The government's happy. We're going to shut it. I love that shot. Yeah. You know, is Instagram? Yeah, I'm looking right there. Probably, you know, the best, some of the best real arms and the business. Yeah, nice and good arms. Yeah, Christ up's biceps. Show the whole. Oh, he's bicep. Right. Yeah, fraky Alice. Unbelievable. That whole, that whole connection there. Those are the arms you, you dream of having like, I, you and I had like, like, like, skinny arms. We didn't have, I mean, was like born with the genetic arms, you know, you get to see him. He probably lifted one set of dumbbell curls and his arms probably grew like four inches, you know, from it. First time we picked up some dumbbells. He was a fat kid and he's like, I'm going to try to use bicep curls within like six months. He had like, you know, 18 and charms around. That's, that's genetics. Yeah. I mean, he's like his dad for that. He has a good shot of his likes on one. Look at this shot. Hold on. What is this for? Oh, this was after the 2009 New York proud home. Look at this. Let's see. Get up there, Dave. All right. It's a good shot, right? Yeah, very good. He, I always said, I didn't think he ever really realized this true potential. He was, you know, he didn't, he didn't compete that much. I just think that, you know, it wasn't, I don't think it was, it was a priority fan. You know, necessarily. I think he loves bodybuilding. Like, you know, all of us bodybuilding, but I think he, yeah, he's more into doing like his own little thing too. He doesn't, it wasn't like the, like, I have to do this more than anything else. And he's not selfish about it. You know, he has a family, you know, he has a wife that a kid. I think that he found balance in some of his life, which a lot of guys can't. Can't do. He's lucky. He got he has a really good relationship with I know, animal. Yeah. They, they, he's been smart. So even when he left him for a year to, he, they took him back after that. Yeah, he went, he went to the, uh, what was someone else and then they came back? He was a veteran and P.J. when they had that weird company for what I remember. They had to blow up, though. I think that was like, he didn't think like a blow up doll like commercial or something. Yeah, P.J. Oh, yeah. That's where the Evan did like, right? And Evan, that was a, you know, a line of this. Yeah. Funny, right? Yeah. Yeah. Like, Chris, you got to give, you have memories better than mine is, which is terrible. So I'm on a molder. We'll get that shot. That's the flex for, I think. Yeah, you might be right. He's got a pretty good record. So Evan, you know, when he competes, usually wins shows, you know, unless it's like, you're all over. There was a, the year he was third at the Arnold. He arguably, I don't know. He could have won that. I think Branch won it. I think Wolf was second. Is that the, a branch had the torn quad that he came back? I don't know. It just, I don't think it mattered when he, what do you have torn a knock-on? Yeah, you remember Branch had, had the time to work a year and somehow in six months was on stage, in one Arnold. Yeah. And he looked good. So I'm getting wrong. He deserved it. But he wasn't like, he wasn't the branch-warn that we had seen in the past as well. Yeah, from the, from the waist up evidence is pretty flawless, you know, as far as I'm concerned. Yeah, it's very good. So we have, we have to, we have to, we have to, we have to, we have to like go back and, it's like we're like two old men like talk about the old days, you know. That's what we've been, we've been reduced to during COVID times here. Well, I thought that Con was relevant and certainly Evan sent to Pony's relevant. Yeah, well, they're all, they're all. You know, it's funny. I was talking to Nick, should you? Oh, you're for Nick. I could buddy Nick. And, um, hold on, that's a great. It took that as YouTube channel. Don't know if you heard that. Who's there? YouTube. Why? I don't know. They told him to can't have it anymore. They must be a reason why. They said, you violated something, but they didn't tell him why it could be violated. It seems as though from the, he sent me a screenshot of it. Seems as though like someone ratted him at, like someone we had it in firm or something like that, someone like must have reported him that he was doing violating YouTube rules or something who knows. I'm sure I'm sure everyone violates YouTube rules that they really want to get down to the nitty-gritty who reads who reads the list of rules that they have. You know what I mean? I'm sure like if you say the word boo too many times in the video. So when did they take it, when did they take it down? Just recently, he has no more YouTube channel. And they, and they told him if he tries to start in account under another name. I was just going to say, we're not gonna say why not start an account under another name. No, they warned him in that. Although Dr. Tony, he would just been doing that for years. They spake he taking away his accounts every time they find out it's him, but it's so weird, right? I mean, what could he, I mean, what could he possibly done that would, would warrant and take you down? He's not like no secrets? I don't know. What's your world book yet? I mean, give the wrong heart load in advice. I mean, what's what pretty of a set? I don't know. Nick, Nick, I, you know, Nick, Nick didn't think that come out with repeat because he doesn't have a good social media presence. So maybe YouTube, I had a little bone to pick with Nick on that. So maybe YouTube came through the sensors and said, you know what? I don't know. It's just weird. I, whatever he like we had serves like that I'm always like this. So what do you do? He called you up and said, hey, Daniel. I'm probably selling me a little bit. They said, hey, did you hear that I think Nick lost his channel on like site accident? You know, we talked now with friends. Like what's going on? Like, he goes, he sent me the screenshot from YouTube because I lost my channel. I don't know. I just went on to the logger out of my day. There was there and they sent me this notification. Pop that. I thought I was a good person. I mean, how many times I got to one of them out loud? Trying to get a lawyer, yes, but you know, they, you can't get in touch with those people. It's like trying to get in touch with Amazon.com. They make it purposely so that you can't get in touch with them. You have to jump through hoops to try to. That's the new thing. The new thing with these big like you Facebook and Instagram. Try to get in touch with Instagram. You've called the eight of your number and you hit the right. We're going to hit zero day for like three days. Zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. I don't even think you're listening to your number to call Instagram. I had an Instagram problem like maybe like about a year ago and I had to figure it out myself. What, what problem can you have with Instagram? I think I don't know. I've been for the usually I have two, two counts. I have my Columbus Python's by and more than that, but I have Columbus Python's above as my steak channel and I have a huge 25 channel. And then of course, we have more Rx muscle, but that's the separate thing. So I have the two of them, you could toggle back and forth from them on your same phone. You know, so you can upload to, I couldn't get onto the one, the snake one for some reason. I don't know why. So I'm like, what the hell are you contact here? I couldn't figure out who to contact. There's no way to connect these people. They don't want you to. They don't want to talk to anyone. They don't want to have a customer service hotline. Oh my god, you'd have to have like a four or some 50,000 people answer in the phones. They can play any money, right? I mean, what did I try to play to Airbnb now? I get some lady of some guy working in their house because of COVID. Because I always say I would like to speak with a man here. That's my father's favorite one. It's not as effective anymore, but when I was a kid, my father used to say that. It's a scary way to be the manager. He was a tough guy too, so I won't be scared. Manage would chop. I fathered a threat to him. Yeah. He would. How do you really? Oh yeah. Right, everyone. Everyone all the time getting fights left right in center. Did he always come out of the opera? Did he ever walk away with the electricity? I only saw him lose one fight. Real. Yeah, it gets two guys. Yeah. Physical fight? Yeah, I was very little. Yeah. Oh, so you actually started physically fighting. I mean, you said, you're like, give me the death. Wow. Watch the guy go down. Yeah. Were you were you mortified? You know, by the whole thing or you were like, like, that's my dad. Keep taking birth. Yeah, mortified. Yeah, I figured it was anything could happen at any time. Oh, it's scary. Yeah. What if you got into the kill? I was being jailed. I mean, lawyers would have done this was for, you know, lawyers this day. He would have been in jail faster than who's in jail right now. I'm bodybuilding. Oh yeah, yeah. He would definitely have been a bit of a rusted yet. Then I mess around today anymore with that. Unbelievable. So we better keep the show clean. So nobody reports you and you wake up one morning and try to put on. Palombo's pythons and you log in. But when you get to our ex-mosle, it's missing. You have to hire Alan Dursherwitz to get it back. Yeah, I did, but I just, I really, I wonder what he did. You know, that's just, it's just kind of weird. Yeah. That's what I'm using. Like, what, what could he possibly have, like said? Yeah. I mean, that wasn't said by a million I, well, Boston Lloyd loses his channel. I don't think Boston Lloyd has a channel. He's always getting the answer to Instagram and, and I haven't feeling people probably report him to him. Yeah, but the amount of all the things that are out there. I know. I'm so many different weird subjects and topics and things stuff and both stuff and you know what people get, most people get a band for nowadays political. You can't say the political. Do you know that? Well, I won't say anything about Trump then. Well, we're not a political channel, but I'm just saying in general. You can't say anything political, you know, they've been being simply banning you know, and people don't want to lose their channels. Yeah. It's crazy. Really, it's insane. You think about it. I, you know, I look at these YouTube channels, you know, Chris and I'm like saying to myself, I should just do a fish tank channel. It's so hard to get hits on, unlike a Japanese channel. I mean, I mean, I thought like, like, a lot. This, this kid I watch on YouTube and I'm trying to pull up his videos. This guy, this kid, he's a kid. He lives in his mother's basement. He goes around the world, basically, just film people's fish tanks. Do you not get a belief in this? What? And their homes? Can be their homes. It could be, you can be anywhere. That's, you know, fish are bigger than the LMPI gas. Yeah. That's the one finding out. See if I can get a good picture. It's good. Dave, you know what it is? It's like this. I used to have a body to build a camp. I was the first one to ever do it. I pre-empted Sean Ray. You do it yourself? I did it with Laura. Okay. And I would have this camp all the time. And Joe gave me, Joe, we don't give me free outs and muscle fitness and flex. So it was okay. And, um, and I, in right off the bat, the stunning thing was that we got total number of bodybuilders to attend. Zero. It was so people. It was just regular people who, you know, the fish tank people. It was regular people who were like, okay. I didn't know what Laura. Or, you know what? I want to get in really good shape. I'm taking you way back, you know, way over 20 years ago. But I want to get in great shape. Okay. I see this at the magazine. She's in great shape. He's in great shape. They must know something. So at least I'll go for the information. Right. It's like, it's a weird connection. No, it's a strange. It's like, it's like a strange thing. It's, yeah, it's a good recourse. People go for the knowledge. So I wanted to, it, it, look, if I said Chris is Cito and I got to be in a gym doing a training camp. You don't think that we would, we would have saw it out. I don't know. But, you know, I can tell you. It would be, we want to come hang out even to learn how to train number one. But also just to hang out with us. You know, it's just, hey, I've been really smart back then. Instead of doing a bodybuilding camp, I probably would have just been a better, better, I would have been better off selling fish. With an ad in muscle fitness. It'd be like, where's the connection? Look at this guy. 7 million views on this video. He looks like a fish. 7 million. He looks like, he's got 600,000 subscribers and he just recently said, this is not that, this is not like a new channel. It's not like an old channel. Look at these. These got millions of views on these things. You should put one up as a trial below the date. Dave, you should, you know, Chris, I have a fish channel. I'll pull my channel. Did I haven't posted anything to since I moved four years ago? I just started with a muscle fish. Okay. See, there you go. You are ahead of your time. And this guy's cashin in. Muscle fish. Muscle fish. I'm a poor old man. The subscribers, Chris, go up every single day. I got almost 20,000 subscribers. I haven't posted a single video in four years of that. Okay. The reason is people love to look at fish tanks. Okay. If I, it's got more, if you got more subscribers than my reptile channel, which I put up with videos every day, like five days a week. Okay. Because people love to look at these. These are just looking at my old, they're all looking at my old stuff. My snow white arrow one I had. They, they, they, they, they might look at, they get tons of ads on this. You can't even watch the video for somebody else. That's my, that's my arrow water that I had. It was almost three feet long. That was my monster, my monster fish tank, Chris. Yeah. Why don't, why don't you try to expand this, this, you don't have the time? I don't have time. I don't have the fish tank. I'm setting up the fish tank in the garage now. So, Amanda and I decided one tank is reasonable. You know, I'm so. Oh, God. Dave, you're such a psychoso. What were you agreed with? What I wanted. One is reasonable. Everyone was looking for it. I did three, you know, I'm afraid. You're not afraid. You get obsessed. Oh, she's saying I'm not telling you. I have one fish tank though. I have a, I have turtle, I have a turtle tub in there and I have a tortoise tub too. But that's, I don't count those because then I fish, but you're going to get obsessed about it. Well, I would be, you know, and I have too much work already to do with the other with the snakes. And I enjoy that. But so I, I don't really want to million fish tanks. But I like the whole, I like, I love fish. And I've had, like, you know, I really imagine what is it? Why do you like fish so much? What do you know? I like the whole idea of capturing, you know, nature and attack. It's like just something cool. And it was always these fish certain fish that I wanted to get as a kid that I couldn't because, you know, I couldn't, I can't actually never buy me a humongous fish tank. I think it'd give you the guppies. So I couldn't do it. So that's, so I think, I think, I'm going to switch to covering fish tanks from now on. Rather than go around the world and watch the whole game, I'll just, I'll just go around and then, and video fish tanks and make a lot more money. And I can quit doing everything else. This kid probably makes 30, 40 grand a month. I would think from physical to crazy. Yeah. YouTube is, look, you know, if my kid sent to me, I want to be a YouTuber. I would be like, I'd be 100% in support of it. You know, I'd be like, knock yourself out. If you're going to give 100% effort to it, you can work be your own boss. You can work from home. You don't have to go anywhere. Like, not even going anywhere. I'd have to work at home. So I didn't have to be a YouTuber. Everyone's going to be an entertainment nowadays. I see these channel. Yeah. It's, it's certainly, it's after channels now that, um, where they're, they're doing like, they're like, my son watches his stuff like this kid Ethan and Cole, they, they run around killing werewolves and then, and other crazy, I don't know, aliens or whatever they dare after. With these nerve guns, yeah, my sons of sesity's nerve guns, that grandma, grandma, bottom one, they say it, the nerve guns and grandma says, he's not allowed to bring homes. I know I'll get hit in the eye with one of the projectiles that he shoots out of them. Because he's, my son is just not just doesn't like just a gun. He likes to assassinate you, you know, point blank range. Well, whatever he needs, maybe he needs like a little kid. He's, kids, he's a little upstairs in for now. If you, if your son ever came over, forget about it. There we can go. Oh, God. There's a lot of hours. Yeah. There's room in your house. Oh, and I thought to go. Except you all would destroy chasing him, they just, destroy it. He would love it that your son is older like that he can, he has some competition. Because he's, you know, he's tough. He's like, he likes to be rough. And so sometimes, you know, with the younger kids, you have to like, Logan, take it easy, you know, with your son. He can keep it close. Yeah, you're, you're still a pressure around probably about that. Yeah. You get, teaching a good lesson. And there's a one like nine hours in the pool. There you go. That's right. Maybe drowning each other in the pool would be great. Except we can't even see each other because of the stupid code. All the, all the, the whole world is changed. It's all changing. You know, I got to thank you also. I don't have the thing with me. Maybe do you have that? Any of those are our social masks in the house or they're at the office. High and senior, you know, high and senior. He's always into some new business. He sent me these RX muscle masks. They're the best ones I've ever seen. Look out. Yeah. Oh, you're making, where's it on this book? Didn't you get a show? I have a supplement company together. I really good tonight. Dave. Huh? Did they him and George? Fair, I had a supplement company together. He did they sold it from what he called me? I'm seeing her as a designer. Mom's? Yeah, I'll tell you, sir. I don't see it. Her mom's wearing the mask. It looked great. I said, you look like a real badass with this. What does that mean? I love going inside. You're a problem with the masks. See, I have a big head. So, the standard mask with those little things to go behind your ears. It, it pulls so tight that my ears get pulled this way and the mask is full of. Hines is mask has these little like drawstrings. You can kind of adjust how much slack you got there. So, it doesn't pull so tight and you can, I can wear it. I've been wearing recently as I wear just these this thing around my head. Like, it doesn't have an orcs muscle logo on it. No, that doesn't. That's why I like the hines thing. I've got a great job of these masks. I'm, I'm, she's going to get, which is a control to hold up. Where's my elbow? I'll show you what I'm wearing. This is what I'm wearing. Not the name one cares, but I love that I can pull pictures of. That's what I'm wearing now. I look like I'm from the, the camera. Like, really pre-stam. Right, the knot is just something. Okay, that was the car, I held it. Where are you in there, Walmart? Uh, somewhere. I know I'm in like, Sam's. Here's his one. This is the best one, though, man. Did you see one, you're wearing more family, same thing? See, it's got the, um, I see it. Those little things over here. You can kind of adjust the ears. See, I'm in a hospital here. It has a small head, so this is only just, if I were, it would be all us to the end here, because I need more slack. Is it patenting? I don't know if it's patented, but it should be. So, I got this and then there's another one. If I can only find the one that her mom's wearing, she sent me if she texted me a picture. I don't think she posted it any more. It's actually like half of it. It's the RX symbol and half of it. It's like another repeater that I have behind me usually when I do my interviews. Yeah. You're doing it at a bayonet, something that half of it's that and it's really cool. Like, I mean, he did a great. I want to see maybe he can make, maybe he can make him. I'll make some available for sales. Maybe because the judges for the pro, they can, like, I could do that. Oh, that you have, but you're doing, or, or you know what they should do, they, the judges should wear the ones. They should get sponsors and say, look, you know, if if RX also sponsors to show, all the judges will wear the RX-Mosal masks. Yeah. I don't believe a new thing, right? Soon they'll have to, soon they'll have to have competitors on stage. They'll have the have their, their companies logo on there. Oh, look, it's a Phil Heath. He's wearing the gifted nutrition logo on his mask. The Grammys got the Dragon Farmer, or whatever. So we think we'll see, is big rammy doing the New York Pro? What's he going to qualify for the Olympics doing? I hear is an Egypt. Oh, he's an Egypt. Yeah. But I hear it's tough to, once you're any, I, I've heard. It's tough to get out. Yeah. Take it away to go back to Kuwaiti, guys. You probably go from Egypt to Kuwaiti and then Kuwaiti to the US. Yeah. But what, I mean, what's how many shows the left? Where do we have Chicago and New York? To York, Chicago, California. It's California. You don't know what? Yeah. What for many of it? I don't even know for many is the call fire. I think this is showing Spain, but yeah. I know. Is it the big man or something like that? No, I think it's, yeah. Yeah. It's not a big man. But it's in Spain. Two, twelve and open. I mean, because he's got, he's got a qualifier. I'm just kidding. They didn't give them a free pass last time. So maybe he thinks he's going to get the, you know, the invite? I don't know. I don't know. Who do you do? He's a latch. I mean, they give it to him this year. Because they want him in the show. I don't know. Well, they, I would have, they want them to show less. They give them the invite. Right? Right. So, I don't know. I, I would think, I bet we see him in Chicago if you can get here. Or what's, what's the European show you said that they have? Something in Spain. I thought they, the old, the Alicante one, is it the one? Yeah. The Alicante Spain is one of them. Yeah. Let me look at, see if I can find them in the schedule. There's a Cherucles that come in there. Is that happening? Oh, that's not that. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the old, old one. Dude, we're looking at, you know, 2018's getting over here. Yeah. Yeah. We can go in the wrong schedule here. Alright. So we got the New York pro is the fifth of September. California is the 12th. And California, they just announced they moving into Tampa. Go ahead. Then they got the, oh, this is, this isn't the Esther show. So that doesn't count. And the Spain one is called the European Pro Men's Body Building Show. Oh, John and Rico is running. Yes. That's right. With the Milio Martinez. That's on October 11th. And then the week after that, is the Chicago. That's the big thing. We got a lot of pro shows. We got to lead just, it's fast. Yeah. That's it. Is that man? No, it's probably not going. Yeah. That's a Christmas. A good friend Rich Sealman's holding the, that's a masters. Oh, it says. You're sure it's a sponsor in a show. Is it? There's a, so the post the, I don't know, November, the November 7th. I can't imagine this one happening United Kingdom Pro Men's Body Building. Is that happening? Yeah. I think that one's supposed to happen. That's good. It's good for the guys in England. Then there's book arrests Romania on the November 14th. Yeah. I don't know if that's a profile. I think it is for says it's on our open says men's pro bodyville. If you was one in a while, just young, because it's like two, 30 in the morning. Too bad. They cut the viewers come first, Chris. That's what it's all about. We have to entertain them. Look, they're, they're doing their cardio and they're listening to us. Talk on this. I go to a fish tank. Fish tanks still, right? It's a side YouTuber. So guys, if you subscribe to my, uh, my channel, I first thank you all that. I don't put any more videos on because I need, I need the, I need the views. I'll show you my reptile channel. Okay. I don't think I go to a, because then you'll be band-aid. The correct. That's a political. The great Martin Luther King courts aren't put on. Did you see that? Oh, yeah. Try to think where it was now. So I think actually we're leading on my head. I think I started his pitch. Oh, then here's my, um, here's my snake channel. Those of you like, don't like them. I talked about thanks to Dan. Okay. muscle serpension diversity. I've seen my, I put muscle on everything. So, you know, to keep it. I have to keep connected. He's got to be a common theme. So subscribe to that guy. He's just giving me a, give me the subscribe. You know, watch my videos. And I need, we have a lot of people I didn't watch it. It's kind of there. Muscle fish, muscle serpension diversity. Hit subscribe. If you don't subscribe to the dark, muscle channel, you should bet it's for that too, because that's, you don't want to miss any of our great shows. Okay. There's my plug. And what I always got to show you, let me see with that. Yeah. That Rory, Lita, Marthing. I think that was the quote. I'm going to get political. They're going to, they're going to ban us. Rory, Lita, my, he's got a good page on, uh, on, and I gotta say the guy, I don't know how he has got to be what? 60? I think it's in 60. It's great. It's really good. It's age. Well, I told you, I want to search you, praise all time favorite buying a dog. Really? Yeah, I think it did. Search. He could be Mr. Lita hands down. I, I great, what a physique. It's got a hand down. Hmm. He's got to say, you could tell he's just a creative guy. Here's the second column, woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Come back to you. Not with me woewi. Oh, I should think of what he looks. I think this is what he looks like now. So it's great, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, woewi. Woewi. Woewi. Woewi. How can he never got a pro card? He lost about Paris at the nationals. I think about Paris. He's lost his mind too. And I don't know. He just kind of like fell off the face of the earth. Woewi. I think he did like, I think he won the A U America or something, but it wasn't, you know, didn't have the prestige anymore. And I mean, you talked about people not fulfilling their potential. Woewi, lead a wire, ask anyone. Woewi. Yeah. I think that's then and now. So it's so like pretty good. Yeah. He may have a better headline than Jay. God, right? Tell me about it. The guy hasn't lost a hair. He looks like a bigger version on the left. That photo by the left on the left was taken by Jayson Mathis by the way. What a great shot that is, right? Yeah. That, um, the classic, the lower left. Right Charles Clim on there. He does. You're right with the long hair. Look at that. You know what? Rory. Rory looks like a rock star, they're man. I mean, talk about, you know who else loved him? I can't imagine that. It doesn't love him. No, go higher than it. Bob? No, higher. Oh, meter. Yeah, Bob, I think, but he knows Bob well. Oh, yeah, Joe, Joe. Joe loved him, but he, you know, Joe was like this weird. Not done. Joe was weird. Joe loved him, but like one of them, the compete, like when the national skating pro card, I'll make you a superstar. You can't just like have the model good looks. That picture of the left dude is like, right? It's wacky. It's got the perfect hair, perfect cheeks. Well, this 27 versus 61. 27 man, he was 27. That's crazy. Yeah, he was young when you got started. He's not that old then. Yeah. I think he, you know, see the picture on the left that was thick. Those are Jason math as pictures. Yeah. And that's one he was making kind of, I think, a comeback for like the, oh, he was okay. I'll tell you what year. I'm thinking to come back in 27. So I'm guessing he was 22 when he was second to Bob Paris. Wow. I think, I was 21 or 22. Well, that's been guys who young. So they, they, um, they seem to be even Sean Ray, they all that whole crowd was very young when they turned pro. Yeah. But what's going on Bob, Bob Paris has like been really down on body building. I was both. He was kind of down on people. Send me these links. It's like really like, send me something like, yeah, I don't know. He was blacklisted. He was insinuating. Like Joe Weater. Oh, he came out as being gay when it was like, you know, do you think that that was a truth? You think they, they just once he broke that book and came out that they discriminated against him. Or was it just maybe he just perceived it as that? I think there's a truth is truth in both, you know, what he perceived and what was. Yeah. It's all, you know, it's, it's, it's, no, because you're thinking today. Yeah, that's that's what I think. Yeah, I years ago. Right. Maybe just said you're not marketable. If you do that, you know, I can't use you if you have to see it. I'm sure Bob, I'm sure Bob had the conversation with Joe before he did it. Don't you think? Yeah, he's. Jerry Joe. Probably told him not to. And he probably did it. Sure. Yeah, I'm sure. He said, you know, stay in the closet, Bob. He probably said, wait till you've done competing. Yeah. Because of marketability. Maybe because, you know, back then, you know, marketability was everything. You just took the words right out of my mouth. Everything. Nowadays, it's like, almost like you're better if you get, you know, if you do better. It's like, it's like more acceptable. I don't want to get you YouTube channel canceled. You saw my Trump, which Trump said, it's easier when you blackmail. No, it's no, it jumps it. Yeah. No, I think that, um, yeah, you got to think we're at the environment was 25 years ago. So people would come up the Bob and like, like, what's that saying? The elephant in the room? Yeah. The elephant in the room that it was that he was gay. So there's clearly going to be some judges back then, 28 years ago. Yeah. Like, I'm not having this guy in the top five. But then they were probably some judges that were like, ooh, yeah. Yeah. Get those names from the church. Yeah. That's my next channel with like, that he had the names. Oh, no. I'd love to because I, you know, I haven't talked about Paris. The last time I talked about Paris. Yeah. Well, no, the second the last time. But 2001 Olympia came up after pre-judging. Yeah. It said, I mean, how's that? Jay loved Bob Paris. I mean, physique right. Yeah. physique wise, had that that book flawless. And Bob came up with me after pre-judging and was like, like, I don't know where he's like, oh, Jay's got this. Like, what are you doing here at the show? Oh, he just he was in the deep. I come in to see the Olympia. I wanted to see what was going on. Well, I bet you if you reached out to him and said, look, I'll interview you. Like, get me out of the equation. Maybe you could interview Bob. I'll set the whole thing up and you could do the interview with Bob on this. And even I'll just engineer it. Maybe he'll do it. Because he likes you. Fascinating story. Do it. He's his story is, uh, he ran away from home. Oh, really? I didn't even know that. Right away from home. Me grew up. I think in Iowa, Idaho or something. Oh, wow. I think I think I can't remember. But he moved to, was like a teen runaway. Oh, wow. If you want, you know, we went out to LA to be a bodybuilder and all worked out for him. We'll see you run away because it was because of the experience of screwing it against because I think I think he had a step forward. I can't remember the story. Uh, we get, you got to get him all. We got to get this interview. I have his book somewhere. He sent me the book. He, the book, the roll of suit. In fact, well, put down the cover. Get him, run, get him. Yeah. I think Chris froze. Or maybe I froze. No, you froze. You froze. Oh, a froze. They're going to cancel your station Dave. No, I think we were both having our conversation. We both froze. And I said, I said black little bag. I ride, get him on the show. You'll put him on the cover. Give him a cover. You got to reach out to him. I think he'll respond to you because you guys had a, you know, you coached him and had a good relationship with him. So you never know. Yeah, up to somebody's email. Somebody's contact. Yeah. Well, guys, uh, we got to wrap this up. Chris has got to go to his phone sleep. And we gave you an hour. I try to give him an hour of give them to you. No, he gave an hour. So now that's it. Yeah. When you don't have anything to talk about, it seems like it goes longer. Who would break it down a show and everything like that, you know, it's, it's, uh, it goes faster. You know, we can actually, we actually have something to talk about. Well, we got three weeks. Well, fine. Oh, just, just, just, just, just. But you know, from reading that schedule, though, Chris, it seems like as we get into the fall, we're going to have a lot of shows coming up. And I think that's everyone kind of push their shows then hopefully, hopefully, they don't have to all be outside. I might be the new, that maybe the new way they do it now. Except, uh, I guess you do that in California pretty easily, but you don't want to in Chicago and in November, I have to held a show outside to appreciate between us off there. Yeah, all my having to, you know, get the get all connections, the lights and bonfires over there to give her more work. All right, guys, you know what to do. Until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio. Truth hurts in the pregame show. It does. Surely does. We'll see you next week.

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. It was with a heavy heart and a sad note that I have to report that a good friend and an iron brother has passed yet again. Rick Dresson who is probably best known for his logo in the knee droo of the gold gym guy holding that bar with a bar bent, the ball head, he goes to drew the world gym logo as well. That's how a lot of people know. He also had a very popular YouTube channel where he interviewed people who used to come on our X-Muscle all the time. He portrayed the Demi Hulk in the original incredible Hulk series. If you guys ever watched that, that was my childhood. There was an episode where the Hulk couldn't transition between Bruce Banner and the Hulk and he got stuck halfway through. Rick played that part. He was in a lot of commercials. He was a professional wrestler. He was probably, you know, you know, it's funny. A lot of people don't recognize him when he was younger because he had a full head of hair and then later life he shaved his head and Rick was just one of these good guys. But you know what? I knew him more as an artist. He was such an artistic guy. He used to edit his own videos. I mean, he got the guy in his 70s and he was editing his own videos for YouTube. He had a very popular channel. I was working with him and helping him promote that channel right when he started, like over 10 years ago. This was a guy who just had art coming out of his fingertips. He drew an original, gold gym character for me that was not the gold gym logo and he signed it. I have a picture. I have it hanging in my office and I have to believe that it's probably worth something now because now that, you know, when people pass away everything becomes worth more. But you know what? To me, I would never let it go. It's worth a million dollars to me that thing because it was drawn exclusively for me. There's not another one like that anywhere and it was signed by him and it meant a lot to me when he sent it to me because I knew he put a lot of love in that. But Rick was just super artistic. It was amazing what this guy did draw. I mean he could look at something and just make a character. He actually did a great character. I just put on my Instagram recently of the whole Gold Gym crew like from it was Frigna and Arnold and Robbie Robinson and I'll put that picture up to it was tremendous. It was great. He was just doodling. You know, I was commenting to him and I was texting and telling him how would a great job he did on the thing. Like I took me two minutes like it was like no big deal to him. But everyone liked Rick. He was like a nice guy. He was a good person. He loved the bodybuilding. His passion was working out and maybe to his detriment because he lived that lifestyle his whole life. And unfortunately he's passed and we don't really know the exact cause of death yet. But if you look on his Facebook, he had been posting that he had been having some kidney problems and some hard problems. He was having trouble breathing and he was trying. I think he was waiting for a second knee replacement as well. So something was going on. I don't you know, it almost sounded like he had COVID but I haven't heard that. Refordded it all. I mean the breathing problem obviously because he was Rick took such good care of himself. I mean the guy ate perfectly trained. He slept. He just he lived the lifestyle. So I can't imagine that you know all of a sudden that in nowhere, you know, he was just going to you know go down hill that quickly. So I have to imagine he had something going on whether I don't know if it was COVID or for another virus or you know his kidneys. I can't imagine the guys kidneys and heart failing at the same time that just sounds too suspicious to me to just all of a sudden, you know, his whole body just crap out. I don't know like that. And you know, once again, just super sad because like I said, even though he was 76 years all, the guy was like so sharp. I wish I was as sharp as he was, you know, mentally just right there on top of everything. He could interview anyone. You sit him down with anyone and he and the funny thing is he knew everyone. You know, I think I know a lot of people because I've been around for a long time. This guy knew everyone from back in the golden year. I mean he can call up stone cold Steve Austin. He could call Arnold up on the phone and pretty much get anyone into his little studio there and interview him. Franco was in there before Zane. So here's a guy, you know, who people respected and liked as well. And that just makes it that much worse when you hear someone like that passing. It just, it seems like every week I'm reporting on someone else going and it's just, to me, it's, it's heartbreaking because, you know, I don't know, I guess in life people pass, you know, and, but I may be during this whole COVID, you know, quarantine time. It just seems like this is like more people, you know, you know, leaving us too soon. And I guess we don't know what our, you know, we don't know if our days are numbered or not. We don't know how many days we got left and that's why it's important that you live every day to its fullest. I went down my water slide today with my kids, you know, and I really, you know, I, I, I really, I could smell the flowers. I really appreciated every minute that I spent with them because, you know, what, there's so many people who are leaving us and, you know, who knows when you, when you're next breath is going to be. It was actually, the brick was actually born on July 12th the same day as my sister. I thought I was remembered as birthday. And he had just turned 76 and like I said, I even told him, I said, I said, Rick, you're unbelievable. You look, you look like you're like in your 40s. I mean, the guy didn't ever wrinkle on his face because he lived a very clean lifestyle. And so that's what makes this heart, it's as hard as, it's hard as, pill to swallow, so to speak. And I'm working through my own grief here as I'm doing this report, but for those of you who don't know or didn't know Rick, he was a guy that you can bump into in a show and he would be your best friend like in 20 minutes of talking to him. That's the kind of guy he was. He was the likable guy and he loved to talk bodybuilding. You would think, you know, in 76, you'd only be sick of talking bodybuilding already. He was, he, he knew every, all the players, he knew all the people who competed, he knew all the different diet styles and everything like that. And he kept up on it because that was something that really made him happy. So I guess we should be celebrating Rick's life here, not really morning. And even though there's a lot of sadness out there that we've lost in way too soon, Rick's pianist mom who I talked to on regular, but she's actually the one to told me she was communicating with him via text message on a regular basis. And it seemed like he was doing better and he was going to come home. But if you read some of the post, he had put on his Facebook, they seemed a little, like he was a little groggy or something like that. Like he was a little out of it. So I have to believe that, you know, he, he did have something going on with them. And once the autopsy or whatever the official cause of death is released, we'll know a little bit more. But right now this is all I know. I just want to report that a, a good man, a great bodybuilder and actor and more importantly, probably what I'd like him to be known as a true artist has been lost to this world. Rick, I'll miss you man. I'll miss our conversations. But I know you're going to be up there watching over us and inspiring me with all your creative juices. I'm Dave Pellumbo with an RX muscle news update.

I'm gonna be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car pop tart. We've got three and four brands in that carps, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. On day polo and today is Friday, July 23, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard about it. You've read about it. You've been waiting for it, and now it's official. We are less than 24 hours away from the Chicago Pro, and Hunter LeBrotter is coming in hot. According to LeBrotter, this has been the most perfect prep of his career. And he feels like he's at a point now where he can dial it in more so than he ever could in the past. We already know how deep this line of vision, how much is it stake with this thing 13 or 14 weeks out from the Olympia, which adds its own element of pressure. But if he ends up running away with this one, it'll give him a ton of momentum heading into October, and it'll give him a lot more flexibility in how we plot the next phase of his season. Outside of Hunter LeBrotter, we can't talk about the top contenders in the men's open here without mentioning really winglers name. Truth be told, I think there's a solid argument for really being the favorite heading into this weekend when you consider the fact that he hasn't competed from more than a year, which means that we should be less than 24 hours away from seeing one of the best versions of Rully that we've ever seen. This should be the kick ass and take names version of Rully that we all thought we were going to see on the Olympia stage last year. So if you can prove that he can show up and be that guy again, now we're looking at a refreshed and reloaded, really winkler heading into the arle of the full steam ahead, which is something no one else not lineup wants any part of. I have one last thought that I want to share about the men's open before we move on. Don't sleep on Mohan and Shabon. Plain and Simple, he's already had a handful of top three finishes this year, and in at least one of those shows, it felt like the first and second place came down to a coin flip. And it's not like those were cupcake line, I've seen there. He's been running headfirst into line up as full of monsters all year long, and it hasn't slowed him down one bit. And when the final numbers are all tally here, I wouldn't be surprised if we saw his name up there landing in the top three. Since I just mentioned Rully heading into the arle, a few minutes ago, I figured that we might as well jump right into this update on William Bonac, because the reigning and defending Arnold Classic champ has been on a roll lately. The update we've seen coming from William's camp over the last month or so had been hard to wrap your head around, especially when you take where he was at. If the start of this prep into consideration, within a matter of weeks, it looks like he's turned into a completely different person. And the man we're looking at now looks a whole lot like the one we saw March and Columbus, Ohio, and take no prisoners on his way to winning that title last year. And here's the craziest part about the whole thing, it's only July. And his best version is a puzzle that other people just haven't solved yet. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the Morning on April 1, reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

It's the weekend here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm day polumbough and today is Friday, June 29th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you follow the news at all, it feels like every other day there's a new story about how we manage to piss off some new foreign country. So I hope for that sake, we don't find a way to get on the bad side of Rulewinkler. This week Ruley and his crew released an official 11 week out update, photo that shows the big guy looking as crazy as ever. But the most part, it's been a relatively quiet year for the perennial top six Olympia threat. Despite the fact that he's coming off, what's statistically might have been the best season of his career. But if this little sneak peek is any indicator of what's coming down the road, it's guaranteed that he's going to cause some major problems for the competition heading down the back stretch of the Olympia schedule. The power phrase in the infamous Tony Robbins, if you want to see massive change in your life, then you've got to be willing to take massive action. And for where I'm sitting, second year classic physique star Kevin Ford looks like he's doing just that. The latest updates coming out of team Ford showed the sophomore sensation, looking lean in mean 13 weeks out from the next date circles on his 2018 season calendar. Back at the start of the year Ford put together the most complete look we've ever seen with a well-diversar of top five finish at the Arnold. Again, some of the most talented guys in the division and considering the fact that he's already on pace to blow past that look he had in March, hopefully can show up and deliver a knockout shot that'll help to solidify his place as one of the true up and comeers in the division. They say you should never underestimate the heart of a champion, but right now I hope for their sake that all the champions out there aren't underestimating Logan Franklin. In case you haven't heard recently, Franklin is team announced that there were officially starting contest prep for their first shot at the classic physique division, where the perennial men's physique Olympian will look to become the first athlete in history to become dual qualified to compete and both the visions on the Olympia stage. From what we've heard, Franklin and his team are still planning to compete as a men's physique competitor at this year's Olympia weekend. But a win in a qualification for the classic division would elevate this guy into some sort of weird hybrid, super athlete who could end up being one of the most captivating stories of the entire weekend. The great George Foreman once famously said, generally, when you see smoke, there's just a whole lot more smoke. But with all due respect to the champ, I'm about a thousand percent sure that that doesn't apply to the human smoke show that his figure superstar Bojana Vassaljavic, two weeks out from making her first trip to Vancouver Pro, the two-time Olympian seems like she's ready to come in and throw some sort of a maker that would make the former heavyweight champ proud. Last month, we saw Bojana put together the most complete look of her entire career back at the Pittsburgh Pro. So if she touches up on a few minor details and really hits the mark here, career win number two would definitely be with in striking distance. I'm a firm believer that winning in anything, whether it be bodybuilding or otherwise, first and foremost, starts with the mindset that we wake up with every day. And if there's one thing I've learned about classic physique rookie, a mid-roy over these last few years is that this guy is a prime example of what it means to have a winning mentality. Less than two weeks away from hitting the stage for the second time this season, Ethosha Kago Pro, the former North American champ, looks like he's ready to bring the heat. Even though he wasn't happy with this placing up the New York Pro, Roy did come out and prove that he had what it takes to stand in their entrain shots with some of the best in the business. So as long as he can take what he's learned from that process and apply it to round two of his rookie experience, I don't see any reason why he can't be in the running for a spot in the first call out. And that does it to yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day Palambo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If leg day was yesterday and now you're wondering why toilets are so damn low, you are definitely old school. If you're the only athlete in your gym that knows there's a contest today and it's to see who trains the hardest. You are old school. Go S BBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Welcome back to another episode of Iron Rage. I'm here with Lee Priest. As always, we've got a big show coming up this week and the Chicago Pro, which might be one of the most competitive pro events we've seen this season, Rooley Winkler, in the show, Hunter LaBrada, in the show and a host of other people we're going to talk about in a minute. Who do you like? If I'm going out on a limb, it would be a very breakable limb, but if Rooley turns up like his phone, that's what it's seeing. That's a big ear, but if you show up like those photos, I can't see anyone beating him. I think Hunter's got a pleasing body, but Rooley's mass, and if he comes in with that mass and they're conditioning, I don't think anyone's going to take it from Rooley. I could probably see it go in really hunt the second and that. Let's just hope he turns up like the photographs. We haven't really seen too much of Hunter, and we can pop his Instagram. I mean, Hunter's been putting up some pictures, but I have to imagine that Hunter is going to be better than he was last year, because he's at that age where he's still growing. And he's devoting almost time to bodybuilding. He wants to be the best he can be. He's got a really good mentor and his father there, obviously. He knows how to present his physique on stage. He's a guy who might not have more mass than Rooley does, but he might present it better than Rooley does. And sometimes you can sneak out and look at that side tricep shard. I mean, that's a nasty shot right there. That's an old Dory niche, right? A Dory niche. Well, I think it's going to be one of those things isn't it where it comes down, because we know LeBred is going to be in condition. You know, it's how to pose. He's got the cemetery. So it's going to come down to, did they want the mass monster or the guy because LeBred does have mass himself, but it's not like that full on cartoon character. Mass, he's got all the proportions with it. So it's going to be, it's the both in shape. It's going to be, who the judges like the most. So I, I, I, just instinctually, my, my gut tells me that if Rooley's that is best, I don't think anyone beats Rooley because he's, he's so massive, even though LeBred has better shape than him and LeBred will present this physique better. I think that the judges will eat that monster look up. And I think Rooley needs to win anyway to get to the Olympia. I think this is going to be Rooley's show to lose. But we have never seen Rooley come in 100%. LeBred is always like, he's like his dad. He's always like, Paul, who's looking his tan as gray, his presentation is really good. And when you see a guy that is that complete, he sometimes can't be in booze or the judges into picking him because your eyes can't leave his physique when he's on stage, you know, posing. Well, listen, LeBred is already in the Olympia, isn't he? He's what? Isn't LeBred already qualified for the Olympia? I don't know if he is or not. I don't think so. He hasn't done anything this year. No, well, maybe for one of them's going to, maybe it'll give just a little broder, really, the Arnold's because I get, you really want Rooley at the Olympia, wouldn't you? So, of course. Of course. You've been crazy not to have him there, so. Well, here's your concern, if one of those doesn't win this show, I would have to imagine that they would go to the Tampa Pro, wouldn't you? Exactly. And we're going to be in the next year. The campus already stacked line up, it seems like, you know, with the guys like Ian Valier and that line up, I mean, we're going to see a lot of good shows leading up that Olympia. Is the Tampa Pro in California? That's a good sense of effort. In Florida, you can do shows with, you know that. Now, what I just figured, yeah, the new old was you've been playing there, and the also isn't Florida, so that we get Florida would do. They said everyone goes to Florida, Florida is the place where you should do anything you want, you know? We're going to be playing these in Florida. Now, I got to bring this up to change subjects quickly, even. Look, I told Mr. G, because he message me after that show about big, Lenny and Lenny's new thing. I'm like, I just said, look, August 1st just had the fight. It doesn't matter if you give Lenny six months or six fucking years. He's not going to get any better. He's going to probably be more dog shit. So what you see, Lenny hit the bag then is as good as you're going to get out of Lenny. So you can give him order training in the world. It's not going to change his fighting skills. So I said, just move it to August for your dragon and on your dragon. I told him that a little time ago. Yeah. Everyone's lost interest in it. It's just like, it's like, it's like the guy said, when they had that face to face little meeting, they should have just slugged it out. Yeah, and it's right back. I never put it on with. But you know, it's like dragging out like a, you know, you ever see like these like so proper like shows on TV, those were like an afternoon to eight episodes. And then the final episode, you'll actually get some action going on in it. It's like a damn sometimes because they're dragged it out. So long to actually get your like, was it? That's like a very disappointing. Yeah, it's a tably. So those are the can and the movie right. But I said, I think that the the final outcome might be the most boring part of the whole of the whole fight. They're going to have so can you imagine, but even the lead up was good, but they're a lead up, standing boring. So I'm going to be like, well, that's why we're going to be like, we have new people coming in and training Lenny and you know, Mr. G keeps losing him down the tooth every single week. So it becomes a little more entertaining. But you know, like, like, what you're like, what you're going to for now in the guy loses his erection and just gets soft and that's the end of the ball. No, there's no big comes shot at the end of your life. You know, that was disappointing. What's that? Yeah, that's right. Did you see that you could make? You could make that. I did see your best mate, Sean Ray. He got signed to another company because when I when I think of mutants, I think Sean Ray, that big freaky physique. Sean actually texted me was he was. He had said to me, you know, how come you don't report him? When I get a contract, they said, we did you like this on Instagram. They told him. So that's what you've been seeing. He's doing. Yeah, you know, you know, you know, Pibris are saying Sean Ray's gay. It is and that they'd make fun of his name. Sean gay Ray in that. But I never thought that because I knew how many girls he'd been flirting with and cheating with and stuff like that. But seriously, you could use to say, at least had a lot of contracts, but really, I haven't had as many as him. So I'm sorry, the rethink is because they get that many contracts. He's got a suck good cop. It's like, you can't, you can't get that many fucking contracts and not be a good talk sucker. And I care what you say. Yeah. It's like, I'll look, I'm going to say I'm going to give him a couple of Sean can extract so much money from this industry. And that just goes to show you that he obviously is doing something and providing some service for these these companies that they're actually hiring him because I'm not doing a good thing. You're just extracting cement. You're buying that like Sean Ray and I don't know some people like him, somebody with all like him. But the guy works and he makes money from self. And so you can't out him in the sense that he's actually making a living from the industry. So I tell people who are sitting on their ass complaining about the fact that can't get a contract. If Sean Ray 20 years after his retired can't get a contract, you can get a contract too. You got to make yourself valuable. You have to do something to actually say, hey, you know what, I have a skill that I can actually help to self-product you. Because I have people come to me old and timely and they want to contract some species and traditions. I'm like, what do you need to do for me? How am I going to make more money to justify paying you a salary? And most people can't tell me that, or they're like, oh, I'll post them I answer you. I'm like, well, you have 4,000 followers. And then once in half of the high fall, they don't want to post anything. They're too lazy. So, you know, the guy obviously is somehow getting people to hire him because he's providing some service that's giving them the ability to make more money. We know what services provide. We have a black mentality. Black mentality. What was that, what was that app you used to make those videos for me? I think it's, well, I have to send it to the away boat or whatever. See, they need some videos. I can't put them up because they're all monetizing music, but they're so funny. He takes like, you take a picture, right? And you can actually, what is it that you upload the picture? And then you can say, let's go on. You've got to self, yeah, you can take a selfie, but I took yours from the yours and Steve from just a computer saying, not as good, but yeah, and for some reason, once you put it in, you just pick a song in that and actually make your mouth and ice moves out. It looks like they're singing the song. And I believe it's something. Because you put, you pick like the real gay songs for Steve Black. And Steve's eyes were like, he was singing shows, you know, like, back in the 60s. It's not like that. When that's why I look so good for Steve because it wasn't Andy Ordinary. That's actually just funny. His eyes were like, bugging out of his head. It was a really funny actually. There's a good thing. There's a village people song them in there, all that. Oh, I don't know. I don't have to say that. I was sitting in the bed so I was my dog. I hope she makes it. She's my little two and a half pound York. She's got to get some surgery, get spained. And I don't know, she's got a lot of meat here, something like that. But so I'm sitting in the dental office and I'm playing these videos. I had to hit my earphones in. And I'm laughing. And I don't realize how loud I'm laughing. Everyone's looking at me like, you know, because everyone talks and everyone's like, sight and mute, silent, you know, they're all looking at their phone. And I'm just laughing out loud because they're so funny that like, that like, I couldn't, like, bottle of laughter. And people like that guy's a sick guy was doggy. Sickenies like laughing. Yeah. I'm like, am I actually that kind of a bit like a strayer when a bit's charged, a thousand and thousands. It's like, oh, New York is what he was the worst. I actually had an animal that they got surgery in New York with $7,000. And the dog didn't even make it through the night. And I thought the pay to $7,000. I said the dog didn't even make it. I don't know. It's crazy. It's a fart. It'd be a lot cheaper. You want to hear something? The guy who's the guy who's operating on my dog. Who I don't get to meet because he was too busy in another surgery. The lives across the canal for me. His property, there's a property like a lot next door to me that he owned that I actually bought. I've never met the guy. I've been in the vet so often, at least 20 times. Every time I'm in there, I'm like, can I see Dr. Carl? Oh, he's too busy right now. I'm like, you live across my neighbor. Now he's operating on my dog. He's at my dog's life in his hands. And I haven't still yet to meet the guy. I've been here for six years. And it doesn't. Then you can launch it across the canal. That's right. I'm going to start taking shots and it's going to cross. Speaking of that, have you got that series over here? I just watched the list. Watched the note in the last few days. I was at Dr. Diff TV series. Have you watched that one with a really bored one in Christian? And later in that? Now, what did you see? It's a true story of this guy. He was in a, it was like a doctor, of course. But he did like surgery on people's spines, like neurosurgery in that. And out of 38 operations, I think 33 were paralyzed and five. He needed and stuff like that. He had just go in there and stuff. Will he just sat out and just fucking do it? I'm not. It's kind of hack job, huh? Yeah, it's just like only a couple of years ago. We've got sentenced to life in jail and shit. But it's been based on the true story called Dr. Diff. And he just moved around. He got kicked out of one hospital. He had to get a license somewhere else. He didn't do it on purpose. He just did terrible surgery. What I said that he was a terrible surgeon, they said he was very smart in life. He could have done like, you know, like studies and look at stuff. That sort of stuff. But when it came to surgery, and everything just wasn't any good. But that one said anything to him. So he'd go in there and cut people's arteries. Now just start bleeding out. He'd sell him up with stuff in. But they reckon that's how they got it because they said that he must have been deliberately gorned. And he said an email to the school. He was having an affair with an email that's saying like, you know what it's like to be God and I can kill people and this sort of stuff. So he made all the things out of it. It was another like, yeah, like a psychic, like a really high on almost like Ali Baldwin in that movie of Malice when he said, you asked you by the God like complex. He's like, I am God. There was actually like that. Yeah. So that's pretty good. It's kind of Dr. Diff. I just think it's a true story. And then I watched last night I watched that other one about the rapists here, killed it just caught only a year or two ago to the one in Los Angeles or around that area Sacramento. Robyn, the rapper. They call the rapper? It was like one of those two. He's something that rep are inside. Rapists and that yeah, he's done like 800 people on the one, killed him. It trucks stuff. He was like, yeah, it was a good one. They're a cackle. DNA, they kept collecting DNA because this thing on I watched on it, this documentary, this woman wrote a book about it. But she passed away. She was married to that. You know, I'm gonna be so a reason for me to get the book coming. They kept going. They said DNA stuff. So eventually they went through his trash later. And it was actually a policeman. You might remember him. He was in court only a year or two. He was like a real old guy in a wheelchair. Yeah, a face shield on. Oh, really? He was actually a cop the guy. Yeah. Those guys would not be to you would not get away with crime. The lot better probably than the other person. I think he raped like 50 or 60 murdered 15. Wow. He was real sick out, huh? Holy shit. Hey, let's just say, if you got a hobby, be good at it. That's what I said. I mean, I'm all. I should have hung him up in the center square there and raised more. But isn't it weird, because you can do that back in the 60s or 70s when DNA wasn't that great. Well, because they kept the London DNA and now things have progressed so far that this woman in the book, her last page in the book, she said, like, one day you're going to be an old man. You're going to hear a car pull up, they'll be a knock at your door and stuff like this and they're going to get you and pretty much help. That's what I work. Yeah. That wouldn't have been, that's called alone. Aloning the dark or something. It's called the Docu series on TV, at loaning the... Well, I like this. I don't like to watch things where I'm going to have a bad feeling after the things over with, you know, because the guys that just sit down. Oh, no. That's what, hey, Dave. What's, you know, there's always funny right from the moment I think I'm like, oh, you look at the Docs. I think of course it's not depressing. What do you think? Some of the climbing crew are on. Well, you watch a lot of these depressing. I don't want to watch it. I don't want to see some funny rapists guys rape 50 people. I mean, they probably interviewed the, they probably interviewed all the victims too, right? Yeah. But Nick Gick is an Ad in light because they're old at two now because a lot of them were right for now, 15, 16 and maybe in the 50s and 60s and they said it was the best fuck they ever had. Oh, that's not bad. That's not bad. That's not bad. I saw the ad. That's your psycho path coming out. Let's get back, I want to get back to the Chicago Pro for a minute because we talked about the high-end of the talk. We talked about the talk. Pull that list up, Tyler, up there. So we got a couple people that, you know, a lot of people in that talking about who's Simon Stoff obviously has done almost every show, Eslam Muhammad who also did almost every show this year. These are guys that could certainly challenge Muhammad Shaban too. I was very impressed with it the last time he competed. I think a lot of these guys can do this. What? There's the one Christians trying and is that a stop? Stop, stop, stop. I know that. I'm not saying, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I keep confusing him because you remember, you remember, the stop of Muhammad with the big quads? Yeah, he's a lying king. He's a lie in king. He's a lie in king. Yeah, that's yeah, that's the father, right? I don't know. I'm sorry, thank you, sir. Tyler. I always seen him. What if he just nails his conditioning? He said he's got all the mess in the world. That guy said. That's how he's conditioning that's been holding you back that little bit. He's not far off. It just looks like that, you know, they get that film award and they just can't get rid of that sort of stuff. When you do that, many shows in a row lead. Don't you think your body kind of stagnates after a while and it's hard to dial it in? It just won't go beyond a certain point. You could starve the person they will not lose anymore. I've done that. I've done that before where you do so many shows and then you get to a point. Like you said, you can cut your calories down. You can go zero carbs. You can do more cardio. You just don't get any better. It's almost like your body said, hey, I've had enough. It just starts. That's what it just starts. It's almost like it's fight. It's like it's fight. It's like it's fight. If you just hit me head against the war and then, cause you get so frustrated and stressed out, you must start to look even worse. So we better off just pull and depend. I don't know. I guess maybe if you've never hit your peak, it might be a different situation but there is a little bit of a theory. I haven't hit my peak yet. I'm still waiting. Another person on the list is Akimarkel, also another guy who could be a factor we don't know about. I've seen some of his pictures that we could pull. He was looking pretty good to me from the pictures I saw over him. He's a sleeper guy that you know, not no one's talking about, but could sneak in there and do some damage. Yeah, so I'm on the show just this morning on the news, there's some big flooding Germany. I've seen Merkel day when they're just talking about the flooding and the river that washed away people in Germany. Same person we're talking about. Yeah, that's interesting. I just heard Merkel, I was just saying that there's a chance. I don't know. He's like, I like Zack's physique a lot and I think he's got a lot. Bells and whistles on it and that's, you know, that's something that, you know, if he comes in with ridiculous conditioning, he could be guys that like, you know, that no one expected of the beat and I think that. What does the good thing? Because we haven't seen a lot of these people staying side by side and as we said, we can all look great in Instagram pictures and buy ourselves and stuff. But once you get on stage, under the lights, because some people, even the stage lighting at some shows, you can look great at one show, being the same condition, go to a show, we're glad people say you're smooth, but you're still in the same condition, but the lighting just, you know, smooth, you're out and stuff like that. Well, how many people are asking you for contracts anyway, Dave, you said people ask you for contract, you can't sign anyone, you're waiting for me. So, I asked Lee, this is a report that he always ignores the question when I ask him about it, though. I'm very, I'm very expensive. Yeah, I think I could say that, but you're so worthedly. Oh, I know, you might have fired it. I did it, but I won't. I did it, but I won't. I leave maybe a little video with me saying, this is not just so long I get a my way. I can't play it though, just it's to demoditize, put that list up there again, Tyler. I'm not done critiquing. I mean, have any of these in your show like this thing? Okay, I mean, this 15 on the list here, Brett Welkin, I think making his protebium, I see also Seth Shaw from Las Vegas, another good guy, Joe Mackie, Joe Mackie from Dallas, that's a tremendous amount of stuff. Yeah, I've seen a couple of videos of him trading and that he looks pretty good. Yeah, Max draws in the lineup as well, probably one of the best, best upper bodies in the industry, you know, best backs. So we're going to see a good show in Chicago here, the two 12 in class, I'm not going to go over all that, but those lineups are really good as well. I'm actually excited for this show because I don't really know who's going to win and obviously really is the favorite of course. And we're all waiting to see Rally show up because I think it really shows up at his best and brings a ridiculous look to the stage and wins, you know, pretty unanimously. You got to throw his name in there as a potential guy to win the Olympia. I think he can challenge Randy. Exactly. Obviously, don't be too hard. Easy. Easy. Easy. But the thing is, is really in the country now. Yeah, I'm going to ask him a question he must be. I'm sure I know I'm a hope so for his sake. Imagine if Rally pulls the trifecta wins this show, wins the Arnold and then wins the Olympia. I mean, that would maybe be the greatest, you know, come from behind, you know, come back a more time, you know. So. Well, I think I think we've just many people qualifying now even like I said, even first place at the Arnold gets to qualify now. I think come to the Olympia with some of the people who weren't in it. The Olympia is going to be a good show. Even though the Arnold's going to be a great show to the Olympia because you're going to have, you know, Ramy and it's so to put all these guys in it. Let's just say like, you know, everyone comes in great shape at the Olympia. Be hard to say, really is the top favorite because yes, really speaking all, but then you got the other guys who have the free here aspect and stuff like that. And then you have Kai Green in it day. I just thought of throw that in. I go that was my final question. I saw the Kai Green was teasing potentially doing the Arnold UK show. There was some back and forth. I saw Instagram stuff where with Kai was like, you know, hinting that he'd be in the show somehow. Whether he's there just watching or doing the show. I don't know. That's a different question. You think we just fought out front. I just fought out front and in for the people in the comics. Well, yeah, did you say, I think you sent me the screen show, right? Or did I send it to you? I don't remember, but there was something with Kai Green and the Arnold people going back and forth and suggesting that he was going to be in the show. Yeah, but he said a qualified today. Lampia, the Arnold UK. I don't think the UK would know, but if Kai did the Arnold UK, don't you think they would invite him to the Olympia, especially if you're one of the show. And you think so. If anyone deserves a not invite, I think Kai is earned the invite without that. If he, and especially if he did a show like a couple weeks before, I think that would at least show that he's serious about the fact that he wants to do the Olympia. So I think you have to almost give him the special invite, you know, if he won the Arnold UK. The question is, if he was a second at the Arnold UK, would you give him an invite? That's the question. Yeah, it's hard to say, because he's kind of bringing money in his it is. So, you know, if you put, what do you do? You got to be thinking that the good for the Olympia for the, you know, the money, people of fans, but then you got a dev half-sign, he doesn't deserve it. He shouldn't be this. So you're not going to win that meta. What did get so? I said last year that Randy should have gotten a special invite. And that was only because he wasn't, you know, he wasn't a Kai Green, you know, with the level of titles he had. I'm glad he got it because he got the Olympia win, but I think if anyone deserves it, who's, you know, in the current crop of guys, I think Kai definitely deserves a special invite. Well, it's point, you know. And even like I said, you know, for all me comes in shape. You know, he can probably agree, Peter, win it again, but, you know, we for all me sometimes. He hasn't got that track record yet of coming in shape every show. So he's got to, you know, even Rami won it last year. You still want to big if the prove it again, he can do it again. And if he gets over there and Dennis helps you again, I'm sure he'll be on track, but just not setting stone where someone like Ronnie, you know, would always hit his conditioning or Dory and or somebody like that or when feel he was in it. You know, you know, and shape again, a win. When you should be, you should get yourself in shape. That's really what you say. I mean, that's that's face that I mean. But don't stop now that you have people complaining to comment, say, should you get a baby sitting in shape? Well, that's what Dennis says, but you know what it works. Look, whatever they would have they worked out, we could just And chat and they figured it out right. Stay quiet. Essentially, essentially a candle. I like that. It's pretty good. Snake oil. Yeah. Dr. Salte's snake oil candle. You always have like some unusual kind of items in your house, like, you know, something. And it's usually something that a pan is like, like, like myself. Yeah. Did you actually buy that yourself? I did someone send that to you. I brought it because I didn't need shock it up in these little country tennis over 150 years ago in the HANA Valley. That's what it is. I asked Dr. Salte, pattern and the incredible healing and therapeutic powers. He secretly blended snake oil, tonic and the thing was, it saws from the world's most venomous servants, the aroma from this, the mixer is guaranteed to kill all that oils and feels that empty void deep down in the bottom of your soul. I got a lot to fill. Initially, when I did, when I ended the lid, I said to my mother, what's that smell like? And the reason I brought it was my grandfather. You know, the old shaving set should get with the shaving brush and you put the cream on your face. Yeah. I just like that. So when I got, I just know it's like my grandfather's. Hello. I have a special guest for you. Some female muscle. Female muscle. It's a peddle of looking at you. That's for sure. That is great. Just just sitting, just sitting, just sitting, Dave's cheating. Very good. Now how, like, Flex Lewis has got everyone moving down to Las Vegas to train. I'm moving everyone down to Fort Myers Cape Coral area now. So I did a macadena marker of the South here. I know Dave's getting older and lost a bit of size, but I didn't realize how shitty you looked to a woman's to be sized up. Jesus Christ, your pathetic Dave. I don't know. Look at this. I don't tell you, should I see the other eye? I don't want to keep seeing that left arm all the time. I want to see the right arm. The bad one. The bad one. The bad one. The bad one that's still better than everyone still is. It's still like, okay. Yeah. I like it. I like it. I think you said shirt. I like the shirt. This one? Yeah. Bal, Bal for Duckions. Yeah. All right. It's when I was doing expandable's five, Dave. I just, Dave. They should get you in on this. I know. I got, I got the look down on. Maybe what's his name? Adam Coral can make a few phone calls for you since he likes you. Oh, you've got someone should. No one. Maybe Sean or A can, he knows everybody now doesn't. Yeah. Believe me, he'd get himself in that way before you though. What's going on here? You're doing an interview with Dave or he just hanging out. They just moved out there. They're hanging out. They're hanging out. They're hanging out. We can't meet Dave and see how's everything with him. Worst decision. I'll be like, mate and Dave. Hey. I'm surprised you're letting people in without a mask. He's like Mr. Mr. Coward. This is, yeah, I'm going against my rules here. But I think, big Jimmy's not going to be happy. He's like, oh, you let a female, you let me in. Well, no, Jimmy came the day after I had cancer surgery. That was the difference. See that one. Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. Anyway, well, you know what, we're going to wrap this up today. For now, let's see, you know, hopefully we're going to be reporting a really Winkle a win. I think Hunter LeBros is going to give him a run for his money and we'll have to see who the wildcards are in there for now, though. At least it's going to be like I said, it's going to be a good show. Whether, like I said, all those people on stage together is going to be very interesting to see because it's a mixed bag of physique's mass size symmetry of mass and then some with condition to earn his big. So I think it's going to be like I said, if they're all in shape, I still, yeah, it's going to be interesting. So, but at the moment, I'll be going LeBrosder and Ruelly one and two just depending on what the judge is want. But then again, one of those other names could slip into. It's raining man. You're going to go by and I'm going to go by some YouTube products because I want to look like Sean, right? He's like a mutant. If he wasn't mutant before you go on the X main, what mutant would lead me? He'd be the senator. What was the guy you were the blue guy? The beast. He'd be the blue guy. The guy who was like the senator, what was his name? What was his character name? But then he beast wasn't he? Yeah, but it looked like a wolf man. Sean Ray would be sure a big beast. Really? How did he come up with that? I don't know. What would he be? What would you think he would be? I don't know. What was the worst one on that? What was the worst one on that? What would you be? Who would you be if you were immune? Well, gone by the card, it would have to be Wolverine because in the comic book, Wolverine was a strain in five foot five. Oh, I didn't know he was so short. Who would I be? Yes, yes. I had to shave my head. You'd be more like the blue one beast. You know, back in the day, that's more beast. Looking because he's pretty big and musk. I think he got Sean Ray to be beast. No, I would be Sean Ray. What was the guy's name? Who was the Wolverine's name? Cyclops. The name is Sabotu. Sabotu. Sabotu. How did you know who was the survivor? Yeah, I think Sean Ray would be Xavier's wheelchair. Black men would be the black men would want to be Xavier. Now, Sean Ray would be that one. He's like the little character that had the tail and he likes, he'd go like this appear from the earth. He's Sean Ray alone. He's got a mutant contract. No one else has gone one. Don't be jealous. I'm dead. He's a funny, funny, funny, funny, funny history. The place where he was. He's a funny, funny, funny, funny, funny story. He's been in history to pay a company to have you on the show. I'm Dave Rubble. I'm a free sprinter of Iron Rage. Thank you, Mr. Let loose.

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palumbo. And today's guest is a special one. I always like to showcase new talent up and coming guys. I'm going to be on board and play second in the super heavyweight class this past weekend at the USA Championships. Super impressed me. That's for sure in Chris Asito. We talked about him on the radio. Just narrowly miss winning that pro car. So I want to get him here today and learn a little bit more about him. And hopefully you guys will get to learn a lot about him as well. And we'll see what he's got planning for the future. So Ron, welcome to the show. Hey, it was going on, Dave. Thanks for having me. Not in my pleasure. Great job at the USA. I know it was a closed battle. I think it was a three point decision. You just barely missed getting that pro car. You had to, I know the feeling because I was there when a couple of times in my life. It's, you're so close, but yet you're so far, you know. Yeah, I mean, I'm still kind of getting over it. I'm trying to turn the page. And one of the things I don't think a lot of people outside of bodybuilding don't realize is that there's no carryover effect from one show to the next. You know, there's not one of these processes where you can continue to build up some type of momentum. You can go from second and I go to my next show and get 16. You know, so if you're going to get that pro car at the end of the day, I'm no closer than I was before I got there outside of obviously improving my physique or one year to the net. You know, your coach Jim called me up and he was like, you're so furious. He didn't want to, he didn't want to. And it's funny. He didn't know that I was feeling the same way. So, you know, I said, man, this guy looks really good. So, you know, sometimes, you know, if you're not, they don't really know you. Sometimes you got to put your, your dude is in a little bit. Obviously, you know, the winner had won the junior. I say, overall, already, he was kind of well known. And so we're going to end up in your him tomorrow. But the bottom line is that, you know, now everyone knows who you are. So now we have to find out where he came from because I didn't really just six foot one. And you're only 242 pounds. You look a lot bigger on stage. And I got to do this. Your body appears to be at least 20 pounds bigger than you. Then you're, wait, but suggest. Well, that's a good bodybuilding. Yeah. That's no good. I would hate to be 280 and look 240. Yeah. I lean on the fact that I have very small insertions. I got small wrist, small ankles. So obviously, you kind of get the illusion that things are a lot bigger and full of really are with the guards can wake. So, you know, by overwork, actually get to the 270 right and whatnot. It will be pretty nice to see. Now, you know, you've been trained for a bunch of years, but you really haven't, you competed, you didn't compete. You know, you're 35 years old. You're not, you're not like one of these young guys coming up. But you haven't been in the sport that long. You have a very fresh look to your physique. You know, your body is still improving. Obviously, you know, what originally got you interested in pursuing bodybuilding. How old were you in the time? I'm very first show was 2010. It was an after show with the WMBF. So, that's what that put me in about 27 years old. So, I prepared for the show for about six weeks. I know what I was doing. A-8-2. And in a car for about six weeks, I showed up and I won my class. Wow. As far as I'm interested in it, I was just always that guy that people kind of looked at, they saw the potential in me. But, you know, something I never really attached myself to, I think, most bodybuilders before they actually stepped on stage. You had this type of mentality about putting on some man panties and francing around. Absolutely. You never really seen yourself being that guy. All right. Well, it was hard for me to attach myself to that idea at the time. It's funny because it's always the guy. The guys that have no genetic count whatsoever are can't wait to get on stage. That there's so much that there's nothing in the guys like you that have this crazy genetic ability to do this. And it comes, I shouldn't say easy, but it comes easier to you. And you kind of take it, you took it for granted, really. I mean, it was like you did shows. You want a bunch of weight class titles over the past years. And you never really thought about pursuing national levels of competitions, right? No, you're right. After I went to my show, I went over all of the, I would almost always win my class. And I just became that guy that did two regional shows dieted for six weeks. Showed up, you know, took some type of waterfield from GNC and I went. And when I was asked about doing a national show, it was all I'll do it next year. So I went on that care cell for about five years until last year's USAs. And I was fortunate enough to play spit. And it was a really big experience. It was an out opener for me because once again, like I said, I had not trained for a national show. It was just kind of something that I felt like, okay, I think I'm good enough on the shape. I had eyeballed it. So, you know, drove down the Vegas and I did pretty well. You know, I, I, I, I was talking about you on the radio with Chris and see, you know, I said, this guy reminds me of a young Ronnie Coleman because Ronnie Coleman started the same way. He didn't, he just wanted a free membership to the gym. He didn't even want to compete, you know, and he got kind of forced into it in the sense and, and he just realized how good he was at it and then he embraced it. I've had you at this point now that you're so close to getting that IPB pro. Have you embraced your, your talents at this point and say, hey, I'm going to give 100% to this now? Yeah, I've embraced it every since last year. I would say this particular prep going into this year. I've had a very, you know, steel focus. But yeah, with regards to the Ronnie Coleman comparison, that is extremely high praise. I think even a pro being compared to Ronnie Coleman is something special. You know, let alone a guy that hasn't even gotten his pro card. But with, with regards to the comparison outside of our name, the one thing I will say is that I look at Ronnie's career and, you know, not just the gym members, just getting here into the sport, but the fact that he was a late bloomer, you know, and one of the things I think about with regards to people is that you can lose a show and bodybuilding to a guy and that could be the most in the max that that guy will ever be able to do. You know, he may beat you at that back class. I recall that when you were saying Ronnie Coleman got 14. Yeah. In the end of the 13 and got before him came close to winning in Olympia with the exception of like, like, we like. So it just kind of goes to show you like a bodybuilding. You never really know, you know, you never really know. One guy's got his peak and one guy just up and coming. So, and I want to thank you guys for that comparison. There's definitely motivating when I listen to it. I told my coach, I listen to it yesterday. I listen to it and I told my coach, and I want to put 800 pounds in my back right now. So it definitely lit a fire under me, you know, for sure, because Ronnie's the king, man. He's awesome. Yeah. Now, you know, just for people who might think that this stuff comes easy for you, you've had some adversity that you've overcome over the years. You tore both biceps, which I find almost impossible to believe. I'm going to have Tyler, my producer, put up pictures in that front double bicep. Your arms are probably your best body part. How did you tell your biceps and how did they get reconnected so well? Well, I'm going to tell you about that and then, you know, my coach is probably going to bite my head off and tell you that, but so the first time I rubship my right bicep, I was visiting home and Detroit with my buddy. And we're getting a good chance to end. I instead of taking a dumbbell to my knee, safely, and I'm showing off I'm young. I just try to reverse curl it halfway down my bicep just my chin and just snaps. You know, and if you've ever done anything like that, it's a feeling that it's really hard to describe, but it's a steakable at the same time. No, it's an internal match of body gives all. So that went a flew back home to Cali. I got that repaired, right? Yeah. Doc tells me it would be good as new, but it's going to take six months because he had a special procedure for me. So, six months later to the day, I'm good. My strength is back. I'm playing basketball and ball things. I reach out to get a steel. Soon as my left arm extend, that tend to snap. Oh my god. Completely non-contact injury. Yep. And the only reason I knew is because once again, that I'm going to stay at the wall filling, you know, because I had not rubs you that who would think they'd tear bicep just reaching out into the area, you know? Right. So, at that rehab was done, obviously, you know, the six months. So, you're talking about a whole year of not even being able to squat because you can't balance the puck. I go to the gym and I just did a little press. That's all I can really do. And occasionally I do some single arm dumbbell deadlifts and that's pretty awkward. So that year was in the wind and when the guards tune how they are now, the funny thing is, my coach makes me train arms. Right. I absolutely don't train them. But how can you know, trains? Is it just naturally that big? Yeah. Well, they grow and I get a little bit doing back. And I think after my surgery went through, it was always, it was always in the back of my mind that it could happen. Right. You know, I'm your son. So, I kind of put arms in the same category as abs. I'm going to show you it's closer. I'll give a little bit more attention. I might train them once a week at that point. But I really don't train arms that much. Well, you know, people watch this. This guy is the FM because everyone wants big arms. You know, no one finds it arms grow that easily. I mean, you're telling me you have to stop training because they can make growth too easily. That's just insane. But that's called genetic. You know, some people got it, some people don't. And you got, like I said, you know, ideally, I don't have a lot of time to do that. Ideally, I think, you know, you're high six foot one. You could probably hold a good two, you know, 260, 270 pounds on your frame and it would still look really good. Which is scary when you think that that's 30 pounds more muscle than you have. Yeah, I walk around. I stayed fairly lean even in the offseason. And I've gotten this heaviest 275. And even with that, I probably could easily put on 295 without, you know, have very about time. My shoes or anything. Now, again, it's not easy. I tell people all the time. Boking for me is harder than leaning out. Because, well, because I find that it's easier to not eat when you're hungry than to be full and just put you in that food. Yeah. And you're staring at 10 ounces of chicken breast and you're not interested. That's rough. You're just telling me. It's 30. Would you say you have a fast metabolism, do you get in shape relatively quickly once you start to contest diet? I do. I do get in shape fairly quickly. But at the same time, I don't ever balloon up. You know, I'll get some of the things I'm going to do. Go pretty far in the offseason. And I always say, I don't really want to create too much homework for myself. Well, I try to stay within about two weeks of being on stage at all times so that if I've got to turn it up a notch, I can. And then on the backside of that, you know, I just try to make sure that I'm ready to get on stage two weeks before it's held. Can I check in? That's smart. Now, obviously, being as close as you was at the USA, are you considering making a run at the North Americans coming up in a few weeks? I'm considering it. I'm definitely considering it. Now, obviously, with the guys to prep, this is going to be uncharted territory for me. You know, I'm coming for being a guy that two shows a year to now try to turn around and do something within about four weeks. So between my coaching and James Judge and FZK, we're just going to see how I respond these next couple of weeks. And depending on how I look, we're going to make a starting decision on going ahead to go to Pittsburgh. I'm not. We're just going to push the course and match them with my am. All right. Well, good luck. Congratulations on the second place at the USA. I really believe you're next in line. I think you got a tremendous future ahead of you. Don't go tearing any more bicep heads, but you got extra despair, at least. You're like a guy who has an extra tire in the rear view, or sort of saying you're a truck that's just as good as the other tires on there. So, you know, like I said, it's nice to hear that you know, people are able to overcome adversity. And sometimes overcoming adversity makes you appreciate what you have a lot more and doesn't make you take for granted the gifts that you have. Had did you notice that after that, those bicep terrors? Yeah, well, absolutely. You know, and I'll touch on something you said earlier about, you know, the late start. You know, there are times where I get very, very curious as to where I could be as a body builder. Had I really attached myself to those ideas. Right. But, you know, every action has an equal reaction. And you know, body building has a huge burnout factor with a lot of guys who come in and they go a little bit too hard and, you know, have first things happen, including debt. And I think that because I didn't go in on the positive side of that, I developed the level of maturity, respect for the process and the level of discipline that I don't think I probably would have had that I'd be starting off, you know, 100%, that 25 years old. You know, in like you said, for my body still looks fresh, it's not beat down. And you know, I see a lot of guys with a lot of elements that I really don't have fortunately. Very, very true. Very true. Well, like I said, best of luck at that North American to be decided to do it, you'll have to let us know. So, maybe we'll get you on the show again, you know, get a little update from you. So, and once again, you know, enjoy the second place. It was, you know, you truly made an aim for yourself and I think people have taken notice and, you know, your next in life. I appreciate that Dave and thanks for having me on and I didn't say it early, but I truly watch all of your content. Whenever I throw on my YouTube, I got a little RX muscle in the morning popping up. So, it always watch you know, I'm saying you and Big Lini and lead priest and all of the crew, man. So, the legends of the body building world, Ronnie Coleman and Big Lini in the same sentence. Imagine that you know we watch as A-Ron. Congratulations, and we'll be following you at the North American for now that we're out of time until next time, I'm Dave Palombo. Stay tuned.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polonvo and today is Friday, September 25th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of body-gulling and fitness. People like to say that it ain't over until it's over, which is true in most cases, but he on Pearson isn't most people, and this isn't most cases. So even though it might be premature to say that the 2012 is a done deal at next month's Chicago Prout, I'm sure we can find a few people who would say that it's over for everyone else in this lineup. He on steam released new progress photos before this 2012 debut on Monday and based on those photos alone, it feels like this could be a one-horse race. So if he is as good as advertised, it means everyone else is stuck fighting for second place. Even though the old saying where there's a will, there's a way is a super cliché. One of the things you come to realize is you're good older, well, is that it's true. You don't have to look any further than Ronnie Coleman to understand what I'm talking about. Two days ago, Ronnie released a video, knocking out a set of floor presses for reps where we saw the eight-time Olympic a champ doing what he's done is entire career by willing himself through every rep, even with all the hip and back surgeries. There he is, still in his element. Still not making any excuses and still finding a way to get the job done. The man's will is unbreakable, and if more people would talk to it that mentality, they would be a lot better off. When you compete at the highest level, finding someone who pushes you to be your best can be an absolute game changer. And for that reason alone, I think we should be paying attention to what Riegen Grimes and Zain Watts in our doing, because these two are cooking up something special. Riegen and Zain linked up a few weeks ago to give Riegen that final push he needs to hit the ground running if they're your rope-up pro in Spain next month. And it's been incredible to see how Riegen's body has responded so far. As of right now, this might be the best Riegen's ever looked this far out from a show, which means that he'll be in contention to buy for one of the three Olympiac Qualifications spots they have up for grabs. And if they can use this show as a rough draft to work out the case, by the time he hits the Olympia in December, he might be ready to challenge for a top spot. If you're a women's physique athlete, this might be a good time for you to flip to something else, because Sheneek ran, looks like she's getting ready to hurt some feelings. As of this week, Sheneek's prep is operating at full swing, as the two-time defending champ looks to make it three in a row. Early in our career, the biggest knock on Sheneek was that she just couldn't stay healthy long enough to make her real push for the title. But now that she's gotten past those hurdles, you can make an argument that she's been the most dominant athlete in any division for the better part of the last two and a half years. Add that to the fact that she's chasing history now with the chance to become the winning us to athlete of all time in the division. And I think it sets up this year to be a perfect storm where Sheneek can deliver one of those Ronnie Coleman 2003 moments. These next few months are about to get wild, so if you're a fan of the division, I would get your popcorn ready. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

arem哥殘人YeahAfter working hard at the gym,you need a mattress that works as hard as you doSpanel and has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep Or do your spinal injury mattress todayD-RushBitWords firstPreeWorkoutVapHey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X ProCurrent 30-year-to-rowAnd what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastryThe Ocar ComptonWe've got three and four grams of neck carbsAnd we love to show this is our best place to be in LARXOVision on rxmuscle.comThis adds to you better knownAs hashtag as davia30-minute question and answer showWith the plumberAll your questions diet trainingSomething in T-TionEverything going on in and outside the bodybuilding world is all on the tableAnd you're hosted for RookieLet's get right to itWe have so much going on right nowThe World off bodybuildingOf course Big RamiMaking his announcement yesterdayHe will in fact be competing at the iFDB European Championships on October 11He said October 11But if you look at the scheduleIt's the show in LA ConteSpanes of Big News their DaveRecorded his response video last nightSo check that out right now on rxmuscle.comWe recorded a mega episode of Iron DebateWith Tom Prince and Milo SarcetteAnd I mean mega episodeSo big that we're going to be splitting it up in two episodes Plus a lot of clipsGreat great great great storiesFrom the 90sAnd of course the importance of trainingThat was the main crux of the conversationBut thenOnce the guy in the story these are going to be some of the more entertaining storiesYou're going to hear and you're going to want to tune inFirst part first two parts right i'm going to go tomorrowOn rxmuscle.comThen Dave as we now bring in DaveLumbo we have a big sale going on right now on speciesnutrition.com Another ass dating exclusiveAnd another iseliceelChocolate milk22 servingsSanimate Donut 22 servingsSanimate Donut 44 servingsAnd of the Nelopeenobutter 22 servingAll on saleYeah now it's one of the letter we're nowWe're doing ridiculous pricing on theseSo the reason is because we only haveA couple leftNow when i say a couple i mean a couple hundredBut these things are going to go really fastWe only have a few hundredI mean we usually sell thousands when we do these saleSo we're these are going to go fastI'm talking like they'll be gone probably by the end of todaySo if you really like whatThe product and you want to get it at the sale priceDon't come crying tomorrowGo buy them now buys meYou can buy as many as you want Until they run outNow they're short dated in the sense that they at the end of NovemberThey expire but as we know these things don't go badWe just can't sell them after November 29So take advantage of the saleLet me just tell you i know most people Most of you guys do the smart guys at the iCThey put in they buy cases and stuffAnd they just put it in their houseAnd they have it for the next six monthsOr even some people who are smart Haven't for the next year Once you have this stuff is expired In the sense we can't sell it But the product does not go bad afterYou know the end of NovemberSo you don't have to use it all in two monthsBut you got to buy it before them Because we can't sell it after that dateI know these products will all be goneThere's limited skewers in each flavorSo check it out at speciesnutrition.comRight now if you spend over a hundred dollarsYou get free shipping tooLet me just run through the for the 22 serving sizesI spend $20,499And the 44 servings that have been donatedI sell $49,998It's like low to the questionIt's priceFair priceThere you goFirst two questions of courseFrom the day belowI'm going to experience half the first questionCould a 58 year old man stay on 400Test and 200 deck up for lifeI've been on that exact amount for three straight yearsAnd all my blood work just came backWithin rangeI had full copperHeads of panel of second timeI have three yearsI know you can only make an educatedCancel with those studies on thisBut you painted that scenarioThe question isWhy do you want to be on that much stuff all the timeIt has to be psychological at that pointNow here's the problemWhen you take that dosageYou're doing a steroid cycle essentiallyStack into compoundsYou're taking what we callFarmicological dosageThese are not physiological dosage Meaning that somethingAnd amount to testosteroneThat would normally physiologically be seen in the bodyWhen you do pharmacological dosageYou get pharmacological effectsPerdominally what we're looking forIs bodybuilders building muscleRecoveryAnd a much higher rate than you would normallyGet when you have physiological dosagesOf testosterone in your bodyWhen you have pharmacological effects occurringYou also have pharmacological side effectsWhich means that this is a long-term thing that goes onSo you can check your blood workAnd you can check everything but we don't really knowWhat's happening on a regular basisIs your body being overworkThe organs being overworkPersonally I would at least once a yearTried to clean out for a few weeksOff of nothingIf you want to coast the rest of the yearOr crews as people say nowadays on thatYou can do itBut what you're going to do is you're going to stagnate on that doseAnd you're probably not going to make itYou're just maintaining at that pointYou're not making improvementsAt some point if you're always on the same doseContinuously Having said that, if your health marker is goodYou're blood pressures controlledAnd your liver and kidney function are goodI can't imagine your cholesterol numbers are goodMaybe LDL could be goodBut those HGLs going into the single digitsAll the timeIf you have a predisposition for heartCarniR diseaseLike in your familyThat's not a good thingIf you're LDL's are a little highThat's not necessarily goodBut if all of thisBut if everything does come back normalIt's once again I find hard to believeThen I guess you can do itI just think once again if you're always on the same doseYou do tend to stagnate and not make improvementsWhich is why you're staying on the dose to begin withSo once again you might want to clean out every so oftenJust to give you a resetThis is a chance to regenerate themselvesAnd you body a chance to not have someFarmicological doses of antibioticsYou knowSecond question again from the deepLumbo Experience AppDev my arms lacks size compared to the rest of my body partsWhat are multiple things that I can do to combat thisNoI mean trainingObviously and putting size on would beThe firstMost effective way to do itI found that when my arms were growingI was having trouble feeling some of the movementsI was doing like if I would do barbell curlsYou know with the length of arm I hadYou know if I would do a barbell curlI just didn't feel like I was getting enough in the barSeptI was feeling a lot and my forearmsI was feeling a lot in my backSo I found that I do one arm cable curls where I could actually reenact into the movementAnd get continuous tension even on the way downI found that I was getting a better workoutAnd I was growing musclesSo you might want to try unilateral isolation movementsBut with heavy weightAnd you'll have to build up to the heavy weightYou know once you get used to itSecond thing you can doI obviously try to prioritize your arm trainingMaybe after a cheat mealSo if you cheat on a SaturdayMaybe on SundayDo armsYou knowTry to not train so earlyIn the morningI tried to train a little laterIn the afternoon when you do armsSo that you have a couple meals in youAnd you feel a little carbDop and some of thatAnd you body is in a reallyOut of the ball of stateAnd then the third thing you can doYou can always do site injection oilsYou knowPameless pumpsGen4 which is out nowWe have it at daypaloma.comThe Chris Clark synthesizeWhich I also haveValibleIn any of anyone emailsMe I could send you the injection protocolIt's that our initiativeThose are products thatYou knowThat would be a much more aggressive approachTo try to increase your arm sizeBecause now you're actually having to put something into your armSoBut that'sThat's aThat's a personal decisionObviouslyButI mean those would be the three thingsThat would be the most effective at buildingArmasYou know also don'tRemember when you have a weekbody partBut they're the armsOr legsSo chestWeakbody parts don't do betterI know live people sayOh do feeder workoutsYou know which basically is aFancy way of sayingTrain a little bit every daySoOh you got a weekchastTrain your chest a little bit every dayI don't find that works Usually people have weakbody partsBecause those body parts don't recover wellFrom the workoutI find that if you train themLessel oftenMore intenselyThey grow betterSo instead of doing likeWhat I would doWhen I was doing my armsOr something that I was wanted to beNaked biggerSo I had a long armSo I would train my armsAnd I said this beforeOnSepartaneSo I would one dayI would just do bySips and four armsAnd other day I would just doTriSipsThey would be very quick daysAnd the gym for meI would only be in thereFor 45 minutesMaybe the mostThey would just some calvesAnd the same dayAnd I'd get out of thereAnd when I didWhen II split them up like thatI was doing an eight day splitSo I was training each body partOnce every eight daysBut bySips and TriSips had their own daysSo that I felt that reallyHelp those muscle groupsBecause they were small muscle groupsI hit them hardI didn't do a lot of volumeBut I isolated themBut you know I don't moveMissAnd then I got the hell out of the gymAnd that really helped a lotI foundI can't hear you saidI can't hear youI can't hear youMy apologiesI can hear youYeahNoNoMy full disclosureMy two-year-old son kept runningAnd out of the roomSo I had toI had toI had toThat explains the noise earlierOn itNoYeahI knew he was in the roomI cut it earlierBut IOKNoNoNoNoNoI told him to goI think he was moving aroundHe was moving aroundThe chairThat wasOhOKI was holding the backgroundWe want to wear InstagramConstant againIf you're watching usAficialUnder the ScorerRX muscleAnd as alwaysIf you're watching us for the first timeOnYouTube Hit the subscribe button below Hit the notification bellSo we just mentionedWe haveDase reaction videoToBigRamiConforming his next showWe have a mega episodeEpicSodesRather coming out of Iron DebateWith MiloSarsave and TomBringedAnd then of courseOver the course of the next3 weeksWe're going to start our coverageI get a heart of leaveButIn3 weeksWe're going to be starting our coverageFor the 2020 OlympiaWith all the timelinesThe throne ofSo againA lot of content coming up over the courseToThe next 2-3 monthsYou're not going to want to miss any of it Hit the subscriptionI hit the notification bellRatherIf you like which you're watching Hit the thumbs up button Comment belowObviously that helps usAnd as alwaysWe appreciate all the supportOf ourEx NationalsGoToTheDouceDaiGood FriendThey showThey visit topicThatSome other bodybuildingChannelsAlready addressedWe figured we'd give the forum on this oneYour thoughts on the U.S.C.Champion IsraelAtoSanyaHisGinoIn his rightPect displayed atUSC253WhatCan cause GinoIn30-year-oldWorldChampionTilerI don't know if you've alreadyPlayed upBut if you can pull up thatPectureOnDableExplainsIt'sTheThe answer to the questionIt's pretty obviousYou knowGinoCommass is caused byThe breast tissueInYourUnder your NippleAnd largeAnd responseToUsually estrogenOr pro-lactinUsually it's an estrogenic type of thingAndEveryone has different amounts ofGlangeal tissueBut they're born withJust like some girlsWe'll get big boobsAnd some girls will have small boobsSame they would menExcept the men don't really knowWith their breast tissuePotential isBecause there's never an estrogenicExposureInIn their lifeNowThere are certainMaticationsYou can take theCannincrease estrogenCannincrease estrogenUnlikely that that's the case with himI mean if you smoke too much weedYou can get aRase your estrogenYou can get kind ofCannincreaseI had aRumatingAnd collegeThe guy never worked thatLike that was smoke weedAnd he looked at himMum's breastsSoThat's a possibilityButUnlikelySince he's aAWRL class athleteMore than likelyHe isHe's like everyone elseIs all these athletesThey're doing steroidsYPIs they're doing antibioticsInitObviously he's testedIn the UFCSo he's not doing itAll year roundHe's got to be very carefullyHe's got to be a passes drug testsBut something he tookObviously irritatedOr exacerbatedAnd made thoseGlans growWeather would be estrogenicBecause of testosterone useSo like something like thatAndableMore than likelyAWRLThese guys are taking fast actingCompancy because they don't want that stuff to be in their system for a very long timeLive times the fast actingShower Compancy can convert to estrogenSome of the faster I think CompancyWe know like tremble onWe know raises proact and really highCan cause a proact and induced kind of commasYYusuallyI found along with that as you canHe's got a discharge out of the glandBecause the proact increasesIn women at leastIt's responsible for milk productionMemilin produce milkBut we will produce a mucusSecretionIf the glands are pretty big in that areaIt could be a combined effortObviously if I were himAnd I'm making big moneyI probably would have gotten the surgery to remove this stuffSo that no one would be speculating about what I'm doingAnd not doingIt just looks really suspiciousI think a lot of people don't pay any attention to itHow many people don't want to have to go for an elective surgeryIf they don't have toThe great thing is that it's really not a big dealIt's a really simple procedureAfter two weeks you're pretty much back to normalI mean I send so many people to Dr. BlauAnd White Plains in New YorkBecause he's the number one gynacomastia surgeonIn the world he's written a book about gynacomastiaI probably have sentYou know 5,000 people over the last 30 years to himAnd everyone is at very satisfiedCustomer because this is what he doesHe's the bestHe IMemime effectI've had guys that I work withIn other countries that flew inFor Dr. Blau to do the jobWhy?Because it's a cosmetic procedure Obviously it would look a little suspiciousIf he wasn't got the gynautAnd he had a big scar across his nippleYou know it would beIt's just as bad as having the gynautSo you want to get an experienced boardCertify plastic surgeon to do the surgeryDon't you get what you pay forI was telling you thatAnd don't cheap out on anythingClassic surgery wiseSo if you want to contactYou can contact Dr. BlauYou know through his websiteCosomaticMDD.com or there's a link on ourArxMuscle websiteBut yeahI mean it's pretty evidentYou know he might not even use the lotI'll tell you I told the story beforeI took one shot of sustenmentMy very first shot of testosteroneEVERAnd I had gynaut come as in the next dayNo jokeThe next freaking dayThe girl I was dating at the timeI long time girlfriend at the timeShe didn't believe meI said I had gynautShe's likeYou took a shot yesterdayI said I got gynautShe's like let me seeI showed it she's a colleagueShit you're rightIt was amazingBecause I always had glandialIt is she thereGeneticallyBut it wasn't like aroundAnd not likeIt was just flatAnd I had nobodySo he really didn't look that badIt assumes they took that shotBoomLumps hanging on my nippleIt happens what happensHe's got to get the surgerySo everyone stops speculatingBecause that's not going to be good for his careerAll rightSo the next question we're going to go intoIs one that Davey told me aboutShortly minutes beforeI sent to ourFireFriend at Chris 586It's about the in-gameNow vegan games and RxMuscle obviouslyHave some history a couple of years agoThere was a video exchangeOr he first initially made a video aboutWell thereDave was responsible forDialismic Carvers passingAnd then obviously that evolved into whateverIt evolved intoA year later actuallyBegan Games channel was taken downAnd we were one of the channels thatAvvocated for YouTube to reinstate his channelBut now here's the latest oneBecause they did get a message on itVegan Games has apparently startedIn only fansChannel and for those of you that don't knowWhatOnlyFans isYou probably already doSo whatever butWe saw basicallyI don't know Tyler if you haveThe picture that Dave was sent Basically it's vegan gamesAnd it's prettyRunchiesNot very family friendlySo Dave I meanIf Tyler has it upIf you want to give your initial reactionsVegan GamesOnOnlyFansNoI didn't even know what OnlyFansIt wasn't until someone sent that to meI actually asked you and you explained it to meButI'm assuming this is the real vegan gamesI mean let's not one made a fake accountI should probably have texted themBut we just got like minutes before he startedSoThe interesting thing isI always thought he made very good money from hisInceFrom his exesme YouTube channelSo I don't knowI haven't looked at his YouTube channelWe may be not getting the hits he used to getAnd he might maybe he's desperate for moneyI don't knowBut it looks like he's doingSo he's showing off his thingSo to speak for moneyI don't knowI don't even knowIf we'd you call that gay for payNoI don't knowIt's just sex for a payI don't knowIt's showing off his cute coverI was likeIYou knowThis is someone thatHe vegan gamesMake fun of himIf he saw someone like thisSo I'm shockedAnd he's doingThat's why I always believe it's not trueButIt might beIf you want to see vegan gamesCuecoGoGoSIDEFARSOnlyIt's onlyFansI justWhat?I saw some mediaI got a TikTok accountI don't knowI just did it because I wanted to watch some of the other stuffI saw a video every now and againJust for shits and gigglesThis too many places to check with social mediaWhat?Can we combine everything?Can they find the way toCan they find the way toCan they find the way toCan they find the way toCan they find the way toCan youBreak�NWe NSOWe can also checkWe can checkReshoot�� PlayStationämWhen you know你说的就算被客人比较什么 CPU和其他地方在什么在外有一些高级财力edar然后你就可以用于利用性 premz strap你去 講世上的時候妳可以去啦妳的生活 是我們熟let的東愛的我自己知道對我的退屆是臉心去像是眾人闊嘴而且跟 Viber是都是健康一樣的可然有了演σω觀察的中午然後去到此為止到得起這把層面發都要先直接講講會告訴你,暫時平常腦袋不是輕鬆了很像被手idy當地這是不知道在 Pompey比較感謝結果說一看 因為他 TRAM的體力這次使用它是非常的迎適合當機梲,飛 unint劫時你要覺得 最棒的事因為我不知道他那樣有沒有得起很多人咱覺得已經沒事了乍重量它並不是大人幹甚麼 所以非常愛的對...好雖然 tanto唱片我才不是覺得我給你妳底去救癢誒房那他可以講到自己的成績所以我會不會用展規的香港人會不會味道你就是我也受到長達他們的態度我不會找人做錯巴黎我以為為什麼眼神那麼其實我比較喜歡《新型牙》我看家裡是同一個好像是我你以為他眼神跟我同類家人因為眼神背前我就一向因為跟小時候跟專業試了他理解他的就能跟孩子還有很多人就 triangle在他們當天學員結果已經突然かい声看,跟cheering特觀安慎可能有一些人都有不自動 Gerard當時我們就被拍票呢然後有人的想奧和焦啤你 anticipate對無人都想捧 DotT cara說這裡真的很像我覺得讓人喜歡過去的四 daughters至別最近他然後我 wants to see her on take top我 lagi很遠呀即使當我對我和裴在这兒我希望是一邊 power paralysis我們來看the show落為了再做梁啠爾再次拍不到不一定做了過去後來呢 eyeliner是啊你一定要成問題那我就不會回頭我有了Thank you我對我做完一點點做的因為你的那個人的我ère成的長得高我選人嗎不orden打算是要把它列更好的我只誤有Female很 International如果你每次跳至水長手會有點大還在提示意外面那樣我也已經下揚機但於機感展示只有新工作你运掏年度到超過幾歲的日子你們他會以為你如何掌盔他們會掌盔多更何行的也不需要內偷便可是為止是舞人禱 berries手 stitches穿鵬也是相互於是鎮誒現在後來的 Jordan shows因為普通的在警ARD還有線比剛才我的機會是好直完全不是眼前跟抽商把柯吵架好恐怖其實慢慢爆實就是就夠受不了但無法提醒因為我覺得結果別慢一點其實你可以給我能夠夠我在上番的需要一個小企業發展因為他也有 enough就咱們說玉光獎勢因為別自在外面最近我講個好評審在第一跟大家點聽大家說...這幾年 tri 次M2我第一次看到四 小的DayL делать在意我又提了track最後 MarianXB有一種 來及ن線因為可以錢你可以講回來,可以講等什麼紐視上 由食物的打擊得到到這裡 好就已經把所有分享進我們那個 disintegrating比如阿�ő Studio 看看可以推進食物絕了恭喜你再時nego發揮物詞意生活教寅神職市區可以亞洲 İş財國倍的手牌內派外國的 hyvin的手牌手�的手牌或許不方向所以算 UVG� Inaudible可以fficial所以學者互相市區會比較大大因為新出場我們要找一次然後說然後要我看那我看了HMG back-end的Klamit跟HGAnd so I was almost on for like two years straight at leastHCGAnd the HMG was in and out AKlamit was on and off too but the HCG was pretty consistentAnd so I don't know if that did it and then I extent on my test to lies the whole time too And test to lies helps balance estrogen THG and testosterone And so that was a like a consistent thing I did Now My levels probably right now are probably around講清楚的五個小拿筹uliflower而上海的當然是美國感覺ize到個大多多天特別也這麼快他感覺知道的話就沒設計什麼但是他們就說這是一個加油阿 Mat oxygen阿彼兒 modeled princes生 Grin不但他還能執行但我就以後嘪死,快死話音很低所以不當然對無敵所以說故事我故事被反歷但是香港人們 denen好的亦如此所以是違反弓的影響我覺得想死拳總配的但當然我就真不相信因為這我明白我其實不能夠到最大的漫絲架因為我是非常瘦你聽我都出來我覺得它會吸引各位所以我希望的會帶給你吧你才能使用我要做的我會輸出我還是能夠你重重的世界上是演出應該會在 komplett推翻我今天曾ady方向我重聲叫時候或者修正修手空装ometric可說可以按右手裡面都在加十二bole如果你在代理中的資 центр有Unablog子跟一anh центр↓就麻煩了然後推出新觸的三角建的可能只能在花工鋪SitSitCanarySitSorry about thatAtom Jackson Dave thoughts on switching to a short-sure test five weeks out from a show so you can easily manage test level on peak weekif you want to run the zero testintish-show data reduce water retention or it does not matter what your test levels are and only estrogen mattersSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSitSit四十年後out of our last daysa杉団會呈現社交換人芬浩 loan那起來那越來越OK為此所以分析你幫人為了萬嘅最後哑絛當時原子為了最後或者我因為即使Tell怎麼了那個我就不會勉強跟在媒體上, Gitarently就不會他只都是指禁來上ソーダ他只要叫他一群滲體上不知了因為他江澤民的娛樂說出現了一種後天後來別有黑鬥因為他現在用不夠空但是他又抓了弄給他讓他在影片裙子他有那種狂鬥 se能中謗可以我已經對抖著衰材然後他能扔起來不要說笑從頭去就是只能走 hed所以他有填� 이야기我能看來駡重切如果你恐怖這種東西但如果你是蝴夜地和кої給海可聶但近other ان善收一次如果你失去被中共的是蝴蝴懦尼利得我相信你想想來港、馬夷疑ention Listen到今天完蛋Matt Dh dermaen也在 gesturemoo很想移動提及街位 vois royal到底就是所有的決定zę對其他的存活就是運用這個 Sen 可以當你stop去做的今天我們都變成了所有的存活ciu的決定輸出領袖 lineup袖不懂了各位,你看到另一個強這個好的比現場這個根據的情況是想掾推銷的就是他們就會這樣幾個月就不敢確討算是имся沒有這麼多一條 Québec已有一個麦經 directly5500了昨天程 15ái我出現了 600我出現了 600雿我在他的內�olan我還都變訂了我再改變了之類因為我達我整個衣服我還還沒有學習至少我等不了這麼多工作室我cil中我還在轉換的box我溝通過可能有一些 progressed我還失去了因為未來 Last week還沒有買了我的改換我最後而你心裡就行了來這錯過了你等逢最近地講了就再回到就通注這集的影片請將文字騙將專任更多大飛行逢單廣名字多通敬甚至只有導演乎每位表演說我等逢未必德人還聽上另外敬部份盟gg2000歲我幫你簡單吧好凹,自己在想事論誰經咩昨天去聯邦即我而來笑也沒有想辦法那 entries他要例如他有什麼常識任何器但我很自私但他算是我不宜斌他做些有些配搭對啊,沒有新語題但當然來講他我當成我懂甚麼的人演唱蠻自á曲60年越來越疼跟他跟他遠離因為我�0说可能大的居然不在可能土地應該留下了返現在是能在發燻人的好由聵冬irit這個5 左右但是 Drew沒有不出一個這看到那 opt 而但是 links belowIcelic pit usil on speedsantriction.combig teachesgive zoomromm marijuananews Deepes Reaction Videofrom last night and then tomorrowtar n mega Episode of iron debatewith town prints andmiglose ros洗fora deри und joystick for repeatson

Oh Muscles the place to be if you want to see money mother 24-7-0-P Heavy muscle ready up on the one-seater when you're staring you'll get ready off for after I was ready Oh, which is me a Jeremy beat and JKP we're going live use 285 worldwide a lot Damn my helmet Where the truth about it building Mother fucker All right muscle Finally

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Welcome back to after hours of day polimbo. John Romano here and I think Greg Balantino is joining us already. The rest of the Wack Pack joining us, I think with Ricky, false is going to be giving us an update. I think he made it to Washington DC. John, he left your house. He left my house a couple of days ago and he was only washing his own hours from here. He was four hours by car John, he was riding a bicycle, but he was going to be a bit of a quickening with him. He's got a suburban, you know? He couldn't ride here, there's no shoulder. He runs in those roads that got no who was driving the suburban John. He is. He puts his shit in the back and he drives it. Well, when he's not driving the suburban, he had a suburban catch up to where he's riding the bike. I don't know, he flies back and picks it up and then goes, why? Seriously? Yeah. It sounds like a two-man operation to me, but he's only one person. I think it's more than a two-man operation, honestly, because this guy's got it all. He's got so much shit going on. He's got the energy level of 10 men. I don't know how he does it. But I agree with that. Did he stay with you, John? Did he stay? He had a hotel, he had already told me he checked into a hotel. He could have stayed here. But I took him to dinner. There's a right here right there. I took him to the Chinese buffet so he could fill up. What do you eat there? Everything. And a boy Ricky. He's like a snake. He had a stock up and hopefully he'll last him for the next month, right? And a boy Ricky. Right. And it load up his glycogen stores. Hopefully. So now what are you doing? I see him in Washington, we're playing the video of him riding around the capital right there. What's he going to like some kind of congressman's house or what are you doing there? The VFW. The VFW is all over him. He's, you know, yesterday was flag day. So he tried to get to DC in time. He's riding all around Arlington and the capital. So what he does is he drives there and then he unloaded and he rides all around. But he couldn't, he could never ride that thing on the street here. There's no way to ride. Yeah. Look who's home from school. Come over here. Logan. Logan, come here. Wow. Look at that. All right. Don't, you don't have to fake being sick. I know you're not sick. That is be smogged, shared on. And it says in the back here. Ask Logan. Don't remember. There he is. I mean, I mean, the live what this from. So that was very nice to him. Logan, how can you not in school? Because I was sick. You're not sick. You were throwing out all last night so we kept them home. But, I guess. Anyway, well, good one. You fall for that. Yeah, we fell for it. Yeah, we fell for it. He kept the man there up all night. Obviously wasn't feeling good. But the smoke was going to be doing good. But you said he was throwing up all night. Now he is saying he's not sick. Well, he won't. After he woke up, it's like he got over it. I think it was, you have had one of those 12 hour viruses. Like where you're like sick as a dog for 12 hours. And then all of a sudden you feel fine. You mean when you're a kid, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can do this. You just to smoke a cigar, throw up, and then he was fine. Yeah. You see, go on. Now, you know, I wanted to bring up a topic that you John brought up the right before the show. You know, we're such a culture full of people that make excuses for everything and blame everything. Like when he blames his sister, you know, poking the little one. You know, everyone blames everyone right now a day. And there's a runner. She's a, I think she's the world record holder at 1800 meters or 1500 meters. She's from the United States. And she has the positive for antibiotics. Oh, okay. It's a natural, natural. And we know it's gotten the tablites of 18 months. So she either was stupid and took it or she didn't realize that she was taking something. She's trying to take something else, obviously. And that was probably, and that she probably was using something on the ground. She's blaming a pork burrito. A pork burrito saying that that's how she tested positive. Is that the greatest excuse of all time, John? You know, pigs have just taken it. They had it rough. But people blame pork for everything. That's the word. That is the thing. They've made it. If you got a dietary problem, the blame a fucking pig. Same like your friend's mother added this. You said, hey, didn't you? I did. And you believed out a pork burrito. I mean, come on, can't you come up with something a little more creative than that? Oh, but where did she get that? I'll tell you why she said a pork burrito. And she didn't say like her multi-vitamin because they have a rule. It's called a no supplement rule. If you take supplements, it's on you. So if the supplements are tainted, you can't use as an excuse for testing positive. It should come up with something better. Blame, trampoling, you know. But, but, but, but out of everything that she may have consumed in the last, you know, week, where do you come up with the pork burrito? I'll tell you what, probably black men in probably can tell you. It is probably like one article in the American Journal and that, that, that, that, that pork burritos are tainted with an angel on my compound. Who knows, guarantee they found something in the literature. Do it. It's like when big poppy and all them guys face fall, they got caught and they're like, oh, we're seeing one of the supplements I took. Oh, bullshit, you know what you would do. That's right. But they took, but they, they, they, that law. No, no, no, no, no. They don't know what they're doing. That's the fuck I thought. I don't know. I wish it, there's somebody else. Right. If you know what they're doing, you remember, you were doing it. You take an angel loan. If you knew what you were doing, you would know to test whatever you're taking to make sure it's not an angel loan. Right. But John, you remember Melky Cabrera, the fuck a baseball player, he went out and opened up a supplement company, no, that shit said, oh, was it an ad? It was like the biggest farm. Yep. It all these guys. Sean Ray claims that he, that he wasn't taking anything and he tested positive for, you know, uh, winch troll. You remember when he lost the watch that? Remember Sean Ray, they took the Arnold class away. Oh, yeah. One year, he didn't, he said it even used the windstroll and he tested positive for it. Yeah, like Ben Johnson, he didn't use windstroll, but John, well, we did that, uh, bigger stronger faster. Wasn't it, did Ben Johnson, he took, uh, I think, Bell told me that he was taking other shit. He thought he was taking other shit, which he, he admitted it. He admitted it. Right. But he was, he said, but it wasn't windstroll because he failed for windstroll. Right. But it wasn't windstroll was another shitty talk he said. And he admitted it. He said he was taking other shit. That means that means his dealer gave him fake shit. You know, probably thought he was taking test suspension, which is a water based test, right? Right. But it wasn't the water based. That's it was the fucking, you know, and it was windstroll because they fucking, it, it went through, you know, I don't know, the angel loan is that probably, if you, if she intentionally took some kind of a nanzilon based compound, that's probably the dumbest thing you could possibly do. Uh, that, that's as Victor County would say, he's failing an IQ test because everywhere he knows or anyone who's got, have to brain knows that an angel on compounds can last up to 18 months in the body. So you never beat the drug test with that, you know. And, but that's why I have to believe that something she used, probably Annaboggly speaking was not what she thought it was. You know, maybe she thought it was pretty long. But he did. But why blame the freaking pig because they can't blame supple and show who, what excuses you're going to make our loan. What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? What the hell? Why do you pick the pig? It's what I want to know. Well, because the pigs always take it. They always take it. John, let me ask you, John, my, no, it's John. Isn't it, maybe I'm wrong. But what, isn't there a female runner that actually has so much testosterone in her, she looks like a man, they tested her, she's not on any steroids. Yeah. It's a, this big black woman who's like, I think she's African. Yeah, yes, she has so many of you talked about her. Yes, she's got high testosterone. They said she can only compete if she takes estrogen blockers. Yeah, I know. That's a thick, isn't it? That's another whole, the fiasco that we can, we can discuss. But this, this is just funny because this girl's like blaming like, you know, going with talk on her, on failing a steroid test. Even though she's the, she's the premier runner, you know, at 15,000 meters. Or 5,000 meters. She's been 15,000 meters. She's been 15,000 meters. Who else? Who else in the history of the Olympics to a, since the ancient Greece day, who has failed a drug test for a burrito? That's what I want to know. Well, I guess you feel like crying. No, I do try to see it get me because the meat was on, like, you know, quality. Well, I guess it's a very easy, a very easy verification. Let him test the meat, right? Right. Go back, get another burrito and test me. Wait. Did they say anything at the end of, I didn't read the article that they say anything at the end of the end of the, the testing the meat or anything that. We can clue the most likely explanation was a burrito of churches. It's 10 hours before I'm sure it is. We don't keep right there right there. Another blame in the Mexicans. You see, it's all the Mexicans, probably. He's just going to know Mexican food truck. I told you it's my mother and law. You should pick in Mexican. Where do they get, where do they come up with most likely? How does that show me? That's the most unlikely scenario, right? Don't know where. Well, it's all known. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, that Mexicans put the, an angelone in there and they're burritos. Didn't you know that? But that's what the burritos are. I want to know because it's better in the history of medicine as mandrelone showed up in pork. I want to show me one study. It's somewhere in the county. It's not fair. It's already jacked up. It's those Oregon on deck of ones, the 50 milligrams per week. They like to inject them into the burritos. I love those. That's why they're so metabolic. I've been telling you guys this for years. So here's the question. How do they come up with the term most likely? Where is my come from? Jones, how do you get, if it never happened before, how do you get most likely? Where does that come from? Because John, she's probably going to try to claim, well, you know, if they gave that pig steroids, they don't know. They just noted, an angelone's a steroids, so they just say, oh, it's, you know, even though that's the last thing they would give a pig, right? They would give it something else other than that. We never give a pig mandrelone. I know that. And a pig up anymore by definition, I think the pigs are fattening. The angelone's not to drug you're going to give them to flatten it up, right? We never give it, never. And a million years would you give an angelone to it. So this is so unbelievably contrived and stupid. Wait a minute, can I play devil's advocate? What if though, maybe it was a fucking, those, Trent, you know, like, because you get the pellets and shit like that, maybe it was one of an infinite jet pellets. And because that contest is, it causes right. Not for an angelone. No, I was trying to, I was reaching. You know, he, that was trying. I was just trying to be devil's advocate. There is no devil's advocate. I mean, obviously she was taking shit. I think you know what happens? They get these coaches and they, he's eating. I have a, I got this information. I just pulled up. It's been a long understood by water, the world, the anti-doping agency that eating pork can lead to a false positive for an angelone. Since certain types of pigs produce it naturally in high amounts, pig Oregon meat has the highest levels of an angelone. Oh, come on now. My son's writing a language with, with, with, with, with, with, with, marker. Oh, come on. If that was the nice legs. Like you should put fish in there. Harry, Harry, like, but um, they would look good with fish nets on. But listen, um, honestly, that's their reachy because you, you know as well as I do obviously. How many people eat fucking pork? You know what? Well, you know, it's, you know, it's, they needed to come up with something. And like I said, they went through a study prob, it was done, you know, a night, and five years ago, someone found that their pigs have an angelone, like compounds in them. Gary, Gary, some of the black men found that online and gave them the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, I want to see the receipt from Chipotle. Wait, my mother most Mexican, she's got a goatee, so maybe it's true. She's a lot of feet. She's got a lot of feet. She's got a lot of feet. You got a kick my son out here. He's hiding under the table. You got to make him talk. This is what you got to do. I don't know. You know what he's John, Emily, you're fucking coach. You know, he's, dad these coaches, look, we'll take this the way about it. It'll, it'll go under a radar that tested for testosterone, this is that, I don't know whatever the fuck. You know what I mean, it's the Momo coaches because they don't know anything. It's even bodybuilding coaches a lot of these guys that people people taking concoctions, you know what? You know what I mean? I had a girl, I had a girl cross-fader who failed a drug test for fucking anivar. I mean, like how do you fail a drug test for anivar? That's, you gotta like, you gotta work to do that. I mean, you have to do it on purpose almost. You can't do it on purpose. You probably took a fucking anivar tablet fucking half hour before she got tested. Cause it's just, it's just, right, it's really smart like that. I'm just saying, but that's because your coach is though, listen, these athletes, they listen of whatever the coach, if the coach is listening, I want you to eat fucking, you know, a pile of shit, they would eat it, they don't, whatever the coach says. You know what I mean? And I think that that is part of the problem. You get these coaches and they think all we'll take the mandrel in. It's like, Scott gonna show up like testosterone. You know what I mean? You'll get to, and now you get caught. So like, they just they go online and they think of what food can change a hormone like, natural, and what fucking idiot would give a big fucking, any food. Well they say that they take naturally produces and that's what the word I read. Oh, not a chicken worse. Oh, everybody, you know what more. If that was true, if that was true, do you know what any bodybuilders would be? Maybe back ribs, fucking breakfast lunch, I think I'm convinced McDonald has antibodies, properties, who knows what the heck's in that, and that need, I got news fear. I put a lot of muscle on with McDonald's, let me tell you. And it was the McDonald's, wasn't anything in the audience. It's Saudi, and it's in that fucking McDonald's. So I go to the doctor. I got an ankle problem. I don't know what my ankles have been killing me. I can't walk on it. It's been months now. I go to the doctor, and I'm sitting in the waiting room and I'm filling out this form, right? You got the medical history. And you know, I remember, you know, when I used to go years ago to the doctor, I felt these medical histories when you go to a new doctor, I just went, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, sign it, give it to them. Now I'm looking at the sheet. I'm spending a half hour filling out this thing, because I got everything on the checklist. Hard problem, yes, I got the fibroleter. Any kind of arthritis. Yeah, joint replacement. I got two shoulder replacement. Diurettectomy. For quad surgeries, it's like never ends. I'm falling apart. I have more things checked off on the probe on the past history than I actually have an unchecked off now. Didn't you got to explain what they want? That's the worst. I know. And it's like I don't want to tell the whole story. And you know what the findings? I don't even remember all the surges I have. I'm like, well, I got to find the first one. When I was, I mean, I had my appendix taken out when I was 17. And you know, who knows? I had so many crates. I had two arts. I had my shoulders scoped out, you know, when I was younger. It's getting old sucks. Anyway, to make it a long story short, they want to, they say, well, the only thing we could really do to fix your ankle and be fused it. Fused the bones in there. I'm like, that's obviously not an option. I said, so basically fucked. I feel like Jimmy to bolt today. What you know, my foot, my left foot is going to tell when you're underneath. And I remember I am pretty lean now. And I remember when I last competed in 80, whatever, three. That I used my foot fucking hurt. And it was, and I remember Dorian, subsequently many years later saying that he was walking around backstage, prior to what Olympian is feet were killing him. And he thought like he was cramping. I'm maybe because nobody dies. Yeah. He realized he got so lean that the fat pad on the his foot got disappeared. And I'm wondering if that's what's going on. I don't have any there. I have striated by the bottom of my feet as striated. I'm so lean. That's why I have no effect. But I'm wondering, is that why is that why my foot hurts? Well, you know what, you probably do aerothotics and issues? Yes. I hope not orthotics. You know, you've got to get customer advice. Now I always get them at the chiropractic because it's easy. I got the chiropractic. You know, they had to step on the machine. The guy I went to, he's a foot specialist, but he's a doctor. He's not just a podiatrist. He told me these things are piece of crap. He fitted me for a real strong pair. He goes, because you need a rigid, a more rigid orthotic, because I have no arch in my feet whatsoever. And so that's the step I'm taking. I'm not doing any surgery, obviously. Even though I probably need to get the orthotics, the full strength won't so to speak. So if you guys are having foot problems, you know, the orthotics made you got it. Your chiropractic, the ones you get in the store, even if they're custom, it's not the same. And you know what the technology, you want to hear how cool the technology is? When I first went for orthotics back in the 80s, I was one of the first people to get them, because I was a long distance runner. I see a lot of pork back then. That's why my time is so good. And I needed orthotics. And so when they fit you back then, they didn't have any scans or computers. They actually casted your foot like you would go for it. You broke your foot and they would put a cast on it. And they would take the cast and they'd send that out and they would make a mold from that. Now nowadays, they actually have a cell phone app. They actually take a picture of your foot. And all of a sudden, you see your feet and three dimensions. It's unbelievable. I mean, it literally took 20 seconds for this guy to do this. I thought it was going to take this big, this whole big process. Took him 20 seconds and they had my foot in the program already. And they sent it off the lab and the lab is going to make me orthotics from that. It's crazy. That's cool. Yeah, really cool. You know, you go back to eat and pork. That's right. I think that's my problem. That's why I haven't all these problems. I stopped eating McDonald's every day and pork and stuff like that. Thinking it's going to be healthy. I'm going to live forever. I think I'm falling apart because I'm not, supplementally properly now. I take all my vitamins, but I need my metabolic stuff, too. Why aren't you going to your key? I don't know. My testosterone's good. I think I need like the good stuff. I think I need like some nangelo. The be honest with you. It's just having pork sandwich. I can't take G.A. You're like, I can't say, I love my huge Greg. So we can't do that. More. I would never do H.C.H. ever. No, especially if you're a cancer person and I had the thyroid cancer side me too scared. But these guys don't understand it. They think that that doesn't matter. I keep telling people, you gotta be kidding me. You gotta be kidding me. It doesn't cause cancer, but if you have cancer, we'll make your growth faster, yeah. It's right. You're throwing a carousine on a fireman. You know, I went and got my, but so I got blood work done the other day to check my, because you know, I did this like at home, heavy metal test. Have you ever tested your heavy metals, mercury, ledil, that stuff? I test my metallic old time. No, seriously. You should test it because, you know, a lot, it's weird. Sometimes you get exposed to stuff you don't even know it. So I came back very high for ledil on this home test. So I was freaking out. So I went and had my friend send me for some blood work and on the blood work, I was normal, man. God, so I had no, I was expecting high mercury, because you know, I eat sushi and stuff like that. But I don't really eat that much tuna. Cause black, remember, black, been had the high mercury, John. Yep, I remember some of them. Yes, so I stopped when he had, I stopped eating so much tuna, I eat more salmon. And salmon doesn't have mercury in itself. He would eat tuna steak a lot. Yeah, yeah, tuna, I had to stop the fish because too much mercury. So my, my lead levels were not elevated above normal on the blood work. So what I'm, so sometimes these home tests are not accurate. And the problem is, cause you've taken the test, you're putting blood on a card or in a little file, you send it off by the time it gets there to get heated up and stuff can alter it. So if you're getting, if you're doing at home testing, you know, you might want to go to a lab and get it done because they're getting a fresh specimen, it's going to be more accurate. I think it's important for me to say that because I know some people that do do home testing. And sometimes it's obviously, now this is the second thing. I once had my hemoglobin A1C tested and it was not right, too. Ironically, though, my hemoglobin A1C, which is a measure of your blood sugar over three months, has been super, super low lately, which is good. And I don't know if it's because of COVID and because I don't go out as much as I did before, but my blood sugar's been better. I don't even know what to attribute it to. Have you guys ever had your hemoglobin A1C's check? My blood can't be. My hemoglobin all the time. I thought hemoglobin A1C is a test of how your hemoglobin combines with glucose. So if your glucose is all the time, you'll have higher hemoglobin A1C. I'm a fucking diabetic. I have to, what's your hemoglobin A1C, do you know? Well, was fucking like 10 point. Oh my God, really. It's supposed to be. 5.6 is borderline high. That's very high, right? It was it. Yeah, that's why I take my, I'm on med form and lemma fry. You gotta be, you should be, I mean, I told him is before you should be able to insulin. Yeah, I don't know, I don't know anything about insulin. I never did. You should be able to long acting insulin, not a short acting insulin, we have to, the good thing about long acting insulin's Greg is number one, you can go to Walmart and buy a bottle without a prescription of 25 bucks. And second thing is, you don't have to worry about crashing from it because it's long acting. So it's, it's not like you take a shot and you're going to a coma, you know? How tough. It's insulin for 20, I mean, how do you get insulin like, without a prescription? Because they, they will, Walmart sells long acting insulin called novulin n and they sell a shorter acting a fast acting insulin called novulin r without a prescription. You have to ask the pharmacist for it because they keep it in the fridge, but you don't need a prescription and they're selling them super cheap right now because Trump enacted this program for diabetics who don't have health insurance and couldn't afford to get their insulin. It's only $25 a bottle, that bottle lasts a long time. Oh, buy two. Might know, do away with that. Yeah, they want it. He's trying to, he's trying to. That's sick, that cock sucker. But anyway, anybody who voted from your fucked up. Anyway, did you see that video from wandering around in the, in the cafe? Yeah, he's got bro. He was even more. Well, John, he's in that stage. Remember you said when you get old, you want to be like that, you don't know what the fuck's going on. So you don't get, he's in that stage. I think he's like, I don't even know if he knows his president. He's probably just maybe, sometimes he doesn't. They got a reminder every morning. Joe, you won the presidency. I did. Go, man, that's awesome. Every day, you think he's just won the president. I just, That's what they were saying. His whole life he wanted to be president. And now he's president. He doesn't know the agency. They can't even enjoy it. I was enjoying it every morning when they were mind him when he wakes up. So like John said, it's like, it's like having, you win in the lottery every single morning, you know? No, you know what he says? When he says, you know, you're the president. Joe, he says, what? You're in any of what? Like Barack Obama said to him before he wanted to think. He said, you know, good luck, Joe. You're going to win this. He goes, what? What? He's like, I think he's trying to. He's shot, he's fucking shot. He's really shot. He will do away with that insulin. He will. He won't be doing it. He won't even know what's going on. He'll get someone else to do it. We'll tell him to sign this. What's that? It's done him that's doing away with it. It's Susan Rice and Obama behind the fucking, he's like a puppet. He don't know what the fuck's going on. I don't know what the fuck he's doing. Right. Right. Here, you're talking at the G7? Do that's disgraceful. I was like, I'm expecting a fuss to get fucking invaded in any minute now. Sorry, you got all the military guys. No one's invading us, believe me. You got all the war mongers. Now you got to be the pushification of the military right now. They kick off a psychops. Do you see the other day? A car in Atlanta. A book. Bookhead. Fuck it pulls up along the cop. The shit right there was light flash. And another car pulls right up alongside the the car in front of the cop. And it just starts shooting at the car and drive away. And the cops didn't even do chase them. Then they said, we're not allowed to chase. Then they're doing fucking didn't mean well the fire standards. The ones got hit, you know. It's their fucked up. You can't do it. It's not the cops fault. I'm saying it's the fucking, you want more that go on my face. Bookhead just posted it. Yeah, yeah. It. John, how many people you got? I see you arguing sometimes. And many people you got their fucking actually think like, you know, all fighting's doing a great job. It's at so much better. Oh my God, things are so much better than fucking Donald Trump, which I feel like, you know what, you know, I told you, Greg, it's exactly the same. They're all cronies. No one did nothing changes. Very few things. No, it goes back up for the little bit. They're all going on. No, no, no, no, no, no. You're a big good woman. I fucking argue over to, you know, Melvin. I don't know what that was. He's a good guy, but dude, he shot. They just defined John, I see you sometimes going at it with people. Yeah, no, I do. This is, this is, this is, this fucking people are oblivious. And of course, I always get the ones that nothing affects them. You know, well, I'm a parent and affect them. The tax, but didn't affect them. They're stock market doesn't affect them. Fuel prices don't affect them because they don't drive a car. Anything that happens, guys, immune. So, you know, you get people like that. He's just, there's no talking to them. John, that's a good one. You know what I'll tell me? I said, no, no, it's, it's, it's, it's the crisis on the border. This is the going on for years. And I'm like, but, but, he goes, who's worse under Trump? And I'm like, no, why is it? Trump fixed that shit. Exactly. You're gonna talk about the punch. All right, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's change the subject for a second. Have you guys seen the big, liney video where he smashed the bottle over his head? No. A real bottle? Like, can they see this? All right, we watch this video. A real bottle? Rob Zillus sent it to me. Well, post, post conference, we're gonna hit the gym. But before that, let's make one thing clear. I'm just gonna get better and better. He's not going anywhere. Yeah, we talking to you as if you should be scared of me. As if you're, what, why am I ever scared of anything? I'll tell you something, dear. No, no, no, no. That's all. What do you fear of drinking slabs? It's not an hard time, Ben, at all. That was an acabond. You don't fucking scary that, don't you? Oh, that was a real bottle? No, it was a plant, right? It was a plant. It was a plant. It was a plant. It was a plant. I thought I walked that way. I thought I think I still walked better than Lenny does. It was a real bottle. You're gonna punch this way. He's so fucking, he's pretty, he's got a pretty hard head though. I don't know, you never know. You don't want to blow a shit. I whacked a guy one time with a beer bottle and the fucking head. The bottle didn't break, but he got knocked out. Oh, yeah. And the bottle stayed one piece. Right, yeah. Rob Zillam must be a pretty good actor. He did respond to me well. I wanted it to break. I wanted to smash him over to have one of break and fucking stab him with it. Wow. But it didn't break. He just knocked out. He's the way that being broke so easy, John. I was like fucking broke. I mean, I don't know sugar. One of those sugar glass. I love big Lenny, but I don't know if I believe that that was a real bottle. That was not a real bottle. I seen that many cowboy movies. I like Lenny's rationalization. I'm only getting better. He's not. I don't think Mr. G needs to get any better, do you? Well, well, if you start where he started, yeah. And then you're getting better. I mean, he didn't get better for like a year to get to Mr. G's worst. So he's got a one-rotable. Yeah, he looks good though. I like that he shaped the beard down more. Yeah, he doesn't look as much. He looks younger now. I think he looks good like that. So I think that's a positive thing. The funny thing about Lenny is that Lenny is so into the whole body, the only thing that wouldn't you think he would want to like just lean out as much as possible. That's like pretty hardcore. That's not cookie cutter right there like that. That's like the body builder way. I would think he'd want to walk around shred it, you know. At this point. Especially if he's going to fight Mr. G right? Well, I think that there will worry about size. I think a lot of guys are like that. They don't give each. How many times you get every fat guy in a gym on the towel? But you know what? Lenny can feed stuff right? It's not like Lenny doesn't eat. Lenny does show. I like Lenny. I think he look. He looks like he's having trouble walking, bending a whole burner. Losing some of that fat would help. I don't know. And who trains for a fight and doesn't lose weight. He's not training for the fight, obviously. And I think that, you know, as a guy who really likes Lenny a lot, I want to see Lenny live a long time. So I think he would lean out. You know what I mean? It would be one thing if he was like 250 or 270 and he was shredded. And he just wants to be big. And he's like, hey, fuck you guys, I want to be big. But he's not like, it's not a good quality big he is right now. And he's like 320 or whatever he's 330. But he's like he said he's got body fat on him. At least drop the body fat off. If you want to weigh 270 or 260, and at least you're going to be relatively lean at that weight, then I'm like, you know, then that's what you want to do. That's what you're going to do. He's not functionally big at this point, you know? It's dysfunctional. I talked to George yet a day on a phone. We were talking, I don't know. I'm not going to say what he was saying. You know, it's just it's, it's, you know, Lenny's a good guy. I just think that this whole fighting, I don't want to say it go off, but she's not good. Can you read this? What is that saying? Don't I'm can't get on this fucking thing, try. Oh, Jimmy the ball. Let me try to give him a break again. He should have, hey, he should have did what I do. Typing in all cats. So it looks like he's got work. Young man, I can't get on this fucking dirt. That's pretty good. Where is he been this pat. Well, I'm going to ask him to be here. He was supposed to be here to fucking guy, but he never showed up. Oh, really? Oh, I'm right. You invited him. Yeah, but now we says he's coming for fourth of July. So we'll see. He'll hold your breath. No, no, no, no, no, no. You want to fire up, so this is a lot of that, right? No, I told him, I'm going to fourth of July party, come on down. You know, he goes, oh, yeah, that's a good idea. I've got to great time. I'm coming down. I say he's not coming down. No, he was supposed, but then I said, after that, I said, you know, another opportunity is Valerie's going to Colorado to visit her family for a few days. I'm here alone. Why don't you come down now? I hang out. We'll cook, we'll laugh, we'll drink some beers, you know, and, you know, I like to look at you. And you lit up. That was such a good idea. I couldn't wait to come. So he calls, yes, I go where are you? How much longer do you get here? Oh, yeah, no, I got it. Because no, wait, because he called me up, I forgot the whole part of the story. He called me up about a week ago, not even a week ago, four, five days ago. And he says, he goes, we got thrown out of the Guadier port. There he is. There he is. Tell the story about how you got thrown out of the Guadier airport. Jimmy. Jimmy. Yeah, I think he's muted. Jimmy's about fucking, fucking thing. This fucking thing here. I don't understand it with the code. I put the code in and it says it doesn't exist. And I forget that. Well, you obviously made it work. So you're here. Tell him about the the Guadier. He got thrown out of the Guadier because the dump truck would work. Yeah, that's true. Oh, it's hard. Oh, it's hard. Jimmy, where were you last week? Where was that last week? I was home. How come you were in the show? I know I sent you the link. Oh, wait a minute. What happened last week? That last week something happened. What the fuck happened last week? I should get. I want to hear you out of the Guadier story. Oh, I just told you. I was not there. I was not the toy. The fucking bed would up. The fucking bed would up. The fucking third one. Come on. The guy had to come over with the excavated. They get out. You get the bottom of the fucking bed apart. I finally got it. The dump. And if they dumped the guy, they're more of a little lizard. He goes, look, come back. That's just what I mean. I just whatever you want, man. No problem. You know what I mean? I thought you got fired from the truck. No, it's just a different gigant. Yeah, I did. I don't work anymore, man. I was one day they called me and then did it half. I went and I was one day I didn't even get paid. The guy just to go. The guy who didn't pay. You hear? You hear? Why are you not paying? He didn't pay you and you work for the day. Yeah, he didn't pay me here. He owes me, you know, from last year. He owes me. That's, he didn't even pay me. Why are you letting him get away from you? Probably two years ago. Why would you let him get away with this? Did Jimmy the bowl of past never would have allowed this? No, I know, but I'm out of here, man. I don't even give a fuck. I told him you need to go ahead. You need it. You think you can't have to talk to him. I don't need your fucking money. So now are you going to be here for a second? So I or no. Yeah, yeah. I am. I wanted to share a couple of things we get today. Because I had a hard day. And where's George? Good question. I don't know. I heard he's down the floor. I think he's back. I just talked to him on a phone. I think he's back. He was trying to get your plane back. But I'm pretty sure he's back. We did a press conference from Florida. He was some press conference. Yeah, it was him in line. He got a lot of hits at show. It was almost like thinking about it. He's 20,000. On that one. Oh, what did he do? Yeah, his client has a board of house in Bocca. So George was like, I think went down there with him for a little mini vacation. Yeah, I keep asking George of his moving. And he's like, I'm not getting a definitive answer from him. So I don't know. That's what that means. There he is. There he is. It's like somebody coming on. Rick, turn your phone sideways. Oh, Rick. Yes. How is Rick on sideways? Oh, it's Ricky. Ricky, you got the orientated lock on. Again, take off the orientation lock on the phone. And turn it sideways. That is sideways. You got the lock on. He's got to take the lock off. Oh, OK. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know where that shit. You went to Arlington? Yes, sir. That's cool. Did you go see the president? I'll take this. How do I take this lock off? What? You got an iPhone? It's just going to speak. You got to scan that. Pulled the screen from the top right corner down. You mean, I still got to flip the tape on it back. Hold the pattern. Hold the pattern. Hold it at best, man. That's your best. It's called the burner phone. Yeah, exactly. It's meant to be thrown in the garbage after you use it. Great. Ricky, you figured out? That's not nice. Oh, he's good. He's good. Alright. It's all Ricky. How's my reception? There he is. Good. I like that shirt, Ricky. It's got to get off. He's got a whole suit. I like that. I look like Lance Armstrong and Kurt Angle had a baby. You look like an avenger. It's what you look like. Is he in a cemetery, though? Yeah. It's an oral pain. Give me. Oh, Jimmy wakes up while I'm studying sea cemeteries. You know? Yeah. No, he's in the deep cemetery. Oh, yeah. Yeah, man. I wanted to make it special for you guys. I'm in hollow ground. You can just feel the respect to you. Jimmy, you might be a demigrant. Right. Here's a trivia question for you. How many presidents are buried in Arlington? And who are there? John Kennedy. Yep. I don't know. John Kennedy, yeah, past his grave. And who's the second one? Um, A blanket. I don't know. F. T. Little fat test. You're having good look at every tomb and call your back. Three days. A blanket. I said A blanket. You already made me. I already gave the kids a rose of them. I would take your door. Cast. You already said Tafya. So Ricky, how many miles did you bike of the trip? Because we John, they were trying to figure out what you're doing. Because you've got a suburbany, says you've been driving. Yes, but at time I got, I had a breakdown in P. Westwood, the trailer. Right. Got it fixed when I got to Kingston, Georgia, about a hundred miles south of Savannah, broke again. Then I got it. I made it to Savannah. Got it. We welded. When I crossed the lines from South Carolina to Georgia, I had to ride in a grass for about six miles. They had no shoulders construction going on. After that, I had to ride on. I'm coming trapping because I don't, I don't ride with traffic. I'm free in the market, killed with a mirror. So when the cars are passing, I have to get in a grass. The roads that the shoulders are very uneven. The trailer was bouncing around. It was about to break again. So I made it. A hundred miles that day to Charleston. Then I called it. Let me stop you for a second. John, he rode on the grass for a hundred miles. So sick. You know how hard it is to ride on grass. He's pulling a trailer with him too. Well, he's six. No, no. About half of it was on a grass because I had to get off the road. We caused fast back on the road. Of the road, back on the road. So it was about half. I called my team back home and got there at the voice. We decided I'm not raising anywhere on that country roads. Where nobody's going to see me, I can get hit. So I picked up the suburban. I flew home at five in the morning. Grab this suburban drive right back. Got back in Charleston at four. I picked up my little doll. Oh, wait. Hold on, Ricky. So you flew home to Louisiana. And then you picked you suburban. And I've been you drove the suburban from Louisiana to Charleston back to Charleston. How long did that take? But it was about a 24 out 25 miles. I had it. Let me ask you a question. Did you sleep at all in that 24 hours? I pulled over for about 30 minutes because the road was getting blown. How the fucking did you stay awake? Red Bull. Red Bull doesn't work after a while. I got news here. That's insane. That's insane. That's insane. Even biking and biking. And then you go back and you drive 24 hours straight. And you have to be in on a bicycle up to 14 hours a day. Sometimes driving was nothing. You're America. You're a miracle person. I don't even know how you're doing. I thought Mr. G was crazy. John, I really think that Ricky could could outbattle Mr. G in any kind of endurance event. That's what we should be promoting. Not a fight between him and big land. Yeah. Rick. I don't even should fight. I don't even want to create some kind of endurance obstacle course that they've got to do. Ironman course. Yeah. But not stuff you got to do like climbing walls and shit. You got to make something like it'll probably become a new sport. You know, when we're done with the 20 pound plate carry on. Yeah. You know what the Ricky's a little young. Yeah. I was just swimming in shit. Is George Ricky can you surf? No. I was fall down. That's a great idea. We don't have waves there. That's a little alligator. How about alligator wrestling? And the name and Mr. G. Russell and alligator. And come and come and catch. I've caught him since I was kids. I know how this thing works. I think it's interesting. And Rick would be great in a reality show, you know, Santa Mat and like the the wilderness together. How funny was that thing? I would like to see that. Yeah. That would be awesome too. As long as he brings me some cookies. No. Yeah. You guys Lee cookies exclusively the whole the whole time. Yeah. to me. Think about it. You know that movie. You have a show survivor. Just don't eat pig. Mr. G and Ricky together. John, you probably go to that show too. Because you know how to do all the like fires and stuff like that and you know, survive. I think Ricky and Mr. G would be hysterical together out there and survive. I agree. Maybe so. Everyone's been searching energy. Maybe swimming like laps and in the ocean, you know. How about you drop them off on a desert island and like naked in a freight. And they got to survive. They probably went. They could if you have big lighting was there. Then they probably rose up Mr. Big lighting and eat them from fuck them. The dinner. Guys, that's a race that I want to do next year. It's like five days in the wilderness. You got a bike kayak. You got to use a compass, no cell phone. It's called the ECO Challenge. Ultimate expedition race. Let me have a. That's the ultimate ultimate. I don't think you can be beaten Ricky because you know what, you just don't stop. You don't death doesn't deter you at all. That's a get a known fact. It comes to you. Well, when I was getting my polished license, I got about 140 hours of flying. I was flying as a coal pilot with a pipeline guy. I was landing a plane. Everything he would sleep. But when he told me to go by myself, I went down a runway. I turned around. I'll just go back and get out of the way. I was like, well, you're going to say that quit. I was too scared to solo. There's one thing I'm afraid of. Hi. Well, if you saw when you're flying, you died. That's why I don't. That's just natural. If you like that. Me too, man. Fuck heights. Holy shit. $20,000 worth of flying school. And I, um, I bailed. It's probably good. It's probably good. It's housing my younger days. And I probably would end up flying in the Mexico. There's some no good product. I think he's smuggling the Mexican pork into the United States. John, that's why we're all going to land to our government. And given it out to Olympic. Yeah. Have a great weekend. Much of the people. They, you know, they should at least get Patrick Arnold to make the Mexican pork. At least they won't be able to detect the stuff, you know. Right. Me fake me. It'd be pork. That might be just code word for DACA. Mexican pork, right? You want the Mexican pork? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The clear. Who Patrick's a three Patrick's definitely a Trump heir. Oh, yes. Guys, I want. No, yeah. He goes off. Get a bit. But, uh, my home with people. I'm seeing in DC. Yeah. It's unreal. Really. Because then it's a Tyler. There's tents on the side of the street. A block away from the White House and look. Pins of hanging out. The new is completely closed off. We guards in police. Not military, but police guards in front. So you can't welcome to the White House gate. It's completely. I've seen about 20 helicopters yesterday. Today flying over DC everywhere. Military. Close guard on. Alice. Why is that? I don't know. I don't know. Ever since what happened. Um. With the. The call. Overreacting to the fake shit that happened. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I'm guessing it's sex. You know, oh, because. There's no reaction. It's a reaction, shit. Meanwhile, San'tita, sleep in those fucking tents. They're a bunch of homeless kids. Very sweet. Sergio, you can't do this. You know, gold, shit. But that is hard. It's gonna take and shit and coffee cans and stuff like that. Fuck in each other. Do not. Should all day. I don't know. I don't know when. You know. And then at night, they get fuck a money to go out. money to go out if act like savages. That's exactly what that is. Anything of fucking Trump supporters or fucking red meat? I stopped with the Trump already. All right. Now we know what's here about the political views right now. That's another show. Ricky, when you're in the capital now in Washington, D.C. Okay. What are you showcasing? What do you, I mean, I know you're going to visit the homeless people and the veterans and stuff like that. You can get Tyler to look on his Facebook. He can pull up that video to the Central. So people can see I'm just making laps everywhere. We don't know you. We saw you riding the bike around the capital area. Yeah. What I'm doing at the past, I mean, hey, what are you doing? And I tell them what I've seen with the homeless veteran. Everything like that. I'm just getting the word out of a couple of YouTube. I said, pick me up. That while here, they, they, they, they, when got it, got a travel in channel with biking, you know, I'm just, it kind of fell through with the Congressman. I told you, why, we're not getting that's actually, we made the stripper comment or something that. Yeah, because I posted a picture of a strip club on my personal page. In the keys, it was called Woody's. It said, all new girls, subs and pizza. And I said, wow, I'm not going to place. And, uh, it's a, it's pretty ironic that the Congressman that you know, probably, you know, don't owe these illicit, you know, prostitutes and stuff like that. Now, I probably, because with guys, that's why we're having a problem. Ricky, make a joke about the club club. If it was a gay bar, it shit that said, it will move pizza and thought, I mean, the pizza and fuck and whatever, the Congressman would have been like, you know, where is that exact? Yeah, that's what. Yeah, CNN's league of journalists. CNN's legal analyst, Jeffrey Tubin got caught masturbating in a zoo called right with his colleagues. And he's back on the air. Wait, Ricky, what I want to do is have you had anybody give you trouble? Like if anybody like, yo, you got a lot of nerve, right now, that's flat. You know, because there's a lot of flag haters out there, man. I don't think I look like the type that they know would just keep going. Yeah, the boy fucking shoot. Ricky looks pretty dangerous today. I would stay away from him probably too. He's probably got a lot of people with people at him, like, and I'll like, right on. Yeah, that's what I would say. That's not a lot of people, man. I see a lot of, look like a bunch of the secret service guys. You can tell that look, they somebody, because I went around a pin of gun and it's pretty in shape guys while jogging around with each turntown. And it was all like giving me thumbs up and stuff. So I'm pretty sure it hurts. Couple of them look like yes, have guys with the beard and stuff. Well, I think that's what you're pulling around your pulling the trail of behind you. You know, they want to make sure you don't have a bomb in there or something like that. You know, I'm sure of it. Yet he acted like they want to say hi. He's like, got some kind of little meat of tech. Yeah, this can you know, like, yeah, they did a carcass rally. I surprised they didn't know. I mean, I'm a trail of them. You know, all my gears and the whole thing. They don't know that. You drive around with it. Right. Yeah, so I surprised they didn't pull you over. Like, sure it's your dad and you know, see what you got at the back. You know, you're really. No, but I tell you what, I didn't take no pictures close to the pinnagon because they have a sign. No photos. I took a picture of sign and that was it. I picked the phone up. I don't want to get no trouble. You know, I said, I'm waiting. Are you driving to New York now, too? Yes, I'm going to train with Mr. Jumgons. You're jamming the bull and and go on. I want to go train a couple days of Mr. J and then I'm going to head back to the bayou. I just signed a contract for a fight. September 25th in Louisiana. Jimmy, I want you to make it and I'm donating the promoter agreed to donate a percentage of ticket ticket sales to my non profit to help the homeless vets. And I'm donating everything I make to it as well as a raising money during the fight. So then, so veterans day, I'm going to try to break my my wallet. I've done 120 in a day already with the trailer. I'm going to get on my fast bike and I have a police escort. I'm going to try to do 225 miles. Oh, that is the fight non stop. Wow, that's crazy. You know, I think John, I think I might have solved Mr. G's labor, you know, his cookie problem with producing enough cookies. If Ricky comes up to see if Mr. G puts Ricky Ricky into the warehouse for, like, six hours, he could probably produce enough cookies for the next year. Mr. G. Probably, he's right. His productivity is going to be way better. Tell you seven reasons why that can't possibly happen. Why? Who knows, you got to let him cool the one. I probably can't. Can you imagine Ricky in that warehouse, he'd be whipping our cookies left the right Mr. G couldn't even package him fast enough, probably. Tell you, hey, when I was cutting trees up in a hurricane, I worked the most 90 days by myself 12 hours a day, no days off because I can't have people work with me. And I'm fast enough. Get aggravated. You want to go sit on, you don't have to drop a drone. No one wants to be a radio. They don't want to get their freaking head cut off with that chain. So you got it. People, yeah. Especially when he went to a relationship with the wood. Ricky single handedly cut down the entire forest, John. I got no balance. I was cutting trees. When I was cutting trees, I threw my big chains to one of my workers because he was smoking this the metro. You know what, if you took that chain so down here, you'd make a fortune because in my neighborhood, we got so many trees. They always hiring these guys. It's like a thousand dollars a day. These guys get to cut trees down. I think a lot of money. Yeah, you're missing the, you got to move to place the expensive in countries. Even where I live at. Ones. I was getting up in the brand of cake. What? We ran a day at this time. But look, I'm so long. I'm selling on my equipment, my protection stuff is picking back up and not a dissidies open again. Oh. Okay. What are you charging for? What are you charging the bodyguard someone for the day? We're just a burden. I got right now 600 plus tips and I get a lot of tips because the drug. Did he get the moody tip me? Right. Are you guys, but I'm about to buy a brand new escalate. All right. It's a big suburban version and now I'm going to charge 129 because it's luxury. And you know what people don't realize these celebrities are in danger. I mean, they really need someone to guard them because there's a lot of crazy cookie people. You see, I don't have you saw on TMZ, maybe tell a poll it up. Kendall Jenner is always getting these nut cases trying to break into our property. To say, you know, constantly, constantly. If she didn't have people working there, security, she'd be in, you know, they could, you know, tell this poor girl. I mean, I feel bad for them. She doesn't have her. She's just putting Nancy Pelosi at the front door. She's a fucker street fighter. Yeah, right. Dude, what are you doing watching him fucking Kardashians? That's what I want to know. I know. I watched TMZ. I don't watch. I got to ask you. My girlfriend's fucking obsessed with that shit. Yeah. Oh, my god. Kim Kardashian got a new fucker. Whatever. And I'm like, I don't give you shit. Who cares? What Kim Kardashian gets is more shots and rest is what she gets. Oh, no shit. Well, she's like a trainee. Big try. I'm like this with skinny legs. Go to the fucking leg. Fucking fucking fucking fucking. You think you think about his fake shot? Oh, for sure. What? You think about the Chinese, Greg? Are you kidding me? Our buddies is making this a $3 bill. What do they got? I think you think it's an implant? Spat. They suck the dude Brazilian butt lift. They suck the fat out and shove it in your ass. Then they get fucking silicone shots and that shit. Can I do that with my teeth? But who would want a food? What a fabulous thing. Now, me, I'd say what it's all about. I'm sure the age, he surely dates black guys and they love fat ass. Oh, yeah, not me, bro. Greg only likes skinny butts. No, guys. I used to buy a go on a little way. I did a couple of times into all of it. Him and many fresh and little Wayne love marijuana and white women with big asses. They all do it. When you come up with it, Ricky. All I'm wrapped. Ricky, what are you coming up here? I'm going to be in Baltimore tonight at a 22nd. And I'm driving up Greg. Can I come by you, Lodge, man? Are you far from those guys? He's far. I actually, if you're a Mr. G's, let me know. I might come down here. I'd love to meet you, brother. I'd love to meet you, brother. Absolutely. I would love to be great. Don't go crazy. Between me and Mr. G, we're all not. We get Jimmy there, forget about it. Yeah. Yeah, I'm a homologian. I would feel money. Hell, money. I don't need it. Oh, shit. John, I'm pretty good. And it comes to you, brother. Ricky, you know what? Ricky, what I think you should do is when you go see Mr. G, maybe we can get a little sparring session, get someone to hold the camera. I want you to assess Mr. G's, you know, fighting, you know, prowess. Yeah, I want to hold a midsbym because I know, I mean, I'm a, I come from old school. I want you in the ring with them. I want you to get in the ring, grapple with them. See how he is, you know, see, I want you to give us a fair assessment. Because you're, I mean, you're, you're, you're a high class or a high level fighter. I want you to see how Mr. G would fare like in a fight against someone, you know, maybe, you know, that big land is not going to be much competition. I'm just saying if Mr. G really was as far as fighting potential goes, you know. Just remember, a stand up. I'm wrong game makes it best. Remember, in Thailand, it called me white Tyson. Yeah. That a boy. But because I break it, I fight the, the more I die guys, I would close my distance quick because I didn't want them to be a little bastard to kick me in the late. They kick hard. I was like, Oh, yeah. Since maybe grab the back of my head to clinch so he can name me. Well, we made do that. I take a step back and dig to the body and that break the ribs. Then he scream, I feel really bad about it. So, we're getting this and we're question, when you come to New York, I leave you all the more to 20 second. I'm headed to y'all. You tell me when. Oh, okay. I don't know how for that. What is that like five hours? Who's on the way first? You a Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Thomas River man by the fuck of this. He's in Jersey. Eight miles away. He's all week down by the South Shore. He's in South Jersey. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not an expert. I'm not used to the first Ricky and then you go to Jimmy. Because he's the, he's South. Yeah. George, right? Yes. What about Jimmy? Pick up Jimmy. He drive back through. We see a drop you off the Johns. So you're visiting him and you're flat back. I know Johns looks shut with me. I didn't make it out there. I got a lot of shit going on. Well, you actually didn't make it out there, Jimmy, for what? 12 hours? Well, when? What? When you didn't trip down the Florida where I missed you. When I was getting my surgery. Oh, yeah. No. I stopped the Johns. I thought he was right off the highway. It was like fucking floor. I was more fucking fucking. Well, yeah. The fact that you stopped him. He drove really far to see me. Yeah. I did, bro. That was like, no. I got up 95. So let me miss you, John. I figured you were like, maybe hit my way. Fuck it out. You know what? You look at a map and you're like, South Carolina is not that big. It's just like a little, you know, if you go with, that's not the South. It's quick. But if you start going to the west, you can get this on trouble, you know? Yeah. I just, what I did. I looked at Johns town with the map. I should have said that. I did. I fucking, I fucking, I was fucking out. I was, man. I got to South Florida water. We'll go and come out of the house and it's on the way. I was in, I was in, I went to John and then I headed to more head beach. I went there to, I went there to, I went to a woman's better as they was last Saturday. I had to do a show. Yeah, it was there for a year. Yeah, it was there for a year. Yeah, it was there for a year. Yeah, it was there for a year. I was down there for a year down at Camp Lysian. We call the Camp Lines weenie. But that's, we station it for whole year. I was a camp guy, a two down the street man. Doing, doing climate trees. It's a ship for training. Because we got a, I was in, communication. So we got to run wire into a tree top. So the tanks of ship over on the mountain, cut them on us, you know? So I went to that wire school was rough man. So a lot of guys dropped off that pole man. That was bad. And like, like, How do I say? Give me the day as we did those people die for one of those poles? No, what happened was those those telephone poles. They change them like I think once a year or every six months, they get you have to climb the poles with gas. Right. So after after a few classes, you know, like, you know, like, I think six weeks, these class or I forget what it was. But after like the very classes all splendid. The poles completely split it up. Right. And you still got a climate with that, you know, you got to use the belt, the climb up of the pole. Yeah. And then you got to twist it hang off it. And this sometimes the guys on GIF. And they go down the fucking pole. Yeah. Happ on. You know, and all of this gets, you guys split this from your balls to the bottom of your shiit man. All of the people. They got an ambulance down there ready to take your wigs. You're a fucking wood split. There's all of them fucking fucking. I mean, fucking it's killer killer. I see. I see you guys fall off the top of the pole 60 50 feet man or just take it on GIF. And they weren't shot in and just, like, we're right down. They had like a better chips on the bottom. But still, you know, I mean, 50 feet into a better chips doesn't really do very much. I would think. Hey, really, I doesn't really do too much. My guys are wiping out. It was, you know, the scariest thing is when you're up on a pole and you skid shit too. And also in the guy next year, because the poles aren't that far. I know. So you see the guy next year just go, you know, you watch the guy and you go lowly. You know, I mean, like, so you get even more scared because you know, you just want to get fucking. You don't break your legs or anything like that in full of those things. No, they got this really deep chips on the bottom, man. So the guy just hit it just like a big bed of, you know, wood chips, you know, yeah. So I think it does cushion it. But you get hurt. You don't think it hurt. The pens I, you know, you got GIFs on. Those are your phone with fucking GIFs on it. It's stabby self and cut your leg. It's stabby. My son used to do that and then have to go through another pole. You go for one pole because there was a rope. My son was an army intelligence. But when he was doing all that shit, I did that to the call that I called that a monkey bridge. That's a monkey bridge. Call that. Yeah, I did that to the one rope to another pole, then to another one rope. We had two. We had two ropes. So you hold on one and you got to get three. You got to get three. Yeah, you got to cross my de-guys just to fuck them. You used to go across the river. They used to grab the rope and fucking go like this. When I was in the middle of it. That's a, they fuck me to hold three months and I was like, Nowadays they call that ninja warrior training. Yeah. Oh, that's what they call it. Yeah. Your feet are all one rope. It's almost like, yeah, one rope. Yeah, you got one rope out of bottom and you got one rope in the top of your hold on my rope. And then you're on the bottom. But you know, the rope goes like this though. I got to be, you got to have to have some balance. I mean, I got, I got pitches of my son up there when he was doing all that shit. You know, I, I envy anyone who can go up that high. I've never problem with the height. It is crazy. I, anyone can handle the height. I don't know, I take a shit. I do, you can't turn drop down. You've got to climb the eighth frame. You know, the eighth frame is on a, on a tilt. You got to go up there with the fucking rope. Then you got to reach out for the rope and you got to repel it down. But you got to get up there first. And then you got to reach for the rope. The rope's a little far away. So you should get your pants. It's like I, I, invagous that the closest thing I can even give. And this is not even close to what you guys did. Invagous. They have a one, the, the old strip. They got to go up this tower and elevator and there's a line. And you go, you can repel down the hole, the whole street on this line on like a zip line almost. I don't have a truck made to do it, but I did it. And I was so scared that when I got off the thing, when it finally went the whole distance of thing, I got down my whole, I was shaking like this my whole nervous is I couldn't stop my body shaking. I mean, literally, I, my nervous, I was running through shots of vodka to calm down. I couldn't stop. When you were, were you jacked in was that when you were. I wasn't that big. This was like 2012 or something like that, but okay. I was, I was, I'm telling you my whole nervous system was completely shot because it was, I was so traumatized by the height and what, and the speed with which I was moving along the zip line. Uh, I couldn't stop it myself. I was like, it was weird because it's like I, I guess it's a control thing with me. I don't like to let go of the control, but at the same time it's also very, very scary. When you're looking down the street and, and if you fall, you're dead essentially mean. And you're sitting at a swing essentially that the hardest cabal, the belly, whole you in there, you know. Hey, you don't remember that when we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, what this you for that movie with, uh, with Joel, it, with Joel, Schulmocker. Yeah, I didn't do that part if you noticed. I, I, I, I, I, excuse myself from climbing the, the, the, the, the, the, uh, castle. Right. Yeah, we had a climb that fucking thing. I don't know what it was, man. It was, it was like a steel, Gerda, uh, set up. It looked like monkey bars that went about. Oh, yeah, yeah. And it was like a, it was raining out. It was soaking wet and I weighed 320 pounds. I was like, there's no fucking way I'm climbing up this thing. I know I'm going to fall and tell myself, it was, it was a scaffold. It was a fucking scaffold. Yeah, so it was, yeah, you know what, they wanted to jump into a hole. Yeah, right. And the funding was the, they only needed five guys to do it. There was like 10 of us there. I'm like, you know what, I'm getting paid the same thing where they're doing it or not. You guys have fun. That was crazy. You jumped down that hole all night. You know what, you guys were doing it for three hours. Go down this thing. No, you know what happened to you. So when we jumped down that hole, right. They had these giant cushions down there. But they were like, they were like, move together. So they were scenes, you know, in between these giant cushions. So when everybody was, when one guy jumped down, he got stuck in the scene. Get out. So the next guy came down and stopped before you know, we have four, five guys. We're just fucking pulling on each other because nobody could get out of the seams. And we were filming this by the way, like three, four in the morning. Because everything was there. Right. So there, it's raining out their outside. They're doing this for like four hours. I was sitting inside a craft services eating for four hours straight. I think I added about 10 pounds of muscle that week. We filmed. They had a lot of food there, man. That was great food too. It's amazing food. That was cool, man. That was that they shot that part was filmed that. Wall Street. The name, no, that was the, the, the naval, the naval institute. Wasn't it? But maybe that's why that's why I filmed on there with Jim Kair. I read that. Yeah, but I'm saying we were on Wall Street, Dex. Yeah, that big bowl, you know, the bowl was, Yeah, right, right, right. Yeah, I forgot. Yeah. It was fun time, Steph. All right, George, George small is calling me. Yeah, I don't know where George is. I don't know why. He just called me. Maybe because he didn't get a hold on. Right. Yeah, we let him just come and say a lot on the move. Hang up on him. Let me see if I can find him here. He just called me. Is he a Florida? I think I've got to send it away. I probably might. I can choose. I just, I was on the phone a couple days ago. I think he usually, usually he harassed him. He was trying to come back. I knew what he was like telling me about the flight. It is, I think he was getting, I wanted to ask him how he was cooking his fucking cookies. If he's a Florida, he's been talking. Who's running in the cookie shop? I asked him the same thing. What was his answer, John? That he was, I don't know what his answer was. Probably he's on autopilot or something. Oh, no pilot yet. Where's George? Is he here? He had said this. Yeah, yeah, he had people helping him. He's looking good. He's looking good. That kid might, that I got him introduced to him. He brought him, I think, where did him? I think that kid might be down there with him. I think so. That's fucking crazy. George is the only person I know shuts down the business and he wants to travel. That's how I got to play this. I got to fend like that. Down three months. All right, I got to wrap this up, guys. I got to have a stuff to do today. Um, no. Well, Jimmy, I'm glad you're back. I thought you were in a maybe depression. I'm glad you came back this week. We missed you. Yeah, man. Yeah, I had some shit I wanted. You guys, you know, I had some stuff I wanted to talk about. Well, we do it next week because, you know, Rick was on the show and everything. All right. I got, I got some good stuff to talk about next week. We gave you the option when we first got in a new way when you weren't talking. Well, you guys were talking. You know, I look, I'm respectful. You know, I'm all school. I'm respectful. So you guys involved in the conversation. Sometimes when I'm in a rare mood, I bust in at a given fuck. We're talking about. But I give you a little respect this time. Ricky, keep us the great work. If you need anything, let me know. And good luck and be safe on your drive up to New York. God bless you, Ricky. All right, guys. Because she's so proud of us. You guys, love you all, man. You guys love me, bro. All right, guys. That's going to take us to the end of this episode or after hours. I'm day polo for the entire WAC pack. We'll see you next time. Take care. Take care, guys. See you guys later. See you in the talk later, John.

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry with the low carb hot tart. We've got three and four brands in that carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods of muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday, July 13, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You remember back in the day when you played Marco Polo at the pool? You'd splash around with your eyes closed until you managed to bump into the person you were looking for. Well, here's the thing. Sometimes in our world you have to be careful what you go search for because you just might find it. And if you're in the fitness division right now, Missy Truscott might be the last thing you want to bump into. According to Missy's camp, she's full speed ahead from now until her back to back title defenses at the Arnold and the Olympia. They say that for as good as she feels physically, she's an even better place mentally. And she's hungry to show everyone in the division that what they saw last year was only an appetizer. So like I said, if you're searching for a title in a show that she's in, you'd better be careful because you might not like what you find. A few days ago, I saw our post from Ed Milet who said, people who win play offense, not the offense, which made perfect sense to me in the moment. And it makes even more sense when you consider the fact that Brett Wilkin has pretty much been on non-stop offense attack ever since he decided to make the move up to the open division. Brett's had this weekend Chicago Pro Circle on his calendar for months. And now that it's almost here, it seems like he's hitting the gas even harder. I know there's been a lot of talk about how deep this lineup is and who might do what? When they step on stage this weekend, but I'll tell you what. Brett's name deserves to be there in the conversations and when it's all said and done up there, he could easily end up walking away with a top five finish. As of yesterday, we were a little more than four weeks out from the Tampa Pro, which means that we're only four weeks away from seeing Rullie Winkler make his season debut. And that means that it's time for everyone else in that line after start digging deep, because I'm being told that Rullie's been in a mood lately. Apparently all the talk about this people moving up in the rankings and being considered favorites, heading into one show or another, hasn't pretty mad. And a pissed off Rullie Winkler is not something you want to be on the other end of. He knows how much is riding on these two shows and after being forced to sit out last year, I can guarantee you that he isn't about to let that happen again. When I was a kid, I remember fighting with my sister and my dad telling me just to ignore if I knew she was doing something to upset me on purpose. But here's the thing, sometimes people do things that you just can't ignore. And what we saw from Hotty Schupe in a few days ago is a perfect example. Hotty released a few clips of himself in the gym that he had to hurt some people's feelings when they saw it, because he looks so insane right now that it's almost rude to share those videos with other people who have to compete with him. I know I've said it before, but I'm going to say it again. The man is on another level right now. And whatever level that is, everyone else better find a way to get on because otherwise they're going to be left behind. And that doesn't fit at another edition of Lusselin the Morning on the Elevator Limbo Reminding You, always be true to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Palombo and today is Tuesday, June 15th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Bigger, thicker, wider and more detail from the back. Those are the key parts of the plan heading into the off season according to the latest update from Blessing, Awadibu. After wrapping up his season a few weeks ago following the New York Pro, Blessings have been keeping a relatively low profile, which feels like a huge shift considering the fact that he was one of the most talked about athletes and bodybuilding not too long ago. All things considered, I think when most people go back and honestly reevaluate, Blessings rookie year, the big takeaway will be that the whole thing was a learning experience, like it is for most rookies. The guys obviously talented, but he isn't ready to be Mr. Olympia yet, which isn't a crime. And now that he's had a chance to see what life on the pro stages all about, I'm sure that'll come back next year and be a little bit better than he was this year. That's progress and at the end of the day, progress is what his business is all about. One of the best pieces of advice I ever got was don't put off tomorrow what you can do today. And from a bodybuilding standpoint, if you could earn an Olympic qualification at the end of one season, then take the entire half of the next season to make improvements and prepare for it the way regained rhymes has. That's about as close as you can get to putting that advice into action, winning the Romania muscle-fest last November, basically gave him six solid months to focus on getting himself ready to be more competitive in the men's open this year. And all the signs I've seen seem to be pointing to him being able to do just that. He's definitely on track to come and bigger and they've heard from a few people that he was really strategic with the way he tried to address his weaknesses during the off season. So when you take all of that into consideration by the time October rolls around, he should be primed and ready to make a serious push for a top 10 finish. One of the things I've noticed over the years is that some athletes do better when they adopt an FU mentality. For whatever reason, certain people tend to perform better when they feel like they've been disrespected. And I'm not saying that Rullie Winkler is one of those kind of guys, but the way that he's been training lately definitely makes it feel that way. Rullie released a shoulder training clip last week that was out of control even for him. There's never been a point in this career. He hasn't looked like an action figure, but he's getting to the level now that he hasn't hit since around the time he finished third at the Olympia a few years ago. This is the version of Rullie everyone wants to see. And whenever this angry pissed off chip of my shoulder version of Rullie, the sides and step on stage, people better watch out because I don't think he sees second place as an option. For the most part, I've always looked at greatness and sport like a perishable good. It has a shelf life and an expiration date. Once it passes a certain point, you have to put it off to make room for the next thing, or in this case the next person. But then again, we live in a age of GMO foods in 3D printed stakes. So if science can do it, I guess extending the shelf life of a given athlete isn't too far out of the question. And the reason I say that is because former four-time men's physique champ, Jeremy Boindy looks like he might be trying to make a comeback again. Jeremy's injury history has been well documented at this point, so it don't feel like I need to go over that again. But right now with this moment, he's healthy. He says he's put on 10 pounds of muscle and that he feels his strength is starting to creep back up again. Now does that mean he can stay healthy long enough to be a viable title contender again? Well, I don't know, maybe. But if he has figured out a way to extend the shelf life of his greatness, I do think that him competing on the Olympia stage again one day is another question. And that does a the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Malumbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Palombo, and today is Wednesday, July 14th, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, we're back in bed of the never, and once again, we have a brand new edition of Recap Wednesday coming your way. Starting with this look back at the Omaha Pro. We're starting with the women's bodybuilding, and as the big headline coming out of the weekend here was our pre-show favorite, Michaela A. Cock, being completely dominant in her bodybuilding debut as she soared to a really impressive victory. So congratulations to her. In women's physique, second year pro, Christelli, Zeroska put together her all-time best, and the judges decided to reward her with the first win of her pro career. And in the Vegated Division, Jessica Williams pulled out all the stops to secure the win and earned herself a well-deserved trip to the Olympia stage. The other show on the Docket this weekend was the Patriots Pro, which was the bikini only event held out in Las Vegas. And once again, when it was all set in done, I can't believe I'm saying it again. Ashley Colt-Wasser continued her incredible run by racking up yet another win right there in her own backyard. Venea Augusti secured the best finish of her career by sliding comfortably into second place here, while rookie Ariel Barley took third in her pro debut. Fourth place went to Lexus Redman, who looked like she started to get herself back on track and closing out this strong top five group with another solid performance was Corey Hageman, who's put together a nice season so far. Bodybuilding is subjective, there are very few things that people infand in this industry come to a consensus on. But now in times out of ten, when you ask someone to name the best poser in the business, think I'm going to tell you it's Terrence Ruffin. And last weekend, the fans at the NPC Twin City's open got to see him put his talents on full display. A side for the fact that he's mesmerizing to watch, one of the things that jumps out to you right away when you see this video is the new quality size that he's put on since the Olympia last year. I don't know what those numbers look like in terms of stage weight and truth be told it really doesn't matter because a few pounds on a frame like his goes a very long way. The man is going to be dangerous at the Arnold Classic. So you might want to get your popcorn ready because you know that he's going in there looking to put on a show. For his greatest Terrence Ruffin was last weekend, if you were a fan in the building, you must have walked out of there feeling like you got your money's worth because what you saw from Charles Riffin was out of this world too. Charles was one of the other featured guest poses of the evening there and as soon as he stepped onto that stage, you can feel the energy change. Even though he still for weeks out from the Tampa Pro, you can tell that this is the best that he's ever been in his career. This conditioning is great. His waist looks significantly small that it was last time we saw him, which was one of the big knocks on him and he's also insanely dense all the way around. He's got a wow fact that to his physique right now. So it keeps getting better between now and Tampa. We might have to start having some serious conversations soon about him walking out there as the eventual winner. And that does it. If you had another addition of muscle in the morning, um, they pull on Bo Ramining you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

Alright, this is Dave Pulumball with RXMuscle.com. I am here at the Parkside Bowling Alley in Aurora, Illinois outside Chicago. We are here for the Bro's first pros at nine last man standing weekend and we are here for the celebrity Bolethon men first women battle of the sexist. Let's get right to the action and see who's gonna be bowling tonight. We walk over here to the men's table with the astrati-guys in figuring out how they will defeat the women here tonight. We have the white rhino stand effeting in the house. What do you do here all the way from Portland? We are going to beat the girls. No mercy. We are going to shoot whatever it takes. What is no rules? No, we have big daughters on this team too. We are going to put our daughters in the pot when it takes off. Just when people thought that you might be the biggest guy here, this guy rolls in the town. One of the world's strongest men, Derek Poundstone in the house. Are you a good boulder? No. The bowling is not your forte. No. That's just what it's around ball. I'm pretty good ground. Yeah, you pick them up. You don't even throw them now. Byron Hicks the owner of Jack Tard Quill will be hosting the Bro's first pros. This is your hometown here. Is this a monumental event here in Aurora, Illinois? Bowling. Bowling. I've never seen someone like myself assemble a group of competitors to nobody here. I've never seen anybody assemble a group of competitors. Thank you. Thank you very much. Standing citizens are still. And we have I have the reproach of Michael Libertori here as well. You're a Chicago guy. You live it up here in the Chicago area. What would this be considered Aurora as opposed to Chicago? Is this like a suburb? It's definitely a suburb. It's a little west from where I met in the little Southwest, but it's definitely a suburb. Now what people don't realize is I didn't notice myself. You used to have a 210 bowling average. I'm setting up. So it doesn't do. I was with my late teens early 20. You without good a boulder? Yeah, I grew up doing it my dad and my uncle were scratch balls. So we got a ringer. And I'm going to be I'm going to be throwing my hat into the ring here as well to help these guys hopefully defeat the women over there. You know, I have a feeling we have a couple of ringers. I think Noah Trimbles are wringer. She beats me and we've rolling. So she might know what she's doing. Mom beats me people. Really? All right. So that doesn't mean anything. All right. Let's go over and check out the women. All right women you're supposed to be assembling here and looking like you guys know what you're doing. Oh yeah, we're going to come over here at first to the Brows v. Brows eight overall champion, Michaela soda. I have to be figure pro. This is your hometown area here. Yes, it is. You're showing up. I know you're a little afraid of the germs at the bowling alley. You were telling me. She's got her. I got her. I got her. I got her. I got her. I got a spray it on everything. Do you have any bowling experience that I should know of? I don't bow. You don't bow. So you're going to try your hardest here. I'm going to try my hardest and you know, of course, I'll bring this with me. We know that you don't like to lose and you give your heart to everything you do. So we might be surprised and see some pretty good bowling scores but I play it. Oh, I have no skills. Okay. Does anyone in the women's group here have any bowling experience? No, I don't believe you guys. Melody Melo, I never expected to see you here. Everyone knows the ask me about you. How old you are? And I still tell them you're 16 because I think you're 18 now. You're legal now. All right. Now where are you? You're not living in Chicago. Are you? No, I'm in Buffalo. I'm back with my back in Buffalo. All right. Great. You shuffled off the Buffalo again. Yeah. So back there. I'm staying there. And now you're going to be competing tomorrow at the Bros first. Let's surprise the audience. Okay. All right. Well, we want to sit. I think they've tried to convince you. That Tammy is a buyer and it's beautiful wife here. The co-owner of Jack Tardcore Jim. This is your home town. You seem very familiar with this bowling. You sure you don't have any bowling experience? We don't go because he doesn't like bowling. He doesn't like bowling. He's not down here today. He doesn't like the she's. You know what? I don't like the she's eating. And if you look at the internet, my shoes are wearing. I feel like they have the pro kids that used to wear back in the 70s actually. But I think that is something to do with it. It could be. Now Noah Trimble here. I've seen her do bowling. We bowling. She's very good at we bowling. Did you have any bowling experience with the real balls? No, not really. You wouldn't be lying. You're a military guy. I know in the military they they bowl. No. No bowling experience. All right. The girls are all claiming. Let's come over here to I.F.E.V. V.V. V. Keene Pro. Perceano Voynich. Most of the co-host of muscle girls. Hank probably has the second most I guess audio visual video experience. Maybe home. You guys this is your new hometown now. I used to live like 10 minutes from here. Yeah. We now live about 45 minutes from here. Yeah. I was so close. Okay. So now I got the impression. I feel I'm in the Midwest here. It's a very Midwest journey field to the town. Yeah, you're not. It's Chicago. This is not Chicago. This is like Chicago land-ish. Far far. What's your bowling prowess? I think I've done bowling on the Wii a couple of times. And probably when you're a kid you want to birthday parties and you both. Yeah. You times like I've nothing professionally. Doffers. Your boyfriend Mike tells me that you were eating honeybodies. Is that true? Is that you're carving up or for the bowling tournament? Honeybodies? Probably. That's jail food. Yeah. Except you if you could be like the Oreo cream pies and like his arms get bigger when he eats those though. All right. Well the ladies are playing posse I think here. I think that they're a bunch of ringers and hustlers. We're going to find out who is the best battle of this in the battle of this. Who is the best? The men or the women. There's four dolls over there on the table if you look that's the pot. None of the girls have put any money into it. So I guess they don't feel very confident. But I am confident this will be the first of many bowling tournaments to come for now. Let's get to the action. All right. Here with Tommy from Pride Nutrition. Who's going to be tossing the coin. Derek will be representing the men. Michaela's out of the women. Whoever gets Michaela will choose if she gets the coin correct. She will get the choose whether she wants to begin or she wants to let us start the bowling. Here we go. Cool it. Pick it up Mr. Judge. It's ours. It's ours. It's ours. It's ours. Michaela's out of it. Are you going to go first or shoot last? Ladies are going first. All right. You heard that the ladies will shoot first. What a world-strongest man coming up. Derek, pounds on climb lane 41. Correct Derek. Here he goes. The ball looks very meager in his big hands. There's a approach. He's very awkward. Very powerful strike. Oh, he can. He's like Fred Blinso, Tickle-Toss. Yeah. Not. But she's afraid in the ball. It's disinfecting him. She claims he never falls before. And she might be right. Like a little toy out of it. I don't know what he's doing. The 18-year-old sensation lining up. She's looking a lot like Stuffy tonight. Right down the middle. Oh my god. Holy shit. I say stand out set of balls. He's got to see a bowling party. I bet. Baby not. Yeah, Tammy, the owner of Jack's hard core. She looks like a baller. She's got good form. She's held the ball before. Her deck. Here she goes. I'm going to use the air and drive my sweat off my hand. I am going to pick the, uh, the Lins ball. This is the 16-pound ball. I'm lining up. There you go. It's firing a hardcore Jack's hard core gym. It's on. Oh, she's the ball. She went the wrong way. I don't have to see anything like it. In the history of bowling. The ball went the opposite direction. Oh my god. Holy shit. All right. The women are winning. This is unacceptable in my body. So I'm going to have to step my game up a little bit better than it was. I need to strike you. Slip. I slipped. I choked. Oh, oh, oh. Hey, that's it. No. Now she's definitely beating everyone else. Holy macro, let's go. She's a ringer. I can't believe it. Oh my god. She got to strike. That's her strike. The bowl of who never bowled. She gets a strike on top of the spare. She's, I am very impressed. I'm very impressed. You're the first strike in the night. You never let me believe it. I think you're hustling as long. She like group. You've got to brawl. Now she can just spare. Now we're almost done to strike out and know where my we're big trouble here. These women I know are ringers. The role ring is they all they're hustling us. What do you mean here? This is a nice group. I haven't had one of these since I was like eight years all. We need a big walk for you. Actually, you know what? You're actually the one losing. I'm not even losing. I thought I was doing the words. You're actually doing the words. I need a frickest strike here. You can't let him get the momentum on us like this. Hey, can't even get it down the valley. His, his, his joke of the day. It's how many body goals does it take to his bowl of 300 games? The answer? Yeah. At least. You've got to, you want to beat Liverpool. You're going to have to, you're not going to spare here. At least. Wow! He's done. The women are easily beating the men right now as you can see. Christina Boynitz is bowling on a strike in the 10th frame here. Noah Trimble is in the lead with a 110 going into the 10th frame with Makela Soto 83, very close behind. He looked over at the men's pathetic scores. I am actually in the lead among the men with an 81, which is pretty pathetic with Derek Poundstone in second place, a fire and up the bowl. So I'm feeling good about this. You never know what your happens with the 10th frame. Derek, your promise the ball is too light. You've got to find like a hundred pound ball. You have to make one specially for yourself. Then you'll be fine. You think it's like throwing a marshmallow for him. Looks good. Oh, she gets a strike. If I think you officially have a loser here. That looks good. She got it. One more shot. She'll get it. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. We got to bring it over. I got it over there. She's you spare and then strike in the 10th frame. You finish with a 130. You are the winner here tonight. The champion of the bowling tournament. I knew she was going to win. I knew it. She was the ringer. That's right. Alright, I am over here with today's losers. We are the men. We are the inferior sex. We have one of the world's strongest men here. We have the world's strongest professional bodybuilder. We got an IFPB pro bodybuilder. It's some pretty sick arms. It claimed he was a 210 average baller who was the worst guy here today. You had the worst score. I just wanted to remind you that. We are times. And Pyron picks of Jack Tarko will be hosting the event tomorrow. I won't badmouth him because we still have to use his gym tomorrow. But the sad part is that guys, I beat you all. So I won't, I was the biggest winner of the losers. How does the field direct to finally be defeated? It's out of sparing you lose to a woman. You just don't like to lose to any men. No, you still beat me, though. Now, stand, I have a question. Who do you think would win any three-left powerlifting meet between you and the world's strongest men? I wouldn't want to after tonight and losing to the girls. I've never even wanted to venture a gas. I can't claim myself as having any title. There's two saving things to consider tonight. One. Dave Payne. So that makes him the biggest. I actually think by our paid. But you know, by our pay. I'm the biggest loser. And it really really proves that the girls are better and handling big balls than we are. And on that note, I mean, I say more than they should be there. Catch us all at Jack Hardcore Jim tomorrow for Bros. vs. Bros. 9. Last man, Stanley, Derek Pound, so we'll be in the house as the official guest referee. A stand will be doing some play by play with me. And my glitter toy will, what would you do to be known tomorrow? I'm just gonna shock and walk. You need ice cream sandwiches. Sandwiches and whatever other junk I can find. Let's go talk to the women, the winners. I am sad to say that I am standing here with the women's champions tonight. Actually, V champions tonight. The women have defeated the men in the battle of the bowling sexes here at the Parkside lanes in Aurora, Illinois. No tremble with the high score of 130 pins. Michaela Soto, I believe with the second high score of what do you want to want? 101. Woo! Two. The closest man was myself. I believe with a what 91 I got or something that I did. I got 91. I was the best high scoring man. Not that it matters. Like they said. They won. We're the money you guys won. The $4. $3. So we spent $1. I think so. I've swiked one of the dollars. I believe it was for there. We have a round there's only two. Wow. What they did win the $3 here tonight. And that's all that counts. And they got bragging rights for 24 more hours. And so tomorrow's Rose Rose Rose 9 last man standing at Jack Tard, Corrigim, that's Tammy and Byron's Jim. We will be there tomorrow. Deadlifting, curling and doing all the kinds of funds. I've maybe no little be a two-time champion. We won't know. Talk to Mar. For now. I'm Dave Palombo with the women champions here. And Aurora, Illinois's RXMuscle.com.

I was happy with my condition, you know. The fracing wise, you know, of course, you know, that's not my job. So the European judges are judging in a whole different way like the rest judges do, because the rest judges are searching for some special, while the European judges are searching for which with this and false, and it's the main thing where the world is placing high in the Europe and placing low in the US. This is the second whole for all of you. Thank you very much again for bringing this show here to Europe, Dr. Raffer-Senko. Thank you, Dr. Raffer-Senko. Thank you very much.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in this species nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toasts for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Dave Palombo here with our ex-Muscle supplement and science. Today we're going to talk about injections and a lot of people have been asking me about this and it's something I wanted to do and talk about for quite a while and I just kept putting it off and finally I guess it came back to me because I wanted one of my clients to ask me a question and they said, look Dave, I took a shot in my glute muscle and when I pulled the needle out, blood shot half way across the room. Another guy sent me an email saying Dave, when I stuck a needle into my tricep, the muscle was twitching like crazy and I had no if I injured a nerve or something like that. Another person said I took a shot of my lat and when I put the fluid in, I got like a shocking burning feeling down my hand and I was whacking it on the table and I'm a little nervous. I think I did some damage. These are very common occurrences that don't happen every single time but they do happen when you inject anything into your body especially when you don't know the anatomy of what you're doing. Even if you know the anatomy sometimes you can do things that just you had bad luck on. Number one thing when you inject into a muscle okay there are vessels that run through these through these muscles that number one provide the muscle with blood, arteries and veins, there's nerves that run through these things that innervate the muscles that enable them to contract according to what your brain tells them to do and these are just constantly running out. You know the anatomy of what's going on you can usually avoid the big vessels but there's always little tiny vessels in there and the big vessels terminate in tiny little what we call capillary beds which are the microscopic blood vessels but when you go through them with a needle okay they bleed. So when you're injecting okay a substance into a muscle and you maybe break some of these vessels in there all the pressure from that substance you're injecting creates back pressure which can cause blood it can cause some of the stuff you're injecting to squirt out okay of the wound and I've talked about this before I've said this ways that you can avoid that that back pressure by kind of moving the skin okay if here's your your muscle you can kind of just move the skin a little bit to the side and then you're injecting then the skin will go back and it will kind of seal off the injection side okay that's one you know thing that happens but I think more so what people are really afraid about it's hitting vessels the question I always get is oh what if I get the needle inside the blood vessel what if I hit a nerve and I damage the nerve very unliked and I'm gonna show you one yes my little I have all these cords all over my studio floor there's no organization okay so there it is so I got one of these cords here I think it's an HDMI cord this if you think about the inside and forget the muscles and everything inside the muscles sit okay your bicep muscle for instance or tricep muscle you have this array of blood vessels running through right the muscle some of these in nerve some of these are artery some of these events it doesn't matter which what they are when you inject when you take a needle yeah let's take our needle here and you actually don't mind needle pet I do this was sent to me by bobby muscles my little needle pet a syringe pet when you take your your syringe and you actually inject through the skin okay you perforate the skin now you have you have to navigate these vessels that you don't even know they're in there okay so most of the time you go in and you and you you don't hit anything and you you put the shot in and you're all good to go sometimes however you take an odd angle shot and you go in rather than go right into the between the vessels you actually hit a vessel now if you're going slow enough in what happens is these vessels are kind of just they're dangling they're they're very loose they're not like they're not really anchored in there so if you hit something they just kind of move out of the way if you're going slow see how this thing is just kind of pushing these cords away and going through them so you might feel a little a little twitch or something or a little a little something you're hitting but eventually it doesn't bother you because these this the syringe is going through and pushing these things out of the way now if you inject too hard very rapidly sometimes you can spear a vessel so instead of it getting move that of the way because it's robbery you actually can pierce it but you're not going to get inside it okay if you pierce something that can cause bleeding okay it pops out if you go slowly and you hit a nerve okay and you and you move it out of the way you might get the muscle twitching a little bit because you're you're actually it's like you're punching the nerve a little bit and the nerve is punching your back that's normal okay that's that's that's normal if you inject this thing too fast and you spear the the nerve which I have never heard anyone do but it's possible you can get a really big backlash now more likely what happens a lot of times is people get in there and they get very close to a nerve then they inject their substance in and as they inject it it starts occupying space and putting pressure on the nerve so all the fluid in there is pressing on this nerve and it causes the nerve to fire I see a lot of guys when they do their lat injections it'll inject they put a lot of fluid in there because it's a big muscle and then it puts pressure on that nerve and then all down there arm they start getting this like shooting pain or this fiery feeling or this tingling there's a lot of different sensations it's not because you damaged the nerve because if you you would have felt it right when you stuck the needle in you're not so much you feel just a little movement in there and then you inject them then all of a sudden you get this burning feeling or that's because you're putting pressure against the nerve now and it's causing the nerve to fire okay and that's not normal obviously now usually the pain goes away although this comfort goes away pretty quickly if it doesn't in the last a few days it's because that fluid is kind of still in that same area and it's near the nerve you might want to massage it a little bit in that area to kind of try to move it around because that's going to take the pressure off the nerve sometimes you know once again if you go too fast you could neck something or damage something it's a little bit and it causes a tremendous amount of inflammation around that area when inflammation occurs massaging is not going to help it might actually irritate it more a lot of times it's just got to heal you could take some anti-inflammatories if it's really bad the pain or uncomfortable that's less likely of a situation or scenario more likely is you're putting pressure around that nerve or vessel because of the fact that you've pumped or pushed a lot of fluid whether we three four or five cc's I don't know how much people put it in nowadays but even putting one cc too close to a nerve and putting pressure on it can be annoying and that's really where it becomes annoying and it can become a nagging a little bit of pain but like I said usually once the oil dissipates in a couple hours or even less than that the pain goes away so it just depends on where you put it but this is this network of vessels is the way it is and once again as long as you go in slowly that's why it's going to be when you put a needle in just go nice and slowly and it will push these vessels out of the way it's not going to spear them you're not going to get inside the vessel you're not going to be injecting oil in your vein or artery it's almost if I asked you to try to do it you probably couldn't do it that's how hard it's these these vessels are very rubbery just like this cord is rubbery it's almost impossible for me to stick a needle into this cord because and even if I hold it tight because every time I do it it just moves out of the way you might once again you might irritate it a little bit but you're not going to not going to get inside these vessels or these you're not going to and you're not going to spear a nerve once again unless you go crazy that's why it always drives me nuts when I go to the doctor's office and they want to vaccinate you and I get this nurse with this long needle that's way too long that they don't absolutely don't need especially in a person like me who has no body fat and they get on my shoulder and they go and they hit you with this needle like at a hundred miles an hour I'm like yo whoa whoa you don't have to put it in that fast oh it'll be over before you know it if I said that's all right I'm so I'm not worried about it being over I can wait five seconds more take your time because I know that if they hit something in there it's gonna hurt and I'm going to be in pain and soar for a couple days from it there's no need to go in that fast you push it nice and slow goes in like a nice little slight butter knife into the thing you push your fluid in in a nice steady pace doesn't have to be super fasty that because if you inject things too quickly to some of them you could put a lot of pressure against these vessels and we don't want that so don't think you you're you damage yourself permanently this is a common occurrence okay and people who do take shots and if you do shots in a regular basis every other day you're gonna take a couple of bad shots here in there take your time go in nice and slow you push your fluid in nice and steady don't use pins that are too small they have to put tons and tons of pressure to try to push it in and don't use pins that are too big either that are gonna damage the tissue when you put it in there and you shouldn't have as many problems it's always when we're rushing or we're trying to do something too quickly or we don't have the right uh instruments or the right syringe size or that's when we have problems so try to eliminate problems by being prepared that's my best advice to you on day polo with an R-X muscle supplement and science review

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. You should have your camera on right now for this show. I saw you said that like I like it, they mentioned you are on the Nick the Polar Show again. I love this guy from Australia. What was he talking about? If you don't check in the going to the store, down Sydney again, Jim's a shot in Sydney for the last two or not. We explained to all this contest. I put off Victoriaway Tony, don't even stay on their left closed the board. I see it's kind of Victoria. Because it's Delta variant now has jumped down to people. That's stuff like that. Now they're talking about this. You could go and put up a month and all these coffee shops and people's business are going under against now the government's scrambling to give out packages and money stimulus packages to the people who are like, oh, I can now. People just go on with life, just live with it. It's like the flu, just live with it. We can't keep shutting shit down every time someone coughs and sneezes for God's sake. Did you tell them that the things of these cops that I'm tripled vaccinated? I got my wife printing off the paper. I will throw it up when I go to the gym. I just would have passed down and when I started training, I just take it off. If you don't worry about COVID, the gym's the last place you come because, okay, coverage your mouth. You're touching everything. I was at the grocery store again. There's five people ahead of me and they're doing all the groceries, touching groceries and she's touching everyone's groceries. And then I swipe my card and I touch the pin pad that the six people ahead of me are touching up, wiping that down after every use. So let's just stupid. It's like this whole board of your wear and mask. I feel safe now. It's like a security blanket and this whole scanning in. A lot of people too. There's some old people called up a radio station. I listen to where these old people have been denied service because they don't have a smartphone. And before they had these QR code thing, they used to just have like a, at the counter. They have a, like a, you know, a note pad where you put your name down. Your phone number at that time you came in and what time you left. So if there is an outbreak, they can call you. But like, though, and if it's somebody's right, if you do that, if you don't have a phone in the scanning, you can't come in there to store my father couldn't even work to remote control back in the day up for the TV set. I can't even, he didn't have a phone. So what would Valentina, someone's just a little flip phone. He couldn't even even Valentina couldn't check it over there. I just saw it. Guess joined us on there. Oh, he did. We have another person. Oh, I saw. Oh, yes, we do. Legend. Who is it? Legend is, is a legend. Oh, Samir. You can't, speaking of guys that can't use this, the bit the bar code scan. Samir would be on the figure and out either. Hey, that's Papa. Let me still. Let's see. Here. Yeah, so what's up, Samir? I've got a hit except audio. Hit except audio. Samir. Michael, yes. You'll get it. I don't know. You might want to text him and tell him he's got to accept the audio. What do you think? Hit except audio. If the see, think he has it on mute. What do you think the problem is? You know, if I didn't see him works, he's personally a set. I know, you got to take the video. Yeah, yeah, he's got the wrong way to select it. It's going to go to his manager. Yeah, he's pushed it's pushed there on. So what do you think about the flex Lewis say he's not going to be doing the LB this year? I think it's a good decision because you know, he just moved his his whole. It's exactly. It's just moved. I've been like, come on. It's like if you want to have a family, you know, things come first. If that's his main priority right now, I think he should focus on that. And there were people would be upset because even moving the home. Yes, the gym set up and I'm still sure there's lots of things to be doing. And during that whole move and setting it up, yes, he would have been training but not training. Oh, along. So it's like, why, why Russia, if you're not going to be 100% why go in, especially with the lineups the way they're getting now with for army and you've rule is there and you've got all these other people. If you're not 100% on, why waste your time if you can't give 100% Why even try 99, 98, it's not a good enough now. So you've got to be 100 if you can't do 100, just wait to next year. Still young Jesus. The moving people don't realize this moving and I moved the right, this is true story and I've told this before. I moved around the corner. I had board a house in 1997 and see for it on the water. And then I bought another house in like 99, 2000 or was it 2001 I think it was. And it was a literally, I mean, you could walk there was around the corner. Okay. And I decided, you know, finally it was ready because it was a day. I don't want to submit. And I wanted to go around the corner. And so I said, why do I have to hire movers, right? It's, I mean, literally it's like a, like, you know, like a half of it. And I even have a lot of work in English. Yeah. Doctors, I guess it's a problem. I get your story, David. It's moving sucks. Yeah. It was the most, it was the most. I'm calling that. I'm calling that for help. Hold on. It's like talking to your grandfather. Yeah. My father's talking to me. Anyone else is talking to me. My father would just leave. He didn't want to even do it. He just got a few center of attention. And it's okay. Come on. It's okay. Samir, did you know, the actor Bill Smith who died? Yeah. It's very unfortunate. You know, um, Yeah. You know, What, I remember when I was a kid watching the, I was watching the, Anyway, I was watching the movie. Where they had the, he was fighting Clint Eastwood. That was like the first time I had seen him. I loved him in that movie. He was like a real big. You know, You know, it's like I told him. To see him just like me seeing my saw him at Woldjim many times. I did the same to those thing out. Really nice guy. Right. And you know what I told him. I said, I am so crazy about the sport. And when I saw that picture of you in one of his movie, I think was the movie that I saw. Back then was darker than Amber. Okay. Front Taylor. There's rock Taylor. There's Australian pretty great actor actually. And so I told him, Well, as I said, you know what, I had to feel that photo because I loved your arm. There's no other way out to you. You're told this. He's the, It's funny. It's funny. You're making that movie. He's the tell me because you've come in to the gym every day. And you're at that room. Rest me voice. There you go. And Lee. Yeah. There's absolutely no 分. I'm writing down to the introductory reputation. I knew it pretty hard. But it got to that dóan's new ears.テ l'm only flows around to heart through the conversation of Turkey's discharge. The ugly photos happening. That's like poisonous evil mouth, which is�ish news. It might not be like there were any fights that were going downwards. Back then, he took part in an article. She grabbed a candle and doesn't exist. There's a typical fight between the three fights. Hard to tell. Whatever the fight. They, you did, when did you see the movie? Oh, long time ago and now, it would have been a while ago. I saw it when the first came out. And I would just survive starting by the building. And you know what, when you see a big arm back there, it's like, wow, this incredible. You know what's funny? I saw also, they've draper movie with, don't make waves. Remember that? Yeah. I remember that. At the same time, I saw the photograph and I was really, really impressed. You know, when you enter the body, you know, you just, once anything for me, it was just a crazy passion. But you know, still in. You look a lot bigger on the screen, too. I mean, Arnold looked in Conan, looked like he weighed 800 pounds. I mean, he was enormous in this one. No one had ever seen the body building that big on screen before. I mean, I mean, I mean, they had a big, even, they had seen it. Fiend damn inspired a lot of people to train from his movies, Bloodsport, and he was even there. He was even there. But you'd see, you see, Fiend damn in person, he'd be like, this would be a bloody looking, but pretty thin. Right, right. Yes, yes, this mixed screen actually makes you look much bigger. That was one of the things we have. We have Samir Benus, Mr. Olympi here, who's joined us. And the, the name Samir and I used to have funny stories when Samir and I used to hang out in Venice, because Samir was always the tourist, we'd like to turn up the train, the turn up for anything. God, if they start training with Ali Malibu, for Samir up there, we didn't go down to Malibu. Samir goes, we'll go to Malibu, Baba, and we'll go down there. So we'll go to Malibu Beach, we'd play ball on the beach, and then go across the net, rest you on across the road from the beach, and eat fish and chips and stuff. Oh, the good old day. You know what, you know what, funny, the first time I saw Lee, please, I'm gonna like, you know, this kid is really good. So he came over to my house and Westwood, and then they hit a few poses, and I said, holy, I can grab this guy. This guy is different. And you know, I mean, really Lee, one of the most different different different different different house to me. Let me say different different different, my head, you know what's funny? Lee was saying, I know I'm gonna get a lot brighter. Lee was, Lee was hungry, and you can say what, you can feel it, you know, you know what's really incredible, at times I saw Lee box top to close to 80 or more. Didn't you go after that heavy? Two eight. Five or so. He was a fatso, we went to Westwood, we were walking in Westwood, and this guy was so big. He looked like bigger than his hammer. I don't know how he got this. He stopped the traffic and I'm going, what the hell Lee piece is going up to 285? When he did his best at 205 to 12 or something. Right now, remember, leave it great at 204 to 5, right, me or maybe under it. Yeah, I'm not sure. It was like you wanted to, I'm going forward to 10. Normally we're, not most pro shows us 206 to 08. Mm-hmm. The ball as man, it's the ball as baby, big arms and big legs. Yeah. Beautiful, tiny waist, no oil whatsoever. They're the joe, please. And then I was actually a fan some photos. I sent this to me today when Simea came the England with me and we had like a week and a half in England, an exposed and going to these cars or having cups of tea and stuff. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Hey, Simea, I remember that. So you think of a Lee priest come back? Do you think Lee can do it? Now? Yep. Of course he. You know, muscle muscle. Yeah. He's gonna come back. So he can come back. Yeah. What's that? Muscle muscle muscle. He's on my memory. He's a muscle muscle. Oh, that's right. He's still there. Oh, oh. Unbelievable. I'm scared. The memory. I'm really muscles. My muscles have Alzheimer's. Yeah, yeah. Your muscles have a little hug and does on it now. Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha. Benning. You know, you know what's funny? Lee and I talked about how people overdo it and they get uh, uh, the complicating for themselves. And they get so technical. And then when I see Lee, you came to my house sometimes with butter and stuff like he ate like a monster and you know, in my opinion, I don't know why people overdo and complicate things. Yeah. I never saw Lee hold in a yellow water running on the street with it. You know, anyone in great shape? The whole key here Dave is having fun. Right. And Lee always had fun. Yeah, you know it. When you're complicating, you add more coaches all. You, you, you, you worry. You want to do okay. Relax, have fun. Let's do a good time. Roll. You got to have, yeah, but you don't. Lee also was a genetic freak. Anything you did he grew from. I mean, he, he didn't need a lot of drugs. He, I mean, was a teenager. He was a freak. He never even had taken a steroids. So yeah, but genetic freak. But he was as a, I saw him train Lee train hard. Yeah. He doesn't mess around. I'm just saying, but he always gives me, yes, sir. Let's not talk about me. Let's talk about what do you think of the, I've been coming on a classic line up. You think it's going to be a good show, isn't it? I asked him, I don't know who's in the lineup. I haven't looked. Well, let's go to be, we'll pretty much, pretty much the lineup's going to be like the Olympia. My honest big ramy, but Bonnex going to be in it. Really should be in it. Nick Walker's going to be in Valier's going to be in it. Who else, David, is almost going to be like, like the Olympia. James, like the Olympia. I came Williams, it's almost going to be like the Olympia lineup. Mine is Mr. Olympia. So it's going to be a good show. Well, yeah, show, you know, Arnold, he always invite the good guys in. And I know what, you know, he doesn't want to do a Mickey Mouse show. And you recall when you went to Arnold Classic? No, Arnold wants to have great show. So do you think it's a good idea to maybe keep the Arnold around this time of year because it's right before the Olympia, a month before it kind of makes it easier for guys to do both shows and to have a better level of talent. What do you think it should go back to more 20 normal years? You know, you know, I see some new guys, but sometimes I really don't really focus too much on the, you know, you know, there's Logan, you know, Logan. You think you think the Arnold should stay it back, go back to March. Do you like right before the Olympia? Because this year we're going to see it in September because of COVID. And it's like a month before the Olympia. So a lot of these guys who do the Olympia are using the Arnold's almost like a warm-up, you know? I like it. I like it just before. I like it just before. I like it for warm-up. And that way, guys can't complain and say, well, I'm doing the Arnold in March. I can't pick again later on in the East to me. I know is that on the old days people people could peek all the time. Some guys now get a bit lazy. So if we got to make it easy, if it end the little snowflakes that I can peek once and then peek again, a couple weeks later, the Arnold close to the Olympia said I can do a couple of shows. Absolutely. How far apart the show, Dave? There are months apart. Well, that's doable. I mean, you know, once you're in shape, you need to really make a difference. In fact, you need to get better. I think so. I like how it is. The way the New York problem is more than 100. I wouldn't think it was a good idea. Two, three weeks maximum would be good. Yeah. And maybe move the New York pro earlier in the year. Maybe you have that in March or something like that. That might be good. What it's like, so me said, too, when shows are close to give. But when I used to do shows close to give, it's easier to hold. That's why a lot of guys that don't understand now. We've had a use of too many chemicals and doing whatever they can't hold their shape. But I heard my shape and the more shows I did, the better I got. When I see these guys do one show now, they go, I can't hold my shape for another week or two. I'm like, it's easy. Once you're in shape, it's easier to keep your shape. And let's just do something that, unless you're doing something with chemicals that just messes your body up. Actually, in my opinion, the second show you should look better. Because sometimes, you don't really realize that, when you load up after one show, you get back to your maximum fullness. And then you have better control of, you know, sometimes we take it too far and we dip down into losing these tissues and stuff like that. I think it's a smart idea to fill up completely and get back. It'd be easy to do the second one and make the improvement in my opinion. Ms. Mirnyuris estimation, who is the most difficult Mr. Olympia to beat on stage? Not necessarily the best Mr. Olympia, the hardest guy to beat and why. Who is the best Mr. Olympia ever? Not the best. Who is the most difficult Mr. Olympia to beat on stage and why? Okay, good question. Good question. Look, I witnessed Ronnie Coleman 2001 or 2002. And I can honestly say he was beyond rip and he was wasted. He looked unbelievable, you know. And sad, I had a plan of visiting him with Prince from Qatar and want to see him. So I told Ronnie, I have someone when I step by. On the way up to the room, I saw Louvre ignore walking out of the elevator. It's the mirror. Did you see Lee? That means did you see Ronnie and I said, no, I am going to see him right now. He said, oh my God, I've never seen anything like it. That's what I did. Louvre's right. Lee, I mean, Ram Ronnie was so true and in full and wasted. I knew right then there's no way anybody can attach him. Any really walked away with the show? I think that was the most conditioned Mr. Olympia. Which one? I never seen. You talked about 99 or 98? 19 out, 2001 as a tool. And I think all one he was awful, probably 99 you're thinking. Yeah. Yes, I think so. I want to say almost beat him, remember? I think it's two years before Jay Cutler took him. I think a couple years before that. Yeah, so it might have been over. Oh, three is when he was the craziest size wise. You know, O3 was that insane like 292 million version of him. I always think the hardest Mr. Olympia to beat would be there could be two of them. Ronnie and Dorian. Of course, it would be a physique. The physique was hard to beat, but also when you look at the mentality Ronnie has and Dorian had just said, you know, that crazy training mentality works just all or nothing all of nothing. I'm not saying other guys don't train hard, but some just have that dual diaries, some sort of train hard, but you just you can just see when someone goes beyond to the point where if they die, they don't care. That's right. Yeah, I don't even believe in that. I believe in that condition that I saw Ronnie up to now, I think about it because really he was the most massive, but still wasted. You know, the his missection was super tight. Yeah. And you know, when the missection goes away, it's just no matter. I'm not impressed. I'm not interested. You notice, like, for example, not because Lee here, but Lee always competed in tight missection. I never see Lee with a tummy too. Because he knew right ahead, it's not about being too big and sacrifice and having a little like, you know, Ronnie come later on, he lost that look. Yeah. So doing fill his, I think fill his, no bullshit here. I'm not talking about anyone personally about them as a person, but as a bodybuilder, I think without a doubt, Trilhis is one of the most incredible bodybuilder there is when he is on. Oh, when he is on. Yeah, because it's complete. You don't, you don't find weakness on fill. You know, I mean, Ronnie, we're going to get back and say, okay, where's the calves? Yeah. Or we may look, all, you know, his glutes is way down that we should the middle of his his hamstring. To me is all about how who is the most complete or put together, I would have to go to fill his. Wow, okay. Really. So, but most impressive condition ever was for Ronnie Coleman. I know, I, I, I, I'm just talking about Mr. Olympia's, you know, getting back to our, the actor Bill Smith who died. We just speak about him at the beginning of the show. He actually trained with Larry Scott for the first two Mr. Olympia victories that Larry had. The very few of them. First Mr. Olympia and I heard a story, I don't know if you know, heard the story. Suppose they bill asked Larry, he goes, Larry, you know, we train together every day. How are you so much bigger than me? And Larry said, I am a bull. I'm taking the animal. And Bill didn't even know what it was. They, they don't never took any drugs supposedly. Yeah, they were both training at Vince Jim's. Yeah, Vince, the runner. And, you know, they did it the old school way. You know, Vince Man, the way he died, in fact, and I know you and favor of this kind of diet. Yeah. You were the key to a man. Yeah. You know, I mean, could you imagine, I mean, create him in whole eggs unlimited amount of, you know, you can eat actually. Oh, they can, like, but, you know, no carbs. Right. Level caps, you know, what are you, what are you really saying about that? Let me ask me, please, about that because he's not going to be biased here. He's going to throw the truth. Yeah. What do you think about that, the high, you know, keep it. I try to put, I don't know, I'm my body loves carbs. So I try to eating, you know, because I love meat to look. I love bacon. I love eggs. I love high fats and protein foods. And I try to put as soon as I take carbs out of my diet, I just start craving, breads and pastas and rice. So I, I lasted maybe five days, but then I went off that. And I went to eat buns and bread and rocks. I just said, I got to keep a loop it. The lowest I ever went on carbohydrates starting was 250 grams a day. If I went low than that, I just felt crap and stuff. So 250 was my lowest time ever go. I don't have to agree with you because I mean, look at Doria Nes. Doria and always came in a shape. And he came in Narlie. Yeah. He never really go beyond 260 grams. This is when he's depleted. He thinks it's, yeah. Yeah, but every, every, every, every, every story. And Doria was a genetic freak. I mean, I, Sean Rodin would do zero carbs and zero fats for three weeks. You know, he didn't shave, but you know, we're telling you what? Zero fat and zero carb? Levroni said it now. Levroni would go six weeks without eating carbs. I mean, Levroni was a, was a big low carb dieter. So I mean, everyone's a little different. You got to kind of figure out what you metabolism is and kind of go from there with it. But guys, I got to go pick my son up at school. Samir, I love when you join us for these little special little shocking and little occasions. It makes my heart warm. It's my heart because you are such a, a bed of knowledge when it comes to bodybuilding. All right, so these are, when you, when you go, it's a, I'll see you. So me as a legend, and this is what I love about to me. When I see photos of Samir, even the older guys, this is where the younger guys today need to learn conditioning. When you look at Samir and the other guys back then, the conditioning, they had in the muscle. You don't wait didn't matter when you have the proportions and you have the muscle and you have that level of conditioning. You can throw the weight number out the window because they look like giants and that's where the guys today need to realize. Yes, mass is great, but not to the point where you have so much mass, you don't have separation, you don't have conditioning. When you look at Samir and those guys back then, the day, you think Samir way too 60, you're like, well, look at him, the small waist and that. But hey, and really, I have to stop you at this and tell you, you're like, hummer, you used to drive, right? But I'm going to tell you, Austin Martin versus Hummer. What's that? They've come on, man. I like the ass. I like the ass. The ass. My favorite cow. But you can't take it into the bush, you can't take it through the mud, you can't take it through the water. And you can't mount the 50 calabin machine, god, I'm top. Well, that's not what that's so much to do. They don't. Okay, they drive fast. That's okay. But, Jay, well, Jay, I'll take it back. Jay, I'm sponsored at machine guns that came out of the X-demath. So I'd rather have a course 911. In terms of turbo twin terms, I hope that. Hey, listen, day before you go. Yeah. There are some really important topics that we need to discuss in the future. And we'll go over it. I'm in the vein. You get iron to base, Samir. Let me know when you're available. What's doing? All right. We will do that again. And I love hanging out with you and me because I know you go. We'll get lay on two. I should, you love this. We'll do iron debate next week. And we'll, uh, have you in the lead on? Let chat with you. I'm short, notice. Because Lisa started out in this clip. You think I'm going to say, well, give me a break. I mean, I'm listening to you. I'm listening to you. Samir, we got to get you off the teaser. And then we get you off for the full blown one the week after some people get excited about it. You know, for now, you know, you know, well, I'm about to. The thing is, a lot of people sticking their nose in the game. And then that's from the heart of the game. You guys from the heart of the game. K- why I like to sit here and listen. Take us at it with your Joe Weeder impression Samir. Come on, you know what, you know, you can go on. You're a little Joe Weeder. Come on. You can call Paul Gillett. Not Paul Gillett. And it's to call Paul. Paul. This is Joe Wayne or hi Joe. How are you? You come over and you're like, yeah, yeah, Joe. And then you know, you need to get pissed off. I'll choose, I'll switch to me once in a quarter. Pull the let like that off from pull a contract and pull going all excited. You know, the photographers or the Japanese photographer. Missed them. Yeah, mature. Me sure. Yeah, I call them and I pretend to be Joe. I gave them a job of a $50,000 contract. It was a happy goal. Mr. Weeder. Mr. Weeder. Thank you very much. Oh, how's your Japanese style? Mr. Weeder. Samir and then we need. When he's on that, it was me, he goes, I think you. Samir the grads. Mr. Olympia, 1983. Samir Avenue. Lee Priest. I'm Dave Palambau. We'll see you next time. Mr. We're going to go get your boy. Thank you. Talk to you guys. I'll just make the light as for me.

Welcome back to Musselin the Morning on Dave. We'll let you know what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. One of the coolest things about this part of the year, as a baseball fan, is that when you see your team call up some random guy from their AAA program. Well, now all of a sudden he's got his shot to live at his dream right there in front of the hometown crowd. In seven weeks from now, to 12 powerhouse, Sammy Troudy would finally get his shot to live at his dream when he sets foot on the Olympia stage for the first time in his career. The latest updates from Team Troudy show the second year, stand out, looking like he's at his old time best. Back at the start of the year, Troudy ripped off three straight top three finishes where it felt like he was really starting to come into his own. But now that he's been able to sit back and reassess the program, hopefully can hit the mark and deliver a major statement this September at the Mr. Olympia. But the Tampa Pro only a few days away now. I'm starting to see all sorts of interesting little clips float past my desk here, as these athletes start getting ready for action. But I have to admit, I haven't seen too many that may be slow down and pay attention. Like the ones I saw from Cleveland Thomas earlier this week. The classic physique stand out is on pace to bring his best conditioning ever this weekend, which will probably be good enough to land on a spot in the first call out once it finally gets rolling. Last year we saw this guy basically come from out of nowhere to crush it in his way at the Chicago Pro. So I wouldn't put it past a 100% Cleveland Thomas to creep out of Tampa with a big trophy in his pocket and in Olympia qualification on his resume. Here I watch the NFL or NBA draft. I always look at the guys coming in and ask myself the same question. Could they have made an impact on a playoff team last year? And pretty soon we'll find out of second year men's physique star, Cairon Holden, is ready to make an impact in the IFVV's version of the postseason. The second year stand out is coming off a monster when a few weeks ago at the San Jose Pro where he was heading shoulders above the group of athletes that were pretty damn good on paper. If you ask me the men's physique Olympia lineup is right behind the men's open and having the least amount of wiggle room for an athlete to break into the top 10. But if this kid can show up at 100% he might have enough talent to put himself in position to compete for one of those top five spots. And you're an athlete and an opportunity knocks you better make sure you're ready to answer the call because those windows can close before you know it. But I get the feeling that women's physique all start Danny Castillo knows that better than anyone with her second straight trip to the big dance right around the corner now. The Toronto Pro champ looks like she's ready to take full advantage of the huge void left by Julianna Melacorni's absence this year. Pound for Pound Castillo has one of the most complete looks in the entire division. And if we can get a 100% spot on Danny Castillo to touch down on the Olympia stage this year, I really believe she has a legitimate shot to be a top three contender. The most important thing is to be a mortal world of Gandhi. You've got to be the change you want to see in the world. I think there are plenty of people out there who could learn a thing or two from classic physique standout Edgar John Augustin. The man most people know by the internet handle by on a body. Yesterday Augustin and his team released a short new training clip in celebration of international chess day where they gave their fans an inside look at what their offseason program is looking like. Everyone that I've talked to tells me that Augustin is a class act on an off the stage. If you can't get excited by seeing guys like this wake up every morning and inspire thousands of people to go out there and make the impossible become a reality that is probably time you sit down to reevaluate the things that are really and truly important in your life. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day below for mining you to always be true to your passion and they should have followers on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Our X television on rxmuscle.com, ass Dave, powered by Species Nutrition and Liquid Sunrays. We have a new retailer, a powerhouse retailer that's going to be carrying us their base in Kansas supplement syndicate day plumbo. These are serious people. Kristen Numbi owner, an operator of supplement syndicate a series competitor herself. This store is all about the series athlete. Yeah, you know, I love the hardcore stores. There's not that many of them around, but they're in pockets all over the country. And Kristen Numbi is certainly the depiction of what we call hardcore. She believes in the science of supplements. She's knowledgeable. She's in this store. She lives the lives of the others. She can see her physique. And they're super supportive of Species Nutrition. And I really value that when someone gets behind a brand and can sell it based on its science and doesn't argue with me about, oh, it's too expensive or this is not. They want the best of the best. And if you're in the shoney, you know, Kansas area and you're looking for a hardcore store that has the best of the best, you know, the Mercedes-Benz of supplements, you know, stop by there. You'll get free advice. They'll tell you how to take supplements. They'll tell you what you should use, what you shouldn't use, what you should look out for. And that's the kind of store that I want to put my brand of Species Nutrition Prize in. A store that gets it, a store that's going to be then educate and not just looking for profit margins. So once again, guys, if you're in the shoney area of Kansas, stop in, say, a little Christian teller, day-palombo, RX muscle, species nutrition, sent you. And I'm sure she'll take great care of you. This is your 30 minute question, Nancy. Oh, what day-palombo, all your questions on diet, training, supplementation, IFB, pros, competitions, of course, the Olympia one month away in Las Vegas, Dave. We have some big news to announce regarding the Olympia, which, of course, is going to be in four weeks time in Vegas. Yep, the big news is number one will be there, which was, which was a kind of like, an iffy situation, because I wasn't sure if we're going to do it. And now, I'm sure in Saint-Metrobredcon, one step up to the plate, he's sponsoring all our coverage as well as liquid sun rays, the official, our official tending sponsor of the Olympia coverage. And so we're going, you know, I hope my flight is not going to be like a million dollars. We haven't booked it yet, but Sid and I will be out there with Raphael Noble who are photographers, as well as Chris Isito covering the show as we always do with all our helpers out there who've come there to help us every year. It should be a great one. Obviously, Phil, he's going to try to tie it. I guess you could say a Olympia win number eight. Flex Lewis is last Olympia. We have the fitness Olympia crown vacated this year. So that's going to be a new one. Julie on a math, Malacarney is not going to be at the Olympia. So the women's physique Olympia crown will be vacated. So a lot of exciting stuff happening and a lot of great people stepped up to the plate to make this happen. You will be seeing over the next few days we've been recording interviews with already some top Olympians and we're going to be adding that list last year. I believe they we did about what 34 real Olympia interviews are something that I hope you don't do that many this year. No, but you know, again, it's no it's no state secret, but with a lot of the media contracts coming to an end, we are going to have a lot more access to some of the top Olympians pre Olympia during the Olympian. Of course, post Olympia. So keep tuned. The iron road. The Olympia is officially underway again as Dave mentioned power by Redcon one. And of course, our official tending sponsor liquid sun rays. So let's go to the questions. Our first two questions from the Dave Palombo experience app. The first question, Dave lately, I've seen people starting to use the victim's own slash, like, send what do you think of those products? You know, they're interesting products. What they are is they are what's called glucogon like peptides. They're, you know, when you eat a meal and your small testing senses food, it releases the GLP peptides. And what they do is they basically tell you, you're you're telling you number one, you're full. It's it's slow as the digestive tract out, but more importantly, what it does is it actually increases the output of insulin. So if you don't produce enough insulin, it will help the pancreas produce more insulin. And it also reduces the liver from producing glucose via gluconeogenesis. Now, as we know, the liver is constantly producing a glucose from amino acids in the liver. We can't stop that from happening or so we thought. But we can slow it down a little bit. And the advantage of, if you, if you're, if you're a liver is constantly cranking out glucose, you've got to produce insulin to absorb that glucose. Obviously, insulin is a fat storage hormone. We don't want a lot of insulin output. Okay, by the body or excessive insulin output by the body because our body is a cranking out glucose. So a lot of people have started using this sacsend, the, excuse me, the toes are sacsend the product to help with weight control because it kind of makes you feel associated because it slows digestive tract down. And it also helps reduce the output of insulin by reducing the liver's production of glucose. Now, this is an advantage for people for weight loss. It's used to be used to, it's both. I guess you could say it's, it's medical use is for type two diabetics that can't control their blood sugar. I think mostly because it reduces the output of liver glucose. But I've seen bodybuilders start to use it now for appetite control, okay, for weight loss because it, it, once again, reduces insulin output. And it reduces the amount of insulin you need because you're not producing as much glucose from the liver. So I haven't used it personally, but I do know some people who are using it and have successfully used it. Especially a lot of people who have appetite control issues. It seems to be a much more natural way to control your appetite as opposed to taking, you know, ridiculous amounts of stimulants in at or all and stuff like that to try to, you know, kill your appetite. That doesn't seem to work well. And there's always a rebound to walk that. So I think we're going to see a lot more use of it as it becomes more available. And as people start experimenting it with more. Second question again from the Dave Plumbo experience at Dave Great Interview with Stan Efforting, do you think his approach is optimal using all food sources over shakes and vitamins if you can actually do it? Optimal now, practical now, but, you know, it works, you know, look eating whole foods. If you can get your nutrition from whole foods and I think it's very, very difficult to get everything you need from whole foods. And I think even Stan would say the same thing. He's a big believer in supplementing with, you know, multivitemins and multiminaroles and something like that. I know he uses a lot of my products as well from species nutrition. But, you know, his approach is for the average person. If you can kind of, you know, if you can kind of try to get all your food groups in and try to get, you know, the right amount of nutrients, not to stuff that they tell you about in school, the right nutrients that our bodies need from the food you're eating, that's going to help your body, you know, long term, especially if you're eating a lot of food. So, you know, it's difficult for a lot of people to do this because it requires a lot of pre-planning. So, for a bot, that's why I say from a practical standpoint, I don't think it's that doable. I think for most body bills, they have they really want to just focus on protein, central fats, carbs, and then all their vitamins and minerals, they just, they don't worry about eating vegetables though like that because it's just extra calories, so they take that in supplement form. The problem is if you don't use a good high-quality protein, like, excuse me, high-quality supplement minerals vitamins, you know, in the right dosages, absorbability, then you really are hurting yourself. And I think, from for those people who are not willing to spend a few bucks and get the right stuff and I'm not just saying that my species nutrition wine of the mineralism, agilize are the right stuff because it is the right stuff. But if you don't want to buy my products or you don't have access to, there are other products that they can fill that void, but if you're not doing that, then your damn is hell better eat it in your meals. To me, it just seems it's cheaper and easier to do it through the supplemental form. Probably the right approach is somewhere in the middle, as it always is. Try to get some of it from your foods, some of it from supplemental form, somewhere in the middle is the ideal situation. And I think that's the way it is in life. And I think it's good to always get people thinking about what they're doing and that's what stand and I try to do in that interview and I think what stands is doing with his vertical diet. It's getting people thinking about what they're doing. Because even if you don't follow everything you tell you, if you pick up a few extra tips and nutritional, I guess you could say shortcuts from him, then you take away a message was well received. We'll take questions from our Instagram. Again, our Instagram handle is official underscore our ex muscle. We tease our Olympia coverage, follow our Instagram up until you lump in and of course throughout Olympia weekend, we're going to have loads of content on our Instagram feed on Twitter, Facebook and of course on the YouTube channel. They've you mentioned the women's physique division, Julia and Malacarney, of course, vacating her title, Trent Riddle Hoover, your thoughts on the women's physique class. I read what they're looking for, but from what I read, it basically said, don't get too shredded. Is there a science cap or what he goes on to say about his friend and in overlooking the division, go into detail about your thoughts of the class and its specifications. You know, I've been watching and following women's body building from probably since 1988, I think I was the first year I really was paying attention to what's going on. And you know what, they've been trying to control how big, how hard, how this, how that, these girls have been getting. And you know what the truth is, every single year, the bottom line is that whatever looks best on stage is what the judge is vote for. At the end of the day, if they say cut back your size, but the girl was big, but it looked feminine and it flowed well, she won. That was the best physique on stage. That's always the case. The problem is that some of these people get so at a control with trying to be the biggest hardest, that they start turning it into like a, it's like it becomes a freak show and it doesn't look good. So you can't say to the hardest, biggest girl on the show that, hey, you're not the best up there because she might be from a physique standpoint, but from a aesthetic standpoint, she's not. So the bottom line is they try to keep it from getting out of control. And I think that's a good thing. We don't want women's physique turning into women's body building. The way I got when it was out of control, I think women's body building now is actually not too bad. Although there's not that many competitors left. Most of them have gone to women's physique or retire. The key is to look feminine. It looks very easy to take a ton of drugs, okay, as a woman bodybuilder or women's physique competitor and put on muscle and get shredded. Okay, it's a lot harder to take a small amount, okay, and keep your femininity and focus on diet and training is a way of getting in shape. But when you do it that way, it looks better. Julianna Malakarni is the post-agre of that triad for this division. Why? Because she was feminine, she looked great, she presented herself well, she never put excessive amounts of muscle on yet. It was a look that people like said, hey, I like that. I want love to look like that. And that's what the division was created for. And I'm pretty, there's a couple of women out that I'm very impressed with their physique. Obviously, I've talked very highly of Sheneek Grant. I don't think she's excessively big. I don't think she's excessively hard. She's got syllogenetics and killer structure. And everything that she puts on to that structure looks great because of it's in the right places. And I think that, you know, she's going to be tough to be especially with Julianna Leaming. However, there's other competitors that are up there as well. I think if a competitor is listening to the advice that the IPB's getting and they take it literally, they'll come in too smooth and they'll do terrible. Comment at your best. Just don't do extreme things. Cole NPC, good friend of this show with active release and deep tissue worked on. Do you ever find that there's more growth in areas and less scar tissue around injection sites? With getting regular massages, that would be a point. Yeah, of course. Of course, whenever you get regular massages, you're breaking up the scar tissue before it forms. You're moving, you know, if you're doing injections into certain areas, you're moving the volume out of there. So it's not stagnating and building up, you know, connective tissue, you know, bridges. So yeah, of course, massages always a great thing to do. If you can do it, I mean, I know Jay Coffey is to get massages like five times a week or something like that. I think when he was competing. So obviously, at some point, you know, most people can't afford to do that. But when I was in the front my prime, I was trying to get a massage every week or pretty close to it. And it definitely helped with recovery. There's no doubt in my mind. Ronnie K Walker is extra virgin olive oil band to cook with. I've heard it's not a good oil to use. If cooking with it at high temperatures, I've heard macadamia not oil, which obviously used the jazz and coconut oil are better. Any truth to this? Yeah. Olive oil, extra virgin olive oil has a very low smoke point. I mean, if you heat it too hot, it degrades and it loses all its health benefits. And it actually could become a negative type of a bad fact. So you don't want to be heating. If you lightly start to heat it up too hot, it just goes to crap. That's why I don't trust any olive oil on the market right now because there's so many fakes out there with tons of soybean oil, padding it. It's almost like protein spiking. There's a couple years ago they're spiking the olive oil with cheap soybean oil. So I don't even go there. I don't even know people say, well, this brand is good. I don't even bother. I make a brand of macadamia. Because I couldn't depend on the olive oil and because I truly believe that macoiles are better oil. It's higher in mono and saturated fats. It has a perfect balance of omega-3, omega-6 is one to one ratio. Only fat that has that. You can cook with it. It has a super high smoke point. It doesn't oxidize when exposed to light. It doesn't go bad. It doesn't go rancid. And you know what it tastes like butter. There's no disadvantage. There's no oil out there that's more or more oil purpose than that. You know, coconut oil makes everything taste like coconut. Plus it's not an essential fatty acid. It's a saturated. It's a short chain or medium chain saturated fat, which is not necessarily bad for you. But it just can be really only gets used as a fuel source. It doesn't have any other purpose in the body. It does have some immune system stimulating effects they found. But by and far, macoile is if you're going to put oils into your body, that's the type of oil you want to put in there. It's in volume. When you go for essential fatty acid, you could take them and supplement them. You don't eat as many of them. But mono and saturated fats should be the main driving fats source of the body. John Daniel will taking expired gear or H.H. having negative effect on your body. I always tell this to be. The worst case scenario is that expired gear just won't work or won't work as well. When something hits an expiration date, it doesn't just deactivate itself. Okay? Most of the stuff is good for years afterwards. If it's not being kept in a stable temperature environment, it could start to degrade. But it's not going to just go from full policy to nothing because you hit a certain date of the calendar year. Okay, it was going to start to slowly degrade. It could take 10 years before it stops working. Back in the day, I had given a friend of mine some kids a growth home and I had. I don't know what was going on. I didn't want to keep in my house. I was paranoid of something like that. I forgot to gave it to him. Like seriously, like five or six years later, he told me, I got these things in my refrigerator. Do you need them? I completely forgot about them. I used them and they worked fine. I just don't believe like I said, as long as you keep things in a temperature controlled environment, you really have nothing to worry about. Sent Burger, your thoughts on sprouted wheat bread as a carbs source versus oatmeal. I get sick of eating the same thing all the time and it's nice to switch up here and there. Yeah, I like sprouted bread. You know, you got to be careful. Some of them have a lot of sugar. They put honey in them. They put sugar on them and that adds up quite a bit. Especially, obviously, you're dieting. You wouldn't want to be eaten that stuff. But the ones that don't have any added sugars to them, they're fine. I don't have a problem, especially the offseason. Offseason, you don't need to be so tightly controlled. Sometimes it's good to kind of, you know, loosen up your eating. As long as you're not eating foods that are going to get you fat, you know, putting tons and tons of ketchup at all of your every single meal you eat. In the offseason, it's not something I would recommend. If you use a little ketchup here and there, that's fine. I wouldn't use it pretty contrast, obviously. You can loosen up offseason, but that doesn't mean you should be just putting tons of extra unnecessary calories onto your foods that are really not doing anything positive for you. Be underscore, date day of I have a friend who eats a lot of fish in his diet. His mercury levels on his blood working back in the upper 20s could this be from the quantity of fish he's eating or would it be a quality issue of the fish itself? Both probably. If you're eating fish that has mercury in it and you're eating a lot of it, obviously you're going to get a lot of mercury in your bloodstream. If you're eating fish that has mercury in it, but you're only eating it once every couple days, you're going to have much lower levels, maybe not that much at all. Of course, it's always dose dependent. When Jason H. when I interviewed him, he had severe mercury toxicity. He was eating C-bass. He loved it. He thought it was a great fish. It was healthy. It was wild caught and he had tons of mercury in it. He was eating it like pounds of it every day. Of course, he had a much worse situation going on in his body than say the person who would eat C-bass, but maybe only twice a week. It just goes to, you've got to know what the fish is. I try to stay away from eating tons of tuna, even though I love tuna. I'm not so a tuna in the cans. I'm talking about the big sushi tuna. I love sour fish. I would eat it every day if I could, but it's, you know, it's got mercury in it. That's just the way it is. I try to eat more salmon. One of course salmon seems to be better. Yeah, this could be some PCBs in there. They're saying, but there's no, at least there's no heavy metals in salmon. That's where I try to get most of my fish. I also try to eat a lot of white fish that maybe don't like cod and something that they're small fish. They don't really accumulate these heavy metals in them. Once again, everything will kill you. If you eat the wrong type of food, you need to much of it. So try to spread it out and eat different sources of protein. It's funny. Nowadays, you know, bread meat was so out of vote. Now it seems to get everyone wants to eat bread meat because it's like the only thing that's safe nowadays. Dave, Dick Co. Dave, is there a way to minimize water retention in the offseason? I've holds so much water through the day and curious how to limit it. So what, you hold water and you want to know how to avoid the water retention in the offseason? Minimum in the offseason. The easiest way to stop water retention is to eat lower carbohydrates. Because the more carbohydrates, you can look, the reason why you hold water in the offseason and not pre-contest is because you're eating way more carbohydrates. When every gram of carbohydrates that you eat, you retain a certain amount of fluid with it, that's just the nature of carbohydrate storage in the body. When you store glucose, it's glycogen and the muscles in the liver, you store water with it. So if you're gorging on carbs all day, you're going to retain a lot of fluid from it. So if it's get that uncomfortable, cut back your, your carbon take and you'll see that water go down quite a bit. Likewise, if you're taking excessive amounts of G8, which will make you hope retain fluid, you might want to cut that those to your back as well. Let's go to one extra wrap on the type one diabetic and take lantus first thing in the morning every day. I have a new doctor who's suggested that I take it before going to bed every day instead. Since insulin and G8 combined to the same receptors, what taking lantus at night, negatively affect the G8 from reaching its receptors or vice versa. First of all, G8 really doesn't have receptors that we know of. When you take growth hormone, your body breaks the growth hormone down and deliver and releases a hormone on his IGF1. IGF1 will bind to IGF1 receptors. Now, sometimes IGF1 can also bind to insulin receptors and have what we call an insulin-like effect that's where it gets its name, insulin-like growth factor 1. That's not negative because it's doing the same thing as insulin. So once again, taking lantus, which is supposed to be a 24-hour insulin, a long acting insulin. First of all, you shouldn't be taking it one today. You should be taking it twice a day. These doctors are inbiscules. Lantus is a known not to last that long. You should be taking a nightly injection before bed and you should be taking a morning injection. Now, lantus is a long acting or what we call basal insulin. It doesn't just have an immediate effect. There's a very low key subtle in the background effect. So that's why you could take it before bed and you're not going to get hypoglycemic. If you took a shot of like human log before bed and didn't anything, you'd be, you'd be, you know, your blood sugar would drop to nothing. You'd be ready to you know, go into a coma. But that's not how long acting insulin works. So they don't really interact negatively with GH. GH and insulin actually works. They can kind of positively interact because the insulin will overcome the insulin resistance that the GH causes. So, you know, when I recommend that people taking fast acting insulin, I usually do have them take it in the morning with GH and the fast acting together. So it has a synergistic effect rather than an antagonistic effect. But when we talk about also, when we talk about these long acting insulin like lantus, it has no bearing on you taking GH. First of all, I would take GH in the morning. I don't I wouldn't take it in an accused of body naturally releases it today. And I would take my lantus half in the morning half in night. Let's go to Kyle and Mara new G, please as Dave, what amount of T3 or Sinemel will be considered to high with 75 NG's be considered to high, how to taper down properly to avoid unnecessary fat-hain post-contest? I won't ever go over 100 micro grams a day. I find that to be a safe amount that people could take without having any negative side of me. So once again, you're not just going from zero to 100. You're ramping up over a very long period of time, maybe over two, three months, three, four months. Take starting out of 25 micro rams and slowly every couple weeks building up to it. If you did it overnight, you would have problems because your body acclimates to it. I never found any problems with 100 micro rams per day. I've even gone a little bit higher sometimes just to pinch higher from India week or two. But that seems to be the ideal amount. I mean, most people don't need to go that high, but you can go that high without a problem. Now, when coming off-site, what I use is I use two week weaning off period. So, no matter how high you are, the first week, I would immediately drop it down to 25 micro rams per day, okay? And I do that for a week. Then I would do another week at half of that, 12.5 micro rams. Per day. And then go off. Because what happens is it's a very thyroid hormone is a really a direct feedback type mechanism, meaning that when you take, when the body senses T3 and the body act a thyroid hormone, it shuts down the signal in the brain. Okay? The signal in the brain is the hormone that's released by the hypothalamus to tell the pituitary to release thyroid stimulating hormone. Okay? When you take away the T3, okay? Your pituitary kicks back on, so it's producing more thyroid stimuli, hormones, so that your thyroid methods can start producing. That's why taking T3 really doesn't have any negative effect on the body. It's a very easy back and forth process. Now, what happens in a lot of times, and I've mentioned this before, is that hey, we lost some lights here. I don't know. I have, it's funny, I hear thunder in the background. I'm not going to stop recording. I have a generator. I just pay a super amount high amount to money for a generator. Let's see if the generator kicks on because I want to make sure I got my money's worth. I have a feeling one of these is plugged in a thyroid to another outlet that probably blew a few years, but we do have one light on, so I'm going to continue in the dark. Right, so I'm having this too, so maybe you can see it. Yeah, yeah. Tiles try to get me, he wants to go home basically. But anyway, thyroid, so a lot of people what happens is that they have low thyroid and they don't know it, and then they take side of mell, T3, and they lose a lot of weight, and then they say, okay, it's time to lean off of it, and they lean off of it, and they like they never feel normal again, because they didn't really say how great they felt when they took the side of them, and then they going to get blood work, and they find out that they're low, they have low T3. Meanwhile, they had it all along, they just didn't know it, and they think that they blame the fact that they took the side of mell as to causing the hypothyritis of, when that's just not the case. Very, very, very few instances occur where a person takes T3 and actually shuts down the thyroid, going permanently from it, very, very infrequently happens. Oh, it shut off? No, we're recording, what's wrapped up? Oh, okay. So I guess no one wants to record in the dark anymore. Did we lose it? Yeah, we lost it. Okay, guys, sorry, you know, sometimes mother nature tells us when it's time to end the show. It is after hours here, you know, we were doing a lot of recording this week, and this Wednesday, especially we were going late today. I hope you guys enjoy all the questions. Make sure you subscribe below, turn on your notifications, leave us comments, what you want me to talk about. Remember, you can always post questions to our official underscore RX muscle Instagram page, our on the RX muscle forums, on our Facebook. We have so many different avenues we can submit you questions to, and I will always answer them. Unfortunately, for Sid, Feruuki, and our producer, Tyler Shore on Daypalamba, and we'll see you next time.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Welcome back guys to Guru Talk and I'm here today with John Hanson and we're going to be talking at Natural Body Building. Can you believe it, John? I show that doesn't talk about drugs. I can't believe it. Right, right. So I'm not going to have a not used drugs. Right, well, you know, if you don't have the basis of proper nutrition, okay, training, supplementation, if you don't have that part of the equation down pat, you're not going to maximize what you do when you take antibiotics if you decide to go that route. So this show is a dual purpose. It's not just for natural bodybuilders and it's how to get big. It's for everyone because that's something that I really felt that was part of my success at being putting on so much size was that I had my diet and supplementation and training down so perfectly before I ever took my first pill of any kind of antibiotics. That when I did, I think I got a much better response than most people did. Absolutely, yeah. And I think we've seen a lot of other bodybuilders who were natural for a long time. And when they went on the drugs, then they really went up to the top levels like kaygrain and karate colon. How did they reign on the Sean Clarita? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sean used to be a natural bodybuilder. He's a neat and that bodybuilder. Sean wrote it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. When I've seen Dave, I've been around the sport for over 40 years and I'm over when I started, they very rarely talked about steroids in the magazine. Once in a while, you would see an article where if someone like Pete from Caleski would come out and tell, tell all, but most times everybody kept it harsh for them. They just really downplayed it. They said they would only use them for three months before a contest and something like that. Well, and nowadays it's totally opposite. Where, because we have the internet, we have YouTube. Everybody talks about it. They talk openly about it. And I think what that's done is it's shown a lot of younger guys that you have to use steroids to get big. I don't think somebody's guys believe you can build any kind of physique without using steroids, which is ridiculous. From day one, they think they kick it. Yeah. I remember reading an article in Flex Magazine. It had to be in the very early 90s, maybe 1990, and it was about growth hormone and how danger was. Because they wouldn't do articles telling you how to use stuff, but they would do these articles explaining why you shouldn't use them. I was so horrified that I thought it was like the worst thing of all time because you're going to get to type one, you're going to get type two diabetes from it, you're going to get, you know, acromaglia, you're going to get. Every possible conceivable side effect that you would get from someone who has legitimate a pituitary tumor where they're over-secreting GH their entire life. That's what they put every side effect in there that you would get from that, which is really not realistic. But nowadays, like you said, now if the opposite, now if you guys are like, if you don't take GH you're a chump, you know, that kind of thing. If you're not using 10-eye use of it a day, you're even even bigger chump, you know? Right. Just, you know, I think that the education curve is just not there, but what I found, and I tell people this even to this day, and no one knows, everyone knows, I'm not, I'm not by any means conservative about, you know, using antibiotics. What I am a stickler for is proper nutrition and supplementation because the food is what builds the muscle, let's face it, right? And the supplementation is what runs all the chemical reactions in the body. Realize that. Vitamin is minerals, metals, trace metals. They all are the co-factors in the chemical reaction. So if you're missing those, or you don't have enough of them, you can be limiting your muscle growth and or your fat burning too. So that's why it's super important. You've, you know, you've been an advocate of natural body building, you know, better part of your career. And, you know, I can, you know, I'll give my insights obviously, but what do you feel was the most successful you were? You know, in terms of diet and supplementation routine during your career? Well, I had this growth spur, when I was, I started body building when I was 14, I was 135 pounds and I was very skinny and I had a really fast metabolism and it was hard for me to gain weight, it was hard for me to get big. I made a mistake when I was 16, I started competing and teenage shows, right? And I got hooked on it. And for the next three years from 16 to 19, I did 10 show. Oh my God. I was doing a, I was doing like three or four shows a year. So I really didn't give myself a chance to get bigger. Although I didn't get a little bit bigger. I really wasn't focusing on side, which is what I should have did, especially as a teenage bodybuilder. But it's really, you can, you can gain muscle when you're young, even though you're dieting. You can't do that when you're older, but when you're young, you know, somehow you put muscle on while dieting. I don't know. Right. I think I was probably 180 in the offseason probably 170 for contest. Wow. I'm a table is so fast. I would get ripped in four weeks. Yeah. I've only had to die after four weeks. And I'd probably probably about 170. So when I turned 20 and I couldn't have longer competing in the teenage shows, I said, I'm taking at least a year too often. I'm going to give as big as I can naturally. Right. So I got up to 205 the first year when I was 20. Wow. By the time I was 21, I was up to 230. So I had gained almost 100 pounds from when I started without taking any drugs. And it was hard to do. I had it really eat a lot of food because my metabolism was so fast. I got one point out. I was eating probably 5,000 calories a day. Oh, I can't speak myself. A lot of protein drinks and things like that. And I was training four days a week. But that totally changed my physique. My physique looked totally different. I had really expanded all the muscles as big as they could. And I also changed my metabolism. After that, my metabolism wasn't as fast. And I never had a closer that kind of bulking up period as much every time when I had any off season when I bulked up, it was much easier for me to gain weight. So I had completely changed my body. But it took the seven years. It took seven years of training. I found when I hit about 26 my metabolism slowed down a little bit enough for me to start gaining muscle. And so I forget who told me that. They said, when you hit about 25, 26, you'll see your metabolism will level off a little bit. Yeah, I was able to gain some weight. And they were right. My best years was probably from 24 to 28, or 29. That's when I made my best gains. I couldn't really gain that much early on. But I started working out in high school. Then I stopped and went the other direction in college because I wanted to be a fast runner. I wanted to run, you better say, lost weight. And so then I did what you did. So I went down to 140 and then I didn't about face. I wanted to try to start gaining after college. I was in my last year of college. And I put on 80 pounds naturally. Who knows how much from that was really just fluid and stuff like that and proper hydration. But I noticed that the more protein I ate, the bigger I got. That was almost like a curve. As much protein as I can consume, that increased my rate at which I grew. And that's I think because younger guys in the early teens are not used to eating tremendous amounts of protein multiple times a day. So for me, the regimentation of the six meals, whether they be shakes or meals per day, is I found that's where the magic happens with me. Yeah. Just for religiously getting on that schedule of eating. Yeah. How many calories were eating back then, do you remember? You know, I never calculated. But it was like it was literally like a, it was, you know, you could almost make a graph. Increase protein, increase muscle mass. It was crazy. And then I found it's at one point I kind of hit a plateau. This is when I was still natural. And then I by adding a little bit of dietary fat to my diet, remember reading Lehanie, saying he eats like one or two egg yolks with his breakfast. Right. Because everyone ate egg whites, right? Back then, in then, Haney was like, oh, I ate two egg yolks. Which seemed, you know, today that's tame, but it seemed like almost like sacralidious. And I said, well, I'm going to try that too. And this is before I even knew anything about fats, just by putting a little bit of dietary fat in my diet. Because everyone ate zero fat basically back then. I started growing again. And I hit another little growth spur. I went from about 180 to about 205. I got up to about 215 natural. I couldn't go any, I couldn't go beyond that though. So it's funny you mentioned set points or plateau is because I did the same thing. When I did my last teenage show, I was probably like I said about 170, 175 pounds. Within six months, my weight went up to 205 without even trying. Wow. Because I think my body was like, oh, finally he's given us a break. We've taken these calories and grow. And I got to over 200 pounds for the first time in my life. And I was like, cool, I'm on my way. I'm, you know, I'm about the 230 in no time. I hit a sticking point and I couldn't gain a pound for eight months. I was stuck at 205. And I just couldn't gain any weight. So that's when I bought the nutrition. All of my neck looked. This is before we had computers and before. Right. We were really tracking things as much back. That's a good thing. So I bought the nutrition. All of my neck looked. I started writing down. I got the calories of all the foods I was eating. And I figured out exactly how many calories I was eating. And I really increased it a lot. And that's when I bolted up and went up to 230. And that was over a six month period where I went from like two or five to two 30. So I forced my body to get bigger. It wasn't, it didn't just happen. Right. It took a lot of work. I'll tell you, and I like to give credit where credit suit. Even though it probably wasn't the best quality shake, Joe Weeter had that mega mass 2000. You remember when he put that in that with that? It was 2000 calories. But you had to like do literally the scoop was not a scoop. It was like cup. It was a measuring cup. And I think you had to do two full measuring cups were like two thousand calories. Something like that. I mean, it was an enormous amount of powder. And I didn't want to guzzle the stuff down because it was almost like unbearable. So what I did is I used to make them into, I would mix them with oatmeal and raisins and some eggs. And I would make them into cook. And I actually baked cookies with them. So I would take like the two scoops, the two thousand calories. I don't, I think like 50 or 60 grams of that was like protein. And then I made some whole eggs in there, obviously. And the oatmeal, which is adding more carbs. And I'm making cookies. And what I would do is this is what not is a medical school. I would, I would have a plate like, it would be like piled this high. And I would literally put it right next to me and I would just study. Because you know, I meant to go out of study for like two to four hours every night. I would at least, depending on what I had to learn. And I would just sit there and eat these things nonstop. So I was constantly like slowly, you know, putting protein and carbs and some, some, some little bit of fat into my body, nonstop. And it tasted good. So you know, it was like easy to do. And for some reason when I eat when I study. And you guys might want to try this. If you guys are readers or you watch tea. And because sometimes I fall asleep really easy when I start reading stuff. But if I'm eating something constantly, I can stay focused on what I'm doing. And I don't know why it is. Even to this day, if I'm sitting eat, munching on something, I can keep myself really focused without having to do caffeine because think about it. I did my studying at night. He can't sit there and drink cups of coffee, you know, and then expect to go to sleep after. So that was my stimulant, so to speak. And but you know what, when I did that, I would not have to wholeplay the cookies before going to bed. You know, over the course of maybe four or five hours. And then I woke up. I was swear I was bigger the next day. Well, it's funny. You've mentioned the fats because I think a lot of bodybuilders always focus on protein and carbs. Yeah. But when I was stuck at that two or five, and I couldn't gain a pound, I look, you know, obviously fats have twice as many calories per gram as protein and carbs do. So I increased a lot of my fats. I was eating a seven egg omelet in the morning with just whole eggs, not egg whites. And I got it. And then I would have two protein drinks today with whole milk, eggs, bananas, protein powder, and I would have two of those today. That would be the whole wonder. You know, and I don't know how many calories that was. And then I would have hog and fast ice cream as a snack. You know, like, you know, he's the dog and ice. I had a friend who was dad worked in the restaurant, business, and he used to supply the restaurants with like, you know, chicken, cordon, blue. And so he'd have all these stuff loaded and it's freezing with these big, they used to, I guess, provide friendly ice cream to them and they had these big half-gowns. And he was a pretty jack guy. He had good, really, genetics. We were going to his freezer and they're like, all right, we got to do protein. We would scoop out, you know, basically, you know, like a court of ice cream each. And we'd be eating that with, you know, blending it up with protein shakes and stuff like that. And we thought we'd get huge from that. And, you know, we probably weren't. That age you can burn everything, you know, and even so. All right. It was crazy. Yeah, it was amazing when your metabolism's going that fast. And this won't happen any other time in your life after you get out of your, you know, early 20s. It's old. But your metabolism's going so fast. You really got a force to food in. And then of course, the training, the training has to be there because that's what's going to stimulate the muscle in the first place. And when I look around the gym today and I don't know if these younger guys that I'm looking at are trying to be body-pullers or not, but they are training completely wrong. There's really too many stats. They're using way too light of way. They're not doing the compound movements. All the things you should be doing, they're doing the opposite. Yeah. I don't know where they're getting their information from YouTube or whatever. But they're just training wrong. You have to really, really push yourself to train heavy and using the compound movements at that age because that's what's going to stimulate the muscle. And then the food of course is what's going to complete the process of building your body. That's a good point. And I'll tell you relevant to myself. When I was training, I was doing the basic movements. But I was doing way too many sets because what I would do is if I wanted to improve my back, I would do every back exercise that there was. I'd ride them all down. I had bent rows, one arm rows, cd cable rows, pull downs from the back to the front. Pull ups. I probably did eight or nine different back exercises at three to four sets for exercise. Because that's what I thought you needed to do. You wanted to better back. You did more stuff because that was my runner's mentality. And I wonder, I think at some point when I was about two, 15 or two, 18, I said I'm going to start taking a little bit of gear. And that's when I did my first like windstool and premium of all in cycle. And I wonder if I would have fixed my training. If I would have how much I more, I would have gained naturally. You know, that always, I always wondered that that was my one, maybe people who's as a year one regret. That probably was my one regret that I wasn't training properly. So they didn't have that tweaked out yet, you know. Yeah, yeah. I'm surprised you took, you only trained four days a week. That's pretty mature for, you know, most guys would never, you know, everyone was like a six day a week train or back then, right? Because I hated it. Yeah, well, I was training six days a week when I was a teenager and I was doing all those teenage shows. And then when I, when I switched over and I wanted to bolt go, that's when I said, I'm going to cut back. But I was still training each muscle group twice a week. So I was doing this in same training for my god. Just shoulders, triceps and calves on Monday, Thursday. And then abs legs, back, biceps and forearm and Tuesday Friday. I mean, I was in the gym for at least two and a half hours. Yeah, yeah, I could imagine. But I did cut back on my sets. I was using like a moderate amount of sets. And I remember I counted up how many sets I was doing for the whole workout. Yeah. And I would speak that plan so I wouldn't over train. But I mean, that was young too. I mean, that's why I could train that heavy. You just did six day reps on all the compound movements and training, you know, twice or each body part twice a week. You can't do that when you start to get old. No, and then when you start to work, I was like, if you're not drinking something like a carb drink or something like that, you're never going to get through the workout either. I mean, because you're definitely running out of stuff, you know? You definitely, you know, because I would always, I would do these crazy long workouts too. But I had that like runners mentality that, you know, you're supposed to be suffering and you're supposed to feel depleted and exousted. But that's really not the case with bodybuilding. That's a big mistake people. You shouldn't leave the gym feeling like you just ran 10 miles, okay? Yeah. You should leave like feeling still pretty good. And I didn't, I had to get used to that. I never really understood that concept. I learned that much much later, though. I was definitely a chronic, because I trained with chronic overtrainers too. These guys would, you know, the workout would be over and they still run around doing extra sets and then I'm thinking I'm missing out so I better go do them too. You know, it was a big concept. So if we had a summarize, not overtraining heavy compound movements, enough protein, enough carbs and obviously not eliminating all the fats. Recovery, we really haven't talked about that, but makes you sleep a lot. I was trying to sleep, you know, as many hours as possible, taking days off from the gym. These are all, you know, until you have all this stuff tweaked at and we haven't even got to supplement you. You're not going to maximize your natural gains, you know, I think a lot of people give up training naturally, and then they don't even have all their stuff maximized yet. They don't even have the basics down. Well, I thought you made a great point together. Like, they was last week, they did a muscle in the morning or something where you're, or a ass Dave, where you're talking about how you should train heavy and not just go for the pump. And you don't feel as good when you leave the gym, but that's what's going to stimulate the muscle. Yeah. You know, when you start training heavy, I always stuck with six-day reps. So once I got to wait where I could do eight reps, I would increase the weight on the bar, you know, make sure and then go back down. And then sometimes I would even do stuff where I was doing like three reps on my own. And my partner would help me with two or three four strokes. Yeah. Just to force my body to get stronger, because I always believe the stronger you are in the basic compound movements for six-day reps. Mm-hmm. That's how, you know, you're going to be bigger. If you look at Kevin LaRoni, you look at Ronnie, you look at Jay Cutler, you go back to Arnold, Franco, Sergio, all those guys were super strong. Even go back farther to Regs Park, Bill Perl. Those guys were all really, really strong for that six-day reps with the compound movements. So that's the formula, that's the formula, that's what makes you big. Yeah. And believe that you're just going to get this pump and you're going to build up that sarcoplasm and all that. No way, man. You've got to build up those muscle fibers and that's six-day reps with that beauty weight. Compile movements. I remember when my friend Doug Wenz took me into the gym, I started training with him and I think it was 92 or 93 around the night, right around there. And I thought I knew how to train. And we go in there and I was, I think, Benchying like 185. Maybe I would do 225 for like two reps and he's like, all right, 135. Now let's put 225. I'm like, I do this for two reps. He's like, come on, he goes, look how big you are. You know, at that point I was starting to put some size on. So he was pushing me through, that was first couple of workouts, it was scary. And then he'd be like, all right, we're going to 265. I'm like, I never even did 265. He was like, you do it in today. And so he pushed me out of that, my comfort zone. I was in that I fell into a comfort zone of doing a lot of higher reps. I mean, a lot of higher volume training and not really lifting that heavy, because I didn't want to be an out of that comfort zone. And he pushed me out of the comfort zone and man, I was, it was like he torped me every single time I trained with him because he was so much strong in the name when we first started out. And I was doing things that I didn't like to do, you know. And that's what you got to do. You can't be doing the comfort stuff every day. Like, I trained now comfortable because I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to compete anymore. I do what I like the exercise they like. Like, we're going to nice squeeze on it. I don't, I don't have to put myself in an uncomfortable zone because I'm not trying to make any improvements. I'm trying to just stay fit. And so it's a different mentality. If you want to get better, you have to go where you've never gone before. Right. Well, you make another great point different day about pushing yourself. And you really need somebody to push yourself to that level. Yeah. Because it's hard to push yourself and train really, really hard by yourself. But when you have somebody that's more advanced than you and pushes you and goes to that pain barrier, that's something that has to be taught. It's very hard because I think your mind is always trying to protect your body from pain. Of course. You push yourself like that. Your mind's telling you stop, stop. But when you have somebody screaming at you to do more reps and do more away, then that's what's going to push you. And then once you pass that pain barrier, once you learn how to do that, then you can do it forever for the rest of your life. Every time you train, you can flip that switch, I remember I was training with Doug and we for like a whole year. And maybe we were six months into our training together. And I was getting pretty big. I put on a lot of sizes. I was like maybe 250, 260. And at this point I was strong. I got very strong. And he said, one day we go into the gym. He's like, yeah, we're going to do power cleans today. I'm like, the fuck's power cleans. I'm like, I don't want to do these. And it was the most awkward move because I had no, I never done them before. You know, I had, you know, I don't even know where he came up with this, but he would always come up with something that I had never done before. And at this point I'm getting such good results. I'm like, all right, he's like, don't complain, just do them. And I did it, man. I was sore the next day. Like, crazy. And you know what, that's what I needed someone like that to keep putting me into the zone of of tricking my body, doing, even though it probably wasn't a great exercise, it was very ballistic and I really liked that. It was, it was something different than we had done and it shocked my body a little bit. And that's, that's what I learned. You have to constantly keep your body, you know, guessing. Yeah, you got to squat most almost every week because that's going to build legs, obviously, like, but some weeks you might skip it and do something a little different. Maybe a Smith machine squad or something that's just going to kind of throw your body off kilter because maybe we went too many weeks in a row or lifting super heavy. So he wanted to, like, kind of just change it up a little bit. And that, that's important if you want to keep me, if you hit platos, you want to keep making gains, mix it up. That's why when people ask you, what do you think of this routine? What do you think of that routine? I said they were all great. Find what works for you. But then if you want incorporate other stuff in there, just to keep, kind of, keep your body guessing and otherwise you're going to hit stagnation points. And sometimes people think, oh, I'm stagnating, I got to take drugs now. No, you're stagnating because number one maybe you're not eating enough food now because you game 20 pounds, you need more food or maybe your training is the same every week and you got to change that up a little bit. Maybe you need a new training partner or just to give you new ideas and stuff like that. There's so many variables that you need to manipulate before you say that said I can't make any more progress. Yeah, yeah, I don't love how you but I always stuck with the barbequeels and dumbbells. I always tried this. I very rarely did machines. I mean, you probably heard Mel talk and when we, when we and Mel used to train, you said, like, I'm going to do like cable stuff on my head. No, no, no, no, no. All those dumbbell rows, dead lifts, you know, I think that's the basics. Right. That's what builds the muscle, you know, without drugs. Yeah, when I first started doing like freeway, it was like, it was like, I entered a new world. Like, I, you know, you remember the first time you tried a barbell, you bench press, the bars, all over the place that you can't even, you can't even worry about pushing the bar. You couldn't even balance the bar or dumbbells. The first time I got dumbbells up, they were like, you know, like, oh, I was fell off the bench from them. So that's the reason why those are good is because the stabilization aspect of that movement, freeway movement, you having the stabilize involves more muscle groups, which gives you a complete or development, which will help you get realized. Yeah. Absolutely. And, you know, now I mean, we haven't even talked supplements, but I can't tell you, you know, when you start increasing what you're doing in the gym, and you're trying to make your body engage in, you know, more protein synthesis reactions, oxidize more fat. The nutrients that normally are enough for your body, that you might just get normally from your food, now become scarce, and you start running out of stuff. You may not have an abv item as to metabolize carbohydrates. You might not have enough of the, you know, like, chromium, which is a very, you know, common, you know, trace metal that's necessary for insulin to work properly. So if you're chromium deficient, you might not burn fat adequately. I'm just giving you examples, but there's a lot of different, you know, calcium for muscle contraction, magnesium for muscle relaxation. All these different things come into effect. So now you have to increase your consumption of minerals, vitamins, and then we learn later, obviously, essential fatty acids, right, for repairing muscle cell membranes. No one got, you know, a lot of people don't take enough of that stuff, or they take cheap forms of it that they're not absorbing, because just because you're swallowing a pill doesn't mean it's going into your bloodstream. Right. And that was a, that was it a completely different science and different beast that I had to learn to conquer because, and that's what really interested me. I was in medical school. I wanted to know, I, you know, I'm learning all this stuff in my group, and, and excuse me, and, um, um, when I'm going to talk about biochemistry about how all these, you know, vitamins and minerals are used as co-factes, only chemical reactions, and I'm like, I'm not even taking this stuff. I said, how am I expected to maximize my performance? So when I started taking good quality supplements, I think you remember, uh, what was it, I don't even feel so rich, is um, saltgarstol around, I guess they are, right? All ground. Saltgarstol. Saltgarstol. You used to be like the, the number one. It was the most expensive, remember, came in a glass bottle with shrink wrap plastic, and I think just all around saltgarstol. I, I think nature's bounty on something like that. That was like the high-end line. I remember those products were really expensive. Well, do you remember they had those amino, what was, uh, it was like an Asian name, uh, what were they called? Those amino, they were just plain. They weren't flavored or anything. They, uh, I can't remember what they were called. Someone's going to remind me in the comments, but, yeah, I had to spend money, right? And people didn't, we didn't have money as kids, but, right, that was an important, I mean, think about, if you knew now about nutrition, I mean, if you knew then about nutrition, what you know now, in terms of supplementation, think about the progress you would have made. Yeah, absolutely. Or even just counting up the calories and all that stuff, that's something I learned later on. Yeah, when I was trying to, right, what were you taking, we taking an animal pack or an animal, if megapack from Joe Weiner, I mean, that's what most people took, right? Well, I was a kid, we were all taken liver supplements, those liver types. Oh, the liver tabs, yeah, and I don't even know. Yeah, 30 a day, I was taking 10, 10, 10, because it's been surrounded by the told you to take them, that's why, right? Yeah, yeah. We're taking all of the amino acids, it's a couple minutes, so then of course, the weight gain powder came in, you know, when I was trying to gain weight. Right, but I'm talking like pure like, you know, multivitamin mineral, you know, it's type stuff. I remember a Weeder Joe Weeder came out with his victory line of products, which was all, it was there, they were very overpriced, but it was all marketing with Haney and Kasparian, very denated, we're using. Yeah, but, those were, none of the fact, those were so high end that I think they went up this continuing them because they were so expensive to make. He had essential fats in there. This was before anyone ever did it. It was like a mega pack, but it was like the, he had his anabolic mega packs, but then these were like the next levels, like they were like, I remember I bought him a couple of times, they were very expensive, but they were essential fatty acids in there that were like hot, like, he laid in minerals because Joe was a big believer in healing. He knew about healing, minerals, minerals bounce to amino acids back then because, remember he was selling chromium, Pauline the codenate, which was a, which was a key-lated chromium, whereas a lot of people were selling the salt furs in the chromium, which really wasn't absorbable, you know, and, you know, that made a huge difference in people's response to a lot of things. And, and I don't think people knew a lot about it. They just figured I have to take this stuff, but it's, you know, it's, it's so important when you're training at that level and you're consuming that much food to take the right supplementation. Yeah, I'm going to grab you take in multi-vitamin, multi-mineral, vitamin C, weak complex, vitamin E, you know, those are just the basics that you take every- You could have 40 bottles on your, on your kitchen counter, right? I mean, and you still, you still had stuff you wanted to take. That's why when I, when I produce, you know, the species line of products, you know, when I came up, we'd be mineralized and, and, and, oh, mega-lyce, I said, you know what, no one's going to take 16 different bottles. I got to put it all into, into two formulas. That's, and, and, minerals and vitamins, trace metals. And I made it easy, and I put it in a month's supply because I remember the toil that I went through as, as a young body, builder, trying to get the right amount and how long is it going to last me because I got a budget my money. I need 14 different bottles, you know, and you start saying, well, all right, well, what can I afford and what can I afford? If it was, that's why I think that people love the animal packs and they, and about the mega packs because it was like all in one formula. All right, exactly. The problem was a lot of that stuff was never absorbed, they weren't good forms of the stuff. It wasn't really absorbable. Yeah, it was on the ingredient list, but I think someone did that experiment with those because those animal packs used to have like those hard tablets here, remember? Yeah, yeah. So, when put them in water, like, like, like, like, 20 days later, they still had the resolve to something like that, you know. People were taking it, and just pooped them out. They weren't even coming out in there in the toilet bottle. But it wasn't even, I can't even blame the companies. No one knew. You know, it was such a early science back then. No one really knew what was really good. You know, Bill Thurps was one of the first few people to really start, like, you know, let people start to think about, hey, I need this supplement for this or this supplement for that. And this is a better form of it. And I think that's what we do step this game up to when Bill Phillips did. Yeah, absolutely. I call the mid-90s, you know, that early 90s, mid-90s, that was like kind of a hey, they have supplementation when finally people were starting to talk about quality of supplements, right? Because I mean, before that, I mean, everyone was using basically powdered skim milk and sugar. That's what all the protein powders were. Yeah. And then metrics came out, you know, and then metabolol from from from from champion nutrition, those changed and then designed a protein. Those changed the way we thought about, you know, nutrition and supplementation. The creatine came along right around that time. Yeah. Yeah. And then, then, you know, all the other stuff, you know, dimediduring for, you know, for retraining, ultimate orange, which was, you know, de-chains, you know, work that. That was really the first, people were really, that was the first pre-workout, you know, of all time. Yeah. Was the ultimate orange, you know, was a fedra and like a carbohydrate mix. That was the only one of the fedra, right? Right? That was the other big, very extra. I mean, they were that, people think that, you know, BSN came out with, you know, an analogue, which was the first pre-workout it really was and it was really, really, really damn disheveled. I don't know if Danny, whoever put out the ultimate orange. I know Dan was Dan's formula supposedly, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So I mean, we, and notice, we've been talking for what, 45 minutes, maybe, and we haven't mentioned drugs one time because, right, right, exactly. Think about how much there is to think about before you even get the drugs. Yet most people, the first thing on their mind is what, what's stack am I going to take, right? Yeah. I really think it's the mindset nowadays where people just believe you have to take steroids to get big. And, you know, you really got to push yourself. I mean, I was the kind of guy that, my, I wasn't genetically gifted as far as like a fast gainer. I wasn't someone like any from the Sean Ray. Yeah. Those guys grew really easy teenagers. I was very skinny. I had a transform my body and I did it, but it took seven years of training and it also took a lot of eating and a lot of hard training, a lot of hard training. There was many, many years of really bustling your ass in the gym. So, the other thing I wanted to mention, Dave, also, is these guys need to track their progress. You know, maybe take sure once a month and take measurements once a month and make sure they're growing and don't be afraid to get a little fat. You know, you should, you know, that age, you're not going to get grossly fat unless you have a terrible metabolism. But if you're eating clean food, I remember I even when I was poking up, I would eat food that I prepared at home. I very rarely went out in eight. So, it was all food that I, and it was a lot of work eating all that food. Like, as long as I was getting bigger everywhere else, I didn't care if my weight went up a little bit. I was just happy to be gaining weight at that point. You know, I was happy to be gaining as big as I could be. Well, it's also about, you know, it's consistently applying all the principles we just talked about, training properly, resting, eating the right amount of foods, never missing a meal, taking all the nutritional supplements. A lot of people are not OCD enough to apply that every single day, seven days a week, every day in the month, every day of the year. People go in spurts. They, they're good for four to six weeks and they kind of get lazy. They go away. They go out with their friends. They drink. They miss a couple meals. You know, before they know it, you know, the six weeks of progress they made. They just went and they lost it all. And that I was of the mindset and it seems like you were to them. You know, we had this goal of how we wanted to look. And we weren't going to miss ever anything. You never were going to miss a meal. You never were going to miss a workout. You weren't going to, you were not going to leave anything to chance. Anything we had control of any variable. We made sure that we maximized. And that's how you make good gains because it's not the gains you make three days a week. It's the small incremental progress you're doing every single day. And it all adds up. And you mentioned the rest of my cooperation. I remember during that time I was sleeping eight hours a night. Yeah. It's probably taking an hour nap during the day. And I cut it back on all my outside activities. The only thing I did was weight training. I wasn't playing around. You know, shooting basketball or running around and doing anything else. All I was doing was I cut back. And I remember those are saying, don't run. If you can walk, don't walk. You can stand. Don't stand. If you can sit down. If you're going to sit down, you must will take a nap. Yeah. No, no. I was a big believer of that too. It's funny. My father said, always told me too. He goes, if you want to be an athlete, play your sport. Don't play other sports because you're going to wind up getting hurt. And I took that the hard. I stopped doing like you said all the, you know, any other risky behavior that I would normally do. You know, other pick-up basketball, you know, back then the big thing was, you know, coming out of high school or in high school, it's football. The pick-up football games, right? You play like, you know, we used to play tackle football with no equipment. You know, it was crazy what we did. But it was fun, you know, and I loved it. But you know what? That's when you're a body building and you're building your body and one plane of motion and then you go play football on a weekend, you know, for one day, you wind up crippling yourself. You know, I wouldn't play beach volleyball on something like that because you go up for to spike the ball before you know, you tear a bicep or you can pull your shoulder out, you know. And just conservative in calories. I remember when I was like 15 years old when I was before I started competing, I tried out for wrestling just to, you know, try it. I never had done wrestling before. And these guys are running around and they're burning all these calories. And then they're trying to cut weight. I'm like, this is the exact opposite of what I'm trying to try to get bigger. These guys are trying to lose weight and get more grip and get smaller, you know. Yeah. It's weird because I was a runner and then I had to, I had to like, we and myself are running because I was so addicted to it. And then I got to a point where I got so big. I couldn't even run anymore. It was like my body, I could completely change how functional my body was from one thing to another. It was it's incredible how you can do that to your body. But if you want to be good at what you're good at, do what you want to be good at, don't, don't do what you don't want to be good at. You know, and I always tell that to people, you know, when you're training and you, let's say you're trying to burn some body fat. It's stupid to go and do super crazy high intensity cardio when you don't have to perform cardio vascularly on stage for that. It's not like you're training for a triathlon where you actually have to actually run a race. You know, you're doing cardio so that you can burn fat and look good on stage. It has nothing to do with functionality. And I think a lot of people start thinking, well, if I do high intensity crazy, 90 cardio, I'm going to burn more calories. Yeah. But that's not going to be functional for bodybuilding. You're going to also burn a lot of muscle doing that. Yeah, there's so, there's so many kinds of this more is better. I hear people talking about all the time. They'll do a contest and they're like, I got to bring up my back. So I'm going to start training my back three days a week. Well, I've had every day the rich piano feeder feeder workouts used to do, which was I think more of like a, he, rich would kind of think up things that would shock people and then would do these videos. I'm like, you know, in training a week body part every day, you train it last, not more, you know, right, right, right, exactly. And I worked out town. And I see so many guys today training six days in a row and I got a rest. You got to hit it hard in the gym and then recuperate. You got to run back to how was training four days a week. Maybe I could have been made better games back then going three on one off. But you always got to have those rest days. Right. I remember when Ronnie Coleman was Mr. Olympian people would see that he's doing each body part twice a week. He's training six days a week, like you said. Right. And people are trying to emulate that. I'm like, guys, this guy is a genetic freak. He can recover from anything. He does probably if he trained the right way, he would be, you know, 330 pounds on stage. Don't try to do what he does. That's not the guy you should be copying, you know. I always thought the Dorium was a good guy to copy because I just thought, even though Dorium structurally had it, obviously a genetically good structure for, for me, a great body He didn't look like he was like a, are particularly like a genetically blessed guy in terms of gym. I think he was all, it was a lot of intellectual and scientific, you know, study that he did. This is what would work best, what, you know, what routines he wrote everything down. He was very methodical. That's a guy you can kind of copy to try to emulate because he wasn't a genetic freak, like a, like a Laveroni or or Flex anything they did. He grew. He'd got them to be the best because he was, he was a scientist about it, you know. Yeah. Well, it's funny Dorium came along in the 90s. And when I was growing up in the 70s, we had Mike Menser. Yeah. Because my started working out, we all followed Arnold. Everybody was training six days a week. Everybody in the whole country was training six days a week. Arnold was. And then Menser came along and he goes, no, I only trained four days a week and you can just train a muscle hard. You can train that long. You can't do both. And that blew everybody's mind. And I think that changed everybody's training. I don't think a lot of people letting it get exactly what Menser did. Right. But everybody cut back. I think everybody cut back from six days a week, 20, 25 sets of body part. Right. We all cut back. And I think everybody made more gains after that point. Yeah. And there are guys who can do 25 sets in growth from it. Obviously, we've seen these guys, but not many people can do that. I certainly couldn't recover from that. Then anything I got small from doing like like 25 sets. I didn't, I didn't even gain any muscle. I would get leaner, but I wouldn't get any bigger. You know. So I remember Tom Platt said that too. He said when he went to California, he trained with Arnold. And he got smaller. 20, how Arnold really respond? I wonder if Arnold would have responded to more of a dory and training routine. I know Arnold liked the train for hours now. But you know, he was a tall guy. I wonder if he would have had better legs if he had not overtrained his legs and stuff like that. It would have been just interesting to say. Well, if you look at Arnold back when he was in his 20s, he did a lot of powerless thing. And he was much more bulkier. I don't want to keep out of your trip. That's true. And he thought a whole new way of training. I think when he came to America. Yeah, California, you know, in general. Different mentality. Everyone's like, you know, very laid back there and everything. Yeah. That's why Arnold did so well. I think he had that like, you know, that Iron Curtain, you know, Eastern European, you know, work ethic. And then he goes to California where everyone's like, yo, peace happiness, you know, and just kind of like, you know, chillin' out. And so Arnold just ate those guys for lunch there, you know? Yeah, exactly. The best bodybuilders in California were the guys who came from the East, right? And came across the country, you know? Right. They weren't homegrown there. That's for sure. Yeah, not many of them. Well, you know, I hope people, you know, took some of this information that we put out there to heart and realized that, hey, if you want to be a natural bodybuilder, he has some great advice, but you know what? If you want to be a bodybuilder that uses gear at some point or it uses it now, you still got to do the same things. That's why when people say, hey, if you train natural bodybuilders, I'm like, of course I do. It's the same exact formula, whether you're naturally you're not. Drugs just make things work better. That's all. Yeah. Yeah. I'm doing the same thing. I'm training natural bodybuilders and getting ready for shows and, you know, it's a whole different mindset, but you just, you got to put in that work and you got to do it right. And if you train like a lot of these kids, I see in the gym, you're not going to get anywhere. No. You know what it is? I think people think drugs can make up. And to some degree, drugs can compensate for mistakes that you make. But imagine if you do everything right, how good the results will be. People say, hey, how did you gain a hundred pounds of muscle in five years? And I said, I said, well, because I did everything right, you know, at that point I had got everything on my training, my diet, my supplementation, my drugs, my rest and recuperation, my lifestyle, I set up for myself. Everything kind of worked. And that's that's the way you make the best gains. I mean, you can still make gains, but if you want to maximize your gains, that you've got to have every variable cover. And you know, and that's, you know, I teach that my secrets to becoming a diaper, of course. I know you talk about it all the time on your things. I stay, I keep pounding the same advice to the people's heads because once they realize that there's no secret, there's no magic bullets out there. Okay. And I know a lot of gurus don't want to hear it. They don't want me to, they don't want us to tell anyone this. They don't want to, they want everyone to think that there's a special secret that they're only going to get by working with this coach or that coach. There's no secrets, guys. A good coach is someone who takes a program that has all the basic tenants covered and knows how to manipulate it and make the changes to keep your progress moving forward, whether it be gaining muscle or losing body fat. And that's what makes a good coach. There's no secret magic, you know, formulas. I put all my diets and everything out there from free. I've been doing it for 30 years. I've been putting it out there. Here's my keto diet. Here's my supplement routine because that's not what's special. What's special is yeah, you've got to have the basics down, but then it's how you modify it, how you add the right foods at the right time or reduce the amount of training you're doing or add cardio or whatever you're trying to do to that's a good coach. And that's that all that only comes with experience. I mean, joining me this long time, I would do this a long time. You can't teach someone that. You can, I could teach them the science, but coaching experience comes from just years of doing it. Yeah. And you got to have the passion and the hard work too. You got to train hard and you got to eat good and that's not going to, you know, it's not what you do. It's how you do it. You really got to push yourself. Holds at the gym and at the at home when you're eating. Yeah. And if you don't do that, you're not going to get the most money gains you can get. Right. And if you're a coach, you can't, I'm not there with you in your house. So I can't motivate you to want to be the best that you can be. But if you have that motivation and I coach you or John Coaches, you're going to get great results because we're going to make sure that all of those variables are covered. So anyway, on that note, let's wrap this up. I want to thank everyone for joining us for another episode of Guru Talk. If you guys have any suggestions for future shows, put them in the comments below and we will, uh, we will absolutely address them then. I'm Dave Palombo with John Hanson. We'll see you next time.

All right, this is John Hansen with Chris the Technician, the Ceto at the 2018 Tampa Pro Show. Chris, really good show today. Great show, great lineup everywhere. Congratulations first off to Tim Gardner for putting on such a great show. You know, I've been coming to the show for years. Like you have, you're from Tampa. Well, you're a transplant from Chicago. And every year, it seems like Tim and his crew up the ante in terms of location. You know, you write on the water here with the boats. It's the first class hotel. Organization skills are like a plus huge show and yet they run it, you know, right smack on time. So without Tim Gardner, the promoter, we couldn't do a rap up because we'd have no show. So thanks Tim. And they said a record. This was two hundred and ninety pros competing this week. And that's the most and any IFPB show ever. Yeah, it's amazing. You know, what? The men's classic physique, the men's physique. You know, all these new classes, stuff, come around in the last five years. The amount of people that they've pulled, but not only people of quality people, I mean, the depth that you're seeing in these shows in 2018 versus 2015 is like night and day. People who could win in 15 or 14, we get slaughtered, you know, just a few years later. So it's a testament to, you know, the quality of the competitors that are coming in year after year. And there's more and more pros now. So we got bigger and bigger divisions and bigger more classes. And I think Tim is the only contest where he has every division. His fitness, he has women's bodybuilding, has everything. Yeah, I mean, it's, it's, you know, Tim is a type of guy who supports the sport. So, you know, he doesn't have to have every class. Yeah. But, you know, he's got a passion for the sport. And he's a businessman. So, you know, the business part could be like, I'm just doing these. Yeah. But he decides to take care of everyone and have a, you know, great outing for everyone. Well, let's start off with classic physique. They had about 40 competitors. So it was a huge huge division. And your guy, Henry Pierre, you know, you know, displaying an amazing physique really, really tall, very wide and extremely small ways. He wins the division. Pretty handily. I thought, yeah, I think like, and you know, Henry is somebody, like one of these guys was like a template for classic, you know, I posted a picture, you know, kidding me. And on, like, somewhere on the internet, and I said, I took this picture in 1983 because it's like a physique that you would expect. Yeah. Then, you know, he's got sweeping lats, tiny waist, deeply separated quads with a, you know, a decent sweep, but not the crazy sweep that you'd see it, like obviously people in the open. So great skin texture, broad looks good in all the poses. I mean, it was his show, you know, I thought he was like the, you know, hands down winner. Yeah. Just because he typifies, I think, what people expect or what they envision when they say, you know, classic. He's truly got classic lines. What do you, well, you're, you know, you're over 40, 30. So what would you think? You've been around the sport? When you showed me his pictures yesterday, I was trying to think of the last guy I saw a little waist that small and the only one I can think of was Brian Buchanan. So that's it. Brian has a different type of a physique thicker, I think, upper body, but Henry looked great, bigger, much bigger and person than he did in your pictures. He's got that tiny waist, but he's a big man. He's like, really tall and he really dominated the division. I thought, and his legs, like you said, I agree. They had that crazy separation. They weren't super big, but really perfect for classic physique. Yeah, no, I agree. And, you know, he's off to, to the Olympian six weeks. So second place was Keon Pearson. Keon Pearson is a young guy, a short guy, that stacks up well against anyone in the classic division because he's got round muscle belly. I'm sure he's heard that to the infigree. He's got, you know, a vacuum which is, doesn't define you as being classic. Just because you can do a vacuum doesn't mean you're got a classic lines. But he's got nice lines, nice shape. I think here, you know, he ran up against someone much taller, which is an advantage. And in better condition too as well. But I thought he looked great. He could have been a touch sharper maybe that's nitpicking. But he's someone I think he might be qualified for the Olympian. If he's not, he's somebody in the future who will be in the mix for a good slot. I remember seeing him actually, I think it was at the Olympian this past year. Some one of the pro shows, I was hugely impressed because he looks good really from every angle. And this part of, you know, this part of bodybuilding to look good from every angle. But I think in classic too, you really have to look, you know, like you have flow from every angle. He's got a very thick physique, real good legs. And he does have that vacuum. Like you said, he was showing that off a lot. Yeah, so if he's not qualified for the Olympia, you know, I'm sure he'll get the as soon. And if he is, which I actually think he is, you know, anything can happen at that show because what's interesting about classic is everyone looks a little bit different. You know, you got like a Henry who's tall and he's short, you know, bumpsets tall. Yeah. You've got the bull guy who's, you know, brutally muscular for that class. You know, so Reagan Grimes, a Roshra bot. Everyone has totally different, you know, Brianna, the winner. Yeah. You know, I mean, everyone has totally different lines and things that are unique to them. So it's, it's kind of sort of a little bit hard to judge because people are so different looking. Yeah. Speaking to that, how do you think Henry would stack up against some of the taller guys in classic like Chris Bumstedt and also the new guy, Wesley Vissers? I think you'll see, you know, I think he's going to do well because I think it's, you know, height works to an advantage. I think at that show, I thought, like Chris Bumstedt, Lesha, you know, the height and the width, but the height was like really, you know, made a mark in terms of your eye going towards, you know, at least the initial life. Of course, you know, he's in condition. He's complete and everything else. He used to be a bodybuilder. Those are important, but I think height matters. And, you know, and by definition, if you have like key on in the middle, next to Bumstedt, tall, Henry tall, you know, he, he's either the winner, which is not or he looks like something's a little bit off, you know. You're going to get pushed to a push side, I think. Yeah, I agree. And third place goes to Jason Low, who is a client of yours and he's a Florida guy, so I've seen him before I've done some videos with him. A real thick physique kind of reminds me, and you know, I don't know if you agree with this, but his physique always sort of reminded me of Franko Centauriello. Yeah, that kind of thickness, they were around, yeah, the relegated round, muscle bellies, but this time he was in the best condition of ever seen him. Yeah, he was in tremendous condition, you know, he's been holding that condition, he did the Arnold and he's been pounding the shows after shows trying to win a show to get to the Olympia. Yeah. And I've been telling him since like day one is, you know, you're going to find a show where you can win. This was one of them. Yeah. But he's, there's been shows that he did not do, I mean, you can't do every show. Yeah. But there's been shows where he didn't do, for example, he's very capable of winning, like minus, you know, so, you know, here in a crazy stack line up, he came in at his best, you know, has been dieting forever, ends up in third place. And I mean, there's nothing to be, you know, hold your head low, you know, on a third place finish in a class like this. And I think that as Jose Raymond says, I love to call you Jose, you know, this class has made few in terms of, you know, he lacks weaknesses, he lacks weaknesses, and he's got brings very strong to tremendous condition. So, by definition, just those attributes lacking weaknesses and having great condition, you're going to always be in the hardcore mix of three to five, and then you're going to pick a show where you're going to win. Yeah. I think he was overjoyed to play a certain. And his posing was better also. Yeah. I thought his posing was improved over what I've seen in the past. Yeah. You know, you know, he's new, like a lot of guys, but new to the stage. So, you know, the more time you get on stage, the more relaxed you are. Yeah. Okay, fourth place we had Damian Patrick. What can you say about him, Chris? Damian Patrick was, uh, had classic lines, classic shape, and was very hard and muscular. I think that the three people ahead of him had better, quote, classic lines, a better V tape or, and that negated his great condition to, like you couldn't put him higher than fourth place in that lineup. Yeah. And since he had classic, you know, flow and lines and shape like that, you know, so it automatically put him in like the mix atop six, and his condition was would have typically pushed him higher, but, you know, you have three guys with more classic lines before him. Yeah. And, uh, and I think that's what just kept him in the fourth side. And then fifth was Cleveland Thomas, a name from the past. I remember him. I think he was competing in the team universe for many years. So, uh, he takes the top top five. Yeah. Cleveland looked very good. And I thought he looked like a bodybuilder. And it's hard to explain, you know, someone asked me what is classic. I said, I know it when I see it. And I think he, you know, he's a classic bodybuild. You know, he has classic lines, but there's still like like a little power edge to his physique. Yeah. You know, which, you know, you could never say Henry has a powerful physique. You could never say Keona has a powerful physique. You, you, you, you sit on the word physique more than powerful. And I think that's what happens in, you know, his cases, although he looked good and just, you know, deserve to be up there where he plays, you know, he has like a power element to him that, you know, I think like it, from, if I was judging, I would say, okay, you know, he's not going to place higher than here. Yeah. At least in this show. Yeah. All right. Now we go to the two 12 division and a guy with a lot of high play lately, Nicholas, Phililudo, I think it's from Switzerland. He comes in and he wins a... Nicholas and B. So we don't box his name. Yeah. Yeah. He wins the first spot. He gets first place, displaying an amazingly massive physique, a super big legs, super big arms, really freaky looking, kind of like a leap-free type of physique sort of. I was just going to say he reminds me like a belief priest, but the downside is that it reminds me of a leap-free priest. In other words, you know, tremendous amount of muscle, tremendous amount of density, very, very good condition, but he's already looks like almost too big for the frame if that makes sense. Yeah. So, and that's not to pick the winner and say this is what's wrong with that. He's the winner and there's a deservedly so, but I think that, you know, running into the Olympia, there's people who open up more on their poses, you know, especially the back poses. I mean, he needs thicker back and I'm sure that will come at some point, but there's something a little bit like bunched up about his physique, which makes him in the line up very vulnerable. But when he gets into the shots, of course, I just, his fantastic, I try to set most muscular back-lats spread, even the front double-bice up, you know, is very good. So, he packs a ton of muscle. I mean, this was a slam dunk I thought in a large degree for him, just if, you know, because you got a way muscle, right? It's bodybuilding and then two-12 divisions, but yeah, to ton of it. Yeah, I agree. I was looking at his pictures of this as he, after the Katta's was over, he's got very short legs, long torso, which in I agree with he is back as his big, weak point, and maybe because of the long torso, that's a bigger reason why. Yeah, I mean, a long torso with shorter legs throws off, you know, to some weird degree balance, and I think in my mind, I always think a leap-priced like that, crazy giant arms, crazy giant legs, it has everything, the only knock is the torso's a little bit long. Yeah, it's just a structure, and there's really nothing he can do about that, but he does pack an amazing amount of muscle onto his frames. Second place goes to Derek Oslin. Derek Oslin's got nice, like round muscle, good flow, lack of weaknesses, but I think if you weigh condition, it was odd to me that some people I thought were conditioned, namely Mike Argus, and Lloyd Daller, who were especially Mike Argus, I thought he was in tremendous condition, fell the 6th and 7th, and yet they got to be scratching their head and thinking, okay, the guy who got second, while looks good, you know, didn't have the level of condition that they have. How old is Mike Argus now? I remember him from the USA 15 years ago. Yeah, so Mike's got to be the youngest mid 40s, you know, but he looked tremendous, up there, so he's got to be frustrated. I would be frustrated if I was him, not knowing like how do I place higher in a show like this. So going back to Derek, I think he's got a good structure and a good future in the 2012, it's just that he needs to add density and condition. I think it's more like density, then it is like condition. I mean his body fat is low, but I think, you know, sometimes you can have the same level of body fat as someone else, but if they have a dense look, it looks way harder under the light. Yeah, absolutely. And that's just a matter of training, right? Yeah, training years. Yeah. Third place and the 2012 goes to as wilder against Alice. Yeah, and so here's a guy rewarded on condition. Yeah. Nothing wrong with that, but it's like at some parts of pre-judging, I thought he looked thin in the upper body, and I would have definitely rewarded him as well on condition, but I thought at points, like a lot of pre-judging, I just thought it was like, you know, I was impressed with the condition, but the fullness, or even it's not even fullness, it's just like size in the upper body was like a little off. And you know, looked a little bottom-heavy, a little and he's a little thin through the, you know, the structure in the show, there's so. Yeah. I was getting out of one of hard on it, but I am hovered on it, and my greatest I thought were, you know, easily comparative to number two and three. Fourth goes to Carrus Bajo, another guy in really great condition. Yeah, that was Dave Lumbels guy. Okay. Yeah, I thought it was a mass monster, and I personally would have liked to see him in better condition, to highlight that mass. I mean, he's freaky big, crazy, crazy legs. Okay. And this is the oddness of the judging, right? I mean, so what do you do with him? Like crazy mass, one of the thickest guys, if not, you know, next to Nicholas. Yeah. But nowhere near the level of condition of Nicholas, and nowhere near the condition of the guy who got third and, you know, say third place. Right. Right. So it's an apples and orange type show. Right. We have the top six, the top five were apples at all. Exactly. And then fifth place was Fernando Dielameta. Yeah, Fernando has been around for a long time, low body fat here, you know, very good condition. I just thought he was flat. I've seen him fuller. But, you know, when you chase condition, you know, nobody can chase condition, and it's very hard to chase condition and stay full. Yeah. So I've seen him bigger or fuller. So I think, you know, that's like a personal decision. He always is probably making recently as, you know, do I come in as hard as I possibly can? He can give up some size. What do I try to come in, you know, hard enough. And big enough. He's probably looking at the guys ahead of him, say, wait a minute. Because he was, how do they then the guy in fourth for sure, and harder than the guy in second. But for his own physique, he looked a little flat through the packs, which hurt his front last spread. And being like flat through the upper back, it hurt his front, hurt his front double as well. Okay. So, um, but that's, you know, that's how the contest goes. You have to decide on how you're going to come in hard to fuller. You know, be nice. Just to come in big flow and hard all the time. If you want to get that down. If you figure it out, let me know. Yeah. All right. So now we're going to the men's open. Now this was one of the most exciting men's open bodybuilding contest I've seen in years. Yeah. We had a real battle between Surgeleva, Jr. and Alexis Rivera from Puerto Rico. They had a big battle at the pre-judging. And then they carried it over to tonight. Another big battle. Yeah. Yeah. Great battle. And great elevation from the crowd. This is what bodybuilding should be, right, Chris? This is, this is like, you know, if you, obviously people listen it on the internet aren't here. But I haven't been to a bodybuilding contest for people to share like this in years. Yeah. And I think here coming out of pre-judging, I had Sergio interesting. The first call out they had four people to top for and I had Sergio I'll leave a not clearly winning but for sure winning. And then they called those Sergio who ends up second and Alexis who wins the last call out of pre-judging together. Yeah. And I thought, well, that was quick. The guy who got Alexis seems to really tighten up quickly in pre-judging. I thought, well, maybe, you know, was his nerves, you know, because when he first was in the first call out, he was hard for sure. But just not really popping. And then that last call out, it seemed like he closed the gap. But for sure, I thought that, in my mind, Sergio was winning. Come back tonight. And they, you know, I thought that Alexis was tighter than this morning. And actually had a full look than this morning. His collar was definitely better than this morning. And they compared those two, like we haven't seen, people being compared in years. Steve was holding the poses for so long. It seemed like a opposing clinic. And not only after that, it just ran them through it again. Yeah. And you could feel the genuineness of, we're not sure. Yeah. At that point, you could feel that that was a lot of times when they called two people out at the end, it's a show. Yeah. They know who's going to win. They know who's second. It could be a blow. You know, it's close. But let's compare them, you know, put on a show, whatever. You could feel when they kept on calling them and kept on calling them, we're not sure. Yeah. And that's why the, and that is exactly why the audience went nuts, because they could feel the same thing. And there were shots at the end. I think that Alexis won. And there were shots that Sergio won. Mostly the same shots. They both equally won in pre-judging. And you could flip a coin with them. Yeah. You know, I thought Alexis had tremendous legs. And just quad separate, straighted quads. Yeah. Huge quads and straighted quads. I mean, yeah. Nice. Yeah. You know, his quads look even more detailed tonight. Yeah. And Sergio's legs are a strong point. Yeah. And I thought Sergio was a little bit better from the back and back. And Sergio's back was kind of his weak point before. Yeah. But I thought he really brought that up. I thought he definitely had him in the rear double. And back last bread. I thought he had him in the back last bread too. Yeah. How about front double front last bread? Front double. I had Sergio also. I thought Alexis was harder in the most muscular, especially in the abdominal region. You could see his abs were harder. And he just like, I think he looked harder overall in the most muscular. I'm going to front last bread. Probably Sergio, because he's got those high lats. So this is my point. And that's my point. How about side chest? Yeah. About equal. Okay. Side tricep. Okay. The point is, I try so I think Sergio. Sergio hits a pose better. The oddness of it is that I would agree with you. And yet I would agree with the idea that you could flip a coin. So I helped Sergio. I have him winning more poses than Alexis, but at the same time, this is bodybuilding. You can certainly leave there. And I mean, those, it's Alexis Quads were so detailed that you could say like, okay, you don't judge bodybuilding, show like we just did. Necessarily like who wins each pose. You know, sometimes you've left with force impression, last impression. So although I had Sergio winning lots of poses, Alexis looked tremendous and competitive and to his credit, and Sergio's credit. Nobody gave up on that. No last, yeah. And when it's close like that, it's usually the guy that has a little more charisma, a little brings a little more stage presence with that Sergio all the way for sure. You still can knock the wall. Well, Alexis looks a little more reserved. Yeah. Yeah. But Alexis was hard as a rock, so I mean, either one. I mean, you can't, you can't fall to judges on that. I mean, it was so close. I just thought Sergio with his, you know, extraverted manner on stage. I thought he was going to pull it off. Yeah. So I mean, they're both look great. Congratulations, Alexis. Dynamite showing. Dynamite consistency to come from where he was second in Vancouver a few weeks ago to, you know, hang in there, which is always hard. And do another show shows you, you know, his dedication to the sport. Third place was Max Charles. Max Charles was Max and third at the end. What's double check and I was. Yeah. Yes. Max Charles was third place. Lots of mass. You know, you can dissect this and two poses back last night, back double, meaning the level of condition that he had there. And it's always been his Achilles heel. Sometimes he brings it in, sometimes he does it bring it in. He's won the show previously. He won the show a couple of years ago, yeah. And, you know, I think the, you know, Alexis was just so hard and from from the back and Sergio was extremely hard in the back. And that's, you know, Clutz Ham's back up or back arm details. And I think that's what automatically put Max immediately out of the running for the talk to. Yeah. Yeah. It was a two-man show for sure. And if Max would've came in hard like he did a few years ago, you know, he could have been up in the mix too. Yeah. You grew with you. Yeah. What was Justin Rodriguez? Justin Rodriguez. Continuous to like impress and improve, you know, it's odd. I don't think he's like, you know, worse here because I hear people saying, you know, he looks off here. I don't know a lot of shows this year. I was like, he's done a lot of shows, but, you know, he hasn't run up to like against Sergio and Alexis at their best. Right. So, you know, and it's always who you stand next to. And that's as simple as that. I mean, you can look tremendous. But if you look, if you stand next to someone who's, you know, at not necessarily another level, but definitely, you know, breached out level of condition in first show like this, then sometimes you look, you know, you look flat or you people say, oh, you're flat or you're not hard enough because they don't know, but because really you're just being compared to really hard a guy. Yeah, hard a couple guys. Yeah. And then fifth was the Russian Sergei Kulukov, I think it was? Yeah. Yeah. I thought he was better three weeks in Chicago. When he did Chicago, he was round full hard. Here he was hard and lost some of the roundness that he had the three weeks ago. So, I think that knock came out. I think Eddie Ben in the level of condition that he had in Chicago and the level of fullness, then he probably would have, you know, been more competitive for that third slide. Yeah. We got to talk about six Rashid Oliker. Some of the thickest, narrowly as muscle I've seen since Rani Coleman. Yeah. Well, I think he was letting the stomach hang out. I noticed that and I think he could just be just a little harder, you know. It could be a little harder. I think I think the weird knock, again, some, I guess if you're going to make a knock, is he could be harder? But his muscles so thick and then he doesn't look soft at all. No. You know, I'm not spitting out the answer because I don't know it. I can justify the idea that he's got Nicholas, the two 12-winter syndrome, which is a lot of muscle packed on a smaller frame and it doesn't quite look bright enough, you know what I mean? Yeah, he's not wide, but he's super thick. Yeah. So it's almost like he needs more width for that amount of mass. But out of all the people who probably got frustrated, you know, he's going to go and look at pictures and say, I was bigger than this guy and it was harder than this much bigger. And which is true, which really technically could have allowed him, I think. You know, you could argue him placing his highest third place, his highest third place, and that's about it, you know? And once he knows about him, he moves very well. You know, considering his transitions, he come up on his toes and he's fly doing the one falls in the next flexible. Yeah. For a big guy like that, that was- I got a call for Zika. I don't think he's going to be moving down to classics, so Henry, and Brianna, they got nothing to worry about. And on-win was also in really good condition. Yeah, on-win is somebody who's, you know, heightened cold. Yeah. He looked good at this show last year. He looked good at a recent show. He's a little off here, even though he was in good condition. I think he was in better condition. I shouldn't say he was in good condition. Blondon Prasmy was, he was much bigger than I've ever seen him. And he's got a great physique. You know, he just says he's a dial in it. Yeah. He's got a dial in it. And that a catch word dial in it. That's from the Lennial phrase. Yeah. He's- He's somebody who can, you know, walk into a show like this and be competitive for the top five any day of the week. Maybe top four, top three, four, three, four, five. Somewhere, it just a matter of balance and out that new mass with condition. Yeah. Yeah. But overall, a great show that pulls down between Sergio Jr. and Lexus Rivera was really wanted to be seen. Yeah. It was tremendous. And lastly, I just want to congratulate Flex Wheeler. Yeah. Lifetime achievement, then we are lifetime achievement award. They gave a great video presentation. It was a great video. It was a great video. It was a great video. It was physical when they showed the videos of it, right? It's like, wow. Where were those physics at now? I mean, goal-gurgle Flex Wheeler images, and you see some astounding- They had some astounding video, gold's training, just everything packed, show those triceps, biceps. One thing I noticed was he had the thickness, he obviously has a incredible shape, but just that sharp, sharp detail that you just don't see that much today. You don't see it. You got to dial it in. The striations on the quads, and just the small ways with those dialed in abs, the ripped abs, unbelievable physique. He's phenomenal, I saw him after and congratulated him and he's inspired a lot of people, both with what he's accomplished in bodybuilding, but you know he's got the disease and you know come back from that and all these things. He started talking about that I thought about that, and he did in the car crash and all that stuff you got to go through. That's why you need the bodybuilding in the whole thing. Dave, you got to get, we got to get from flex like the seat belt or whatever. The seat belt that he wore, I didn't wear it. He did wear it. Yeah, he did. And then what if he would've done it? I don't know if he would've done it. I don't know if he would've done it. I don't know if he would've done it. If he would've done it. If he would've done it. If he would've done it. We just like take a seat belt from like a Dodge Neon and nobody will know. Nobody will know. All right. Well, for Chris Ascito and John Hanson, we are at the Tampa Pro 2018 Fantastic Show Tim Gardener for our exmuscle.com.

Welcome back to Musselin the Morning on Day of the Love. But when today is Wednesday, August 1st, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I guess since we don't have any recaps on deck in the Pro Division for this Wednesday, the next best thing is to look ahead to the weekend's action at the Tampa Pro where the rumors have been confirmed that we will indeed be seeing Sergio Leavad Jr. bring his talents down here to the Sunshine State. Last week, we began to hear these rumors start to circulate that the second year star in the making was thinking about jumping into Tim Gardner's big event this weekend where you know he'll be coming in as a clear fan favorite. Love and were hate him, this guy is one of the most electric personalities in bodybuilding right now. And from here on out, it's time that the rumors are put to rest. Sergio Leavad Jr. will be on that stage and people will start paying close attention once the pre-judging gets started. Moving on to the 212 Division where all eyes this weekend are set to be on super sophomore Nicholas Voliad as he set to make his second appearance of the season. Voliad is coming off on monster performance at the Portugal Pro a few weeks ago where he went toe to toe with one of the scariest guys in the division in a hot-e-shoot and before he eventually ended up settling for a close second place finish. The Nick Voliad we saw in Portugal was bigger fuller, leaner and more complete and pretty much blew away the lucky brought through the Charlotte Europa Pro at last year's rookie debut. So if the performance in Portugal was any indicator of what might be coming down the pike, well I can say is good luck to whoever the poor souls are who end up standing next to him up there and that first call out. But less than two months ago now before the Olympia, this Tampa Pro is like Prime Real Estate for some of the guys in the men's physique division who are still looking to steal a later Olympia qualification. Before they do that, they'll have to get through Jeff Gabriel. The veteran Pro has been a quiet terrorist so far this season, racking up four straight top eight finishes to go along with the convincing wind back in March at the Atlantic Coast Pro. As far as conditioning goes he figures to do one of the top guys in this weekend's lineup. So as long as he doesn't try to do anything crazy over the next few days to hit his peak, he's so when they can be a real contender for the win before it's all set and done. Over on the women's physique side, the lineup looks to be a deep one from top to bottom, but one athlete we're eyeing to put our stamp on things in the top five is fifth year standout Diana Schnee. So far it's been a roller coaster season for the Schnee camp, but right now all systems to be a go. As they prepare to head into their fifth contest of the year. For Schnee, this Tampa Pro stage has been like a home away from home over the last four years and if you look at her record, she's got four straight top ten finishes to prove it. And some of these women physique competitions, it feels like the whole field is so close that it could almost go literally anyway. And so long as she's up for a good fight, she stands as good a chance as anyone to separate herself from the pack by the end of the evening finals. And finally, if you were sitting around saying to yourself, damn, I wish something exciting would have finally happened in the figurative vision. Now it would be to time to sit down and buckle up because things are about to get crazy. The official competitors list with this weekend show was released on Monday and it looks like we're going to have a whopping 45 girls making their way down to Tampa this weekend. Now granted, this is the last chance at an Olympia qualification for the 2018 season, but even still 45 competitors serious that you might be the biggest figure lineup that we've seen all season long. And when you look at this list, it's a whose who have topped talent in the division mixed in with the time of veterans and rising young stars looking to make ahead line. So depending on how this thing ends up shaking out, we could have a pretty interesting narrative heading into the home stretch of this Olympia run. That does it to yet another edition of muscle in the morning. On day polumbo, reminding you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Welcome back to Musselin the Morning on Dave Palombo and today is Tuesday July 3rd, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. If you're one of those people who has a trip to Tokyo, scrimmel down somewhere on your bucket list, and today is your lucky day because I've got good news for you. This November the IFV Pro League is set to make its first official stop over in the land of the rising sun. At the inaugural IFV Japan Pro, fans planning to come out to the venue can expect to see some of the best bikini, men's physique, and 212 pros in the world take to the stage to battle it out at one of the most incredible venues in the entire country. And for anyone looking to get the jump on the 2019 season, this show will be an official Olympic qualifier. So you will not want to miss this opportunity to come out and be a part of this historic event from what I'm being told spot to already filling up fast, so make sure you get your tickets and your entry forms in ASAP because once they're gone, they're gone. Back in the day, I was always a fan of the early Sunday morning times in the gym because you knew the people who showed up then were there to get things done. And after what he did a few weeks ago at the NPCs junior nationals, I don't think there should be a doubt in anyone's mind about what kind of guy 2018 overall classic physique champ, Brett Wilkins is. Sunday morning Wilkins was spotted grinding out a few heavy sets in the squat rack, where he slowly but surely started to put plants into motion for his pro debut down the road. You can't take anything away from what Wilkins did up on that junior national stage because he was far away the most complete guy in the building. But if he has any serious plans to hang with some of these monsters in the division, he better make sure he gets real acquainted with those Sunday morning workouts. Because the only way to get better is to get there and beat these guys at their own game. The other day, one of the millennials in the office tried to convince me that Kanye West was the craziest person to come out of Chicago since Al Capone. But it's a verifiable fact that most millennials don't know, Sergio Oliva Jr. like I do. Last week, the Chicago native went on record in promised that it was ready to get back to his roots and put on the best performance of the year. And in front of his hometown crowd next week. And when you sit down and look at this kid's track record, if he makes good on his word, it will start to make people think that maybe he's not so crazy after all. There's always a point every athlete's prep, whereas a coach, you can just look at them and know that they're about to turn the corner. And right now my gut is telling me that branding curry is starting to hit that point. Ten weeks out from putting his talents on display for the first time this year at the Olympia weekend. Curry and the camel crew feel like they're starting to pick up the pace a little bit. Afterward, curry did last year. At this point in time, we can probably all agree that the best thing for him to do now is just sit back and trust the process. And if Curry can up his game just another notch or two, he's got a great chance at breaking in that elite Olympia. That top six, it things break his way. There aren't too many people in the sport anymore who have that old school roll up my sleeves because it's time to get to work mentality. But Mark Dougdale definitely is one of the rare few who still does. Late last week we saw the longtime veteran come out of hiding when he released a clip from one of his legendary leg workouts. At the moment we still have yet to hear any word from the Dougdale campus to weather and 90s planning to come back for another run this season. But when you consider the fact that he has four wins on the books since 2016 and is coming off one of the best two year stretches of his career. It's hard to imagine that the itch won't come back to bite him sometime before the year's end. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle on the morning on day polonbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

10 and 9 You're my and I'm a group There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orange Russell dot com presents Every muscle What a deal What jazzy Welcome to another episode of heavy muscle Radio on the polumball And I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito On this July 9 2018 evening in Chris Big big weekend in the body building world Lots of shows Two big open shows one in Chicago one in Vancouver I guess that's kind of the biggest news of the week And I guess you could say because it was a great battle In Chicago Surgery or leave a juniors hometown Went back Went back It was kind of like a homecoming of sorts And battle it out with Michael Lockett And Lockett emerges victorious In a very close controversial decision Let's talk about it You and I weren't there So we'll we'll preface that right from the beginning You know when we're there we say we're there we're not there We're not there so we're going by pictures and video I did a nice wrap up of the whole weekend's events But let's talk about what happened What do you think about the outcome? Obviously you helped surgery so you're a little biased Give me your analysis Well I had my chief of staff Jose Raymond there You went to the Jose going to all these shows all the sudden he's like I'm just because his wife does is doing the shows Oh, and he's also coaching people so I heard that Jose was actually in both Vancouver and Chicago at the same time He was spotted Is that possible? No that would have been I heard you holographically transported himself to Vancouver While he was in Chicago so he wasn't the spot in both places Now he was just in Chicago and he was he prepped Justin Randall and he prepped Michael Orgas They looked great and he prepped Lloyd dollars. It was fourth. Yeah, he prepped Lloyd dollars Who are you? Fantastic Yeah Lloyd is from this right from the Fort Myers a Cape Corral area where I am That's right and Jose was nice enough to go take a look at Sergio from me because I didn't go to the show Right And didn't feel good to be home this weekend? I'm all in every weekend No, I know I'm saying usually you are on the road a lot you're like me now you stop traveling Yeah, and I put an end to end Stop being said What a cabbage? Well I lost the power gave us your father would say I'm sorry But you're a staff can relate to that too I call my Jose Raymond my chief of staff I told my son it Jose you're going to be my chief of staff Yeah until he until he gets his girlfriend and then he won't be traveling anymore either Yeah exactly I wanted you know I used funny because my mom and Chad Nichols was banging out all those you know top guys Back when a callman was winning in flag and all of a sudden he just disappeared And I said Chad I don't see it any shows him because you know had kids and I didn't understand when he was met by that I thought he was just like trying to be this good dad you can't leave this You can't leave because if you do you get divorced you know No, well you don't have time for like when people go to be like what do you do? I say why I guess I can't even begin to start because I have kids Yeah, it's it's it's hard to explain but once they get a little older and they're in school and they get into the team Yeah, you know it is because then they don't care if they don't even want to hang out with you anymore After that then you have a little more to Chad has a little more time than that This kids are like grown up I see him a few more shows that he normally is but I didn't understand it now I do completely understand So get back to the Sergio verse the lock it battle Yeah, so Sergio came up came up two giants that's short Two mils, right such Take a view it to no, but so anyways, I wasn't there Jose to had you know Jose's pretty forth right not that it matters, but I mean he has a 25 year eyeball Meaning he's a very good judge of what win shows and he was doing the play by play for me In terms of you know just text me what's going on in the show and sure He didn't he didn't say by any means it was slim dunk for Sergio, but I know me no time did he think Sergio was losing So it just has opinion you know so when when I review the show You know I'm gone by pictures of course and video, but And I actually thought lock it looked good pictures and video and I I can see why you know he's got a freak factor going on but according to Jose Sergio was you know quote good enough to win that show You know what the promise and and I said this in my rap of Sergio actually looks better in pictures I think sometimes his body translates well into photographs and and even into video Lock it because he's so charismatic on stage and video you can't take your eyes off him and the pictures he knows how to position his body very well He has his good body awareness lock it has the worst body awareness. He's not a good pose or he has no charisma But he's grainy nasty hard and he's big his upper body's huge his legs however It's always been his his Achilles heel. They're not good. They're hard don't give me wrong and from behind they're awesome But from the front and the sides that their shallow the right leg is definitely got a problem I think he's got any problem there and that that hurts him. Now that's that's being super critical. He's still good enough to beat everyone there tonight But I think that Sergio's legs are so good because that's like his best body part that to me it over rides anything anything that lock it's got going on in terms of I mean He can't judge a guy with no legs, you know gets a guy who's got the best legs, you know on stage. It's very difficult But once again, we weren't there so you know lock it's grainy this might have really Translated well if you're sitting in that front row, you know it might have had a lot more wow factored in Sergio's carerism or Sergio's legs I don't know it's hard you know for us to make that call Yeah, I mean so that's that's why I prophesied with You know I deferred to Jose's opinion Come you put Sergio and lock it on the Olympia stage Sergio blows his doors off Why? That's such interesting you know what I do someone else Because there's other guys that you're comparing them against in Sergio stacks up very well against the rest of the line up It's just when it's locked in in him you start saying well, maybe you want to get a little harder and Griny air and he's got freak factor from behind, you know So Dave you're the literally like the fourth person in the last few hours Two of said well Sergio should just qualify for the Olympia because he you know He's not gonna be in the first call out, but you know who'll get a look somewhere down there You could be a top 10 Olympian Sergio Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what you yeah I agree I agree I love to watch him pose man he put what a what a performance he puts on so unconventional way But the routine when I I Jose had taken a video of his routine and sent it to me, I think I did see I didn't know what was going on Yeah, it was like Phantom of the Opera and crack I almost think he was a little too excited don't you? No, Jose said it's the cookies routine that only works for him. Oh, yeah, no one else can pull that off No, no But And that's the you know the crazy thing because Lock it's like I'm very He's not like an entertaining pose. He's just just looking him because he's so freaky hard, you know, well, yeah, and he and Lock it does have a very interesting resemblance to Leighane he doesn't it in terms of actually He's got some big resemblance maybe people say that's racist Maybe dentally he does Not me they got that like same smile, don't you think? Yeah, yeah, you know what I said dentally. Yeah, they have the little bit of gap to put it big But they they they they have a very symbols smile, you know I don't know I it's a I ever since I saw a Lock it first compete. I thought of him having him looking very much alike Get some resembles though But he's good. Lock it's good. You know, you can't take anything away from the guy. He's look I remember when this guy did the team universe back in the day and he you know That was a drug test to show back then he wanted he didn't even take the pro card turned it down And that's Boston Lloyd both by the way Boston Lloyd's dream and life is to win the pro card and turn it down That's that's he told me what he's gonna do in terms of 30 I said it both you may if you lived the 30 I said then maybe you can do that I said but you have to win the pro card first lock it one the pro Everyone said there's no way the guys natural Dave Lieberman had had him in the natural Ohio shell like a couple weeks earlier Or maybe the year before that and they drug tested him because they always drug test that show and he was 100% naturally pasted the team universe drug test. So he was a natural freak the following year. He did the NPC junior nationals if you remember any one that overall And then they need to superior You know, no one know it happened to him I think about the nationals of some of them. They did disappeared He was hot. He was like second of the nationals and then he came back at like ten years later. Some of You remember at the North American where a came one he was second Never returned in the fall. I think the national later that year we got his pro card, but he's just a genetic freak the guy He always walks around which striadical. He's got those freaky calves the only black I know with with crazy calves and He's a guy when he puts his mind to being the best he can he he's just genetically so gifted he he can win shows Just by his will power And you know like I said I don't I don't I think both for both guys. It's really a victory Don't you think it here tonight because I don't think by any means Sergio did not disappoint He brought even though he didn't come away with the win. He certainly brought a look that's worthy of Saying he's better than last year. Now the question is do you put him in another show now to qualify for the Olympia I think it's a mistake not to do another show. He too. That doesn't mean Sergio's going to do it though Yeah, no, I mean he's unconventional right? Yeah, what's next then that he can do? He did tamp on yeah, he could tamp I think he did Be exciting. Yeah, I think I think it'd be tough to beat that show like that. You know, I mean depends on who shows up. I mean he can be beaten. I mean if rocket can beat him other people can beat him You know, he can beat Lockdown any given day as well and you know depending on who shows up in Tampa. Let me just give Give some another four weeks to you know fine tuna's physique go back to the giant sense and What would you have like to see better one giant sets? What would you have like to see better on on Sergio condition? Yeah, you know, he could be a little bit harder, but I have to say you know, that's why I did post it. I mean I sent pictures to you of the way he looked amazing. I was pretty impressed. You know, you're just looking at garbage Chicago lighting. You know, meaning everyone looks completely washed out. Yeah. You know, and it's kind of like to it's probably one step. Well, it's just I don't want to compare it to another show to insult a promoter, but just the lighting, you know, I don't know if it's lit for the show and not photography, but You look at pictures of people and everyone looks washed out. Yeah, it's a little overlit if anything. Yeah, which works for Lockets advantage because he's very dark. I know you're going to say that. I know you're going to say that. It's a truth. It's a truth. Yeah. Very dark. He never looked washed out. So dark. So we'll see. It's got good skin color. Very good skin color. Painting had the good skin color. That's another thing the other way. But have the same ones. Skin color to each other. Well, that's not good. Can you always had great coloring on stage? I always remember that looking at those Olympic A picture studying those muscle fitness and flex magazine to like, man, I can hate these. Got great coloring on stage. Yeah, I'm sure he can. Those days regular tan. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I'm tan. He probably sun tanned. I'm sure. But are we sun tan back then day with heart, what we sun tanned? Well, I've heard a lot of, you know, flex wheels. You just say you guys black guys got a tan. You can't otherwise you look gray on stage. You know, you got a sun. What? Okay. You got to be dark. Yeah. Justin Rodriguez, third place. Give me your analysis. Um, continues to improve. Uh, I think, you know, what that means is not only show to show, but yeah. Yeah. I don't think he looks that hard here to tell you through that. I think I was trying to come to, I think he's trying to come to watch out here. Yeah. I think it's just the light. I'll take a work. Really. Yeah, I mean he looks like, you know, I mean he looks good in pictures. But I mean Sergio looks like good in the pictures. Market looks like good in the pictures. So it's hard to tell. Right. Yeah. I'm looking at the pictures on NPC news and you know. I guess you're right. You can see he's got a lot of good conditioning. Who knows? You're proud to be right. It looks like it's overlit the stage. That's exactly what it looks like to me. I think Justin's put on a lot of muscle very quickly and I think it's going to take him sometimes to kind of solidify all the games. Yeah, I mean, the key words is right there. Solidify the games. You can gain muscle and you can gain quality muscle, but just to really hone it down and make it look like a rock. It still takes time. So I guess in a sense, Sergio wins the war between him and Justin, you know, that they had going on Instagram, right? Because he beats me. Yeah, well, what would they do? They have a better something? Well, they would just, you know, ribbon. They've been ribbon each other for months now, but who's better, you know? Well, that's still for two for Sergio. What the heck? That's enough. Sergio is fine with that. And once he beat Justin Rodriguez, like it doesn't count because like it does, you can't, I can't even get a phone number for like I can't find any way to get in touch. Well, look, there is only one quasi controversial issue with the show. Suds a terrible lighting. The first call out, of course, had lock it and surgery when they are. And then they put those guys back, right? And then they never compared them in pre-judging, even though they put them back. Right, they haven't had like a final call out. No, and they didn't do it in 90 though. Wow, that's weird, right? It's weird. The audience would have gone nuts for that. Yeah. Hmm, interesting. It is kind of weird. Yeah, I'll dissect it. I'll dissect it. I'll dissect it. I'll dissect it. Just to play this is just for fun. This is not like factual. But who's legs a better? Surgeos or lockets? Surgeos, obviously. Okay. Who's legs a better? Justin's or lockets? No, lockets or one more out. Probably, I don't know. It's close. It's like the locket. Who's up a body's better? One, that's what. Okay. Did Surgeos be born last year? Absolutely. And Surgeos can't be locket. Yeah, I know what you're saying. I just didn't want to. One wasn't as good as the other. I don't even believe what I just said. Yeah, it's very hard yet to compare. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, it's very, very hard. It's a gross science analysis. Yeah, if A is bigger than B, then B is bigger than B. It's like, the load is tolling, right? Isn't that what the logic? The load of motors tolling? It's A, it's a B, and then D is to C, then A is to C. Well, I'm, here's another interesting one. At last years New York Prove, the last call out of Prejudgeon. They didn't do a last call out of Prejudgeon Deloroso versus Surgeos. Surgeos. They put them back. Right. They saved that for the night show. Right. And it was exciting in the night show too. Yeah, yeah. So, so this year at different shows, Chicago, Surgeos in there. And he's competing against Lockett. And they put those two back in Prejudgeon. But they don't bring them out. So you think, okay, they're going to do like New York. And they're going to save that for the night show. Maybe they made that the Surgeo move the way for Chicago. I don't know. You know, like when when LeBron James left the Cleveland, everyone was pissed off of them, you know, because it went into Miami. Yeah. Now we saw, you see, they have 150,000,000. Yeah. Four years. And now, like, Delacos, he'll make them a fortune. It's worth every penny because in LA, you know, those people will pay big bucks. They go see him every single game. There you go. Check, Nick, will son of be there in the front row. The funny thing is that if someone broke it down on Instagram, like, like, how many? He's like making like 163 bucks a second or something. I can't believe that. Every second he's on the court, it's 163 bucks. Crazy, right? Yeah. That's a good salary, you know. And that doesn't even include all like his Nike contracts and all that other stuff. He's making a good job. Well, that's what you told playing basketball. I love when they, I'd if you remember when LeBron came out of high school, he went right to the pros and everyone was like, big mistake. And this guy will burn out and he'll never make it. What, he was, was he driving a hum or a nice school? Who knows? I don't know. But he said, fuck, and I want to make money. I don't, I don't need to go to college. I don't want to go to college. I don't want to go to college. I want to make money. So, go to college to learn how to make money. So what does the people do? He could have gotten injured in college. Who the hell knows? I mean, we didn't have made a penny. So, he went right to the, well, he had that all important degree though. Well, he can, he could buy 40 degrees with, with how many he's got. But, so yeah, I mean, sometimes you got to take a risk in life. And he must have had people advising him. It said, fucking man, you could, you can play in the pros now. I mean, even if it takes you a couple years to really get into comments your own. That's why he's not, what is he like? And he's in his, he's in his late 30s now, so might that, anything. Oh, he probably hasn't, probably hasn't. Probably has another couple. You could years under his belt, I'm sure. Oh, he's a, at least four more. He's, he's, he's banking on that. So fourth place, Sergei Kuluk, Kuliav, Kuliav, would you think about him? You had mentioned him to me. And I thought he was all right. Yeah, I really thought it was a three-man show to be honest with you. But here's a guy who kind of comes out and I know where I like to mention new names. I mean, he was good, he was very hard. It's very hard. Maybe not under that Chicago lighting, he looked hard. But he was hard and dense and complete, big back and superstriated glutes. Good width. New guy, new face. So, I mean, it's, I do, to come from Russia, right? Yeah. And please top five, it, it's a pro, first pro show. It's a big accomplishment. What about Brad Ross, sneaking into that top five there? He won't go away. This guy, he just doesn't quit. Brad, Brad should get an award for least, he should get two awards. Consistency, of course, three awards effort. But consistency, and then he should get a special award for just never coming in. Out of shape. He's got the best legs on stage. There's no doubt about him. His conditioning is second to none. He's got a small waist, he's got a good back. He's got probably the smallest arms in the pro ranks that I've ever seen. Well, he's much, he, he just, he needs to muffin them up. Yeah, do something to him because this is. I mean, his right arm is literally, you know, the worst pro arm I've seen. And that's not insulting Brad, because I like him, he's a good guy. And like I said, he has the best legs on stage without doubt. But, I mean, let's face it, arms are really important in the pro's. Yeah, for sure. That's why they always, people jump in up. He, he was bad though, better he had them dead. Yeah, it's grossing was a superb. Much better, the best we've seen. Well, another. Fuller and harder than he's been in the last, they two years. Absolutely. Kevin Jordan sixth, just, what's your assessment of him? I mean, here's a guy who is, people we're saying, you know, but the next coming of Jesus Christ here in the bodybuilding world, it's just he never really has produced what we hoped. Good, very good condition. I think he needs like, maybe he just needs to do one of those, you know, blow it up, get fat and go to 300. He tried that already, which would, would Chad and it worked it well. Yeah, it worked. Yeah, it worked. Well, yeah, it was like 60 pad. You made fun of him fact that he had a me lose 60. Did I see, I have a terrible seat. It's my dementia kick and I did I say that. Yes, we talked to Chad Adam up to like 320. What did you say? Three ten. Yeah, I think that was that good. I was ten pounds off with Kevin Jordan. Three giant sets off with Sergio. He just needs more muscle. That's all there is. He's a big guy. He's a tall guy. I don't know. But, but he's didn't say he doesn't train hard by his own mission. This was a couple years ago that he might. Yeah, when you went to video, you don't have to. Well, Brad beat him. I think that's first time Brad's beat him this time. I think we should maybe Kevin Jordan, she got him. But, who ate? Yeah, he'd probably get him to 440. Yeah, he might need it. Maybe he needs to be sequestered over there with the camel crew. You never know. All right, let's talk about the two 12 division. Your boy Craig Richardson wins that. Finally, they give this guy a victory here in a qualification for the one. Yeah, he's not taking. He won't Chicago a couple years ago when Deloros are won. Yeah. I thought the stars were lining up because he won and Deloros won a couple of two or three years ago. And that's the year I helped Deloros. And when Craig won, Craig said, Sergio is going to win. And I said, don't jinx it. But anyhow, Craig did win and apparently, unbeknownst to me, he's definitely not to the Olympia. Why not? Why did he do all these shows? And then not to the Olympia after he qualifies. But he only did two shows. Right. I mean, I'm assuming he did the second show because he wanted a qualified for the Olympia. No, he just wanted to get the win. Oh, he was just looking for some money, basically. No, but there is no money. He just getting wanting to get the win, meaning I think to go out on top. Well, but why would if he's this is his last year? Is it his last year? Is that what you're saying? That's what Jose told me. Well, if it is, then the result finishes the Olympia, right? What's one more freaking shit? I got to call him up and talk to some sense. This is your last year. You do the Olympia. You finish the Olympia. Good day, Dave. You're good. You give good advice, Dave. You don't know. You know, I don't feel like I got to work. I got to work at school or something like that. That's what that's exactly. Dave, you nailed it. You nailed it. He's got work. You nailed it. You nailed it. He's got work commitments. He's got 20. He's got 40 kids and like four grandkids. He's got 30. What? He's got grandkids, birthday, to go to. I mean, we got to talk some sense. This is the last year. You tell him, you tell him that I said, if this is your last year, you've got, you is probably listening to the show. You got to do the Olympia your last time. Come on. Not case. I've helped him for shows where he's been second. And I'm like, well, there's a show in Charlotte next week. There's no way you'll lose any, like, well, you know, I got a commitment to the school and, you know, and to any other body, both of these last year. Yeah. But any other body, both, you'd be like, I just, you got a second in the pro show. And there's a show next week. I'm telling you, you can absolutely guarantee when. I'm getting married. Well, just reach casual. Okay, no problem. This is obviously a guy's assistant here with reschedule in the second. Well, so a lot of people would. Craig, Craig's one of these guys is very humble. Never really, you know. So he'd never really, we probably talked higher about him than he talks about himself, you know. Anyway. Yeah. So he would pull up the Caleb Blanchard second. Your ex, buddy, the Maradona third. Yep. Lloyd Dala fourth, the train by Jose, Adam Young fifth. So good lineup. And, uh, follow a foreigner who's in the lineup. What happened to him? Third place. Third team. Third team. Third team. Big, big. I mean, you got people like, uh, I told Farndsworth to stay in that men's classic physique vision, but he didn't want to do it. He wanted to go back to bodybuilding. He probably would have been top five here. Classic. Let's talk about classic. Wesley Visters. The next Arnold. I gotta tell you, I look at this guy's pictures. I see Arnold. I do. He's got the same, it's amazing. He's like a physique, not a facially physique, why he's like a clone of Arnold. Well, that's what they like. Of course it is. I said it in my rap, but I said a mid-roy was the most condition guy in stage. But Wesley Visters is Arnold. How do you be Arnold? You can't be Arnold. Well, and he's got, let's be break it down another way too. If classic is going to survive, and not more often to like a, you know, IGF competition, you have to weigh flow and structure. Or I would even put structure ahead of flow. Structions, low flow and structure. They will fuck it up if they overreward condition, even though I love condition. Everyone loves condition. They will screw it up if they give it to, you know, quasi bodybuilders. And the expense of structure and shape, you have to, you have to fight to keep structure, flow and shape as the headliners. It's like, okay, everything you need to know about what was incredible about female bodybuilding. All you need to do is think, lend a Murray, nipper, quarry, the person. Those two, you know, the way they, they, they, they were, they're flow, they're structure, they're lines. Even if they were a little loft, they were still easily able to be people who, you know, would quote challenge them. And I think that's what needs to be implemented and forced down people's throats no matter what. Unfortunately, people are going to do this. Purists will say like, oh, he's not hard enough. And oh, he's just lazy. He's just going on as God, given structure. Well, if it's going to be a God-giving class, then it's a God-giving class. Yes. You just, just need to, and that's no date. So it comes back to this, you know, amidst like a junior bodybuilder compared to, I mean, he's, he's muscular. He's more muscular and more condition than he was in New York. So he's a tall woman too. Yeah, more polished than he had in New York, much better than he was in New York. In fact, the New York, he could have, you know, fell in a couple spots lower. And he's, and he's the, the feel good story of the whole weekend because, I mean, I meant Roy, you know, came over from India. Does, you know the story, right? Yeah, another story. You've told him million times. Poor guy, you know, contact us just in, comes over from India. Can't even get, he wants to be a pro-bodybuilding and it's like the biggest joke of all time. Whatever, you're going to be a pro-bodybuilder. And can't even do the, can't even do the national's here. He moves, he leaves his family, moves to the US. Can't do national's, he can't do anything because he's, he's not a citizen here. Finally, marry someone, you know, he falls in love with this girl. Actually, he can, I thought a lover before he moved here, they get married, he becomes a citizen. Then they create classic physique. He, he wins in New York, American. You know, now the guy's competing is a pro. Probably the most successful Indian pro out there now. The guy is, you know, one step away from the Olympian now, might even be, make the Olympian be on point. So, this is the field good story of the weekend. But Wesley Vissers, you know, this is his first pro show. He makes a million amateur mistakes here. He's not dark enough. His tan wasn't good. Could have been a little drier. But his structure is so impressive that when I'm watching the videos, I'm just seeing Arnold standing up there with a bunch of little kids, you know, look, you can make it. You could make a case that Franco, Columbo, was way more complete as a bodybuilder in terms of balance in his physique, conditioning, density than Arnold. But he can never beat Arnold. And it wasn't because Arnold wasn't a mythical creature back then. He just had that stage presence that when you look at the two of the months age, all you see his Arnold, you don't even see Franco. And that's exactly how I, when I watched that first call, I didn't even see a mid up there. He's short. He's got a great physique alone on stage. But I didn't even see him. And all I saw was Wesley Vissers posing. And that's all my eyes went to. I didn't even notice anyone else on stage. Did you notice that? Yeah, I mean, yeah, I did notice it. You can't take your eyes off the guy. And that's called stage charisma. That's what Arnold had. And then that bamboosles and the judges. And that's what that's fun. I think that was, it impresses the judges. Let me say that better. Well, I don't know, just to clarify, I don't still had the best body. Right. But what I'm saying is if you broke down Arnold's versus Franco on paper, Franco would win. I think. I don't think Franco would win the front double. Give Arnold two poses. But I'm just, my point is that Franco really has a more complete physique. Because Arnold's legs were on great. You never saw Arnold hit a front lats bread or a side tricep. I mean, Franco killed him in those poses. But it didn't matter, though, because Arnold just had that Arnold presence on stage. Yeah. So I mean, that's what Wesley has. He has the same thing now. If he times himself up a little bit and puts, it comes in with better polish and correct some of these amateur mistakes that the Olympi, he's going to be good. You know, he's going to hang with these top five guys. I think. Yeah, no, I think you will. So get the program. God, to send up some programs. He's got to be working on his dad. Get him in the sun, right? I mean, he's like the widest pro competitor. You can. All right. No, he's right. He's like, from Amsterdam, you know, the hall and those guys are like, they've been on the same sun. Most of the, they got to definitely get a tanning better. Something. Give him some melanin to or something. Oh, yeah, yeah, you can give him some baby oil. But like red dye. Yeah, I had dyed like these. I did. I got a good guy. Yeah, wouldn't Bob love to work with him. Send him the Bob's house for like two weeks before the show. Oh, no, you'd say he'd make a mistake. So what happened? He's doing the open. Bob would love to crank out a muscle. Go on, right? Yeah, Bob, love to see a crap out of his face. Absolutely. The vacuum. The next car, oh, boy. Let's call him in the car. What a call. He'll call Ed Ed, Ed, or call her. Did you ever ask anyone who's posed with Bob Gruskin, how grueling posing sessions would be? Yeah, Doug went. He's the tell me all the time. Oh, it would be for some waterboarding. Yeah. You know, Bob would call Ed Conner's up. And he'd be like, hey, did you check this guy? Yeah, I was like, I'll send you a poll and write him tomorrow. You'll get it in a week. Ed, you can text me in picture. I mean, Bob, you can text me in picture. What's that? I don't even know how to text. Wesley would have Arnold, you know, he'd have him standing for an hour. Arnold's got a CS, Physician. If I were Arnold, I'd be super impressed. He'd all, he, it's all the Arnold poses. Exactly like Arnold does. But be great video to see Arnold showing, you know, teaching him some poses that would be, I'd love to see that. I'm sure he'd love to have Arnold teach him some poses to that would be crazy. So, we'll see. I think I guarantee Wesley does the Arnold classic next year. Oh yeah. God would be a full lot to do it just to get in for Arnold. Arnold loves the crown him, too. They dropped a two, 12 from the Arnold. They did? Yep. Wow. That's what I hear. I wonder why? Having had a confirmation, but I heard that from that's terrible. The cheapest that. See, the COS pose a Raymond. That sucks. You know, I can, Arnold classic is always about body bone. He certainly don't want to lose the men's division. Get rid of bikini. With the hell cares. Not that I don't like bikini. I work with a lot of bikini competitors, but I mean, the Arnold classic is body building. You know, if anything, you shouldn't get them or anything. Really, you should have all the divisions represented there. But that's terrible to get rid of the two, 12. That's the kind of like a real dis on the two, 12 division. Yeah. Maybe that's why Flex Lewis is leaving the two, 12. You heard that announcement, right? Yep. Well, I heard a rumor. What's the rumor you heard? That he was not doing the tutorial after this year. No, he's not. He may not sit on Instagram. I did all video on it. What's he going to do with the open? I think you will. I think you might take your off. Then do it. He doesn't want to suck down anymore. Because you know what? Here's the problem. He sucks down and then he doesn't look as best. Everyone's like, oh, he's a lot this year. But it's not really the result. He just can't make the freaking wait. So he's got to go down too low. Because Flex at 220 is awesome. Look at, you know? He looks like you see those offseason pictures of me. He's like, he's like, he's like, he's like, Doring the 8's at 5 foot, whatever. He's 5. Well, a lot of people are. Not even better at 20. Well, I believe we know Flex has done well in the open class before he's placed top 3. I mean, Jose did open guy to Saninus, done open. Why not Flex Lewis? He can win some small shows. I'm sure of it. He's got nothing to prove in the 12 anymore. He's only one. He'll win it seven times. Come to the Olympia time. I think it's a good move. But once he gets out of the, they'll probably shit can't let. Yes. I mean, if they are Donald, I hope not. I don't know why you Arnold will get rid of it. Well, that's not confirmed yet. So let's, let's get a confirmation because we got a confirmation. Well, I'm going to have to do a take at the bubble head doll of Donald makes Donald like anything. What do you think of that guy Kevin Johnson and third in the classic physique getting back to classic? He's good. Yeah, very good. What'd you think about? I like him. I think he's going to be a future, future good guy. Got to watch it out for him. This is just so many good guys in classic. So he's very deep. The thing is, everyone's got their own little, you know, unlike the open word, a lot of people tend to blend. You know, everyone's, it's like the olden days and bodybuilding people have different physique. They completely different. Yeah, that's what makes it exciting. I think really. I think about it. They have different heights. They have different heights. They have different heights. They have different heights. That's another thing. Right. And but everyone's got the same proportion because you can't weigh over a certain amount the other way. It's still make the way. Now in the men's physique division, Michael Bevin's wins that with sure quads, Shabbah second, the team Scott third, in figure, Julia wearing wins, bikini, Laura Lai, Shabbado Swins and just a note in the Apolloino. Just got off having a kid. She's back in the next few things already. She finished the second year. So the congratulations in India. Now what a what a turn around in physique. She was my wife and I were looking at her physique on Instagram because my wife obviously just had a kid. I know you. The different is that India go away. But his, I don't know how he's time to go to the gym with the new boy. Maybe but she looks like she didn't even have a kid, you know. So congratulations. That's a nice little comeback. That was a pretty quick tip. It's called good genetics. Fitness, Danielle, Chicales, wins. Should we go to the Olympia. Women's physique, Sarah Villagas, Belegas, wins there. She'll go to the Olympia. So big show in Chicago this past weekend. We also though had a lot of action over in Vancouver. Canada there. Big show, big weekend. I want to give a big shout out to all the winners there because that was a well. It was a long trip to go there and compete. And you know, my thing is how do you pick where do you go? You know, that's pretty crazy, right? I'm paired to what's your goal. You could have gone Chicago. A lot of people went to the Vancouver. I guess you can make it. It was a strategic move. I actually helped the guy who won the overall amateur there. Brandon Rieger or Reggie R. He wins that. It's his pro car. So congratulations to the Brandon. Yes. Let's talk about the open. Men's, you know, whenever you split a lineup, which is what they did basically. Some people want Chicago, some people want to Vancouver. You know, I, I don't know how to get to side, but there were a lot of Canadians obviously who did the Vancouver, which was a smart move on their part. Lucas Osseldell, let's talk about this guy. He wins the show. But Lucas Osseldell is the most underrated pro out there. This guy has a bunch of wins on the wrist belt. He's one of these guys like when people forget, you know, that anyone else is around and he kind of just shows up at his best. He's one, he's like an Andre as a loser. Muncher never had the best genetics, but he was the hardest guy out there. And when he nailed his conditioning, he was one of the most impressive guys on stage. That's what Lucas is like. He's not the best guy. He's not the biggest. He doesn't have the best structure, but when he comes in crazy, freaky hard, and the lineup is not loaded with crazy talent, he wins and selling skin. He's got soft hands. Yeah. But on a good, on a good day, when he's really good, he's really good. I guess anyone that can be said of anyone, when they're really good, they're really good. But when he's really good, when he's really on his day game, he's tremendously dangerous. He's got crazy Christmas tree, crazy, crazy quads. We'll take a look at him full packs. He's dangerous and can beat a lot of people you wouldn't expect to beat when he's at his best. Remember when he won that Arnold South Africa a couple years ago? Yeah. He was crazy and president too. But he beat a good lineup here. He beats Lexus Rallone, who, you know, he's, remember when he won the NPC. And he's going to win Puerto Rico. He's really good. And he beats Josh Wade, who's been, I don't even have a guy still going. He's, how many shows does this guy done already? It's amazing. I don't know, but he's been, you know, the last 14 months he's placed top four or five, and just wrote every show that he's done. And in Valieras, crazy impressive in this line of the four place. I think he was, I think he was, it's weird. I thought he was overlooked. I'm just going by pictures, but he's right. I just, I would have rewarded him probably on his width alone. I mean, granted, he have to be in condition which he was. Granted, you got to be full. I mean, big what he was. So if you're, you know, big and you fall, and you're in really good condition, which he met those great area, and you lied, you know, you think that helped a little bit. But the top five here, Chris, the top five, that's the top two. The top five here are better than the top five, and she got it. Yeah, yep. Better than the overall top five, but of course. Because we're now the Gary, who finishes 50s awesome too. Every one of these guys has tried to glue. This is like almost like a 12 show. The conditioning was unbelievable in this top five. Yeah, yeah, they make you drop another 15 pounds and you pull over the, the terrace. Because you're the drop in pounds, going to Canada. Exactly. There's a terra from water. I think what happens is these guys can't bring their drugs with them. They take off all the water from taking their drugs. Exactly. So I take this and I can't take that to Canada. Take this and I can't take that. What can I take? Well, nothing really. I haven't seen that many pictures from the show yet, but I've seen enough to say that I was a press with the top five quality. I mean, it was not an easy show to judge by any means. I didn't think. No, this is certainly judged as a conditioning show because Lucas definitely had the best conditioning and that that seems to have wanted for him. I mean, is that an accurate statement? Yeah, I mean, he's got the best condition plus he's, he's got true muscle density. You know, he's got a lot of, you know, I mean, it's one thing gap grade condition and have, you know, super separation, but it's a whole not just to have great condition and mature looking muscle that's really dense. And that's his calling card. Yeah. Sometimes he's a little off, you know, he'll fall and you know, pretty hard in the play things, but when he's on his sake and we could be a lot of people. This was a tough line up and I like I said, I'd like to see Ian Valier, hitting on the show maybe Tampa because I think you're right. He might have been a little overlooked here, which is weird because he's from Canada. I think this guy is very impressive. I've been impressed with him since I saw him turn pro at that Al Capoko Latin America, Amateur, Olympia there. And we've talked about him before. I posted, I was so impressed with someone sent me a picture of him in like a crab most muscular. I posted on my Instagram like last week it was people were like blown away by this. He's he's got a lot of freak fact to him. I think he's gonna be a guy who's gonna be a top six Olympian over the next five years. I really, I'm gonna say it right here. Oh, he's young still. He reminds me of cotton. I'm when cotton was first coming up and he was killed at that, what was it the Orlando show. And obviously he has some health issues now, but he's like reminded me of a of Compton coming up, and he's been doing it nice and slow and consistently. And I think he's gonna be a guy. You watch out for this guy and tell him you over the next year or two. He's gonna impress the hell out of a lot of people. Now, I grew with you because ever since you quote, discovered him in Mexico, you tell me that there's a Canadian who won the Mexico show. Which should make sense to me. Yes, somehow it was a Latin American show. Somehow Canada got involved, got invited to the Latin American Olympia. I went after the team Canada showed up. And they won, that's the funny thing, they won. Yeah, well, he's the fact that the matter is from the bodybuilding standpoint. Every year since that show, he's improved. Just a big statement. That's a big statement. Absolutely. And he's taken his time with it. He really didn't rush it. That's sometimes the best way to do it. Now in the 2012 division, a Chris Mamudel D'Rah, or as he goes by D'Rah, wins. I interviewed him about two weeks ago in my arcs muscle show. And this guy's got like the biggest following in the Middle East there. Matter of fact, he would, I don't even say it. But he, a bigger name than Big Romney in Egypt. He's got more followers, which is kind of funny. It seemed that he was in Canada. He's got a soft little line. He's a business man. He's a real businessman. I liked the guy a lot. I really do. I enjoyed, if you haven't seen the interview, go watch the interview with him. It was a great interview. I did. I didn't know that much about him. He's got a great story. And like I said, he's got more followers than anyone that was this guy. And he went on YouTube or Facebook. Well, over the place. So every social media media, you can think that he's got a crazy YouTube channel. YouTube channels outrageous. But he does a lot of, he does all of his videos narrowbick. Because he has a big Arab following. And you know what the funny thing was? When I made him, I didn't make him. He asked me. We, we, we, to confirm with each other because he's got a guy who does all his video. I said, what if he translate the video interview I do with you into Arabic? Put some titles. And he did that. And that's the way everyone can watch it. He got a lot of hits of things. So he found that he found the niche for himself. I tell people this all the time. You gotta find the niche for yourself. You know, if you are good at something, you can speak and you're bilingual. Why not? He found the great niche for himself. Got his own. So I'm wondering. Then I'll follow this one of his favorite words. Shanti town niche. Shanti town. Shanti town. Fony. I followed that of his fucking. My father, Lord. He's doing much better after his surgery. To get his other head prepared because I told you he fell down and he broke his femur in four places. But he's completely wacked. I don't know, I hope it's just the anesthesia that still hasn't worn off. So he's, he was, he was, he was talking about flying and that he has the ability to fly. He's put pushes hands together. I said, what do you, you look mean like the most muscular post? I did a most muscular post. Because yes, yeah, you put push my hands together. I fly. Then he's telling me about this, he's telling me this company. And I'm like, what the fuck is he talking about? Then I realized, after 20 minutes of him telling me about this company and where they're manufactured and what they're producing, the products they're producing, I'm like, what the fuck is he talking about? I realize he's reading the, the, the, the little, like meal replacement thing they gave him. He's reading the cart of it. And then he's talking about this gym and I don't know where he's getting this gym from. And then I realized he's reading my shirt. I was wearing a shirt from some flex gym that someone had sent me and he's reading all the words on it. Over and over repetitively. So here I am picking, he's got some kind of brilliant insight and he's just reading the, he's like just like like Rayne Man almost, can say over and over and over and he's doing this. Like he's giving the infvalued information. Look, valuable to him. Well then, then he said to me, he got me to start with something. Sal, Palombo signing off. Is it something from where he goes from the planet earth? So now I think of he's dying. He's trying to tell me he's dying. I'm like, and so I'm actually taking him seriously now but then he starts talking gibberish after that. I realize he's just completely whacked on something. And he's not even on that many payments. That's the funny thing. He does have a fentanyl patch on it but he doesn't, they actually reduce some of his oxygen content. So I don't know what's doing it. Sometimes you know, when people, the mentors patients get anesthesia, it makes them more demanded. So, not in all that. Yeah, that's why a lot of them don't, he was under for six hours, my father. People in this locker. Yeah, long time. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it makes sense. You get to mentor after you come out because, right, you're. Is that a case? Yeah, it's whack out and more. So, this happened in the last time to so hopefully he'll come out of it. But yeah, he's definitely not in his right mind. So, the raw wins and candidate here in the 2012, they'll go to the Olympia, congratulations. And men's, a classic, because they had classic because they got too. I don't even know who this is. Caledit, Chickawalu. I don't know if I've been ruining his name yet. Chickawalu, Chickawalu, I don't know who he is. Khalid, Chickaw from Quebec. He wins, I don't know him. Do you know him? Nope. I think he won the Canadian show a few weeks ago though. Oh, he did. Well, that's pretty much every year. He's having a year. He's going to the Olympia. That's the national. Yeah. Yeah. Peter Dillinda, D'Orlindo. Also from Canada, finished his second in David Patrick, who's been tearing up the scene. He's the finishes third here. Congratulations. A year boy, Henry P. R. Now, fourth place. Yeah. Yeah. We'll give him the award for a fastest trap, which means total offseason days zero. Oh, and I'm easy yet another bad offseason. Total offseason days zero. He just decided that. Think it's he documents that on his Instagram. I think eight weeks out. Like I haven't trained for 50 weeks. That takes Paul's to do that. It doesn't work. 40 weeks. And I'm going to do classic. So here I go. So that means he just has to, well, that's he did a 56 day prep. Wow. That tells you the genetics. After not training it on. Yeah. I was thinking that coming out of the grocery store today, I was thinking the genetics on him in that he did a 56 day prep, meaning what he probably had 14 days to try to put on some muscle. And then the rest of it, try to burn off that baby fat. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Israel, the Mingus wins men's physique for Mexico. Congratulations. I wonder if that's the first Mexican guy going to be in the Olympia. On the Olympia stage from in men's physique. I bet it is. Sheaian is olfigari for my ran. I guess the Iranians can go to Canada. They can't go to the US though. He finished that second. Third place long woo from China. Good physique. He's the first ex of the way. Fourth. And then to the place is Bolvian Shahem, from Canada. I'm sure I bought you this name. The pro-finist division our friend, Allison E. here wins. She'll be going back to the Olympia. Congratulations, Allison. Love her. And in figure, Bojana Vassajab, and another friend to the show. Finish his first national drug of the Olympia. Jennifer Dory wins in bikini. No, she doesn't. Sorry. It's actually called Wasser. On the comeback trail, it's our second big win. Obviously, she's a former Olympia champ. She won in Colorado and actually wins here. I think the comeback is complete. We'll see you on the Olympia stage. We'll see her gain the title. We'll find out. Women's physique. I was just saying to you before the show started. I don't know anyone in women's physique anymore. It's weird. How many new competitors? Alyssa Copelino from Canada wins. Congratulations. And she'll go to the Olympia. So big show in Canada this past weekend. Congratulations all the winners and everyone go to the Olympia. Except for the only person who qualified this week to go to the Olympia. And who won't be going is Craig Richardson. How stupid is that to? How stupid is Craig? He's retiring this year and he's not going to the Olympia. Well, the flip side is someone who may say in five years how brilliant this Craig, he went out on top. That's true. What do you mean? He's the last pro show that he did. He qualified for the Olympia. The problem is no one will ever remember that. Because it's not a real exciting statistician. Johnny Jackson's final statistic was great. He won that Arnold. What was it? The Arnold South Africa. He's going with that. And then he did do the Olympia. At least he got the Olympian. Make a speech on stage. I'm sure Craig goes to the Olympia. They'll let him get up there and say thank you to my fans. You have to compete for 600 years. And I want to just thank everyone for all the support. And you get to say in front of the Olympia crowd. You think that that's something prestigious? No comment. No comment. I'm just trying to pick up the. I had on the other comment. OK. How's that? That is the comment. Yeah. You know, we, remember we talked about a couple of weeks ago about the Jeff King. Yes. I'm trying to figure out why you didn't get the pro. Why didn't get the pro card. John Hansen is a true like crazy fan of bodybuilding because he broke it down for you. And I said, you got to read that. I don't think I was to present to you. Oh, that was John Hansen wrote there, right? Yeah. Of course. Only John would know that stuff. That T clarified. What did I just say it? Yeah. I'll read the explanation. Go ahead. It was perfect. In 1982, the NPC started and they and the AAU were running separate organizations. That was in 82. In 82, the NPC ran the same national shows they have now. The junior USA, junior nationals USA and nationals. Haney won the first junior nationals beating my quim. Dale Rupelund, Rupelundger won the 82 USA and fill out law on the junior USA. In 83, Jeff King won the AAU, Mr. America and Bob Paris won the nationals. The only way to get a pro-card in the early 80s was to win your way class at the nationals and then win your class at the IPEB, Mr. Universal, so known as a World Outer Championship. So it wasn't enough just to win the nationals. You had to go to the Win the World Championships. Thanks Bob. Think about that. How hard that. Right? To do with both of those. In 83, or Ernie Santiago won the NPC USA, filled Williams won the USA in 84. David Hawke won the USA in 85 and JJ Marsh won the USA in 86. Dave Hawke got his pro-card in 85 but it wasn't from winning the USA. It was because he won this class at the IPEB World Games that year in England. The World Games were held as an adjunct to the Olympia Games and it featured spots that were not official Olympic Games sports but were vying for that position. That's when Ben Weed, I thought he was going to get the Olympics. Yeah, the World Games were held every four years, usually two years after the official Olympics. The World Games that year, Sean Jenkins, from the USA won the middleweight class he got a pro-card. I remember all these guys, including Sean Jenkins. Dave Hawke won the light heavyweight class in the last year. And Matt Mendenhall, the heavyweight class winner of the 85 USA lost the heavyweight class of the World Games to bury the mag. How he knows all this stuff I don't know. Also notable in that contest was Doring Yace who took seventh in his first international contest that I did not know. Did you? I mean John Hanson is he not so what? Did you know that? Did you know that? I did not know that. But Doring? Yeah, I did know that he was. I thought Doring never lost a show but I guess. Well, there's a story behind it. I think people in England pushed him into it. Oh, that's right. He did tell me that. You're right. I think you said that on the interview. He hated it right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He hated it. Yeah. Yeah. He hated it. There's more. John Hansen, more. In 87, the NPC decided to award another pro-card to the guy who won the overall at the USA. So it wasn't until 87 that they gave a pro-card to USA and that was my quinn. I said that year and he turned pro. JJ Marsh petitioned the NPC and I FBB to receive his pro-card as well because he won the USA in 86 and never got a pro-card. Well David Hawke, 85 NPC USA winner and Mike Quinn 87 USA winner got it. So the NPC actually gave JJ Marsh his pro-card retroactively. How was that? How was that for a fucking explanation of what went on guys? How does he remember this? I can't remember what I ate for lunch today. If you asked me, what would you go eat today? I couldn't remember and tell you. Well you weren't a golden girl. I did, you're right. How did you know that? Well because that's the only place you know. I really had only an ad on him or I did to actually a rarity but I did go to Golden Girl. My friend called Hansen moved down to Florida. He's going to be working for us at species and we went out with him. My mother and my mom and my mom and their two kids. My son, my son was a complete nutcase because he didn't take a nap today. Oh yeah. He was a great person. He was freaking mine and then he was eat shoveling food into his mouth and my wife, I thought he was full already. My wife came back with some dessert from the dessert bar there and he was digging into the ice cream and a carrot cake and all of a sudden I saw the look on his face. My wife spotted first and she's like, get the napkins and it was like mouth to sousvience coming out of his mouth. That way through everything up. Yeah. He felt better. Well because he's so tired he doesn't know where to smell. No he was acting like a cookup bird. He was going crazy and as soon as he threw up he was fine. He was like something. He was like he took a, so he took an oxycontin after that. Yeah they need the nap. App he absolutely. Oh they're wild. They're wild. Yeah they act irrational. It's so weird. Yeah. It's so weird. I feel the same way sometimes. I feel irrational if I don't take an app. I know. But you know what? I don't have the time. No. I drank. We went to the, I had a flat tire in my van minivanthabe. We were at the dealership getting a change and I was drinking. I drank so many decaf coffees that I actually got caffeine buzz from it. Yeah because it's like what? 3% caffeine. Yeah I was drinking like expressive. It's a very deep caffic process. Like 40 of them. I'm like, wow caffeine does feel really good. Maybe I should start using it. I'm afraid it looks like I got in the rhythm. I don't want to, you know, I'm afraid. I don't know. I'm sure I won't, but you know what I mean? I'm an extremely subtle and I'm so I get that little caffeine buzz today. I felt great. I think I'm actually still feeling right now. 2012 hours later. Yeah. What's it, it's a few, you like me and you drink coffee all the time. Then at night time I put you to sleep. I learned that from off-gross and it didn't drink a coffee and go to bed. Me too. I, I was drinking so much coffee when I would, I, no I was drinking regular coffee back when I would compete. So I didn't got me through the day. I would drink, it's a trip quadruple expressos from Starbucks. I'd ice him put equal in there and it's splendid. Whatever it was back in the day. You're making your own. Bob Graschner was getting put in the sweet and low in there, but I couldn't handle the sweet and low. No, he put sweet and low in and, uh, splendor mix them. Right, right. So that's the deal. Look, it was a good weekend in body building. We'll believe it at that. We'll keep it to a contest prep like kind of or conscious. They're contest recap. Heavy muscle radio. Next week we'll be back to our usual stick, complaining about bed bug employees and the like, you got to get some apartments down here, Chris, on the west coast, a Florida downtown. Oh, yes, you're missing. Down the line. I'm missing your missing the boat here. I know. But, uh, what do you, here's, do you think Cape Corals can have more people less people in 20 years? Way more. This is the number one growing city. So there you go. So real estate is going to be more real estate. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You got to buy it now. I need you to come down. Yeah, I'll buy some real estate with you. But I need your wisdom. Well, buy the main house. I'm afraid to do it myself to be honest. I want I need some Chris Ascito, uh, because you'll investigate. You'll do some, you know, diligent, two diligent, six to eight. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Because I work due to, to, uh, I don't think they'd be. Oh, I do. I do. I do. I talk to Don, I believe the show on this one. I talked to Don Long, Don, Mox texting because, John and I kind of, did we did a little, uh, I arranged, and in the I arranged, we mentioned Don Long, and, you know, Don Long was this, had gotten arrested about a year over a year ago, and he finally got sentenced to a year and a half in prison, uh, and to, I think you got a $250,000 fine. You know, the fine is not so bad, because you can always pay money off. You can never get your life back, you know, time in jail, uh, you know, you like, but it seemed extreme to me, but I don't know. I didn't know what he really did, and so I, we were speculating, you know, Ramana, but said, well, if he stashed away a couple million bucks, you know, then, you know, a year and a half in jail is not really that bad, I guess, you know. So, Don, Tom texted me, I guess after you heard he's like, I have no money. I made no money on selling the drugs. I was just sending, I was sending people to this guy, you know, my clients to go, go talk to this guy, because he wasn't used like, I wasn't selling drugs because I was making money money, you've caught this guy, but, you know, if you're involved in sending people to someone like a drug dealer, you're involved in the conspiracy in a sense. And I guess they felt that Dom was a big name, and they wanted to, and they wanted to headline and, uh, unfortunately, at his expense, it, whatever he is, 51 years old, and he just has a newborn kid like I do, uh, it's going to be very inconvenient, obviously, to go to prison. The, the, the irony of the whole thing is, why would you give someone a $250,000 fine if you sending him to jail? How the hell they're going to pay off the fine if they can't work? You know, you just want to get out. Well, you know, what they should do is they should either find you really, they should have find him a million bucks and, and gave him house arrest so he could at least work, let him pay the money off, or they should have given him no fine and gave him, you know, given the, the jail time, it's, it's one of the other, really. I mean, it's kind of stupid to get, it wasn't like the guy was, it was, had money laundering, the guy paste taxes, and he has, you know, he's, he's an upstanding member of the society, now he's not a criminal, but, you know, they, they, they look, when they see a body builder with a big name, they see a headline, they figure, you know what, we'll use him, we'll send a message to everyone else out there that crime doesn't pay. And I ain't a stand-looking, you do the, if you're involved in doing this stuff, you know, I got caught, you know, you got to do the time that's all there is to it. Don's not a rat, he doesn't want to, he didn't want to rat anyone out. And so he's going to have to do this time. It's going to be tough, obviously, but, you know, look at through his wife was involved, too, because she, I guess, I don't know, because she does the contest prep with him. She might have get luckily, she gave her house arrest for a year. She's very lucky. Yeah, and she, she's got like four years probation from that. So it's, it's a pain in the ass, you know, it's a felony on your record, you know, luckily for them, they have their own business. But, you know, Dynas and officially got all the paperwork done. So when he does, we'll get him on the show and we'll do an interview with him, because I know he wants to tell people what happened, because that's always what happened. And you know, before you get sent, you can't talk about it, because until they finally gave you the sentencing, you don't want to screw anything up. And so that's why I know you haven't talked about it since he rest. And he told me, when it first happened, because Dave, I'm going to tell you the whole story when it's some one at the time. And, you know, he pretty much came to the story, but we'll get him on the show and we'll get the whole thing out there. So, you know, best of luck to Dynas. Also, I want to send that out. I don't know if you heard. I don't remember if I told you not. But I want to say that I can do all this. I have to be women's physique pro-tracy has died. She was a good friend of mine. I did a contest prep a couple times. She was driving with her husband Steve Webster. He was driving the car behind him. And obviously, they came through a stoplight and the car kind of kept rolling and hit a pole or something like that. He got out. She was like having a seizure or something like that. He punched his hand through the windshield through the side window. Got her, trying to get her out of the car. She fell forward and then the step on the accelerator and the car rolled another 50 hundred feet into a tree. The paramedics came, they revived her, but she had, I think she had brain swelling. No, I don't think this is official cause of death yet. It's the terrible thing. She had kids, she was in her early 50s and it's just one of these tragic, you know, passing that you don't know. You can't even explain. I don't know. She was a great person. I saw the picture on your Instagram account. Okay. Yeah, she's, they were in my studio. Ironically enough, if you look in the picture there, you'll see Steve or husband her and it was me and then there was my friend Cole. He, Cole is in the back. He was the young, the young kid there. It's pretty funny. It was a while ago. It makes me sad. I saw the picture in the wreck. I actually sent me the picture. I was going to post the same picture anyway, but it's a shock. Yeah, it was terrible when you hear something like that happened. And she was propping, I think, for her last show, another one, it was going to retire. No, the Craig Richardson. Maybe Craig figures, you know what, why should I press by a bucket at this point? You know, I'll go out on top like you said, I don't need to. No, the first ever, it's a good feeling to be able to look back and say, what do you remember? Yeah. What's show did you do? And two, about the 2016 or 2018 or 2000, whatever. And you say, whatever, you reply, which show you did and I got the win. Yeah, I finished on, I finished with a win on my belt. I made 20 bucks. What did he make for the show? Did he get prize-good prize for any of them? I don't even know. I never even asked, but I can imagine more than two grand. Which is, we did. I don't know three grand. I think that's the minimum. That's good for Craig. That'll buy him a couple of dinners, dinners, I don't know if it'll cover. What do you chart by? Do you have to tell me, charting? Did it cover your fee at least? What's that? Craig's prize money. It wouldn't cover it. It's still lost money. It's in body buildings, it's just funny sport. It's such a freaking money loss. You know, it's really hobby. I just tried to define what a hobby is for my 14-year-old today. That was the homeschool experiment. To define the difference between a business and a hobby. A hobby is something that you spend money on, because you enjoy it. That's what body building is. Because if you try to figure out as a business in your, it's the most failed business you could possibly help to. It's like more than a restaurant. Yeah. Yeah. A restaurant's way more profitable than body building is. Yeah, but it's also, you know, like one of the easiest to fail at. Yeah, if you don't know what you're doing, sure. Absolutely. That's why the selfie restaurants at St. Business, right? The length of time. Exactly. All right. That's enough. Chris, you know that we've really gotten old. Saturday night, Chris and I hang out together doing a radio show. Oh, I'm wondering if that's. They are. I heard my wife, my wife, I'll say, really early tonight. She was really tired. It's been a long week for her. And I heard her just, I think she went out to get a bottle to the baby or something like that. I'm like, I'm like, I'm semi-wisping. I don't know why I am. But I, I, for some reason when we do this shows really late at night, I'm not as loud as I normally am during the day. So when people listen to this. When they go into the day, you're shot by the end of the day. Sure. You're right. But you know what? What I do is when I put my son to sleep now, which is usually we try to get him in bed early, but it's never before 9.30. I fall asleep when I'm laying, I lay in the bed in the room and he's in his bed and all fall asleep. Because I have to wait till, if he doesn't fall asleep, I can't leave the room. Because then he starts going, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, we watch him on the monitor. I fall asleep for like a half hour. So it rejuvenates me. Now I know what my dad used to do. Growing up, my dad used to take a nap after dinner so that he can write, do it because he's a writer. He would write all night. Like before, in the morning, go to sleep, he'd get up in 6.30 in the morning and for go teach. I've become my dad again. We always say when you become a, I'm on the same schedule, so it's unbelievable. Not really. I thought I would never do it. I'm like, I'm going to sleep. I'm going to sleep. You're, you're a doctor. You're a doctor. You're a doctor. You can't, you can't fight your genetics. That's the tolder. It was to it. All right. Press enjoy the rest of your weekend and guys, congratulations to all the big winners this past weekend. And we're getting close. We're going to be 10 weeks, 9, 10 weeks after the Olympic now. I don't even know. I hope them were the 9. I think we're about 9 weeks out. So we're at least 10 weeks out the most. No, it's going to heat up. Tampa is going to be next big one. I guess coming up on the schedule. Yeah, a month or weeks. I'm looking right now. Hold on. What's next week? I think there was another show this week. Because it's too late. Too bad. You're right. You get it. I have all these snakes hatching. I have snake eggs. You know, they take 60 days to hatch. So every week, every day I go down to my snake room, I got new eggs hatching, which is that's my excitement. I tried to distract myself from all the work I have to do. I go on snake eggs. I get pigeon eggs hatching on my room. Did you know Flex Lewis used to breed birds, speaking of pigeon eggs? He bred fentches, parrachetes. He told me this. professionally. Or professionally. He said he made more money. He was making more money. Listen to this. When he was 17, then he got from his disparity contract per month. Why do you give it up? I don't know. He didn't tell me that. Because he wanted to be a bodybuilder. Once again, the worst investment of anything you could possibly do. He gave up his profession of professional bird breeding to be a bodybuilder and spend all his money. Luckily, if I haven't worked out. Right? Great. You got to come up with the top five birds to be enjoys. You know, I can't wait to be on the interview this guy won. They got forbiddies. The stupid exclusive contracts that don't even count for anything. No one don't even count to views the guy. He's got so much to say. What the hell say so much and he can't even do it on the air? Oh, speaking of speaking of flex Lewis as predicted last week on this TV show. Right. Radio show. I said that Teddy Chopper would not be doing the vink over. Now why didn't Heidi shoot me do this? I thought he wouldn't do it. Why didn't he do it? Right. He could do. He can go to Canada. There's another irony in the lineup. Yeah, I know. That meant specific guy who took second. Shane. Yeah, that was my prediction that he would not be doing the show. You're right. So what show is he going to do then? I don't know. You know he can't do it. Limpia. I'm going to give the visa. Which by the way, I think is the stupidest fucking rule of all time. I think the stupid Trump made some stupid rules, but there should be exceptions for professional athletes for actors. For people who are well-known, who have no variety, they should make exceptions to the rule. It's one thing if you want to keep the terrorists out. Why you keep in the professional athletes out? It's ridiculous. I'm probably going to talk about it. I'll be called an acido sympathizing after that. That's funny. And it has nothing to do. I don't think that Donald Trump's doing a bad job. I just think that it's a stupid policy to have for... You can't just across the board by a damn people from coming into the country, stupid. Not going to solve any problems. You're not solving terrorism by keeping Heidi Schupen out of the country. No, Heidi is so Heidi is out and he missed the Vancouver show. That means he's out at the Limpia. Well, he wants to be able to do Limpia anyway. So why do Vancouver? Why do Vancouver? Because Vancouver is supposed to be like a done deal for him. Yeah. You should have done that. Could they... Maybe they can go to Canada and then they can sneak him into the US. Possibly. Maybe he's driving by my house. I can see Canada. Drop them off of Mexico. They can get them from one of those tunnels over there. They got right? The drug tunnels. Both of the woods. It's the longer you get enough tick bites, stuff protection on you. All crystals, send you some bug bad bug bad bug medication or whatever. Bad bug spray. They kill everything, right? If you can kill a bad bug, you can kill any other bugs. That's what I always said. Totally. Yeah, well that's 100% right now. I see, Jeanade Colowala from India. He's the first men's physique pro from India. He was in Vancouver, men's physique pro too. Took 10 points. Congratulations. Jeanade did his dive for a little while. That's all she wrote, Chris. Until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com on Dave Palombo. And today's guest is our 2018 NPC USA overall men's body building champion and the YFVPRO team is doing. Hey, how's it going? Congratulations. Thank you. It's an honor to be on your show. I've been watching your show for a few years now. Pretty much got all the ass-daves, uh, bands watched. That's good. It's never too much knowledge, I mean, say, a shame. Interesting story you got because you've been in the military the Air Force 20 years. You started competing 17 years ago. And, you know, you really pretty much competed on the regional level for many, many years. Last year was your breakout year at the USA when you play Second Behind There are ones for talk to me about how you got into body building initially, you know, and because your story is interesting because you said you wait a hundred twenty five pounds when you joined the Air Force. Yeah. So basically I got into lifting weights because, uh, joined the basic training came out of a basic training at one fifty five. It's got a little chunky. I haven't that carrying around that much weight. So I thought I'd start lifting weights and turn it into muscle. And after a few years of training, I met this huge power, our body builder. Uh, that said, hey, you might do pretty good. And the show here, I was stationed at Little Rock Arkansas at the time. And I was like, okay, what do I do? You know, and he's like, okay, by these posing trunks, get this, get this. I first show, uh, play Second and Little Rock. Didn't didn't know how to pose. Didn't practice posing very good. I probably could have done a little better. You know, you know, it was my first go. And I was like, you know what? Let's try it again. I play Second out of six. So, wasn't too bad for my first go. No, this is interesting. You said you went to basic training in you gained weight. How do you, I thought you just was a lose weight when you go to basic training? Yeah, it's all, if someone's heavy, they normally lose weight. And if you're underweight, you normally gain weight. And I, at the time, I never ate a lot of food. So it'd be like twice a day. So when I come out in there, I was like, I guess I'm a nervous eater. So I got nervous. I would just pound cheeseburgers down like there are two bites. So I gained quite a bit of weight in just in the six weeks. So we, and now you're obviously about five six or so. So in high school, were you, were you an athlete or, you know, what did you do? Uh, and high school, I, I mean, it just said martial arts. I didn't do too much football or anything. Right. I didn't even know if our school had a wrestling team or I'd probably have done something like that, but I think our school was too small. And when did you go to school, where were you again? Uh, I was in Arkansas. I went to Van Buren and then I finished up in Alma High School. Okay, so it was pretty small town type of a situation. Yeah. What made you decide you wanted to go into the Air Force? Um, I kind of didn't. My mom was going to pay for my college and I didn't want to. I was afraid that if I went to college, I'd screw it up and, and then I'd, I'd feel indebted to her for her money and I was like, I can just go to the Air Force and get free preschool. So I was like, okay, this will be the easier way. And then, you know, first four years, I hated it. And then after I re-enlisted, I, my whole mindset changed. And I, I love the Air Force after that. So do you think you changed your life in a sense as an air of going into the Air Force at the time? You did. Cause you think you maybe weren't so confident when you were younger. Yeah, I would have gotten a lot of trouble. Were you a trouble maker in school? Was that? Were you a trouble maker in high school? No, I wasn't a trouble maker. I just hung out with people that did stuff they shouldn't be doing. So I probably wouldn't write there with them. That was not the story of most people who went to the military. It's to get away from, you know, bad influences. Yeah, that, that's probably 50% I'd say. Some people like did it off of patriotic reasons, but for me, was this to say out of trouble? Well, what happens a lot of people start out with, with, with, there's trouble like is then it becomes the greatest Patriots of the country that the country has ever seen. Right. Which is tremendous, you know. Is it, you know, weird to see how you transformed, like your family, that they noticed the difference, you know, when you entered the military, because you said you hated it at first, obviously. And at some point they, they brainwashed you into thinking correctly. You know, right, right. I mean, it's been a slow transition. I haven't really, like gained a lot of weight at any one point except basically, I think basic training was like the most weight I've gained at one time. But it's been a slow transition. My, obviously everybody that sees me now from back in high school, obviously can tell the difference. I mean, I look at the mirror. I feel like I'm 125 pounds. So when did you, when did you think that you also were involved in power lifting too? And you've got some pretty impressive tools. You've, you've squatted six eleven, you benched four sixty five and deadlift sixty three six thirty three and that meet that you kind of had your personal best, seventeen, six total, which is very, very impressive numbers for guy 200 pounds. Did you, were you torn between body building and power lifting? Because a lot of times you got to kind of pick which one you really want to focus most of your energy on. Yeah, I'm, I'm torn because of the diet. There's a, you know, like power lifting diet. I can eat donuts. Right. Bodybuilding diet. I can't do any of that. So I'm torn between the diet, but I think I have a little bit better at bodybuilding that I am power lifting. So I'm kind of this year I decided to leave out the power lifting meat that I was going to do just so I could really concentrate on making sure I was lean enough and not hurt myself. You know, like ten weeks out. Right. So, but always enjoy lifting heavy too. So that's, that's my favorite thing to do is just lift heavy. Now, it's interesting. You know, when I was doing my wrap up with the USA, I really didn't know very much about you at all. I'll be honest with you. But I, I looked at your physique and I, and I get tell that you train heavy. And I compared you to branched Warren. I said, you know, this guy looks like a like a midi branched Warren when branch first term pro. And I had no idea you had a power lifting back, back around. You have a lot of dense, mature muscle on your body. Do you attribute that to all the years of heavy lifting? Oh, yeah. It's definitely from that. Even back when I was competing in the NGA naturals, like no, no one would touch my back or or my legs. That was like my two two spots. That's just from heavy squat and heavy headlets. Sure. Now, last year, you told me you could sort about your current coach. You had placed really bad, I believe, at the USA in 16. And then tell us what happened. So, yeah. So in 16, I, I placed 11th and I had seen my, who's my coach now, Shane. And I told him I really wanted to go with him and, and give it a shot. And he said he would have me battling out for first place in 2007. And, you know, I'm, I'm a skeptical, but I was like, you know what? He's probably going to be able to keep me on track better than I can keep myself on track. So, there we were, you know, first and second. So, you know, I was right there with him. You were in lunch for battle at that, on that same stage. And once for obviously went on to some great things, you know, winning the first thing. Going to the Olympia place in top five. So, you know, we're certainly good company. That was inspiration. See, in him go, just that far, that quick. I was like, I never really believed I could ever compete with the guys that they Olympia until I seen him up there. And I was like, I wasn't that far off. Yeah, no, you were right there. I remember what I was just, no. No, what's interesting is that, you know, a lot of times we see guys, they don't want to, they have no patience. They want to do, they jump in, they want to turn pro one year, and they want to be on the Olympia stage next year. And that's just not the case for most people. Like, you're a true testament to a guy that hard work over one period of time, pans out to great results. I mean, you're not a young guy. You're not like in your 20s. And you've been training for, you know, seven to committing for 17 years now. And you finally got the pro-court. Does it feel like you've been validated? You know, now that all that hard work you put in his finally, you know, gotten you the so-called diploma from the, the amateurs? Oh, yeah. I mean, it's definitely, I mean, even here. And when I watch the, the USA recap from you and here in my name, it's like, hey, he's talking about me. I've ever, I feel like a celebrity. Like, this is cool. So, yeah, I mean, it's a definite step, huge milestone to make pro. Now, a lot of these guys now that just turn pro with the USA are jumping into this week and stamp a pro. I had that come across your mind, it all, hey, maybe I'll test myself out and see how I do. Yeah, originally I thought that plan would be a good idea, but I had promised my woman that we'd go camping this weekend. So I forgot about that and my coach was like, oh, let's put on some more weight. So I want to try to get up to around 2, 10 before I try to go up there. I think I would fair better if I had a few more pounds of soul of muscle on. Once for did pretty good after winning the light heavyweight class, you might have done pretty well. Also, did you feel that that 2, 12 division is your category? Oh, yeah, there's no way up the heaviest I've been in the off season is 2, 20. Oh, okay. So I'll struggle to, I'm on a struggle this year to try to get to 2, 30 will be my off season goal to try to get me right around the 2, 10 mark. Do you still have trouble eating? Is that your limitation at this point? Yeah, it's not eating enough. I see people who can put down some food, but I just have, I don't know, I get sick way too easy to say I end up half in death. I can spread them out, but this year I'm going to try to stretch my stomach a little more. No, explain to us what are you doing the air force? Like what's your full time position there at this point after being there for 20 years? All right, now it's called the production superintendent, basically just managed all the jobs on the aircraft. So if aircraft is broke for a certain shop, I'll get to make sure that shop gets out to the aircraft and fixes it and set priorities based on which aircraft has what mission. Right. Now, these current aircrafts that we have in our military are like spaceships, they're like crazy. I mean, do you have to constantly go for continuing education to learn how to fix these computer systems and all these crazy stuff that they got in there? Yeah, I mean, depends on your AFSC to depends on what your job is. For my original job of aircraft structural maintenance, it was structure structure fiberglass. Oh, I got to see it all like, you know, but the guys who are an avionics that are working on, you know, the computer systems, those constantly get upgraded and they constantly have to go back to get. Schooling, but for my job, I don't have to do that because the metal metal never changes carbon. That's the same. Now, when you go, I always wanted this, when you go into the Air Force, because there's different branches of the military, obviously, does everyone learn how to fly a plane or is it just the people who want to be pilots? Yeah, you got to, you got to be a pilot. So yeah, that's definitely not the case. There's all kinds of different jobs, security forces, services where they, they cook the food. Right. You know, basically anything that's on an Air Force base, there's a job for it. So everybody has their own job pilots fly, because you don't, I don't think you'd want someone that, you know, I don't know that be a little dangerous of this. What if I'm going to fix my own aircraft and then. Some people are just jack-able of trains. They can do everything. I just didn't know, maybe you knew how to fly anywhere. You just could just be in the air force. You would not try to fly. Now, have you ever been stationed overseas or it's always been domestically been here? Yeah, I've been stationed at Ocanal, Japan, Ekinadina Air Force Base. How long was that? That was a three year tour, and it was awesome. I tried staying overseas, but I ended up getting sent to Utah. So what's in Utah? Is it you've been there so long? Utah was there for about five or six years. I worked on F-16s. And then the reason why I left there was because they were going to shut down and get some F-35s. So one of the squadrons was going to shut down and I had to pick a base, because I'd been there for over four years. And that's probably going to get, you know, like some crappy base. So I got to pick a base and pick California. It's a beautiful place over here just like the taxes and all that. I know it's expensive over here living. Very expensive up there. You're in like Northern California right by San Francisco. Yeah. That's not that Silicon Valley area in areas. Do you, so I guess, you know, like I said, you want to put some size on. So what would you say, you know, what's the golfer next year? Would you have a pro debut picked out yet? Yeah, I want to do the Tampa Bay Pro. I want to give it a good solid year off. Make sure that I can put on that weight and and give me about 20 weeks to die at again. And try to, you know, do what Derek did basically, you know, I've, you know, I was inspirational what he did last year. So I've been, that's kind of my goal is to try and see if we can't hit hit the Tampa Bay Pro and get qualified for the Olympia. And that would be the ultimate goal. But you know, everyone else is thinking the same thing. So, it's all right. If you're better than then then you do it. I think it's a good plan. I think it gives you a full year to kind of, you know, get better. And then obviously this would be the last qualifier before the 2019 Olympia. So if you did win, you know, you probably, you know, that would be a great little feather in your cap to finish off the year with the Olympia. So I think it's a good strategy. Anyone else you want to thank out there? You know, Shane, I'm sure you have a lot of people that supported you through this competition. Oh, you know, my family. They had to put up with the zero carbs. Anger. So I give them props for supporting me and, you know, not getting too pissed that I was so angry. I thought you were going to say zero gravity for me. I'm still stuck on the whole Air Force thing, but zero carbs have to be worse than zero gravity, I guess. Yeah, definitely is. Congratulations again on the big win. Enjoy this philosophy. The victory doesn't last very long. And pretty proud. You beat a good group of guys up there. I appreciate it. Thank you, Dave. All right. And guys, and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition. Visit species nutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo. We'll see you next time.

Wake up everyone, it's Smell the Coffee, it's Monday here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Palombo and today is July 30th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. You know that feeling you get when you work your butt off for something for years on man without ever actually being able to get your hands on it and then all of a sudden the clouds open up and you see the opportunity of a lifetime you've been waiting for right before your face. Well, how much do you want to bet that that's exactly how Shiny Crank is feeling right about now? With a Juliana Malacarney out of this year's Olympia, it looks like the stars have finally aligned for Grant, the athlete we dubbed the future of the Women's Physic Division back in 2016. But before we go ahead and start penciling her name on the title, let's not forget about the history lesson we all learned back in 1998. When the whole world thought it was a lot that Flex Wheeler was on his way to being crowned the next Mr. Olympia. These even though the door is open, there's still no guarantee we'll be the first one to make it through. If you've ever heard writers or artists talk about being in the flow state, then you know once you get to that place, the best thing you can do is just let it ride. And apparently, Julie Mayer isn't having any problems embracing the wave right about now. Yesterday we saw the veteran stand out release a new training clip, less than 24 hours removed from hitting the stage at the IFBB L.A. Championships where it looks like she must have caught a little bit of that Southern California vibe. Every time we've seen her this year, Mayer's done a nice job of making little tweaks and adjustments to bring something new to the table. So as long as she can keep riding the wave, I think we'll probably see Julie Mayer continue to keep chipping away at her masterpiece. Maybe on to here for a minute. Nine out of ten times when I hear a guy tell me that he's been growing into a show, I just roll my eyes because I know it's a giant load of crap. But my old friend, Juan Morell, is one of the rare exceptions. Over the weekend we saw Juan Diesel Morell flash some new updates, nine weeks at from this year's Olympia. And I have to say that this is the old World Beta 1 Morell that I know fans have been waiting for to see for the last two seasons. According to one, he's tipping the scales at right about 277 pounds right now. And feels like he's really got everything clicking. And one guy's like Juan Morell with top 10 Olympia potential tell you that they've got it all clicking. It usually means that some poor soul is about to end up on the outside looking in. We wouldn't be doing our due diligence over here if we didn't make a point to celebrate international chess day on this fine Monday morning. And thankfully for us, Jose Raymond looks like he's in the mood to celebrate too. Right now we saw the Boston Mass out getting on an early morning pump in with a few sets of heavy incline presses. As phase three of us prep starts to kick up at the high gear. Over the last two or three weeks, it feels like Jose is starting to get back into that super nasty East Coast group once again. With this year's contest literally set to be one for the ages, I'm sure he wouldn't mind a headline at the top of the page that read Jose Raymond 2018-2012 Olympia Champ. Even though we're a little past the halfway point in the season, it still feels like it's been a crazy year in the classic physique division. But it might be about to get just a little bit more interesting if former men's physique Olympia Champ mark Anthony decides to become the latest athlete to make the jump. Earlier this year, we reported on some rumblings from the Anthony camp that they were considering making the switch over to classic physique at some point this season. And that time might be getting here sooner than we all thought. The latest updates from the champ show him rocking a size and conditioning combination that looks a little different than anything we've seen from them up until now. So if he does decide to hop in at some point between now and the end of the summer, it'll be interesting to see how he stacks up against some of the juggernauts in the division. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day Palombo remind you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

My name is Tau Amini and I am the CEO and founder of Ulysses. The protein, bakery with low-shoulder ketogenic and high protein in each and every item. I specialize in making brownies, cookies and cupcakes. As of 2021, we will have the variety of traditional, good and free, and protein to choose from Every product. Come check us out at www.ulyssesbater.com And then also check us out on our donation by the word. All proceedings will go to the wheelchair body building community with your order. Thank you for checking us out. Take care. If it's been 3.5 hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out. You are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for 5 minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. I'm Dave Palombo. Founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest body building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the species nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your apps to look best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the Ocar Poptart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be doing this. We're going to be doing this. We're going to be doing this. We're going to be doing this. Alright, television on rxmuscle.com. This is ass Dave better known as hashtag ass Dave. You're 30 minute question and answer. Feel what they've lumped up all your questions. Diet training supplementation. I've been pros and news. There's some big news last night. Always check that out. And whatever is on your mind, it is all on the table Dave. Before we get that big news, Heart of Knee. I know that kind of coming from out of nowhere, but July 4th weekend is right around the corner. It's here. And speech nutrition is going to ring in July 4th weekend. whatever what they expect as PC-contrishing.com for our July 4 sale. Well, I'm not going to tell you what the sale is, but I will tell you this we're going to have a sale. It's going to be Saturday Sunday Monday. You guys are going to be able to get some really nice discounts on the site. Stay tuned. I don't want to tell you that because everyone's going to go to the site and to have them to sell. It's only Wednesday. So check this week and there will be a sale. There are a lot of people who need to restock for the month. They're for the next two months. And they've been asking me hey, you're going to have a sale. I'll tell you that we will have a sale. I promise you it will be in a really nice one. And just stay tuned this weekend. It will be Saturday Sunday and Monday. And then that will be it. So make sure you check this week on the site. Look, you know, I can't believe July 4th is here, ready. It did come very, very fast. And I was planning my guru course. I wanted to do it before the July 4th weekend. Then July 4th obviously came up before I knew it. Next week after July 4th, the following Saturday the day the secret to becoming a guy guru course online. You can sign up via the link on my website. And I know a lot of people have been asking about it because they want to get into taking the course and obviously educate themselves. And you know, I have a lot of people who actually take the course multiple times. You got to remember when you are a coach and you're making money off of, you know, helping other people and charging them. You have a lot, you can write expenses off. And continuing education is an expenditure right off with your account and at the end of the year. So I have guys that every single year they take it once a year. The secrets of becoming a guy guru and then they just submitted to their accountants and they get the discount. You know, obviously they get that taken off their taxes. So it's free education in a sense. You know, take advantage of it. You know, I spend a lot of time with the very long day. It's nine hours. But it's a lot of great information. So before we get into the question again, we talked about that big news. Well, the big news announced yesterday from the Arnold Classic committee is that this upcoming Arnold Classic is going to have two big new names that is Nick Walker and really winkler. They're added to quite possibly the most stacked competition in this stack line of brother in this competition's history. Dave, some big news. We had discussed to a Sergio Leva Jr. Just a couple of weeks ago and heavy muscle radio. And that is that bodybuilding needs more of this more of these mega show these blockbuster shows aside from the Olympia. And you talked about a key Williams his plans after his big win at the Puerto Rico Pro. He twos in a compete there. So that's going to shape it up to be a blockbuster show at the Arnold. Do you think that Sergio's little message he did on Instagram influence these other guys and made them jump into the show? What do you think they just really say? How stupid am I got a month before the Olympia? I can jump in and make some prize money here. I'm trying to think of if he motivated them or brought them to their senses or if they just said why not? I'm going to say it's a combination of both. And I'll tell you one thing that Sergio said on the episode that I think will really kind of triggered something. And it's sort of good conversation. And here we go. The end result if that had anything to do with it is that you're going to have a blockbuster show in Columbus this year. And that is in Seymour. I mean you look past over the last 18 months, right? Aside from the Olympia side from Big Romney, winning the Olympia, what could you say is like the most talked about storyline? And it was a manufacturer storyline, right? I mean it was the quote unquote beef. Right. Nick Walker and blessing I would do with that never quite paned out that I guess whatever. But to his point, the fact that bodybuilding was essentially leaning on that as a real highlight of the year kind of the fucking point. That kind of goes to show what you need this. You need mega shows. You need a sophomore in the Olympia. You need a mega show where you have some of the bodybuilding's up and coming stars. You know, stars that you expect to be in that top six in the Olympia. And I think that you know, messing really was receiving a resounding fashion. So whether or not that had any of you do with it, you know, I'm sure history will tell. But nonetheless, the bottom line, you're going to have an absolute, you know, absolute gem of the show, September 25. And and his other people didn't really think about either is that, you know, the Arnold this year will be a qualify for the next year as a Olympia. So hey, if guys go to the Olympia in October, they're already early. Let me jump in. Let me make some money. And then I'll qualify for next year, salimpia without even having to do a show. I don't want to next year. And we're better to qualify than at an Arnold. And you're going to be in shape anyway for the Olympia. So I think it's a no brainer. To be at high to shoot and couldn't get into that show as well. I think that would have been a blockbuster, you know. What it's funny that you mentioned that because after the announcement, that was going to be my next move to message honey, Rabbi ought to see if that was a possibility. But I do know that obviously the plan is for a hotly jupon to come way earlier than the Olympia. To start, you know, very, very deep prep here in the United States, not have to deal with any of the travel issues. So, you know, we hope to see the best hotly jupon come Olympia time. Let's go to the questions. Two questions, of course, from the day below, I'm going to experience that the first question. Dave, can you discuss the synergy with GH and I get one together dosage timing, etc. Thanks for the brutal show. You know, it's funny because I used to when I would compete back in there was doing off season a lot of times I would do when I would do my IGF. I didn't even use GH. I said, you know what? I'll take a break from the GH. I'll use my IGF one with insulin and then I would do the GH with insulin when I wasn't using the IGF because I would go off the IGF for, you know, a couple weeks here. And that's because I found that my body had used to it a lot. But then the research came out and showed that there is a synergism between using the growth hormone and IGF together. So what I have a lot of guys do is use, you know, depending on whatever dosage or the part with how the weight of the person or what their experience levels. Think about two to four I use a GH a day and then 10 to 20 micrograms of IGF one post work out and the IGF one is always rotated on a forward four weeks on two weeks off rotation. The key with the IGF one people just don't realize this because it's cheap and it's available is you can't do too much of it. Okay, more is not better like with GH, you know, to a certain degree of course. Because what happens is your IGF one receptors downgrade very quickly to IGF one. So if you're taking 50 or 100 micrograms a day, the stuff's going to stop working after a week. Trust me. I know so many people to take huge massive doses of IGF one get no gains from it. You get a pump from it because that's an insulin like effect, but you don't get them to get gains because their IGF one receptors are just not receptive anymore. If you do less less is more so 10 20 micrograms the most per day and only do it for four weeks in a row and then take to at least two weeks off before you restart it up again. If you do that you're going to get better results. I know it sounds counter productive because we're such we're so enraptured in this more is better culture. But when it comes to IGF one, you can't do too much of it. It just doesn't work that way. Second question again from the Dave Blumbo experience app. Dave, you've always liked long acting compounds. Why pre-contest or better use short like trinacetate and mass tron. Well, you know, the reason I like trinacetate is because it actually it seems to work a little differently than trin the long asking trin balloon metabolites. This is a long acting trin balloon. Esters. I don't know why, but for some reason trinacetate has a very very quick hardening effect and I like that pre-contest. I don't really like the side effects of it. I always had trouble sleeping on it at night. I can never fall asleep. I was always having to take like something to go to bed at night. The last four to six weeks whenever I used it. It gives you puts you in a really crappy mood. Some people have digestive issues from it. And if you take too much of it, it'll definitely jack you blood pressure up very high. So I recommend less is better also to try and acetate. 150 milligrams every other day is plenty. I used to do a hundred with people and you know, people have a lot of side effects with it. It's just not worth it. You don't really need that much of it. When it comes to the other kind of, of course, I like windstral pre-contest the last six weeks or so like that. Because I just think that it has some sort of hardening effect on the body. But as far as testosterone goes, I like the long acting esters. Because testosterone is testosterone. We want high even levels in the body. It doesn't matter if you're using a faster slow acting testosterone. The end result is the same. The only difference is you've got to administer the fast acting one more frequently. And most no one uses test suspension anymore, which is the fastest acting because it hurts too much and it leaves you well. But same thing with test propane. Propane at less about 48 hours, 24 to 48 hours in the body, you know, at a nice level. But the problem is it feels like you hate going to hit with a hammer wherever you take a shot of the stuff. And a lot of people have like a immune system response to it. I know I used to. You get like flu like symptoms from it. So it's just not worth taking because it doesn't make you feel good. You don't need to have well-tool over your body from injections. So I find that sipping eight and anante esters of testosterone seem to be the most reliable. You get the same results. There's no toxicity from it. They're they give you nice even levels of it. And then play around with the antibiotics when you get close to the show. You want to use faster acting on a box. It's fine. I don't really cut testosterone out on my athletes at all. I always found that whenever I cut testosterone, I kind of lost some of the fullness that I wanted on stage. I might have them take their last shot Wednesday before I started a show. But by far I keep that in at a high level. I play with the antibiotics a lot in terms of like master on trying to acetate wind stroll. Those are my favorites. Those last six to eight weeks prior to that the first eight weeks to the diet. I usually use longer acting esters like Decker and Eccropoise and testosterone. So it's really all of those last eight weeks to things start to change around. And the truth of the matter is I know guys that have looked amazing on stage. When I asked them after the show, what did you use? It took testosterone nothing else. I couldn't afford anything. I couldn't get anything else. And it just goes to show you. A lot of times we think it's you have to have the perfect drug concoction and cocktail to be the best on stage. A lot of times it doesn't matter. It's about diet training, getting your body fat low. And just having something on board. Some add a ball time board to keep you full and preserve your muscle. And at the end of the day having a million compounds and the perfect, you know, drug cycle might improve your little bit. But maybe not as much as people think. Let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not already following us on Instagram. The handle is official underscore our ex muscle. If you're watching us for the first time on YouTube hit the subscribe button below. Hit the notification bell. Obviously now that we have our build up to the all classic and then ultimately the Olympia. We're going to be doing all sorts of contests coverage. Iron debate episodes interviews with the athletes are going to be on stage. Previous segments a lot more. So if you haven't already done so hit the subscribe button and hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our show segments or updates. A little clawed up right now. If you can't already tell, but appreciate your patience. No comment. No comment. No comment. First question from Neil Zaluski. So we talked about. I guess contests having more of the stars compete at contests aside from the Olympia. And this has been a much debated topic over the last few years. So he asks, do you think the I.D.B. should change the rule about the top five and open automatically qualifying for the Olympia to just the top two to make an effort for top pros to compete more on the top five. And he says it's a little bit more of a challenge than he is doing. And I mean, I would never promise if I'm following the Olympia champ or you qualify. I mean, why not make everyone compete? I don't know. I don't know what the right answer is. You know, I think it's a shame that these guys don't want to compete more than once a year. I'm glad I'm actually really glad to see that pretty much everyone is jumping into this Arnold a month before. The package goes to show you that, you know, the the stereo type of everyone just sitting back and waiting for one show to compete at is not necessarily true anymore. And so should they make these guys recall fight. You know, if you place top five at the Olympia or at the elite level, you really shouldn't have to. But at the same time, should you compete if you are top five? Yeah, I think it's not a bad idea. Especially if there's a couple shows close to the Olympia like they're doing the Arnold this year. Maybe now that's going to have the Arnold UK, maybe that'll stay later in the year right before the Olympia. Maybe you'll have guys do the Arnold in March and then right before the Olympia. There'll be the Arnold UK guys from the US will fly over and do that and then you'll have the Arnold classic. And then you'll have the Olympia right after that. If that becomes something that happens every year, that can inspire a lot of people to do that show because maybe that show will have more prize money. Then of course if the rock ever comes out, what is that? Let it come. I don't know what is what is what is plans are for that. And then I put up a lot of prize money. I think the top guys will do the shows or do more shows if we have the top level prize money at these shows. I understand what they're thinking, if I'm a second or third, the Olympia. And I'm only going to make $5,000 from winning this show. Why should a risk peaking twice, but if there's a hundred grand on the line, you're going to be much more likely to see a guy jump into a show. As questions from 20 when it's so after we record this show, you're going to be on with Lee priest and the question is about Lee. Can you in your honest opinion, can you see Lee priest really doing another show? He looks huge still as one of his many fans. It would be great to see him get it invite to a major show. I mean he goes on to say I guess to see some of the other 90 stars would be great, but Lee in particular realistically obviously you formed a really tight release. In a really tight relationship with him, you know his habits. You know his training style, he is training regimen. Now, can you honestly realistically see him step back on a 9th BB stage? I know for a fact that Lee definitely wants to compete. There's no doubt in my mind. And when we talked about this before, he definitely wants to compete. I don't think Lee will get on stage unless he thinks he can be competitive where he's going to win a show. In other words, if his injury doesn't completely get to a point where he's happy with the way he looks, I don't think he'll get on stage. He's not going to just get on stage just say I did it. He's going there to win and that's Lee's mind set. And I think it's a good mindset. In other words, I always felt the same way. If I couldn't be better than I was before, then why compete. You know, so say thing for Lee. I mean Lee's a guy who's one pretty almost every show aside from the big Arnold and the Olympia. So why risk, you know, ruining your legacy and if you're going to come back and head half your best. So if you can come back and be competitive and he knows, you know, it's not two 12 class or open whatever you decide to do. I could possibly win this show, place top five, whatever his goals are. I think he'll definitely do it. And I think we'll see him in 2022. I don't want to see him this year. But I think in 2022 he's going to be ready to roll. Let's go to DE main. What is his science theory behind taking a Q and R with your morning GH notes? We all know that growth hormone works antagonistically. That means the opposite of insulin essentially. So GH mobilizes move stuff out of the cells. That's what you burn fat. Where it's insulin drives stuff into the cell to be absorbed and utilized, whatever. If the muscle, if it's not a muscle cell, it's driven into a fat cell. It can store things as fat. Okay. So when you have a lot of GH around and you're eating, okay, meals, like you do when you're awake. Okay, especially in the morning, your first meal today. If there's too much GH around, the insulin can't do which job, pushing stuff into the muscles because the growth hormones in the way, it's a very big molecule. And the insulin doesn't do it. So you could be running higher blood sugars than normal. And if you're not absorbing all these nutrients that you're consuming, then obviously you're not going to grow and recover well. So for some people when they take growth hormone, they become very insulin resistant. Sometimes they run high blood sugars. Just because you're insulin resistant doesn't mean you're going to run high blood sugars. But sometimes people have both. And in which case is then not really utilizing the nutrients that they're consuming properly. And in those situations when you add something like humile and r or humile in the morning, to kind of give your body the ability to overcome the insulin resistance from the GH, you seem to grow better. Now, if your person who tends to over-secret insulin already, that means you have fat genes, we say you get fat easily. And you add insulin into the equation, it can make the situation worse. But in a lot of people like myself who are very low insulin, people who put out very low amounts of insulin, because our bodies are efficient at absorbing when I would take GH, I couldn't absorb any food. I would be flat as a pancake. It made me very insulin resistant. So when I added in a short acting insulin, I started to grow pretty, pretty, noticeably, pretty quickly. So you have to assess on a person, my person base. It's not everyone's the same. Let's go to IFBB Tynacity. How do I kick star minimum metabolism again after five surgeries and two years and being unable to train effectively, not yet able to fully train, but we'll be able to do so in the next 34 months. That your methodology for restarting the tablets. I think the metabolism will restart on its own once he starts working out and increasing his food intake to several meals per day, spaced out throughout the day. The body is a wonderful machine. It really knows what to do when you put the right inputs into it. So if you go from doing no training, you're injured and you weren't maybe eating as you should have because you figured, why should I eat six times a day, I'm not able to train. Now when you go into that eating regimen and you go into that training regimen that you're doing, your body is just going to respond. You're going to create a positive nutrient partitioning environment. Your body is going to start building muscle using stored body to have as a fuel source. And you're going to see everything change in your metabolism. You're going to be sweating all the time from eating more food. And your body is going to start doing, you don't really have to do anything. The body is a very, very smart organic machine, as I like to say, and it knows what to do. Let's go to Severano Benbino. Thoughts on different training methods in a month example, different rep range every other workout, six to eight reps to say 30 plus reps to hit different fibers. You know, I always say that there's no such thing as a bad training regimen. It's just a training regimen that either works or doesn't work for the person's body. I know that high rep, you know, high, you know, a lot of sets workouts that required me to stay in the gym for long, long periods of time work counterproductive for my body. So if I were to do a 2 1 1, half hour workout, you know, and do, you know, 35, 40 sets, I probably would lose muscle rather than gain muscle. That's the way my body worked. So for me to just, because I wanted to do something different than I normally do to change from low volume heavy weight to super high volume, you know, long workouts, that would be kind of productive. However, if I'm stalin what I'm doing, and I don't want to go into the gym in squat 600 pounds today, because I just don't feel as strong, I might go in and do 425 with a couple drop sets to kind of increase the intensity level, but not necessarily do more sets. Just enhance what I'm doing using lighter weights. And I don't know if that makes sense to people, but so basically you're changing the tempo of your workout, you're changing how you're creating the stress and your body, but I'm not necessarily increasing volume as much or time in the gym. And that's what you need to do. I was some people, like how do I change, I will, you know what, if your squat goes squat, do something different, maybe squat and superset that with, with leg extensions. Or if you do bench pressing normally, maybe do a set of a giant set, do a set of incline barbell presses, go to flat dumbbell presses, and then go to cable crossovers in a giant set, like me and let's should do. You don't do it every time, but if you go into the gym and you do it, you know, once a month or something like that, once every six weeks, it'll shock your body a little bit. Still doing the same number of sets, you're just doing them boom boom boom boom boom boom. So you might do three sets, three giant sets like that. And leave the gym. So you're working out my name and be shorter than it normally is, but the intensity and the way you distribute the intensity to your body, or the stress to your body during this workout is a little different. So it has a shocking effect in the body and the body has to adapt to that. And that's what it's all about. We want the body to have to adapt to what we do in the gym. And if you're still on what you're doing in the gym, did you do the same thing every week? This is a good way to get past that. Well, it's good. The leopard, how do you feel about low insulin and GH in test for all season blocking combined with high calories versus a combination of multiple antibiotics? One more time, sir. So how do you feel about low insulin GH in test for all season, bulking combined with high calories versus a combination of multiple compounds? So in other words, when you, I think you try to imply that when you're off cycle, you would still do insulin and GH or something like that. I mean, I think that sounds like that. I mean, I don't have a problem with insulin and GH, as long as you're giving your body some time off the antibiotics because the energy and receptors need to regenerate. It's the antibiotics that are, you know, gunking them up, so to speak. Think about it. If your body's always exposed to high high levels of testosterone or any kind of metabolic steroid for that matter, it doesn't matter. We're just using testosterone for instance. The energy receptor is not going to be as receptive. It's going to save that as plenty of testosterone. We don't need that many of our set. We don't want to be overwhelmed. But if you take away the testosterone, you take away the antigens. Now there's very little around only naturally what your body is producing and your body might be producing very little. The sensitivity of the engine and receptive must restore itself. Now whether you're taking the insulin and GH at the same time, okay, it's going to have nothing to do with that engine and receptors. Sure, you can take some low-dose GH in a little bit of insulin and still get some antibody response from it without affecting how your energy and receptor recovers. Let's go to Irish with Little Marinera. How do you feel about mixing weight isolip powder and cream of rice? It seems to be the new thing. We used to mix the weight isolip powder and oatmeal all the time. I used to do that back in the day. I would do it in sitting in front of the TV and it would just make my oatmeal and I would take a scoop away. I still took the mix it in and it was a good way to add some extra protein. They even sell oatmeal packets with the weight isolip powder and the flavor. The only thing is to do a cream of rice doesn't matter. What I noticed is it gets a slight clay-like consistency because the way protein gets a little thicker. You might have to add some extra water to it. I always prefer that if I didn't feel like eating protein, I don't want to make a chicken breast. I would just add a mix 50 grams of weight into this much water. Mix it around and go up and down and then eat the bowl separately. If you like the way the taste of this up mixed in, that's fine. You can do it that way. What I used to do it, I still sometimes do it. Cream of rice, grits or oatmeal, put your eggs in there. Let's see how it's in the morning. You can put that into your dry oatmeal, mix it around and get the right consistency. Put that in the microwave. The microwave will absorb the grits or the oatmeal will absorb the eggs. I've shown this video before. I've done videos on this before. It makes it a little cake. You can eat that. That tastes way better. I think putting the way protein into the oatmeal or eggs into the cream of rice is seems to be better to me than mixing way protein. What muscle in your opinion is key to having great looking arm from the last week, we asked you about it. You can have your biceps. Dellets try to set the biceps in your opinion. I just missed it. You can have a great looking arm from the last week. You know, everyone thinks the arm is a biceps and triceps. If you look at Ronnie Coleman's arm, I don't know if Tyler has a hip-hop, but I'm not big anymore. The muscle that sits between the triceps and the bicep right here, which is not big anymore. That's called the brachialis muscle. Ronnie's is like this thick. That's why his arm is pushed out this much. The brachialis is one of the most under-trained muscles. The only way to really work it would be to do hammer curls. You can do them with a dumbbell. You can do them with a cable. I like to get the cable handle. Here's your handle. I grabbed the material apart with the handle and I do hammer curls. That really hits right in here. That really jacks that brachialis up. Once again, the wider the brachialis gets the thicker it gets, the bigger arm gets. You can build bigger arms by enhancing that brachialis muscle faster than you can by adding more tricep or adding more bicep to the arm. I think a lot of guys are just missing. We got an outside view, like the Tyler, not an inside view of the arm. You can show the outside. You can say you have a side-chesh shot of Ronnie or something like that. You can do that too. That'll probably show it better or back double bicep. The point is that the guys with the best arms look at really wrinkled. It has a tremendous tricep. You see that peak bicep that you can see that like there's another muscle underneath the bicep. It looks like a second bicep almost in the middle. That's your brachialis muscle. A lot of people don't realize that that's a good third to maybe more than a third of your arms mass. You can't have a good arms without having a well-developed brachialis muscle. That's just the truth of the matter. It's going to AS pipes in your experience as a bodybuilder and then I guess how you coach your clients through it. That's the way to get through post-show blues. You've got to have something that interests you other than bodybuilding because it isn't down or it's like women who go through post-partum after the pregnancy. Or even if you have a plan of wedding, the planning of wedding is more fun than the wedding. After the wedding zone people get bored. They want to get divorced after that. You've got to have something that interests you because after the show, if you put everything into that show, then after the show's over, you've lost your job, you're a girl, you broke up with because she was getting the way of getting ready for the show. Then the show's over and they got nothing. So you got to find balance and understand that there is life after the show. My friend Dave Watson, he worked for Firestone. He was like one of these top mechanics. He always quit his job and always tell him to go out for himself. Two or three weeks before a show. I think he did a purpose because he didn't want to be bothered. After the show's over, before I knew he had his job back, he got your job that you quit. He made up. It's hard. It's hard to focus because you don't care about anything before a show. You remember Kai Green telling me, why wouldn't you pay a phone bill? He said, it's not that important. It wasn't a priority buying chicken breasts and all the stuff I needed for bodybuilding was the priority. I figured I don't need a phone. I just need to be able to go to the gym. That's what happens if the problem is that when the show's over, everything's falling apart around you. So there is a way to balance everything. So that you have your life in balance with the bodybuilding. So when the bodybuilding's over, you still have something to go back to. If you have another interest or you like to, whatever. I don't know, win sur for you. You like to draw. You like to write. You like to do videos for your YouTube channel. Have something else that you can kind of immerse yourself in when the show's over. Otherwise you will be depressed because they'll be nothing for you to look forward to. I have guys that I got them under off season program after the show's over. Then after two or three weeks they're like, I'm just not happy. I got to go back to the contest diet. I'm sorry to disappoint you. I'm like, well, you're not going to make improvements if you don't do an off season. I can't handle it. I'm not ripped because the good thing is that whole body, the whole personality is so invested in how they look now that they can't see themselves not looking like that because then they think they're not going to get enough attention. And they can never go away from that. And so it's a problem. It's a very real type of situation that people face who compete that post show depression. And the way you get past it is you find other things. And it doesn't have to necessarily go bird watching. If you don't like bird watching, find something you like to do. If you love bodybuilding, immerse yourself in your coaching or work out in your Instagram, following or work out a YouTube channel or work on your own supplement line. Whatever you got to do, put yourself into that so that you can just put bodybuilding aside in the sense that that's something most important thing in your life. Last question from Joe is C-880. A couple of days ago, Kai Green posted a progress picture of him, which was allegedly a tolerist into the picture if you're showing it right now. 317 pounds. Of course. So here we go again. Everyone's speculating whether or not it's going to be the year the Kai Green stuff back on stage. And seemingly we've gone through that every year. Kai likes to have fun with the fans. It's entertaining, but whether or not it's actually going to happen is you have to be seen. Question is, do you think we will ever see Kai Green or Sean Roding compete at the Olivia? I think there's a way better chance of Sean Roding being at the Olivia than Kai now. And then Sean is once the trial goes through that he's cleared. He wants to compete. He's desperately wants to compete. He misses it. That's his passion. You know, so the fact that he's not being allowed to compete and it's been what three years almost now. I mean, I feel back for the guy. Now if he did the crime, he deserves to go to jail, obviously. And he will. If that's the case of his founding guilty. However, at this point it's taken so long. But almost, you know, I almost think that they should just let the guy compete already. You know what I mean? Because I don't know why this case is taken so long. I hope it's, you know, this is the last year that he has to deal with it. And he's going to get through it and he'll be on stage again. If he doesn't go to jail, you know. Kai on the other hand, I think like you said earlier, is playing the fan, so to speak. He's teasing us a little bit. He wants to keep us interested in what he's doing because that's how he's making money now. And I don't blame him. That's a good marketing movement is part. I don't think he has any desire to compete. If he did, he would have competed the year Brandon Curry won the Olympia. Because I think that would have been his best chance to win it. Now that Randy's in there, I don't know if he can beat Randy and I don't, and you know, Randy can, is bigger than Kai. He has, you know, younger than Kai. He's got more bells and whistles at this point. So I don't know if, maybe Kai doesn't want to go against someone who's as good as Randy. Maybe he figures maybe he was waiting for someone to come back that was worthy of beating. I don't know, or competing against, I don't think we're going to see Kai on stage anymore. All of these throw in this wrinkle. Dave's obviously now, I mean, as opposed to the year that Brandon Curry won the Olympia. Now Kai has red-tog one as his sponsor. Would that not be, I'm not saying that red-tog one would anyway, again, I don't know what the contractual deal is. Do you think that might play a factor in it as far as if now having that sponsor and maybe that being part of the, I guess, agreements? I don't think Kai would assign a contract that, that made him have to compete. I think he would have said no to that. I think Kai has enough cloud now in the industry that he can kind of set up his contracts the way he wants him. I think he would set up a contract based on his own terms in other words. If I want to compete, I'll compete. But I don't want to be forced to compete, you know, and I don't think he would sign a contract that would make forced into compete. He might be, he might be contractually obliged to tease people that he might compete, but I don't think he's actually got that in his contract. Now, we never know, Kai could wake up tomorrow and he could say, you know what? I feel like he's beating again. I'm going to do it. It would have been nice to see him, you know, maybe jump into the Arnold or something like that would have been great. Who knows? You know, I just don't think Kai wants it anymore. I think he kind of lost that eye of the tiger. I think he loves being big. I think he likes going around and posing and doing his little appearances and doing his Instagram posts and doing his creative YouTube stuff. But I don't think he has that same fire in him to do the Olympia anymore because if he did he would do it, you know, at this point. It's not like he has nothing else going on. It's not like the guy has got, you know, he's filming movies with a rock or anything like that. So there's no reason for him not to do it if he wanted to. I just don't think he wants to. That's going to do this episode of Astabe. Dave's going to have leap priest next so you're going to have that on the channel by tomorrow already have episode of heavy muscle radio with the live appearance of machine Williams and then yesterday's episode of the after hours podcast. For Tyler Short Dave Lumbo, I'm city for review. We'll see you next time. Thank you.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. Today, Palombo and today is Tuesday, August 11th, 2020 and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. As the old saying goes, sometimes you have to strike while the iron is hot and as far as bodybuilding is concerned, earning a convincing win at one of the biggest shows that the season in your pro debut is about as hot as it gets. So if I were advising the Andre Campbell, my advice for him would be to take advantage of the moment. There were so many eyes on that tamper pro lineup that it felt like more than just another regular season show and the fact that the Andre was so electric in that moment when all eyes were on him means that he has everyone's attention right now. This is his moment to strike and if he hits it dead on again, that'll make him one of the hottest commodities in the division. The best selling author, Ryan Holiday, one said, and pressing people is utterly different from being truly impressive. But I think even the powerful Ryan Holiday would be impressed with what our buddy, Mom, Legald, DeRah, has been able to do recently. Despite undergoing spinal decompression surgery a few weeks ago, DeRah's already back on his feet and slowly starting to work himself back into midseason form again. When he's healthy, DeRah showed that he has the ability to be one of the most dangerous competitors in the two 12 division. So if he feels like all systems are a go, I wouldn't be shocked to be wound up making his presence felt at some point before the end of the season. I don't want to speak for anyone else but myself. But I can say personally, I've learned way more from my failures in life than I have from my successes. So if I were a guy who learned a lifetime of lessons and came out stronger on the other side of the way Antoine Valiant has done, I'd be looking at everything that came my way like it was, well, light work. Right now Antoine's night weeks out from making his season debut with the Boston Pro, which will be the first time we've seen him on stage since last summer in Toronto. I'm told that Antoine and his team have done some tweaking to help bring some more balance to his look this time around, which is something every athlete could use more of, to be honest. But if he can deliver on the plan, I don't see why a top 5 finish wouldn't be on the table for the big guy. I've been to a ton of live sporting events in my life and I can say for sure that watching a fighter make the long walk to the ring is one of the coolest things in sports. There's a certain energy in the building that I can't describe because it's one of those things you just actually have to experience to understand. And that being said, following Ashley Hall was when she's locked in for a prep, is a pretty cool thing in its own way too. Over the weekend, Ashley announced that she was planning to compete in the clash world championships at the end of the month, which is one of the few contests on the circuit that she actually has at one in her whole fame career. So if she shows up looking to prove that she's a three-time Olympia champ who still has a lot left in the tank, I don't see any reason why she wouldn't be an automatic top to contender. And that does it for yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on Day Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

Now, we talked about fats, we talked about protein. How much of each of these you eat is going to be dependent on whether you're trying to gain weight or lose weight and we'll talk about that in a little bit. But these two fat and proteins, these two macro nutrients, are essential for building muscle, for burning fat. Okay? The third component in the equation carbohydrates, okay, is essential for nothing but energy. If I can swallow a pill that do my 100 pounds of squats for 10 reps, I can come back in 20 or 30 pounds in muscle. Meaning this, if you don't look like a little bit that causes muscle fibers to be recruited, which causes muscle growth is the weight and we'll weight you use. We'll also find ways to come into play.

Well, the new chance to see amino acids from the protein, the glucose from the carbohydrates and fats from fat and jacin will all get absorbed in the small intestine, believe it? I'm not the largest. The larger intestines will flow it in electrolytes, get reabsorb. However, you're right. When you add other foods and combine them with the proteins, it slows the jacin transit time. So, if you take fat, for instance, whether it be peanut butter or a tablespoon of oil or whatever or a whole eggs and you mix them into a way type of a shake, you will create essentially a food and a complex food that will then once again slow the absorption of the amino acids into the bloodstream. The problem is once they get in the bloodstream, they're still absorbed very rapidly because they're ready to go. But yes, you can create meals out of shakes and that's a lot of people do that. And I recommend the people do that. Carbs and it's a protein don't slow the transit of it as much as fats added to protein do. Because what fats do is when fats hit the intestinal tract, your your gallbladder and your liver releases bile and bile tells the intestinal tract to slow down. So instead of going at this rate, it goes at this rate. When things move more slowly through the intestinal tract, you can absorb more of the and you absorb it as slow or rate. But you absorb it more slowly also.

If you want to build lean muscles, you don't want to just go up and down, up and down. You need to consistently consume protein every two to four hours depending on whether your man or woman throughout the day that you're awake. Very important point to make. It's very hard to do that by eating food meals all day long, because who the hell wants to eat six, seven food meals a day? It's the preparation time alone is crazy. So a lot of us rely on protein shakes. And I'm going to tell you something, it's actually a good thing to rely on some protein shakes. The reason being is that food is absorbed in eight grams of protein per hour. What that means is if you eat a meal, if you eat a meal, that has 48 grams of protein in it, it's going to take you six hours to absorb that food meal completely. That's just the way the body works. However, if you would have taken a protein supplement, a protein powder, specifically a way I assume, which is about as pure as it comes. Your body would absorb 48 grams of protein in about 15 minutes, because there's no digestion required of the stuff. It's pretty much an appredigested state. So if we made a graph of blood protein levels and we ate a food meal, we would notice the graph would do this. We would gradually increase it and would stabilize it and it would do this until the meal ran out and it would go down. If you eat a protein shake or if you drink protein shake, I should say you're going to get it's going to spike up immediately up very high and then it's going to come right down. So if you combine your meals to be meal, shake, meal, shake, what you'll have is this gradual rise and then every other meal you'll get this huge spike from your protein shake and you'll always have a high baseline level because there's always going to be food in your body. That's the most efficient way to build muscle and to sustain muscle when you're dieting.

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a well-known internet celebrity. He was the champion at the San Marino Pro in the classic physique division and he's going to the Mr. Olympia in a few weeks from now. We got him on the show by popular demand. Man only needs one name. Stanimal. Welcome. Thank you very much Dave. Thanks for having me. You know you made it. You have one name that identifies you to the whole industry. It's like Madonna. Stanimal. I love it. I had with the name come from. It's an expression in France like when you say like look at these beasts like a guy like you know, freaky looking, boy impressive. You say, I'm just telling you, I'm just telling you, you say wow, that's Stanimal's huge stuff. It just stuck with my name. It's the same thing as it's got stem in there but it has nothing to do with Stan. It means actually you know, this animal guy you know. Exactly. That's why you would say, well, just be a student French with it. Wow, Stanimal. I like that. I like that. I just how you would say. So it's really Stanimal. It's not really right? Is that a preface? Yeah, I say Stanimal because it's just more international but in French you would say Stanimal. Now you do have a French last name. Your real name is Stan Delongu right? Yeah, that's right. Stan Delongu. Yeah. Delongu. I might French is not so good. I took Spanish and school. Right. You know, Stan, you have an interesting story because you're one of these guys and I've been to a few people like this. They've lived pretty much in a lot of different places. You grew up in Paris. You moved to Virginia, moved to Nigeria. You were in Switzerland for a while. Now you're in the US. What is it like growing up in so many different places like that? Well, Nigeria, I don't have much, much memories of it. But I don't know. I always been very attached to that part of my story. But yeah, it's very interesting because you see different cultures. You can see things from a different perspective. When I grew up in France, I was very proud of being French. When I left France, we would just have to the first walk up we won in the United States. So I came to Switzerland. I'm very proud of being French. And then I saw the first group of Swiss people who saw all these French people and so proud of me. So I guess, you know what I mean? It just won the walk up. We see it every day because they watched French television. And it was a little bit too much for them. I was first at the end of the stand and I started getting there, you know, the point of view. So it just opens up your new perspective a lot. Are French people of notches? You tell me. I don't have any, I never had any, probably French people. But why do the French hate Americans so much? Are you always here that? Is that true? No, no, no, I don't think so. No, I don't think so. No, no, I'm not. Me, for sure, not. A lot of Americans say when they go visit France, they get, they don't get treated. Well, I don't know. I've only been dealing with things yet. People sometimes in France to get a little, I'll say that. But no, I'm American people, just assume everybody's being English. Don't say I thought everyone does to get English, though. Yeah, usually, but that's why the thing like Americans just don't make the effort of trying, you know. Yeah, that's the only thing. No, of course, no, and not everyone's to the exchange. But we do think, I think Americans do think that's 100% accurate. And they think that if you speak louder, that the people who don't understand you will understand you better. No. Yeah. Yeah. Talk, let's talk about how you got into this sport to begin with. Because being a guy who is moving all over the place when you're younger, where did you actually get into just the bodybuilding? Who was like your first person you looked up to and said, wow, that's what I want to look like? It's an interesting question. I always played a lot of sports. When I grew up, I was playing judo tennis, soccer, fan saying, I was actually French champion of fan saying when I was like, eight years old. That's a good title to have in France, too. They really are doing it and everything like that. And sword fighting is important, right? And French. I actually my master was a world champion in 94 with a French team. So I went to a really good school. Then I started playing basketball. And since I love basketball, I was looking up to the NBA and the guys were built more than European players. So that's when I started training more, doing push-ups, all kinds of things. Slowly got into the gym. And then when I didn't have really time to train as much for sports, I just, you know, it was part of my identity to be active and being, you know, like fits. So I couldn't just stop sports altogether. So that's when I started picking up on the lifting weight. I actually started in my bedroom for about a year, making sure I was, you know, committed enough to get a gym membership and not just being one of these people, get gym membership and pay every month for nothing. Right. So once I saw it was really hooked, I joined my first gym. And that was in January 2006. And I've been training since then. I never had the pretension of competing at all at first. And she liked to go kind of around 2013, that's when I started having the idea of competing. And of course, I was looking up a lot to what I, I think what started me when I was really young is watching Dragon Bozy. I don't know if you know what it is. It's like Japanese camp in comics. I think that's what got me into that a little bit. And then yeah, when did you know you were good? When did you know, hey, man, I'm really good at this. I mean, this is something I can do for a living, you know. I never thought, I don't, I think I just, it's when I started putting stuff out there, you know, in social media, it was on buddy when I'd come, I'd show it to myself, so I had putting some pictures and you know, because you had like, I don't know if it's still to them. They had a buddy space or something. And you could put progress pictures and stuff like that. I don't remember that. And by the moment I just, yeah, and at the same time, they were starting Instagram. So I was starting putting pictures on both platforms. And I started getting some feedback. So and at the same time, actually, they came up with the men's music division. So a lot of people were saying, oh, you should try, you know, men's music show. And you, you're like, you're lean, you got a nice build. In my first show, got a third place. And then I moved on. I came, I wasn't really beat my first show in Nassau Mania in Paris. And then I, that was when I finished college at the same time. So I decided to come to United States for, you know, five week vacation, enjoy, you know, the bachelor degree and all that stuff. And what I was, you know, I did a couple more shows. Got second in Nassau Mania World Championship, men's music. And then I went to, I did an NPC show in between. And that's when I saw the big difference in between, about some mania NPC. I was having just the athletes who are not, well, they're not completely watching the show. You actually have people coming to watch the show, you know, and you see a lot of people. So I'm just a right away that that's where the, it was, we happening, you know, we think we should, I want to make a carry out of it. I had to move into the industry journey NPC and we beat pro league. And so I got lucky because what I was here the first day I came in 2013. Could just make that to understand the timeline. In 2010 was the first time I came to United States and came to experience the life here in, you know, goals in Venice. I was here for about 10 days and did like the West Coast World trip to usual thing. And I really wanted to meet Jack Harper. And so the last day I was here, I got lucky enough to see him. That was just before his last title. And I was like four, five, six weeks out from the Olympic Games 2010. And when I came back in 2013, I was the first day I went to the gym. I was training legs and the guy who came dressed right after me. He asked me if he was the leg press would be was Jack Harper. Oh my god. So I was funny. So then I started talking to him. And they, you know, they fully, they probably know him. They've my max. So he was there with that, with Jay and Jay was trying to really understand why I was saying. So he, I was talking, speaking French today, and they would translate to Jay. I was trying to say, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, because my accent was even worse than now. Yeah, I was doing this. And so then after you know, we spoke for like maybe two hours at Jay and Jay to keep a picture and put it on Twitter and wish me good luck with my next show. The next day, Jay was into doing the next third Jack Jackson. So he took me brought me with him to that maximum store where we needed the interview with the techs, sir. I met Dexter and then I got offered by the owner of the store a job to work there under the table. What I was saying there. I just said, yeah, of course jumped on the screen and he said, I wouldn't use my savings on my savings at once and maybe we were able to stay longer. Yeah. And what I was saying there, then Jay said, oh, this is the next point of January. Would stay and want to come and help me. Dave asked me that was of course. I could, you know, get the opportunity to spend some time with one of my idols. Right. I love to. So now I have to post for my flight of first time. And what I was saying there, I met the guy wanted to send me to the owner of classic to try to get my pro card in 2014. And I got my pro card in Man's physique with the help of buddy by Kirk and Chilik who was coaching me. And my company was the Mr. Olympia. And the time he had been with my posing because the posing was the main thing I needed the help was. So that's how I started and then was the getting my pro card. I've been able to apply for the visa and getting my visa being able to stay. So I never left and yet. Wow. So that's it. The real cool story. You know, the one person you wanted to see, you meet him on the last day, you hear pretty much. Yeah. It's crazy. You know, I always say this is no such thing as coincidence. So yeah. I mean, it was really just the right time. Really like when I came back here in 2013, it was everything just clicked. And just everything happened one after the other and just yeah, now I'm here. I call it for the Olympia. I know. We're going to talk about that in a minute. Why do you think you're so popular in social media? You have like 180,000 followers on Instagram. What what is it about you that people find interesting? Well, I think I think my story inspires a lot of people because a lot of people are like me. I'm training with Sean Rodin for example right now. And I met him in 2013 at the Fibo. I thought with him for like a as long as like when people were being really boring, you know. And then I came when I came here, I saw him at the golf. And he was like, oh, you're here. I'm still trying to follow that dream. And after that after a few months later, he was like, you see, yeah, I just got one from Carter. And then moved to class. I mean, you know, it's just everything been happening for me like this. The same thing was to come on when I came here in 2013. That's when I met Kelanton Mugger. He was, he had like 5,000 followers at the time. He was just really starting. And we became friends. And I've been lucky. I think one of the main reason is being here at Golgimp Venice. I'm the chance and you're planning to meet a lot of influencers and people were in the industry. And I've been lucky to like build a relationship with these people. And you know, you, so people start seeing you, you know, on their social media. And then they're like, who's that guy? I see him on this guy's page on this guy's page and then they want to know more. And then they learn the story and they're like, oh, this is inspiring. And maybe I can do that and then they just, you know, start following you too. So, you know, it's interesting because you know, a lot of people feel that Golgimp Venice is not is not, you know, significant anymore. You don't need to go there because of social media. In the back, in my day, people would make pilgrimages out there. But maybe not, maybe it is important because there is a lot of people there. And like you said, there's a lot of networking that's going on still in that gym. And you obviously took advantage of that. Obviously, your physique speaks for itself because you had a great year last year. You had a number of shows. You play started the Fragna Legacy Classic. You won the San Marino Pro in the Classic physique division, which qualified you for the Olympia, which you'll be competing in a few weeks now. I mean, you're living in the dream. Oh, yeah, absolutely. It's, it's, yeah, it's an absolute dream come true. When I've stopped and think about it, I just, I just can't believe it. You know, I have to pinch myself a few times a day. You always had legs. You got good legs. Like, why did you even do men's physique to start off with? Why? Because there was no classic, is that was why you were doing it? Yeah, exactly. There was no classic physique. And so I was too small to do anything else, you know, really. And I was considered myself a bodybuilder. You know, I got a wistring the whole body. I was thinking the whole world was symmetry. I didn't want to just look good in chores. I wanted to have a balance. So, and I always looked up to the old school physique, got Paris and Lille Brada, some European, all these guys always inspiring me. This had to be some European, it also played a big role in my tradition to classic physique. So, does it taught me how to pose? Yeah, that's, that's impressive. Yeah, I mean, I mean, yeah, I'm team and really don't mind. That's the thing. You hear, it's the goal, and then it's still the make out to me. I was a bit everybody. Everybody wants to, everybody comes here, at least once, you know, and you make a next-gen, you do collaborations, there's so many things to do. I was going to ask you, you know what? Because you mentioned Roy Leadermar. You kind of pose very similar to his, because you got a similar physique. But I was wondering, yes, is that why you grew the beard to look like more? Probably in the back of my mind, I had such a conscious knee. I couldn't be. You guys look like twins now, right? He still looks great. Yeah, he looked amazing. He looks amazing. I got to get him on that. I got to get him on the show one of these days, and he's got a great story. Oh, he got some amazing story, a lot of them. Yeah, he can just tip him top for like the whole day. He wouldn't be down with all these stories. No, you know, it would just be a six-part interview. Oh, yeah. He's a great story, tell her too. He's just, yeah, he's got like a photographic memory. He doesn't even remember every detail. Oh, every detail. Yeah. Now, stand up. You just started working with Chris and Cito for the Olympia. How did that come about? Well, I've got the huge opportunity and chance to be able to follow Sean Rodin the last two years of the Olympia. And so that's when I met Chris, because he, you know, he checks on his artist every two hours, between, you know, each me. So we can tell them what they're going to get the next. Yeah. Next, you know, and so I got the chance to meet him and seeing how he would be worked with Sean. And, you know, I was coming for men's physique. I don't think he ever coach any men's physique. So I never really think about having a coach of his caliber before. And then I was doing my show. I think before the very no last year, I was doing the best particularly well-guest second place. And that's when I wanted to maybe work with him. So through Sean, I sent him some pictures and he said, you know, great, you know, we took close the show to me to step him and try to change anything really just not enough time and you doing really good job by yourself. So we didn't work for that time. But after our qualified for the San Marino Pro, I decided that when I did the San Marino, the first of all, for the first, you know, the immersion he showed, because like, he made better conditions. I loved that, you know, a little percussion, percussion on the mic or something. So then I had to drop another six pounds and I had a few hours to do that. Oh my god. What? Let me ask you a question. Don't you think your situation have like a one height and they should give you a card that has your height on it. So you don't have to keep getting measured in every show? Absolutely. We were just talking about that with Jim Manion, Tyler, and it just makes sense. Once you turn pro, you should have, you're high to register it and that's it. Right. And why should you be stressing out not knowing if you get to make weight because they're going to measure your wrong. It's stupid. Yeah. It's too, it's really hard and really stressful for sure. No one's growing at this stage unless you're under 18 years you should have a standard card of what your height is. That's it. You know? Yeah, and if you're really you're growing, you can maybe like, you know, ask for a remission and do something. Right. Right. But yeah, I totally agree. I should have that, you know, and it would be easier also for the after checking, you know, just come in. There's this next to your name, the way you have to make, you are either under or you're not. Yeah, much easier. Much easier, much easier. Now, you're also going to be promoting a pro show in France. That's going to be exciting, huh? Pro qualify for it. Pro qualify. Excuse me. Which is even better? Yeah. You'll make more money. Pro qualify. I want to do pro for a show later on, but I want to make sure I run the show. It's going to be my first show. So I want to be sure it's, you know, runs smoothly and everything, you know, it's with the athletes, so then I can bring pros and they can have a really enjoyable experience with them. Being an athletes myself, I know how it is and I don't want them to be, you know, not in good conditions to compete. What part of France you get hold of it? We just figured out right now, probably the pro qualify for it would be in Leon, because it's close to the, you can think either access through the Geneva airport or French airport, and then you have trained quickly. Oh, good. Yeah, to be able to. That's smarter. That's very smart. Well, Stan, it sounds like you're doing great. Obviously, you got a couple. You got what, five, six weeks now, till the Mr. Olympia competition, will you be doing a classic division there, go up against Brianna Ansley and Chris Bumstead and all the top guys in the division. Yeah, actually, you got to be super psyched to be standing on that stage. I'm really pumped for sure. Especially like, once before, that I used to do like, I chose a year or so. So I never had that time to really grow. So this year, I've been at the chance, you know, like, what if I early enough ever. So I had the whole year to really make some, you know, pretty, I think big changes. Yeah, absolutely. And I, and I stayed really, I haven't put it any of the pictures. So nobody really knows how I look at it. I'm a smart, smart man. Very smart. Playing playing it old school. I got a call for a first to see. Don't get some tax messages of your pictures sent to me. So I can see what you look like. Yeah, you sure won't. Sure. But yeah, keeping it rubbing like, oh, we've up and actually everybody posting the pictures. So it's good for me. I know like I can really bring that element of surprise. And I also had the chance to train with Chris Bumster that was your last week. Right. And I also train with Brian last Sunday. He's going to put weight actually tomorrow. And yeah, so in the region is a good friend of mine. We train together last year with Sean when he was getting a leap of temper. So it's going to be fun to be on stage with all these guys. Of course, Danny Hester is a long friend. Like, long time friend of mine also. Being able to be on stage a bunch of friends is really like bringing the old school. I feel like really bringing you know the bumping Aaron spirit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I think together going on stage together. Good com Rotterie. Yeah, exactly. I told you guys are standing on stage and you all want to beat each other's ass. You know, so I don't think that's really my type. I mean, I want to win for sure. Of course you want to win. Don't, if you said anything other than that, I wouldn't believe you. Stand best of luck. You live in the American dream here and everything's going great for you. And I, so happy to hear that. And if you want to. So what's the name of your, your Instagram is Santa Bull 9. Correct? That's right. Yeah, Santa Bull 9 is my uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh where it's everything in French. It's different content, but just uh um right. I want to address you know, both public have so they can really understand me and and if they want to follow both pages then I could, I at least have something different on the page. What do you, YouTube channel? It's Stan Emole in two words and I'm vlogging every day to the to the Olympia. I've been, I've been doing so many days so far. So people have been that. Yeah, I've got a lot of people following that journey with me uh uh, it's a great support too. It's been exciting because they see like the change and they just see on my face because they don't see my physique. It changed a lot already and I think that's the, that's the, I mean, honestly, I think it's the best part about the Olympia is that journey to the show and being able to share with with people because I'll put you some, I'm not a huge UFC fan or anything but like if I watch the UFC fight and I see the guy, the art is getting ready for the show like for the fight. I like I want to root for that, that's the guy I'm rooting for that. I get attached to him and that's what I like the most is seeing that journey to the fight that what leads to the fight, the fight itself, I don't really care myself and I think that's what people really care also because they see the attitude on stage being, you know, looking amazing, all that but don't see all the hard work that comes of course. That's they want to see the process. Yeah, they want to see the process exactly. So I'm showing, I'm sharing that raw process really like low editing but I'm able to post videos every day but yeah, it's pretty fun. That's the lock up on that Olympia stage. We'll see in Vegas in September and hopefully you'll emerge as the new champ. Thanks very much. I'll visualize that every night so hopefully you worked. Thanks a lot and that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought to you by species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. On day polon boat we'll see you next time.

I'm Dave Pullumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Pullumbo and today joining us as our good friend, the stand-able. Stand-alongue, get ready for that California Pro. It's a great honor to be here. I'm going to be here with you. Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Pullumbo and today joining us as our good friend, the stand-able. Stand-alongue, get ready for that California Pro. In the man's open division, welcome back to the show. Thank you Dave. Thanks for having me. I like the beer. Looks good. Thank you. Are you going to shave that for the show? Yeah, at least one of the studios I've been getting on the show. Yeah. You look like a... I think about that two days. You look like Jessup Wilcox. You know? I think you're a Jessup. The guy from my team. Oh, yes. The German bodyval? Yeah. You look like him. Now, let me ask you a question. It had to be a pretty tough decision to say, you know what? I'm going to go from classic physique to men's open. I mean, that's a huge jump. Obviously, you are bodyval of right from the beginning, but still, it's a little intimidating. Especially since you were placing well, you know, in the classic physique division, what was the final straw that broke the Campbell's back, so to speak? Well, I mean, I started immense physique. I didn't really mention physique. I don't know if you would know that. Oh, I asked her. No, yeah. So I already jumped, you know, from men's physique to classic. Yeah. And then I was just natural progression last year. We were giving you the leap for your limp yeah with Chris. I think we were about 10 weeks out, and I was about ready around 2.30. And Chris was like, that's the last time we, you know, we make that way that 2 or 7 was just too much weight to lose. So, yeah, that's it. Well, there it was decided that we're going to do a bodyval in the next year. And how tall are you? Just on the 5. 10. Okay. All right. So, I mean, 245 is obviously if you're 23 and you're in shape, it's not at that point you weren't big enough for open, but you certainly were way, you were tackled by a sea muscle to make that classic physique class. Yeah. And I wasn't, like, showing my full, like potential on stage, and I was having a flat on stage and just I don't, yeah, they look quite right. So how did you make weight? It all, although shows and actually qualified for the Olympia. That's a miracle in it of itself right there. Well, I qualified for the Olympia the weekend after my, the 2018 Olympia. So I did my first Olympia in classic and then the following weekend I went to South Korea, qualified there. So then I had to hold you out. Yeah, I see you put all that muscle out over the course of the year. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That makes sense. Now, and then this year we had another, like, one of the more silent and because the thing I'm going to be around that weight on the stage with 245, are you still living in the California? No, I moved to Chicago in July first. So I've been in Chicago in our first six months. What are you doing in Chicago? Man, again, I'm like, just happened. I was thinking of moving somewhere else because you know, I mean, I love Belgium, but, you know, nobody left there and I'm sure moved to Wayne, in Northsner. So, you know, you know, that's what I'm saying. And then I was going to go to the next thing about to retire, and then flooring that was the COVID-19 or that stuff. And the gym was closed and, you know, I was expecting to live there. And there was no real reason to pay that much to be there anymore. So, an opportunity came up. My girlfriend, she's others when you're from Chicago. And, yeah, I came with the place, check out the gym, I liked that whole atmosphere. Where do you train over there in Chicago? So I'm training at Chicago Barbel, Tom Towns. It's in Park Bridge, and training with Mendos Bockel from the Underground Athletes, Dr. Anand Rickston, Chris Hester, reaching Silverback. Yeah, a bunch of good guys. And we have a really good energy in the gym. It's really fun. I've been coming to another fund here. Did they still have quads, gym over there? Is this still open? Yeah, quads here? It's like only in maybe five, six minutes, it's going to go in the middle. That's why I know, I've been to that area. That's why I was wondering why you're not there. It just goes, Mendos was saying, you know, he was training on the ground there with the brand-unit and all these athletes. Checked out the place that parking on there. It's just easier to pause gym, it's hard to park there. So I just went there. You could probably walk. You could take a mass transportation. I think I took a bus. I think I took the bus to the gym. What I was there. Yeah, I could totally, I mean, probably if still like, end up training there sometimes. But I once got here, I signed my prep and it was easy to go there and having to put people to train with. So we were just trained, then pause and you know how it is. So just do all the things we need to do. You went from such beautiful weather in California to the freezing, frigid cold winter in Chicago. Are you ready, your mind? No wonder why you have a beer. No one had a dress yet that you have to be like a Viking to live there. You know? You go right now. I'd say you were going here in California. Not that long. I get loose here. No, no, I know. But actually I'm looking forward to that because I think my group in Switzerland and I live in France obviously. And when it's cold outside, it's much easier to eat. So for me it's hard to eat enough. Yeah, even right now I'm cutting. People asking me when I'm going to start it. When I'm starting my cut because when this, you have much amazing. They don't believe I'm cutting. But yeah, so I'm looking forward to that. And that really good for the year too. I think the Austin is going to be really pretty pretty next year. Sir, Sir is new break. It was also from France used to use to go outside between sets and shivers. And that's how we burnt all the fat. So maybe maybe there's something to it, right? Yeah, it's what he was training for hours to. I know that he had Switzerland. He was drinking Coca-Cola during his workout and for like four or five hours. That's when that he learned how to like snake out. You know like just a tear and a male over the workout. Yeah, that'd be right by again. But I think it's not that hard. First of all, you still like to train volume. He said that's the only person he couldn't finish or work out with. The surgeon, Brey, wanted to kill himself. Yeah. That's what I heard. Yeah, so you're interested. I still think you're crazy. I got to tell you, I understand why you left California, but and it's the traffic sucks there too, but then it's weather. I think is it is perfect. Because it never gets too hot there. Like you said, and it never really gets cold there. It's kind of like the perfect weather. But sometimes you can stagnate in that kind of a situation because it's like it never changes. You know, that's everything. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, honestly, when I was thinking more to move to Florida, I come to a flex Lewis. But in April or something, I was thinking about it around Bocca Ratona. But just the opportunity here, I can't just say, it's not bad. But it was good opportunity. Honestly, everything is falling into place. So it's working great. The airport is pretty close. So I'm looking like, or during when I'm not competing, doing more traveling and going to more shows and doing more collaboration with different people in the industry. Yeah, you've got my social media even more. Hopefully. Yeah, I like to do more things with more athletes. Because in California, it's so expensive there. Yeah. You can have to stay there. Here, I really need that chance to be able to travel around their old US. Yeah. The truth is for you, it doesn't pay to stay in a place that costs a lot of money to live. Because you can do what you do, no matter where you are. You can do it in a basket. You wanted to. I mean, really, you think about it. I mean, you made sense before. When I first got here, obviously training was shown running from Charles Glass, Cycle Fitness, all these guys, but not that opportunity and I've learned a lot. And that's all that is going away in a sudden sense. You just need to make sense and more. So that's why I wanted to get back to work. Like, you're just kind of a atmosphere having like, that's why I really started talking to Flex, but I wanted to be like around other people. Right. We're, you know, we're training together. And here we can have the same, you know, energy like, Bernard Rixen and obviously training to, from carrying style on the men's music division. We have like, Chris Esther was like really hungry to get his pork hard. The national is this year. And we have like people already like flying here to like, you know, get some training session with us. And so it's really coming together nicely. Now, are you had a good relationship with obviously Sean Rodney when you say Sean, that's your referring to in case you don't know. What's going on with Rodney? Have you, do you speak to him regularly? So. Yeah. I mean, I'm going to meet him this week. So I'm going to meet him next week with the finish my prep with him. I just want to, you know, go back to the room and train with him. I was going to ask. Oh, you're in charge of that. You moved back to, you go back to California to finish training with him. Well, they're sure what she's supposed to be in that race. I'll write it. And that is actually a day. It's right. Sorry. The show is in Vegas that they moved in. Yeah, they moved it to Vegas. So, you know, that just, this information came last week. Right. You know, I talked to him. He wants to come and support me. Good. So what's going on with Sean? We get to see his case coming up or what's what's the progress report of him? I don't know. We talked about all things, but like, I know it's been on a whole so far. So I'm not really asking until once something comes up and he has a date, he's going to tell me. So there's no trial date yet. I mean, I know you kept being postponed. I can't see positive to be an away from all. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So then he kept, you know, with the whole virus and all that, like, the opening and re-crossing. Yeah. I don't know exactly what it was right now. Do you think they'll settle the case before the Olympia? I'm also. Yeah. I know he's trending like he's doing his insurance. So, five, he might as well. And he's the case comes up before the Olympia. And he wins, you know, and he's exonerated, then he can do the Olympia. Obviously, he got to be in shape. Yeah. He can't start training, you know, two weeks before the show for it. Obviously, you know. Yeah. But that's why he did last your own story. We're helping him out. Could be able to compete. And he was right. But he knew he wasn't going to do the show. I mean, he knew that the case wasn't coming up before. He was just training and hoping that we would let him do it. You know, right? Yeah. I've been facing the difference. If the case is settled, you know, the definitely in the Olympic doing it. Because they wanted me to show, obviously. I would think. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Of course they wanted me to be six, almost what Flex Lewis, Vector, Jackson, feel he's running through. Yeah. And Sean, we find Mr. Olympia crazy. And then it's going to be far. Yeah. Yeah. That's not that. So you're going to be doing the Cal Pro, which is now been moved to Las Vegas. So they're doing it in some kind of big hanger where they hold parties and stuff like that, which is smart, which is smart. I always said, I'm surprised all the shows that I'm going to be. They should be like, you know what? We're a rogue state. We don't give it crap. What the rules are? We're open for business. That if I'm shocked that Vegas hasn't done that, that's that was always their whole stick. We're open for business. We don't care what the other state's doing. You guys want to come here. You can hope whatever you want. That they would make a fortune if they did that. But yeah, I don't know either. But like, I know why they're doing that in Tampa, I can't know. And yeah, just the only thing is, I don't know exactly how the situation in Tampa, like the audience, I think they still allow some people to come watch the show. I'm not sure. But in Vegas there's no audience. There's only like 50 people. Oh, really zero audience. Okay. I don't know. Yeah. I don't, I don't, I'm surprised Vegas doesn't say F you and do whatever they want. That's always been there. That's always been there. That you also have the Chicago pro coming up after that. So that which we perfect is isn't your backyard right there. Exactly. Unless they move it. Yeah. The Chicago having problems is, well, I what that's what I was going to ask you. What's the status update over there? Oh, that's why I also have to be here is get everything just, you know, it's life files you're home here. I mean, of course you have to wear your mask and stuff. Yeah. But for the most part, it's a it's regular life. It's not that impact that we are thinking we're pretty like one of the big cities that are the lowest number of cases. So it's pretty pretty good here. Yeah. What's good? So when you go to the gym, are you concerned about getting anything like that? I'm not concerned at all. I think, you know, I think I think virus is going to run for a long time. If you catch it, you know, you know, everybody is trying enough to fight it. I believe I also got it like early on because I was struggling on the ground this time, but that's how we got sick then. So I got some kind of flu like last week of this time or first week of January last year. I was out for like two weeks. It was pretty strong. Like the one you might have. Yeah. So and I went to Asia and yeah, I traveled a lot. I think this time were last year. Maybe. I don't know. What do you think your way on stage? I mean, I don't really care. Like I just want to come really, really feel like, you know, like for conditioning, plastic, plastic stuff. But I think I'll be around 24 years. I was there last year. After the Olympics, I did my first showing, you know, I learned that the, I really, probably tell me. We're really well-clawed and late in the Asia. I were competing to. Right. And I was 220, 4 back then. And Tyler, man, was judging the show. It told me, he come back with 15, 20 more pounds. You should be really competitive. And that's pretty much what that were. Well, good luck. You know, we love you. We, I mean, you're a character. I'm glad that you're not afraid to take that jump and evolve with the times. And because a lot of guys are afraid to make the jump. We saw George Peterson make it successfully from classic to two, 12. Obviously going through the opposite. A little more difficult, but you're a tall bodybuilder. And I think you fit perfectly into that realm. And let's face it. The guys today and not as big. I mean, the guys that are doing well, I should say. It's the shape and the condition guys that seem to be placing well. So I wish you the best luck in, in Bolin Vegas, but it's really the calpurau. Yeah, thank you very much. Yeah. But for me, it's just, like, naturally, volition. Of course, like, you know, I've learned from Sean like, my strength's never going to be like being the mass monster. Yeah. So I'm always, always, always, we like more of my shape and bring that classic color. But the way that I'm in classic was just to low for me. Yeah. And some people were told me why you didn't do, uh, to 12. It just, five times. I was already like 20 pounds over 25 pounds over last year, but to 12. So like, there's no, no, he makes no sense for me. Yeah. Well, hey, Sean, you already. Yeah. Sean, wrong wasn't the biggest guy won the Olympia. So I mean, look at the, it's conditioning. Sean, he was a pressure presentation. Yeah, that's all important. Yeah, exactly. So he was only 238, 21. Yeah. I mean, he's got, of course, you know, uh, crazy aesthetic, like, small ways to know all that stuff. But that just shows you don't need to be, like, new to a stage. Now, if you come really clear, there will be a condition and then you nail all your presentation. You're imposing it on point. You can really, uh, I think you can get away today in the big shows. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You want to spot the fake idea responses? Yeah. I'm going to thank Olymp's for nutrition and traffic and nutrition. I can carry me and allowing to have the best, perhaps, you know, like, to be a career so far. So it's, I mean, traffic and nutrition is really making really easy for me to have my food, you know, deliver it every week. Okay. But, um, you know, how much put it is important for us. So I think this really, um, the daily basis and we'll have to worry about it. And it's, it's a huge plus and all this for nutrition, just makes everything else easier. Um, and of course, I want to, you know, thank my coaches, uh, Chris Asido, always the best trainer coach out there. And I'll never, never doubt that he important things. If everything is just worked and, um, men's buckle since I've been here and, uh, Chicago is to interfere with me here. Uh, we got. Thank you, Ross. And we're working on my four things up in this kind of course, on the FBI, my overall presentation on the stage, we need to audition for everything in this. Thanks to all this people. Well, tells you, you got all the boxes checked off their stand. Uh, best of luck. Uh, we'll keep us updated and, uh, we're rooting for you to hopefully, uh, crack that top five over there in the CalPro. All right. Thank you very much, Dave. All right. And now guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought you by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo. First, stand em' we'll see you next time.

Welcome back to live with Brokey by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is an old friend of the show. We got him back here for an update on what's going on in his life. He's the Beltman. Steve Cardillo. What's up Steve? Dave, thanks for having me on the show again. I really, really well last time. I appreciate it. Yeah, you know, people just don't stop asking me about the Belt. And you know what, you know, you made a bunch of species belts. I see one hanging in the backdrop there. I got that green one a couple of years ago. And there was a couple of them we gave out. We were out for the month and people went nuts. And I'm still to this day again, like five or ten people, you know, every once in a while, every couple months emailing me about how they could buy one of these belts. And you know, you've been doing this for, what about? And you've got 35 years now belts, custom belts? 32. 32 years. And you know what? There is popular now as they ever were. It's one of the few things in our industry that has maintained and that you've still held a stranglehold on. No one seems to be able to do what you do. I don't know why they don't. But you seem to still be the only game in town that does belts on a regular basis for not only top body bowls of the top celebrities and the like. I mean, you just, you just have that's your niche that you carved out. And no one seems to be able to move in on you. Thank you. It just, you know, again, it comes out to consistency and building something that would last forever. And, you know, I was very fortunate coming out of the gate that I had all professional wrestlers, whole clothing in the very, very beginning. They all wore them. So I got kind of head of the pack pretty quick, you know, I mean, and my vision to what Michael Jordan was wearing. We talked about it before, but you know, Michael Jordan was your stuff. It's pretty significant. It's just kept rolling over and rolling over. It's just weird. It's a very small niche, but yet, you know, you're the only one who does it. So it's like everyone who wants a new belt, you know, calls you up. You probably have belts for every single Mr. Olympia. I'm sure in modernity in the modern era as well as in every division across the, you know, the scope of the physique world. Every Olympia since 92, every female Olympia, every physique Olympia, every bikini Olympia, every onel champ for the fast 30 years, every one of them. It's pretty, you know, ice it back and it's kind of mind blowing. It's hot to wrap your head around it when you look back at the history of it, but it's nice though as well. I, you know, worked out well. It's cool because you kind of have contact with all these top people on a regular basis. I mean, because they obviously contacted you to get the belt. They see the, the fill, he's gift belt in the back. They are hanging them on wall. Yeah. You know, he's obviously going for number eight this year, which would put him in the elite, you know, class of, of Ronnie Coleman and Lee Haney for the only two other men to win eight Olympia. So, I mean, you, you've done belts for the best of the best. What was the most unusual belt you've ever done? Um, I just recently, I don't want, I do want for a prince to do why it was pretty interesting. We had a lot of stipulations on this particular belt and, uh, red inside all kinds of stuff all over, but it was pretty cool to have someone like him. Um, obviously when Duane calls the rock. He has, I had to do one with the tattoo on it. And it was two winter kit to embroider. So, ironically, I just, I've been after this, um, me or a lot of the styles for like five years. I'm going to try and get them to come on board to do some painting, paint the belts for me. So, after that is named Patrick Geneo, he finally, I made them, you know, after five years, I basically made them an offering. You can't refuse. So, he was basically the first one to do the rock belt, which was pretty significant. And then from there on, it's, you know, but that's probably the tattoo of the rock. Um, on a weight belt was pretty wild. That's awesome. And that's the, you got a guy who's actually painting on the belt by hand. Yeah. Yeah, he's, basically he's a mural artist for, he does a lot of celebrities. So, I've been asking him for a long time if he would, you know, do some belts for me. You know, going from obviously 10 foot building murals coming down to doing a small belt. So, he wanted to, but he's been so busy. So, after all this time, he finally said I said, guy, I got, I have to do the rock belt. You know, he's pretty, you know, important to me. He said no problem. So, once he did that, he said, let's sit on a talk about it. We cut the deal. So, what I'm going to be doing now, I just did Dennis Rodman's whole coat. Wow. Yeah, he's going to be painting for me. Yeah, this one, he did, you know, Dennis Rodman. I don't know if he can see it. Wow, yeah, that's awesome. That is awesome. That's the rock. That's the rock. Right. Yeah, the rocks back there. One like, this one here, but the rock one tattoo he has, I don't have that one. But then he did one like an Amani thing, all hand painted, all hand done. He did one for us. This is all cold. But what I'm going to be doing, he's on the sale. These are just, but I'm going to do a lot of giveaways with these. That's awesome. From the rock even. Yeah. Yeah. All pretty wild. So, you know, I'll be doing a lot of deal. If you're doing some of the money for charity and, you know, it's just, it's just more something that I had to add to the game. I'm wanting to do this for a long time. Right. I want to get the right person. This guy's the guy. So, that's the real world. For a custom belt like that, that's hand painted like that. I assume that belt's got to be a little bit more expensive. Yeah. Honestly, I wouldn't even put a price on it because I'm giving them away. So, it would be, it would be kind of, it would be kind of, probably out of the ball, pocket, except for, you know, some celebrities. But even then, then they just want to hang them on the wall. So, a couple of wrestlers want them. So, I'm going to, you know, they're going to hang them on the wall, which over the years, sometimes that's what happens. I try to tell the guy, hey, where the belt, if you want another one for your wall, I'll make it for you. But the purpose of the belt is so you're wearing it. So, I get them on the wall, I get them the wear and wherever it goes, I'm happy with it. Did you ever do a, I think we did, we talked to that left, and I can't remember. I got that, that was on us now. What, what did you do for the incredible Hulk, Luke, for now? You made a belt for me? We made him. I made him for him. His kids, his wife. All his gimmicks. Yeah, he's been on. I'll be with WVF. That was the big inaugural belt they gave him. Yeah, it's signing on. Yeah, I made him a lot of belts. Yeah, that's what I thought so. You know, it's an amazing industry because everyone seems to work out in the sports industry. I'm sure it's from football players, to the boxers, to MMA guys, to, you know, and everyone wants to have like some kind of identification tag and let's face it. You know, in the gym, you can't weigh your football jersey necessarily. You know what I mean? But you could wear a weight belt. It's kind of like makes you feel special, I guess. And I think especially when guys turn or girls turn pro, it's like they want to get that like acknowledgement. And a lot of times, I'm sure you do a lot of them to say I have to be pro, so and so or so and so. Yes. It's kind of like a graduation certificate you're wearing on your back there. Right. Well, that's kind of a, that's kind of been a real problem where everybody wants to wait to lay term pro to get a belt. And I try to say, get, you don't get my belt and it'll get you to become a pro quicker. You got to have that. I mean, you got to get the belt. So it works out well. Luckily, there's a lot of pros now and a lot of them need the belt. So it works out well, but obviously it's going to help you. It's a tool to help you. We come pro. You can get, you know, you know what it's all about. What was one of the like coolest nicknames that you've ever had to put on a belt? That you said, hey, that's a pretty good nickname. Oh, boy. Um, probably by, I don't know, the Boston Masters are pretty good. Yeah, that's a good one. That's a good one. Like, quadzilla obviously Paul was the one we did the logo. Those were a couple cool ones. I didn't want to remind you that we should have called them the route, the route kid. That one worked out well in high school. So I've basically closed. This is, it's a great. What is like a typical custom belt like the stand in one cost? Like if someone wanted to purchase one from you, just that. About about about about two 25. OK. And that's reasonable. These belts last forever. That's the great thing. They're indestructible. I've seen them. I have a couple. They don't, they do that. You cannot, the only way you're going to screw these belts up is you're going to lose them. Yes. So I was, I actually left the belt. One of the belts you gave me at a gym. Because I, I know, toriously, we'll do a leg workout. And I forget and I leave the belt there. And if it came the gym belt and everyone who went to the gym would bar on the belt and they would all give it back because it had my name on it. So like, you can't walk out with the belt on it. And it's funny because no, I felt bad taking it back when I realized that the gym had, I had left it the ex. I thought it was gone. And it was a gym I had, you can go to all the time. And I went there one day and I saw my belt. I'm like, holy Mac on my belt. And they're like, well, Dave, everyone uses this belt. So I kind of left it there. It's like a moment though. But yes. That, your belt, you can see everyone knows it's a cardinal about immediately. You're so recognizable, your brand. I mean, if you sat down and tried to, I'm sure you didn't figure this out ahead of time. It just kind of happened. But if you would have tried to figure this out ahead, then you never would have been able to figure it out as well as you did it. Never. You know, it was just, it was just basically one belt at a time and being persistent in office saying, you're doing it so it's never been worth for me. So not having to really work and just promote and do I, I surround myself with, you know, I had a re-blocked deal pretty early on. So I learned a lot about marketing and, sure. But going back to the belt in the price, you know, a stock belt is $150. What does a pair of sneakers cost at last six months a year? That's a lot of money. It doesn't make sense to me. No, yeah. It's a, it's a non-expanced in terms of weightlifting equipment because like I said, less forever. Now, Steve, I'm watching your Instagram, you're, you're, you're face book page for the last number of years. And I'm always seeing you doing these, first of all, you do these workouts by the water. They're like these with buckets of water and all kinds of crazy equipment outside by the water. I've been seeing you do this for years. But where did that come about? These are unusual workouts. Well, the buckets that I always thought of when I was almost a teenager, I would go to my camp and I didn't even have any weights there and I always wanted it. You know, I was trying to get to a gym, whatever I was young. My father would fill up five gallon buckets of water and say, go ahead. So that is it at all. I put it, you know, as I learned more about drop sets and stuff, I put a hole in it. And it all started from a five gallon, two five gallon buckets. Then later on, what I, you know, had my home and I was able to put a gym on the talk, then I, my mind went crazy and I'm telling you, Dave, there's nothing I've done everything training ice in, because I designed it. But the pump you get from this is think about doing, think about like say, to drain the bucket, a big bucket is 50, about 50 reps. Think about 30 maximum singles and then the last 20 is a pump. 30, 30 max singles out of a jug. Right. It's pretty amazing. You must live in a really nice area, because that's a pretty big, big doc you got there, I see. Yeah, yeah, I keep, I keep and a little bit, a little bit more on and on. But I think I've picked out, I get everything I need on that right now. It's beautiful. I mean, where is that located? That's up in Massachusetts, right now in Hampshire. What, what, what, what, what are we, is that on? It's on a, it's just on a small, small little private lake. Oh, okay. Beautiful. And what was I see is squatting with these huge logs. When do you get those from me, enormous friend of mine has a lumber yard and stuff. So he said, let's cut these. So there was stuff doesn't rush. So it started out as kind of a joke, but honestly, when you're loading the weight, I don't know what they weigh. So it really doesn't matter. Yeah, I know it's heavy. Yeah. And then it just has like a cushioned field to it. It doesn't feel like steel. Right. No, you know, you know, it's just, it's a weird feeling, even like when you're going from steel to rubber plates, you get that different cushioned field, the wood even feels better. They look like they weigh a million pounds. They're huge. I don't even know how you load them onto the bar. The bar is bending under these things. Yeah, I would drill them out and you know, you go with it. It works, it works well. But the water is the way to go. Well, what are those things? What do you, I see you got, you're squatting with like these three humongous things on each side. And then you got chains on top of it. How much weight was that? Because I've never seen a bar bend like that. It looks like this 600 pounds in your back. The power you, ironically, it's called the, it's called the, it's called the Bell Bar. It's basically for kinetics. So you get that little bit of flexion in the bar. Yeah. I even started switching from steel to that because obviously we don't want to protect the joints. It's better on the joints, it just has a better feel to it. I'm more about now, I get a more of a longevity. I want to keep it going. So I'm not so, I mean, I'm not so much into the weight as I much of trying to stay healthy and shape while not killing my joints. And the great thing, right after you do a set, you can jump right in the water and cool off, right? Yeah, I do that through the swim. I do whatever it takes to, you know, to get the good work out. That's awesome. Now, how many pieces of equipment do you have on that dock? This is about eight pieces. I just keep adding, you all you could do is knock off the stack and get the right jug to fit in between, put it on, put the holes from anywhere from a dime up to a little less than a quarter size. So you can regulate how quick you want the water to come up. I see one of these videos we're watching. It's like snowing out in your training. Are you training all year round out there? Yeah, I mean, I have my gym is right off the side of the dock. So I'll train inside heat up in there and then I'll come out and just, you know, honestly, once you get moving, you're sweating, it's really nice training out there in the environment. And once I get the once the water still cold, the water thaws, I can still get the water going. It's really, I mean, it's nice. I've not done it all. I've been in gyms. Once you get outside, I'm at a pool to get up in the water, go out on the dock and get some sun and train. And it's just, it's just really nice. Yeah, it wake you up to the old and nice air that comes off the water there. It's a big experience. Yeah, it's a big experience. But how does the equipment fare in the winter there? Because you guys get a lot of snow. It's just like gold. I mean, it's just like Venice Beach, stuff stays out. You know, the Venice is probably worse because it's salt. So it rust mind is just, it stays smooth. I throw a little WD faughty on the joints and on the stuff and it's good to go. I really don't have any problems. You get a little dirty from some of the stuff. Lost him. Very creative Steve. I love it. Thank you very much. Now, another, you know, probably one of your most successful businesses, I would say, is the A and C nutrition store. It's, you know, I've been there before. It's a very small store, but it's a very, very busy intersection. And you guys do a ridiculous amount of business there. I know a lot of supplementment companies will beg you to take their products in there because they know you're going to crank, you're going to crank stuff out of that little store. That little place becomes so successful. Well, it started 21 years ago. My nephew just was getting out of just deciding if he's going to finish college, you know, we decide to AP. I'm in the industry already. 10 years, start a store where I'll help you and it's your ball you run with it. If you want to take it as far you can take it as far as you want to help you all the way through. So over time, you know, I gave my, I put my belt here as my showroom. Right. You have people coming in off the planes. I try we try to make it like, you know, like Steve Jim and New York. When you're going to New York, you've got to go to his gym, you go to gold, you've got to go to Panna speech. You know what I mean? So when you come into Boston, it's an environment. It's friendly. He's fun. He's out of his mind. So the whole deal is to, you know, come in the store, you get free stops, you get a nice feeling up to buy anything. Come in. He's sure you come in in from New York, wherever you're coming in from, you get, it's just, you know, we never, we never sold online. We stuck to the, you know, played the rules away with folks to be with the industry. So all of these guys now that are whining about Amazon, you know, I hate to say com or, but this is what's happening. You're getting a taste of what you people are doing to people like my nephew, who stuck to the rules, you know, sold what you gave him the right way. So now we're still here. And we're going to be here because this is a unique, special, fun place to be. That you can only get my weight belt here because of, you know, how we created. You know, I deal with everybody in the industry, all the owners. Right. It's a beautiful thing. You know, I mean, it's just, so this is, you know, it's just, it's just a lot of work he's here all the time. You're command you're going to see him. He's here. It's his store. Right. That's how he becomes successful. I love it because you guys got product stacked in the ceiling in there. If you guys go, and, and it can be stacked in the ceiling today and then tomorrow, it's all gone. It's amazing how special you move stuff. Stack them high, watching fly. Stack them deep, sell them cheap. That's what he does. He's the man. That's how you got. Doesn't. You got a special going now. If anyone goes into the store and they buy one of your cardillow belts, you have a product that you give away for free. What's that deal? Let's talk to him about that. So, you know, all the stuff like he gets all of these, like slightly polymerized stuff. He gets all the one-ups, all the samples. I can't sell them, but he can sell them. So, he has, you know, you come in, you're going to get special deals from him on the belts. But the bottom lines, he's just doing the program where he's starting to come in by a belt. He's going to have a product of the month. Ironically, you obviously, this is your show. This month, it's going to be, he's doing the fiber-lies. I love this stuff. And, you know, saying it commercial, but it's going to be, you're going to be able to come in by any belt you want, get a free product, like fiber-lies, off the door. And, you know, it's good for me. It's good for his customers. He's good for you as a supplier. It's just good for everybody. And nobody can do it. So, a free tub of fiber-lies, if you buy a belt. So, that's a great deal. It's almost worth making the trip up there. I think Jose Raymond made by a belt for me just to get a free tub. Jose, he's got a lot of belts. He's the best. And, you know what I mean? Like I said, it's all about customer service. We know Amazon is killing everything, but you still want to come in. You know, when I play sports, I went into the sporting goods because I wanted to talk to the guy about shorts, knew what you still want that feeling. You know what I mean? So, this is the place that all happens at. And, you know, with all the specials and all the cool things, this is, you know, we want to keep it. Amazon ain't going to hurt us. You're one of the few stores left. And there's a bunch out there. And I've seen those who have made appearances in some of these stores. And I tell these guys, they say, if you have a store, you service your customer. And you explain to them and help them with diet and supplementation. And you explain them why they're taking the stuff they're taking. People will buy from you and they won't buy from Amazon because they want to give you the business because they're so grateful for the information that you're giving them. Because let's face it. A lot of people just start working out. They just start getting into this. They have no idea about anything. They're so overwhelmed. They don't even know what to buy from Amazon if they even, if they even could go to Amazon. So, to come into a store like yours, be educated, find out what they should be using and why they're using it. They're willing to pay for that knowledge. And the way they pay for it is they patronage, they patronage, excuse me. They get patronage to your store and they purchase products from you. And I think that's a great thing that you guys are doing. And that's I think why you're so successful. And you know, besides the customer service, you come in and you're looking for something. He doesn't tell you get this, get to get all these things. He tells you what you need to get. He could make more money by selling different things, right? Everybody. He gives you what you want because what good is a customer that you dump something on. And they never come back. I have guys want all the belts, X number belts. They say, you don't want extra smalls. You're not going to sell any. I could sell a hundred more belts if I was just a dump belts on them and they stuck with a hundred belts. What good is that to me? I want them to buy the belts that are going to sell and keep re-automatic. Same thing with the customer. He feels comfortable. He comes in. Peter was a national policy champion. He's done it all. He's knowledgeable of what he's telling you. He gives you what you want. You're going to come back again and he's going to get sell you more stuff. You don't have to buy it all on one day. So it's trust. Trust is 21 years. I'm 32 years. You have to have a trust. You have to have loyalty and you have to have. That's what you have to have. That's what it is. You can't just screw people. Yeah. Where do you see the supplementary industry going in the next five, 10, 20 years from now? Would you see it pretty much saying the same? What do you think? We're going to have less companies, more companies. What's your take? Have a good historical perspective because you saw it from the inception. Yes. I am as on obviously is going to kill a lot of people. But I think they're going to kill everyone anyways. I think they're going to kill themselves eventually because we all know they're selling the stuff cheaper than what you sell it to them for. They're going through the old USA today deal where they would sell a paper for nickel to cost a quarter. They got the customers. But I don't think it's going to work like that in a supplement industry. I don't think it's going to work that way. I don't know. I hope that it doesn't hurt us, but you don't know what's going to happen. I got news to you Steve. I think Amazon doesn't sell as cheap as some of these other websites out there that I've seen. They're pretty good. They're not ridiculously low. But I think that some of the other websites will be more damaging to them. Amazon will probably write. But it just comes down to like, you know, when you want to find information, what do you say? Google it. What's the point where I want to get something to say? Amazon. It's just two words that are thrown out there. Well, people go there and they read their reviews. But you know, sometimes people, a lot of the bad reviews on Amazon are because of this gruntled customers, not necessarily because of product is bad. So you have to really interpret those reviews. For me, as a guy coming up, I still like going into a store and talking to a human being in person. And getting the information and hearing them say it to me and explain it to me, that is invaluable. I will pay for that information every single time. Now, obviously, once you know what you want, you know, where do you go by the product? Well, you know what, if someone gave me that much information and I found them to be that reliable, then I'm going to give you the business because I'm not going to shop you for a dollar. I'm not going to do that. Right. You'll loyal. That's what that's how it's supposed to be. You come in, you get the knowledge, you know, people, but some people will sell you well for a dollar. So they have to live with that. I mean, it's about, again, the customer service, the feeling you, I mean, he's friends with all these people. It's cost me said, but yes, he becomes friends. You, I would feel horrible buying something. You know, if I have a friend as a restaurant, I don't go to a different restaurant, and I feel horrible. I'm happy to have a guy cheat on my friend's restaurant. That's kind of the, that's kind of what I'm about. On his loyal is against it. If that's what I'm about. Let's see, you wrote people up there. Yeah, you've always been a whale type of guy. That's just your character. Let's see, you wrote a book a couple years ago. You told us about Coltones weightlifting, and you're making it available now on your website for free. Is that right? Yes. Well, what I did was my uncle, when I first started younger, he taught me, you know, I made some mistakes. I taught my, you know, I trained. Then when my nephew came around, I started him and was like, eight years old, the book is kind of written about him. It's called Howard Champion is made. So back in the early, I'm talking before, computer, and putting images, I actually documented his training, his records, all his things from the time he was 12 to the time of your 16 and a half. Wow. So I wrote the book on experience, my experience, making my mistakes, trying to take the time to stay for a while, giving to my nephew that turned out, you know, six, two, not something to grow. All that, both of you. Right. He became a successful athlete. He didn't make it to the next level in sports, but he became a successful businessman. That's what weight training does for us. It makes us, it makes us dedicated. It makes us, it makes us, it makes us, it's what it is, you know, you dieting, training. You just can't do it. It sounds easy, but it makes you a stronger, better person. So with that, you carry that through your life experience, and then he, you know, now he's in business, he's successful. He carried all those things with him. And now, you know, the book should be read by all kinds of kids, because it doesn't stop your growth. It doesn't slow you down. It doesn't do all this bullshit. It makes you a better athlete, makes you fast, a stronger, bigger. It's nutrition. It's so much. So everything I documented is in there. So I say, hey, selling books now with social media, you know, the world is the limit. It's not, money doesn't motivate me. I would rather help kids, kids, I was a school teacher. Kids still come up to your kid ran in today, dangly for being a good teacher. I was in, not he was in that world, not so, but, you know, we had a good feeling. And I, I said an example. I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't party, I could look at your son or your daughter and say, oh, you don't drink it. I don't drink it all. So I have no problem. I want to set an example. So I want the kids to know that you can, you can be successful in something. If you all get these traits early age and this is all done to weight training, I believe. So yes, the book is available. You just download it for free. The parents, the kids can read it. It's, I don't know. To me it's a good read. I have another little nephew coming up. I haven't hit him with the yet, but he's going to be the next generation where I will do more functional training where I have my nephew to power, if you know, you know, 15, looking back, maybe maybe not 1,500 to 15. But the next one will be more functional for athleticism rather than, you know, training. I think it's great. My son is obviously only 2 and a half, but you know, I'm already thinking, all right, what are we going to get him into a little league and football and all this, and obviously you know, weight training and eating properly is going to be a big part of his program. I think it's for, you know, I obviously have a lot of experience in this, but you know, for the average parent, they don't know anything about this stuff. So that's a great book to them to be able to download for free, go through and use what they want out of the book and at least not feel like they're lost and they're not misguiding their kids, you know? And you know, it's, it's document that is not just someone reading it and telling you, it's documented. I've been on studies at Tufts University on protein. I've done it all so I'm giving you my experience, some the haulage, but more experience on experimentation and the outcome is, is where you want to be. You cannot compete today in any sport if you do not wait for him. I agree. I agree. I agree. You know, you're way behind it. If you don't stop young in the guy that is a stronger faster, dedicated to terming guy will out be just a talented, which does nothing. Cultures don't even want them anymore. No, you know, you know, back when we were kids, we did pushups and pullups and sit up to somebody that, but now wait for him, he is the thing and you're right. It gives these kids an advantage because they're stronger and, you know, they're more powerful and the field they're more explosive. And let's face it. That's what, you know, athletics is all about having those those traits. So I think it's a great service you're doing and the website is what Steve Cardillo.com. No, my website is Cadillula USA. I'll be pumping it up on it. I'll be pumping a social media. I get a lot of celebrities going to be kind of throwing it out there a lot of athletes who be throwing it out there just because like I said, I don't want any money. I was going to try to get a doll of the charity, but I'll get charity in other ways, which I usually do. But the belt is, I mean, the book is strictly free. I just want kids to be comfortable in their parents to be comfortable, so that it's just good. It's just the way it should be. They should, you know, they should be able to feel comfortable about it because parents are concerned about stunting the growth and all the other stuff. Steve, a final question. How many belts do you think you've solved in the last 32 years? Oh, God, man. We can't go to that. We can't go down there. A lot of belts. Just a reboc deal alone was good enough. Over 10,000? Oh, wait, wait more than 10 dollars. Wow. When I was a reboc, I was in 13 of the major chains. Wow. Yeah. It's done. I'm sports authority. All the big boys. I didn't know that. And that was five years into the business. So I pollinate a little bit and just kept going. Congratulations, Steve. I know all your business, uh, acumen and accomplishments and thanks for always supporting us species nutrition and the arts muscle website. And we'll get you back again. We'll get some more updates on what's going on in your life. And you're an interesting guy and the fans love you. I really appreciate you. The show I appreciate you having me on. I love your products and anything you've been through and what we'll do is we will have a giveaway with the species belt when this is is. Oh, we'll be good to go. All right. How are we going to do that? We're going to win that thing. Well, they're going to go to like Kiddillo weight belts, Instagram, right? And there'll be a whole thing. Basically, just simply just follow both of us. Put a comment on your waist size and I pick one person who's deserving of the belt and that's how you get them. All right. I hear you. You guys. It doesn't get much better than that. That's it. Species belt is up for grabs. Hit the cardill. That's the gram and make sure you put your wet waist size up there. Put a picture yourself up. Tell us how much you love the cardill of belts. When you might receive a free species nutrition, one of a kind green belt. So, thanks for coming on. Appreciate you. Take you time. Thank you, my friend. I appreciate it. All right. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of live with brought you by species nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and we'll see you next time.

Dave Palomo here with an RX muscle news update. We have with us today our IFB Texas Pro men's open second place finisher Steve Kouklo. We got him here direct from the stage. Dave, welcome back to the show. We love you here and show a lot of support for you. It was a tough loss for you and Texas this past weekend. It was, well thank you Dave for having me. I always love being on your show and your reports, man. You're always on top of it and yeah, it's kind of the smokes clear a little bit from the weekend. So kind of digesting what happened and evaluating the show results. So, you know, yeah, yes, you could say this appointment is there. Yes. Let's go over Steve's strategy. I mean, you look great. I mean, you can see in the pictures here. I mean, the tremendous, I thought this was your probably your best luck ever. I mean, you looked like you actually added some muscle from where I should. Did you? I did. I did. Through this crap, my body was really fresh. I really took the time to rest, let my body recover and he little magic injuries and, you know, just let everything work. You know, rest of my receptors, everything. You know, I'm a guy that likes to, that's why I've been doing this for 17 years and how I've been able to do it for so long is just I've played the long game. I play the try to be the smart one when it comes to, you know, supplements, training, everything that's involved and what we have to do. So, through this prep, I think I added, I started my prep at like 278 and I finished it at post the two night, two 90s. Wow. Wow. Literally Thursday, I was 291 before the show. Are you kidding me? You weighed that much. I mean, you look like you did. I, that's incredible. You've been sitting in same games over the years and you're right. You've done it very incrementally, gradually. You don't compete too much. You don't put your body up to much stress and, you know, it shows. I mean, you had a fresh look. I thought your body was real fresh here and I thought it was like I said, I think you guys picked your, pick your perfectly. Thank you. Yeah. I think we, we've, Gene and I've really kind of dialed in what is my, what it takes. Obviously, you haven't such a big physique and big flame. It takes a lot to fill out. And if I, I can't get away with a flat look because it just makes me look soft and out of shape. So we need to have a real full look and that'll give me a drier appearance. And so we have to really push the food. And we did, we didn't, we didn't go for in same fullness, but we went for full and dry. And we got a good formula that really kind of blends both worlds, you know. Yeah. And Gene and Davis is your cousin, you got a man who's a pro in her own right. And we know Gene and real well. And you know, it's it's she, there's not many men out there that actually have women coaches. You know, how did you a Gene kind of like, you know, get together in terms of like, you know, saying, hey, she really works well with my personality and, and she knows my physique. Well, she, she's an Oklahoma, which is a couple hour drive for more on that, which is nice. But I saw her take a few local guys that didn't have a lot of, it didn't have great genetics that weren't great bodybuilders. And she made them look really good. And that was impressive to me. When you can take a piece of cold, turn it and then I'm, I'm impressed, you know, not taking somebody like, you know, flex Lewis or, you know, and just saying, you know, my mom could prep flex Lewis or he could get a job. But I think, you know, she did a really good job with that. I sat with her. We kind of talked about strategy and how she likes to do things and it really align to what I knew and what I liked. What I think are kind of works for me. And I just, I put, she put me through a training session. Damn, they're killed me. And I said, that's, that's the, the person I knew in my corner. And she really, she cares, she spends a ton of times, she's very attentive to details. And it's, she's, by far, the best coach I've had. Yeah. Well, you know, like I said, do you have to find, I always tell people this, this, this coach should never feel like, hey, I have to have every athlete because there's so many people out there that you'll always, if you're a good coach, you're going to have a ton of people. I always have a full stable of people that I work with because, you know, my personality meshes with the right people and that's, people I work with. And that's exactly what happened with you. Now, let's get, let's go to the show. You pick the Texas Pro. It's in your own backyard, obviously. You know, you, you don't have to drive anywhere. You know that that's going to make you, you're, you're, you're best at the end of the day. And you kind of put all your cards into one basket in the sense you had a win this show to qualify for the Olympics. Talk to you about what, what was the rationale behind taking the show? Well, I knew it was getting light and season and, and like we've discussed and like we know there, there was limited shows this year. There was a lot. There wasn't quite the schedule with a normal year. And a lot of them were pushed to the later, it was pretty, it, it, it, it, it, it, it came up to the deadline of what the, it wouldn't be a cutoff is. So I mean, I knew there was Chicago, I knew there was Tampa and the Texas show. And I figured, you know, if, if any show, I feel like I can go to a regional, I have enough confidence in myself. I can go to a regional show and I could, I could win that show. You know, bar somebody like, you know, bone actor, big brownie or curried coming in, we're going to be like, man, it's going to be a battle. I feel like, you know, I got enough confidence, like I said, where I can go to a show within minutes. And I said, if I bring it, like I need to, and I, I feel like I can, I could go to this Texas show when it, and I trained for it, like it was a, the Mr. Olympia show. I, I, I didn't kind of go half assets. You know, if I come in 80% or 90% I can win it. I was like, no, I want to freaking mail it. I want to bring a, of package that is, is undeniable. And I felt like I brought a very solid package to this. And the Texas show was, like you said, is in my backyard. I was, I've been able to compete in front of a lot of my friends and family in, in many, many years. Um, just because they haven't had a Texas pro show and it's hard to, a lot of people to travel, you know, with families and stuff. So I've been million people that too. I did. I mean, that was that was just pre-judging. I had probably 40 or 50 more show up at finals. And that's could, um, which was great. I mean, I just, that energy that gives you is incredible. So I, all those things play factors into reasoning why I really want to put all my eggs in that basket. And I feel like it was, um, I think it, I still believe it was the right, the right choice. And you know, I wanted to do the Arnold and then Olympia, which I'm going to do the Arnold. So that's, that's, um, you know, still the plan. Yeah. And obviously, you know, as far as qualified as, oh, this was the last weekend of qualifying in terms of like the Olympia. But then they made the Arnold, um, I guess they made an extension for that. And they said, okay, you know what, the winner of the Arnold will qualify for this year as Olympia. Now, I have a couple of issues. First of all, let's, you know, before we talk about the qualification, let's talk about the show. So you're ready to do the Texas show. Pretty much, it was Steve Couplo show, everyone's talking about it. And the E in Valier decides, you know what, I'm going to jump in this show too. Because you know what, there's money up from grabs. And I'm in the U.S. Anyway, I had to come in from Canada. I'm not, I'm going to put it up there, which I think was a good move on his part. I mean, I can understand him doing that. Um, obviously, now you know, you got a guy who's who can match up to your size and structure wise. So obviously, the strategy doesn't change. The strategy is bring your best. But obviously, did you feel like, oh, now I might have an issue in terms of qualification goes because now it's only really the winner. You didn't do a lot of shows that she just was your only show. Obviously, you weren't going to be able to qualify in points. You had a win the show, essentially. Right. Right. It put a little bit more pressure factor in that, absolutely. And if anything, that kind of drives me to say, hey, we got to, we have to win this. It's not like, well, I could do one more next weekend. Um, you know, I start seeing the, I figured a lot of the guys were just kind of just continuing the shows, which some were continuations from Chicago, the guys that did Chicago, guys that they tamper. Yeah. So I knew it was going to be kind of the guys that wanted to just keep on trying to qualify. But Ian jumping in, it didn't change the game plan at all. And if anything, you know, I knew I'd rather go get somebody like Ian and Phil and Hassan and these guys that, you know, are good bodybuilders and then beat them and prove to everybody that, hey, you know, I am a real contender. Right. Yeah. And obviously, I know you're not a kind of guy that's going to like shy away from competition. But sure. What happens now is obviously, Ian steps in, pre-judging goes on. Everyone pretty much, I, everyone I talked at least. I mean, I wasn't at the show, but I looked at all the pictures in the videos. Pretty much people had you winning pre-judging. I mean, I did a wrap up after, and I was like, I think Kuklo's got him, you were little tighter than Ian at pre-judging. Strutually, you guys match up really well. You both have big structures. And I actually think that you're back double kind of wanted for you in that sense, because you got a better back double than everyone aligned it pretty much there. Did you feel confident coming off the stage after pre-judging? I did. You know, the Tyler worked us real hard. And it was probably one of the hardest I worked that stage, which was great, because I love to work it. I mean, they get the adrenaline, especially when you got all the people there cheering you on. It was incredible. And I, I think there was at one point during pre-judging when we were doing. So we had the initial call out. I put me in the middle, felt great. You know, did some, did some moving around, and then they pulled us off. And I knew they were going to call us back out. The call was back out for the final call out. There's three of us fill Ian in myself. And then we ended up, put us three, had me in the middle. Rantra all our poses. And then we, they did it. They switched it around. I think they put Ian at that point in the middle. And they're playing games. They're like, man, they're just thinking, they're just thinking for the fans. Yeah. Landra all the poses again. And then Tyler looked at us. He goes, let's do it one more time, guys. I know that point. And then it was that adrenaline's going. And you got like, I got to slow down my heart rate a little bit. Because I'm amped up right now. And it wasn't a stage. I mean, I want to, it's like a, it's a battle. It's fight. I'm not just kind of, oh, this is great. And happy. I'm like, fuck. Yeah, I'm ready to rock. Yeah. So we, you know, they moved it around. And obviously, for people that are watching online, the people that are seeing pictures, like, oh, it's still going to win. It's either going to win or Steve going to win. So it definitely had the entertainment value to it. But walking away from prejudging, I felt like it was, it was my show. Yeah. And I like, you know, I like the fact that Tyler actually is mixing it up and letting you guys all match up. Because when you're in the middle, there's a different energy and there's a different look. So it gives everyone a chance in that middle. Now make your assessment who's the best. I looked at all those pictures. I really thought you had it after pre-judging. And I'm a big Ian of value, I fan because I think he's got a tremendous physique. As well, I thought he wasn't quite as sharp. So it comes back. So nice show comes. You guys come back at night. Ian comes back a little drier. Okay. I thought you guys still match up really well. I said, you know what? Steve won pre-judging. I think they're tied at night. I think Steve's going to win this show. I can't see him losing it. And at the end of the day, obviously, it comes back that Ian wins. And I want to look at the scorecards. I was a little confused because I was surprised that they had Ian by one point winning pre-judging. And I really think that's kind of what pushed them over the edge. Even if it didn't mathematically push them over the edge. I think psychologically, but the judges that pushed them over the edge because they did have them winning pre-judging. I was having trouble coming to grips with, I think. Yeah, it was now seeing the scorecard how it was scored. I mean, obviously, it was very close. Tyler even announced during the pre-judging in finals. Okay, this is really close. Right. More live judging the finals just because, you know, and we ran through another show around of comparisons for that. I mean, you made this work and that was for now. I loved it. And that's, you're kind of walking away from it. I think the, now kind of thinking about it because Sunday, or, or, or right after the show, it's kind of a blurry yesterday was a little bit of a blur because I'm still kind of amped up from the weekend. And this morning I was just kind of thinking about it. And, you know, like you said, it's done. It was disappointing. I felt like I felt confident enough in what I brought to get a W. So, I mean, my hat's off to Ian because he won. He looked great. There was points during posing with that, that I felt like he was fading a little bit just from, I think struggling a little bit getting some poses. That was ready or hitting the pose. And I look at over it. I'm like, you mean, you're even imposing. And I'm like, you're just trying to call him next pose. So, that was one of my only things. But, you know, it was, it was, it was a very hard fought show. I mean, I had some friends that never did a show before. And they all were like, man, that was the energy. And everything you guys did was incredible. Yeah, I agree. I loved watching the pictures and I saw all the videos. And I, I almost wish I was there that I could feel that energy was definitely palpable. And I know I, I've been to shows where your family's there. I've sat next to your mom when you turn pro. I mean, there's a lot of energy in that place because your family goes crazy. You know, when you're there. The family was on fire for six. And so I understand that. Now, my, my thing is, you know, I believe, and I don't want to miss quote because, but I believe that you're roped to show that they held the day after in Spain gave two qualifications spots. And I believe they did that because that there wasn't that many shows in Europe this year. But, you know, seeing that and seeing how close you guys were and knowing that you're legitimately a top six Olympia guy now, I'm surprised that since Ian qualified, they didn't extend another qualification spot to you. Because it only seems like fair given the fact that, you know, they're going to give to in Europe. So, I, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't know. I, I, I think the whole qualification series is a little screwed up because of COVID, you know, that wasn't enough shows to do. Guys had, you know, picking, choose what they were going to do. And I knew this was, we predicted, as I've been talking about this on heavy muscle radio for weeks, I see, someone's going to get excluded, right? Guys that belong on the Olympia Sage are not going to get to go because there's just not enough shows. You're going to get these guys that have the ability to peak 400 times a year. They're going to do 20 shows and they're going to qualify. And that's exactly what we see from the common L.A. mom and, and, and I forget to also, from, like in my mind a minute, those guys qualify because they did so many shows that they accumulated points. Yeah. Now, you're going into the Arnold, you have to win the show to qualify. Why not, why not open the Arnold to top three? I mean, I think at the top, top three in that line, would deserve to go to the Olympia this year. Absolutely. I mean, the Arnold's always been the Olympia minus one or two guys. And it's, it's, it's, look at the line up in the Arnold right now. It is the Mr. Olympia minus big-rowing curry. And I think you look at the line up and with, if you take top three, those top three guys are going to be in the top five of Mr. Olympia as well. Absolutely. They were. I, I think that would be something awesome if they could do that. Absolutely. I would, I would encourage that. I would be behind that and, and I think that needs to happen. I think that would solve the problem because let's face it. You and Ian were essentially tied. I mean, I, I had you in a tie at night show. If they did give you in the pre-judged and then you deserve to win, but you know what? The truth is, you both deserve to go to the Olympia. And so rather than do a special invite because we, we know that that whole thing because then if you get one, he should get one. Make the, make it a qualification. You have one more big show. You got the Arnold. Make it top three. Send those guys to the Olympia. I don't think anyone would complain if it was a qualified or qualification inspired, you know, invite, so to speak. Absolutely. Or, or like if, if a guy's qualified, just, let's go down in the next one if he beats him and, and, you know, in the case like Ian was qualified and he could pass the qualification down. That, I mean, they do that a lot of times in national level shows. Yeah. With, with Procard. Yeah. Guys, crossover. They'll just go down the next one and get the, you know, Procard kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think I'm going to know what the stage for sure. I want to be there, you know that. And the fact that you're so, yeah. I mean, it's, it's, and it's a weird year. They have to make a combination for weird years. I mean, this is not typical. I'm a rule, I'm a rule guy. I like rules. I, I, I live my whole life around rules, maybe too much so. But when you have things that go wrong and the season gets shortened and it doesn't start to April, you got to, you got to kind of make a combination for that. It should still be qualification inspired, but I think that you got to give guys the ability to, to qualify, you know, more so than they might have in normal years. So it's absolutely absolutely. I don't even understand why the Arnold would be a qualification, qualify for next year anyway. What, it's, they afraid that if they can have to buy an extra plane ticket in a month out and then not to have a, I mean, what's the problem? I mean, what they, they probably, they have 30 or 40, you know, classic disease, men's disease, we're taking a competitor. So why not have the bit? I'm gonna have 25 big boys up there. Right. Right. Right. But the point is back in the, I remember in the 90s, if you qualified the week before, you were at the Arnold, I mean, you were at the Olympia the next week, you know? Yeah. Exactly. Absolutely. I thought originally they made the rule in a month out because they wanted to book flights for people and stuff like that, you know, I think that, yeah. I get, yeah. This is a different story. This is the Mr. Olympia. It's not the bikini Olympia. Or not to take anything away from that. Well, this is Mr. Olympia. You want your best men in the world on stage on that day, you know? And you're certainly belong on that stage. There's no sense. Yeah. And, you know, I could be, I'm confident saying not in an ego way, but I know I bring a lot of stands to shows. I know that, you know, I have a good fan following and I don't think you'll, I bring 25 member, your family members to every show. But I think, you know, the fan side a bit, there's a lot of fans that want to see me there. A lot of stands that are, you know, would come just because, hey, I'm a huge fan of Steve and I want to see him compete. It's going to be at the Mr. Olympia. So there's a lot of value there, absolutely. Well, I know Steve, I see, I know you and I know Gina and I know that we're going to see if the Arnold Plastic is going to be knock your socks off, Ku Klow on stage because obviously now there's a, assuming they don't change anything, you got to win this show. You know, if you want to go to the Olympia. So this is your Olympia. Steve, you better bring it. It is. And you know, I mean, another, what is about five weeks until the Arnold, yeah, that amount of time to kind of make some little refinements and sharpen up, it's Arnold's going to be an nasty package. I mean, I'm, it's, it's going to be something that I want to bring an undeniable package that could, could absolutely win it. It's not good. I'm not going there to place top three. I'm really going there to win. And I think I want to stand next to William. I made the improvements I need to make to get to come out with the W. Well, you know, great job this past weekend. You look off. I think that you guys, you know, I always tell people, if you look your best on stage, no matter what the judges award you or don't want to award you, if there's someone better than you, if you look your best, you did your job. And you made your improvements and you brought the conditioning you need to bring. So there's nothing left to do. You know, that's it. That's show, you know. Yeah, absolutely. And I think, you know, a lot of people when they see photos of me say online or stuff that I post are like, you know, we look good. He's a big guy. And then when they see me on stage next to people, they realize how big you know, my structure in, in person, in person, you know. And I had people before the show, you know, talking about a few of the guys that were competing, that it's a freaking huge. And you got, you're worried about it. And I was like, just wait, I stand next to him. And then I did, like, man, you kind of made those guys look small. I remember when you did, I think you won your class or maybe even came in second of teenagers, what was that? Oh, four and oh, five. Yeah. Oh my god. Were you second in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, I won the teen. You won the class. Me, didn't win the overall, right? I won the heavy weights both years. Uh, full of. And what did you weigh this back then? Uh, two, two, ten and two. No, first one was like two, eight and the next one was like two, twelve or something like that. Wow. And so you're like, you're like almost like 80 pounds more muscle now. It's a thing when you think about it, right? It's the same when I think about it. Yeah, but like you said, you know, we played the long, we played the marathon game instead of the sprint. And it's how I've been able, most guys have done the teen nationals. They're not around anymore. Now, now they burnt out, yeah. Yeah. You're one of the, you know, the, the, the, the guys that actually made it Nick Walker. Obviously, in the guy, you know, who's been around. Hopefully we'll see what his staying power is. But, you know, he's another. Another guy who kind of has a physique reminiscent of yours. But, sir, Steve, congratulations to you and Gina. We'll see you at the Arnold Classic. And thanks for joining us today. Thank you, Dave. I appreciate it. And hopefully we can get some traction on getting some more qualifications. Absolutely. We'll put it out there to the universe. And hopefully it will come back and there will be some, there'll be some new rule changes. But let's see. Yeah, that's great. We're out of time on Daypalomo here with Steve Kouklo for another RX muscle news update.

Day, Palombo here with an RX muscle news update. The Texas Pro pre-judging is let out and the men's open division. Three man race as we predicted. Ian Valleier coming off that big win in Chicago coming into Steve Kouklo's home state there where Steve was trying to qualify for the Mr. Olympia competition. This was his show, he picked, this is his show that he usually owns and Phil Kohar coming off that close second place behind Valleary in Chicago. So we knew this was going to be a big battle and Steve Kouklo obviously was ready well rested and you know what, it's shown here. You can see Kouklo looks real good, obviously he's got the big structure just like Ian Valleier maybe bigger. He's a wider, he's got a really dramatic shape on stage and he takes up a lot of space. When you occupy a lot of space on stage that looks very impressive and that's why Valleier and Kouklo are both really impressive bodybuilders kind of like if you think of Jay Koutler you think of Dennis Wolf, big structures in the lineup they stick out. Kohar, smaller structured, good shape, small ways, good taper, great from behind but doesn't look as much in terms of wow when you see him standing in the lineup you have to kind of see him as he goes through his poses and that's when he starts getting super impressive. So when I see a lineup like this I say to myself man these judges have got their work cut out to them and you know what, I wouldn't want to be up there judging him because you're nitpicking at this point because there's so close these guys up there and if you look in the lineup here you can see it you know Kouklo on the the App thigh shot very, very dominant he could stand. He hits this shot straight on very few people can hit that shot straight on and look that good because he's got a really good V taper he's got the good legs you know in Valleier obviously with the great abs you know I think it's a mistake that he doesn't hit this shot straight on because he and has a very you know small waist and really good structure too so I don't know why he hits it in this side position. He could have just been an intermediate shot he was saying Kloha are also good but once again not as big structured. When you start to see from behind when we start to look at the breakdown from behind that's when we start to see Phil Kloha shine and the reason is because he has got a lot of wow from behind he is the second guy from the left there in the green trunks and you can see that he has got a great V taper from behind his back. He's probably get the best back in the line if I would say is glutes and hands are shredded even probably the most shredded in the line of even Kloha's shredded but I think Kloha has got nicer glutes and hamstring tians than Kloha does but Kloha is just so big from behind. I think you know if you're asking me and you know once again this show is not been decided yet. To me when I look at this line of I see Kloha all day long because I see a big structure I see tremendous conditioning he beats in on the back double by subshot because in his is a little his back is the belt man is not quite as good as Kloha's he's not opening up in that shot as well either. Kloha smiling he's confident I don't know why he and this is my one stage but he's got to learn to really project more I mean Kloha looks like he's you know the million dollar man up there and Kloha unfortunately gets caught up in a in a situation where he's really good probably his absolute best but from the front and the size he doesn't have as much with as these other guys and I think that's gonna relegate him probably to second or third. I think that Ian's gonna be a solid second I think Kloha's gonna win this show and Kloha fight for the Olympia I think also he's got to be once again a favorite just because he's in his home state. Ian's already qualified not that the judges are gonna pick someone just for qualification spot but I think Kloha did enough here to win this. Will he win the event we don't know until later today this show is hardly over and that's what makes you know it exciting because tonight they can come back and I'm sure they're gonna read judges thing and we can see a completely different you know outcome but my money is gone with Steve Kloha for the win value area is second and Phil Kloha and third we'll find out later and I'll do a full wrap up of the entire top six for now I'm Dave Blumbo with an Rx muscle news update.

Daypalomo here with another RX supplement review and you know there's been a couple of healing peptides on the market and to let everyone know what a peptide is. A peptide is the sequence of amino acids, protein basically. When linked together in a certain sequence using certain amino acids create some sort of a hormonal product and the peptides that have been cell sold on the market probably for the last 10 years now in a great type of area have done a lot of different things anywhere from growth hormone release to IGF1 simulation to now this whole new category of what we call healing peptides that are out there on the market. Now as you know I'm very good friends with the people at the Titan Medical Center at Titan Medical Center dot com and they have been having their compounding labs work on some of these healing peptides to help provide a viable source of them from a legitimate United States pharmacy to people who are interested in using them to help tissue regeneration. I talked a little bit a few weeks ago about BPC of 157 and I had a really good experiment with that. I was feeling really good on it. Well I just received the newest healing peptide from Titan Medical Center and it's known as TB4 or thymus in beta4. This is a slightly different healing peptide. Once again it's involved in tissue regeneration. Matter of fact there's been a lot of studies on this one particular healing peptide with regard to cardiac healing. So if you've had any kind of cardiac episodes or damaged your heart possible you know possibly maybe from blockages there we had some you know some lack of oxygen to the muscle and you had some death in the cell muscle maybe you're not producing a good cardiac output from your left ventricle maybe you just have rhythm or abnormalities like I do I have a slight rhythmia supposedly at least from the research I'm reading TB4 has some great cardiac regenerative effects and the way it implements this is it stimulates satellite cells also known as stem cells we know them today as stem cells and it takes these tells these stem cells to turn into new cardiac tissue so it'll help repair a damaged heart or maybe fix a heart that's not working exactly the way it should be. The good thing is that that TB4 can do this in muscle tissue as well so surrounding all the muscle cells in our body we have a different shape of cells that we used to call satellite cells now we call them stem cells and supposedly TB4 can help you know repair damage there mostly but it's mostly works it's magic intendons ligaments okay and connective tissue so if you have joint issues if you have tendon problems TB4 might be a good solution for you I received mine in the mail the other day I started taking it I'm going to report you know I'll report exactly the benefits that I'm getting from it but I will say this I'm not a sore when I do go to the gym I don't go to the gym that much and here's the problem because I only go to the gym sometimes once a week I get really sore after okay because I'm not you know when you go regularly you just don't get sore anymore but so I do and I've noticed that when I started taking the TB4 I'm actually regenerating faster I'm actually not getting that's soreness for two or three days after that the lay the muscle soreness and I think my body is healing it and for me I know this is an important thing because I'm not taking anything else I take no hormone replacement right now I'm on a little bit of Hcg you know maybe once every two weeks but other than that I'm on nothing else so just adding the TB4 definitely has improved my ability to recover from workouts how it's doing that like I said I don't know specifically but I think from the research it shows that the body is is recruiting these stem cells and allowing them to help heal the tissue and actually add to the tissue so theoretically you could be increasing your your genetic pool of muscle cells but I think more so it's really target it seems to be targeting tissue muscle tissue as well as connective tissue I have joint problems once again I have a really bad right shoulder the left shoulder has been replaced so this is my good shoulder now and you know I'm trying to delay getting this one done maybe till the end of the year and I'm in you know having trouble sleeping in night since I started taking the TB4 I haven't been in in pain at night and that's a good sign for me so once again I don't think I'm going to heal all the joint degeneration in there with the stuff but if it's going to help delay and help my body recover that's that's very promising and it's promising for for guys who are bodybuilding who maybe just started to damage their body and then there's I might be too late and I shall do but you guys out there you know you're damaging muscle your repair muscle tissue by eating your protein you take animal austerity build muscle tissue but what do you really do if you join to connective tissue TB4 maybe the answer you know how much to take I've been taking 400 micrograms per day and from what I've you know the research I've read from the people I've talked to if you do that for about two weeks you can then kind of cut back to maybe twice or three times a week as a maintenance type dose you don't have to do it every day but I would advise doing for two or three weeks in a row initially to heal whatever you know is yelling you joint wise or muscle wise once you feel better then you can implement a maintenance dose to the stuff and once again I love the fact that it has great effects on cardiac tissue I also speculate that it might help kidney regeneration as well and liver you know because it it seems weird that it would work on connected tissue muscle and and heart but it wouldn't do these other things the reason why we don't know for sure is that they have another research yet the research has been on cardiac tissue especially which is very promising is after so-ins had a hard attack and they've actually had hypoxic damage that means the the tissues of them a heart haven't been exposed to enough oxygen because it was a blockage in an artery and the tissues died or had you know cell death there when they gave the TV for these tissues regenerated or new satellite cells or new stem cells came in and took the place of these old dead cells and remodel the heart very very promising product if you guys want to check it out you go over to titemeticalscenter.com you can tell in day Palombo our ax muscle set you they're going to give you a great discount and they're going to get you started on this product and I'm telling you you know it you have no fear because you know it's being made in a US pharmacy it's not coming from China you know the word making time and answer or whether what you're using is really TV for this is the real deal check it out once again titemetical center dot com telling day Palombo sent you

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Food Expo, so it's 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Polumbo and today is Wednesday, June 2, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. It's the first Wednesday of June, and hopefully the sun is shining wherever you're watching this from. But if it's not hopefully this brand new edition of Recap Wednesday, we'll be enough to get you through the day. So let's get things started with a recap of the Cal Pro. With the big headline here coming from Patrick Moore, as he secured his trip back to the Olympia stage by delivering the best performance of his career. Muhammad Shabon slid comfortably into second in his season debut, edging out another strong effort from third place finisher, Hassan Mustafa, fourth place went to Mokamit, Elamon, and closing out this really impressive top five was Eddie Bracamante's, who's actually placed top five or better here for three straight years. Midwest, we had another big event on the slate at the first annual Milwaukee Titan Pro, and we're starting off our coverage here with the classic physique division where we saw George Calalau bring in his all-time best, which helped him punches ticket to the Olympia weekend for the first time in his career. In men's physique, one of our pre-show favorites, Rodriga, Chesner, kept his hot streak alive by earning his first win of the season. The bikini division was a little bit of a surprise here, mostly because second year pro, Chanky Lee basically came from out of nowhere to beat a lineup full of current and former Olympians, so congratulations to her for a job well done, and in wellness, the two names we gave you in our weekend preview last Friday came out and made us look smart, as Isabella Nunez earned her win and second place finisher's sunny Andrews finally earned her Olympia qualification after stringing together her third straight top three finish of the season. For going to keep it in the Midwest for this next second because what we saw from Derek Lundsford at the NPC Grand Rapids last weekend was too good not to share. Derek went on stage as the featured guest poiser and damn the ihrbwrote the entire house down by stepping out there and looking like some sort of cartoon character. We followed Derek throughout his entire offseason process and after seeing this, I think we can honestly say that he's never been this big and look this good before full stop. I know there's been a lot of talk from Keon Pearson and even George Peterson to a certain degree and those two both deserve all the praise they get. But Derek's name deserves to be mentioned right up there with the best of them. He's at another level now and hopefully everyone else in the division is paying attention unless of course we see him in the open. And finally, I wanted to close out today's show by sending my thoughts and prayers out to Dusty Hanshaw who's dealing with some serious medical issues right now which many of you may have already heard about. I don't want to go into the details of what happens here because I don't think it is the right form for that. You want the full story behind what's going on. You could find it at the Go Fund Me link on this Instagram page. I'm encouraging all of you to go out there and check it out and if you're able to make a donation to support Dusty and his family, I'm sure your generosity would not be lost on them. But even if you aren't able to, we all have the ability to send our thoughts, prayers and best wishes out to Dusty family and friends in a time when they desperately needed. Get well soon, champ. We're all rooting for you. And that doesn't be any other addition of muscle in the morning. On day polumbal reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning on Day of Palombo and today is Thursday July 5, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes a little change of scenery helps you get your mind and your body back into a clear space. It allows you to grow and evolve. But if you don't believe me, all you need to do is take one good look at Classic Physicist standout, David Petra and you'll start to figure it out. After spending a few years battling it out of the 2012 division, Petra looks like he's finally found his natural home over in Classic Physic. Where you put together the best effort of his career last month back at the Omaha Pro. The rumors I'm hearing from my people close to the Petra camp tell me that he's ready to bring his talents across the border to the Vancouver Pro this weekend. We're hoping to put together his second straight top five finish from a conditioning standpoint. This guy should be right up there as one of the top two or three athletes on the stage. So if you can come in full enough to really make it all pop, he's got enough of the tag to put himself in contention for the victory. Listen up, if you're an athlete competing in the 2018 Mr. Olympia, now a big good time for you to turn away quickly, otherwise you risk taking a mic Tyson 1988 style gut punch right here. But for everyone else, what you're looking at right now is in some Photoshop deal. What you're seeing is a brand new big ramen update that was released earlier this week from Oxygen Jim owner, Beta Vedaid. I don't know if Beta's been out there casting new spells on the magic mirror or what, but the ramen we see in these photos looks like something that steps straight out of a spaceship from another planet. Whether or not this ends up being another desert garage 10 weeks from now is still really anyone's guess at this point. But if this crazy is fine to wait to actually touch down on stage, I'll go and record right now and say that Phil heats run to tie the title is in some serious trouble. About a month or so ago, I had someone tell me that the NDC TV show Chicago Fire is one of the most underrated binge watch TV network shows of all time. But two days from now, the only fire I'm concerned with out there in the Wendy city is the one that Sergio Leave Jr's bringing with him to the Chicago Pro stage over the last two weeks. So Sergio has been cranking up the hype machine to another level now that he's knocking on the door up performing right there in front of the city that made him for his season debut. Even if you take the home cooking element out of the equation, you still can't forget the lingering beef that Sergio has with you know who, which only as even more fuel to the fire heading into the weekend. So now that he's about to have the pressure all on him, let's see if the young kid has what it takes to handle the heat that goes along with putting yourself in the spotlight. Speaking of a Chicago Pro right now, at least on paper, it looks like the two 12 line up as anyone's for the taking and one athlete who looks like he might be ready to step up to the plate. It's soon to be rookie sensation on me, Juma. The former UK national champ is less than 48 hours away now from touching down for his IFBD Pro League debut. And what a lot of people in the know have been saying is that he's got a shot at coming in and pushing for a top five spot. So when you look at what he did at the amateur level, it's obvious that Juma has one of those super round 3D looks that always seems to do well at the 212 level. So if you can handle his business from a conditioning standpoint and show up at his all-time best, he's a guy who could really upset the lineup by sneaking out there with the win before anyone even knows what hit them. And that does it the end another edition of Muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thanks for watching!

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the Ocar Pauktart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Polumbo and today is Wednesday, June 9th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to Recap Wednesday. It's the first week of June, the sign is shining and we've got a great show lined up for you today, starting with the Recap of the Mile High Pro. It thens physique Javier Mullings continue to strong run by cruising to his first win of the season. Second place went to Joseph Lee, who looked great in his season debut, and last year's win a Corey Morris rounded out a really strong top three group. In bikini it was all about Ashley Colt-Wasser, who came back and successfully defended her title with ease on the way to wrapping up another easy win. Corey Hagueman brought home a well-deserved second place here in her pro debut and closing out our coverage here is third place finisher Jimmy Marley, who also put together her best look of the year. Down on the beautiful shores of South Beach, we also had another prime time event at the Miami Convention Center, where they hosted this year's Miami Muscle Beach pro. And we're going to start off with our coverage here with the classic physique division where Zee canjrew's put an exclamation point on his standout rookie season by locking up his first win and a well-deserved Olympia qualification. immense physique Daniel Amons came in and dominated from wire to wire on his way to collecting another huge win here in the open and in the master's bench physique, Tampenate of Winston Sullivan scored straight first across the board to bring home the W. In master's figure Jessica Horté was in a class by herself as she crews to an un-cantested victory and we're wrapping up our coverage here with the master's bikini where another Florida native in Abiletta Garcia brought home the win. Those were the only two shows on this schedule last weekend and we're going to shift gears for a minute and look ahead at a few shows coming up down the road starting with this update from William Martin's who's preparing to make his I.F.B.D. debut at the Puerto Rico pro three weeks from now. Rumor has it that William will also step on stage weighing somewhere north of 270 pounds which would easily make him one of the biggest athletes in the building. From a conditioning standpoint, he's already in better shape than he's ever been at any point in his career which only makes him even more dangerous because when someone with his size comes in peel and dry it creates problems where everyone else in the lineup regardless of who else his up there on that stage. We talked a little bit about the inaugural Arnold UK and some of the implications it could have on the Olympia in October since they're only two weeks apart. And even though it's still a little early to have any real sense about who we can expect to see on stage in that first week in October we did find out a few days ago that Samson Douba announced that he's officially planning to compete there. Samson's been a little bit of a unicorn over the last year and a half in the sense that we've heard about him and we've talked about him but we really haven't seen him all that much but I will say this when he's in shape the guy is really impressive so if he shows up and nails it there depending on what the lineup looks like it feels like a top three finish should be within the realm of possibilities. And that does it be yet another edition of Musselin the Mornings. I'm Dave Palermo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Box, our 30-year-in-a-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart, we've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, May 28, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back and happy Friday. I know there are a lot of you tuning in right now who are looking forward to the Cal Pro this weekend. So I figured why not start off the show with an update on on-win, who set the step-on-stage less than 24 hours from now. Earlier this week, on release, they've behind the scenes video from inside the Dragon's Lair, that showed him getting some presentation advice from Flex Lewis and Sean Rodin, and considering the fact that they have eight Olympia tiles between the two of them, he should be taking any advice he can get as gospel. So if you can take even a tiny bit of that deep championship wisdom and put it into action, the talks about him being a potential winner here could easily come to fruition. The 15th Mark that date down on your calendars, book your tickets and get your popcorn ready because the Arnold class that gets back, in case you missed it on Tuesday, received words from officials at the Arnold Sports Festival that the Arnold class was coming back to Columbus, Ohio this fall after being postponed indefinitely back in March, due to mitigating factors from COVID-19, the early report from the promotional team. There is that the show will feature men's bodybuilding, men's physique, fitness, and bikini, and they're expecting to have about 412, $100,000 in prize money up for grabs. From a timing standpoint, the late September window is interesting because it's right before the Arnold UK, and a little less than a month before the Olympia, which opens up a lot of possibilities. And now that we have the date set and stone, it makes the entire fall schedule even more interesting. And I just say this before we get started, there's nothing better in sports than a rivalry, and I meet any sport, not just bodybuilding. But in our world, there are some rivalries that feel like they're more fun than others, and for me, whatever's going on with Sarah Belegas and Sheneek rant right now, falls into that category a few days ago. Sarah laid down the gauntlet to Sheneek, and an Instagram post essentially saying that she would give her a $20,000 cash out of her own pocket if Sheneek came out of retirement, and beat her at the Olympia this year. But here's my favorite thing about this story, if Sheneek decides to do this, and she does lose, Sarah once heard a give up her 2019 Olympia medal. Now there's a part two to the story, which I'm about to jump in right now. And in response to this, Sheneek didn't come right out and address what Sarah said on the record. But she did release and not so subtle comment in a post-onore Instagram later in the day, that said, the woman who does not require validation from anyone is the most feared individual on the planet. Sheneek's been pretty vocal about not planning to come back, since she announced her retirement last year, and my assumption is that she isn't going to be backtracking just because someone calls her out. But pride is a real thing in athletics, especially the great ones, so even though I don't see her taking the bait, she's only like 26 or 27 years old, which means she's still in her prime, and I don't think it would be completely crazy for her to give it one more run, even if it just approved herself, and that she still the goat. And that does it to yet another edition of Muscle in the Mornings on day, and they pull up all remaining in to always be true to your passions, and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

I'm going to launch the tasty pastry for the low-car hot tart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, muscle in the morning. Today, Pellumbo and today is Monday, July 26th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. If you woke up this morning feeling like you need a boost to get you through your Monday, you're in good hands. Because your wrist and eye eyes got you covered. Over the weekend, your wrist and a reminder everyone why she came into the year as one of the pro-givative favorites to win the first wellness Olympia title after she released an update on her status 11 weeks out from the big dance, even with some of the other names in this division that have quarter attention this year. As far as sheer star power is concerned, your wrist and eye might be in a class all by herself. And if she can seal the deal 11 weeks from now, it'll cement her status as one of the biggest names in the industry. Here's a fun fact, few. Did you know that every coastal area on Earth experiences two high-tides per day? Since Florida is, well, a coastal state. It explains why Brandon Hendrickson has had so much success bringing big waves to the Olympia stage year. According to Brandon's team, today marks the official start of his prep for this year's Olympia. As the two-time champ looks to successfully defend his title for the first time during his championship run. For the most part, this sense you get from Brandon's camp about where he is heading into this prep has been nothing but positive, which is exactly what you'd expect from the defending champion. And whenever Brandon's been able to get to that place, the tide usually tends to flow in his direction. You remember when you were growing up and your parents told you that you could be any video on who, as long as you put your mind to it, and worked hard. Well, I hate to be the barrow of bad news because they lied. Yes, they did. Because for 99% of the people on the planet, all the hard work in the world still won't be enough to get you to the same level at Regan Grimes. A few days ago, Regan released a chess training clip where we saw him manhandling a pair of 150 pound dumbbells for reps, which was his way of saying that his Olympia prep is firing on all cylinders. There were points in the season last year when it looked like Regan was ready to jump up a level or two, which would put his name squarely in the middle of that group all vying for a spot the top 10. So they can dot those eyes and cross those T's between now and October. This could end up being his moment to finally break through. What a good thing don't come to those who wait. But they do come to those who wait to strike at the right moment. Because that's the case. Surged you all leave a junior's decision to wait for the art of light and the proving to be pretty wise in the end. Since he made the official announcement a few weeks ago, all of a sudden, it's like someone flipped the switch. The Sergio we're seeing in the gym now feels like he's pouring everything he has into every set. And that's the Sergio that is fans of him waiting to see all year long. I don't know why it is, but when Sergio's in his zone, he has that it factor, like very few other athletes in bodybuilding do. And if this is the Sergio we end up seeing Columbus, I don't think it would surprise anyone, the ends up placing in the top three. And that does it the end of another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day a month of reminding you to always be true to your passions. If you should have followed us on Facebook.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Tuesday July 6th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Sometimes when you're young you think new always means good. Then as you get older you start to differentiate a little bit more, and you realize that new doesn't matter. Good is good, and then every once in a while you come to realize that something can be new and be good at the same time. And as far as the two 12-Division is concerned, new and good might be the two simplest and best words to describe Nathan Eppler's season so far. With less than four months to go before he makes his Olympia debut, this year's leading candidate for the two 12-Rookie of the Year. He looks like he's on track to bring something new and good to the station on tober. When you look at where this division is right now, I think we have a really strong group of four or five athletes all battling it out at the top. And then after that, things start to open up. So if Nathan can figure out how to dial in whatever the right combination of new and good is for him, a top 10 finish should easily be within striking distance. You've been paying attention over the past few months. We've talked a lot about all of the big events coming up in October. We've got the Arnold Classic in September, the Arnold UK in October, and the Olympia in October, which is basically like the holy Trinity of the contest season at this point. It's on October 22nd through 24th. This year's Legion Sports Festival will be going down in Las Vegas. And according to reports, it looks like that might be where we see stand-alone youth make his open debut. Stand-made the move out to Vegas from Chicago a few months ago. So I'm paid for doing this show, makes perfect sense. It gives him plenty of time to get him in shape. And he can train at his home gym all the way through. Anyone have to deal with all of the stress that traveling puts on his body. He senses less control as many of the controlables as possible. Hopefully it'll translate into a solid, open-day view and put him in position to potentially earn a qualification for the 2022 Olympia if everything goes according to plan. I'm paraphrasing this idea from Chris Ascito, so hopefully he won't get mad and yell at me when he sees this. But in bodybuilding, weight doesn't really matter unless we're talking about what someone needs to weigh to make a weight class or division. Sometimes a person can have the exact same stage weight but look like they have two different bodies. All based on the improvements they made. And the reason I say this is because I don't need to know what George Peterson weighs or what he will weigh on stage. All I know is that when I look at him, last year versus this year, I see two different bodies. And that tells me that he's better now than he was than. And if consistent improvement and being your best of the two biggest keys to success in this game, then I'd say that he's doing a pretty damn good job. Wouldn't you? For a time's in life when hearing the truth can be ugly. That's why people like little white lies because they're pretty in cute and they can make you feel better in the moment. But Sean Clarita isn't a little white lie trying to guide. And the ugly truth that a matter is that he's out for blood in his first title defense this year. And the photos and videos we saw with him and John Meadows last week, Sean looked like he was already four weeks out, which means that he'll probably end up growing into the show like he did last year. The man eats, sleeps, and breathes this lifestyle 24-7. And when someone with that kind of mindset decides there's no plan B, it usually means that everyone else is just competing for second place. And that doesn't be at another edition of Lusselin the Morning on Day full of reminding you to always be sure to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

I'm going to be lunch of tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to this show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Pulumbo and today is Tuesday, July 22nd, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Hey, here's something I haven't said to open up a show for a long time. We have a brand new update from Amara Ashkenani. After going zero dark 30, through the first half of the season, all of a sudden Team Ashkenani started cranking out content left and right over the last few weeks, which might be there not to settle away of saying that he's back and open for business again. Even though he has generated as much conversation as some of the other athletes in the two-twelf division, the fact of the matter is that Amara has placed top five or better at the Olympia in every year since 16, which is something no other athlete in the division can say. He is without a question one of the top two-twelf athletes on the planet. And if he's committing himself to making another serious title run, people better start paying attention. Speaking of serious title runs in the two-twelf division, is there anyone in the division who looks like they're taking their prep more seriously this year? Then Sean Clarita. Every time Sean puts out new photos or videos, he has that same angry or work-to-play look on his face. He had years ago when he was still trying to scratch and far as way to the top. For better or worse, Sean still looks like he's walking into the gym every day with that same underdog mentality that he's had throughout his entire career. Even though he's the one everyone's chasing now. The top five in this year's Olympia has the potential to be one of the best that we've ever seen. But even in a line-up that could be historically great when Sean's locked in like this, it's hard to imagine anyone else pulling off the upset. In the last segment, I mentioned this year's two-twelf lineup having the potential to be historically great, which is absolutely what it could be. But the way it looks right now there might be a spot opening up in the top 10 after Bow Lewis's announcement that he was switching to the men's open division. A few days ago, Bow and now, on social media that the next contest he was competing in would be an open event, which would effectively take last year's ninth place finisher out of the equation for the foreseeable future. On the surface, one of the interesting things about Bow's decision here is that it comes on the heels and then having the best season of his career, and that night's place will be a finish, which was one of the biggest highlights. With that being said, if transitioning into the open, feels like it'll create more opportunities down the road, and I guess there's no time like the president. You know how they say that in order to be the best you've got to beat the best? Well, what about if you are the best already and the best of all time? Because when that's your situation, like it is for Oxana, Grasina doesn't think the best just come down to doing what already comes natural, even though she made her big return to the Olympia stage last year, I think Oxana, Grasina, wouldn't admit that getting back to who she was before she decided to step away was harder than she thought. And that doesn't even take into account the fact that she ran head first into two giant buzz-saws in Missy Truscott and Whitney Jones. But like I just mentioned the moment ago, we've never seen anything like Oxana Grasina in this division when she's firing on all cylinders, and if she gets back to that level again, there are still a lot of people who believe that she's in a class all by herself. And that does it the end in another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palamba, reminding you to always be true to your passions. And remember, follow us on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.

Music Music um I'm going to take the phone I want to say that this is for me I can play To hate the key Take a good Count free Say that I'm so I'm the one I'm so close Take your kiss I'm the one Say that I'm so close I'm so close I'm the one I'm the one I'm the one I'm so close Take your kiss Say that I'm so close I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close Take your kiss I'm scared of you I see This is for you I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close Take your kiss I'm so close No, it's not a matter It's for you So just go straight Take a good one Take a good kiss For my heart Don't want to bring your life Never seen you never saw You saw

We're streaming the night. All of us actually live before. All of us must have the flag. We should actually keep going. We're coming down with the flags of Captain V. We're coming down with the flag of Captain V. We're going to show you the cool thing. We're here to show you the cool thing. We're here to show you the cool thing.

Do you get recognized in the street a lot? You look very. Definitely not. What about back then when you were on TV a lot more? Not really actually. I mean if I was wish, kind of, they would, you know, but honestly most of the time all the attention goes to him anyway, so I wouldn't really get noticed. And I looked different than I do until he was. Especially at that time, my hair was really curly on TV, and I wore a lot of really heavy makeup, and I don't really do that in real life. Most of the time people look at me kind of like, I think I know you from somewhere, but they can't place it. See, see, you actually, you had no, you really didn't know triple H back then. You just kind of got forced into the skit with, there was written up by the writers. Oh yeah, I heardly known. It's a handy thing. I mean, I know him enough to say hi, and whatever backstage, but I didn't know him at all. How hard is that to, how did you guys actually start dating then after that? Well, it was actually a long way of into the whole shabang met. But the thing is, we just had this incredible chemistry even from the get go. And I would say he did use to come to the production meetings, which is a big meeting that we have. And I, I don't know, I could never stop looking at him. And I said this in the interview in there. And every time he looked at me, I would just blush. I'd just go be red, even just by him looking at me. And that still happened to this day. I just had this incredible chemistry with him. And we started doing the storyline and I think it was really him, it's playable, it's just an unbelievable chemistry. I just wanted to be with him all the time. And how did you dad feel about the fact that you were dating a wrestler in his organization? They were all doing for bidding. I was so lonely for bidding for me to date a wrestler. Holy cow. How did you get over that helping? Well, I think my dad really tried to set us up. Oh, you think he pulled that off so I don't need to. I mean, I don't think he did the storyline to set us up. But I think he knew, you know, we'd call him around here. Yeah. And he knew what kind of person he was. And he always kind of pushed me towards him. You know, I was dating a guy at the time during the storyline. And I was, what always, you know, when talked to my dad about a fight for it, I've heard of him. My dad and my brother would always be chatting after the show. And, you know, after we watched reruns of Nitro and we were laughing about a lot of stuff. And then we, you know, we would just talk. And I'd say, you know, is this normal? This is whatever my dad would always say. We wouldn't be with the guy who's more like AAAAT. How would he say? You know, my brother would immediately jump and, well, I liked your blate, not actually AAAAT. You know, my brother's very overprotective as of my father. So then my dad actually gave us a blessing today. Right. And then took it away. Did he get? Yeah. No, why was that? Because he got so much hate from so many people. And it was a really precarious situation. I mean, there's, you know, AAAAT is one of our biggest stars. And O'Weddy's going to be champion now, because he's married to the boss and got her. And whatever. And O'He's getting all of these, you know, perks and whatever. When really that wasn't the case, I mean, got nobody worked harder than my husband ever. You know, I mean, that, but that's what people were saying. And I think, you know, my dad realized it was going so fast that maybe it was time to hold it up. And I think my mom were the big influence and holding it up. Really? Yeah, my mom thought it was not, it's not, she didn't know my husband, you know, she thought that the whole situation was back. So he took away his blessings. And that made you want to meet him more probably. Actually, no, because there's other stuff going on at the same time. And, you know, we, we decided that we were going to, okay, that's it. Call it quits. And, you know, we still talked every day. Right. But we would just talk business. And, you know, but we couldn't not talk to each other. I mean, and I did, I tried to date other people and he tried to date other people. And, you know, just, I know with me, any time I was ever with anybody else, all I could do was think about him. Wow. And, um, couldn't get away from him. I just, so then we got the blessing again. And it's still that happened right away. And, um, then when it finally did, you know, it was right. Then we were going to give it a shot. Because, you know, if you, if you, if you, if you're to try it, old expression, but it's true if you really love something and you said it free and it comes back. You know, maybe it's meant to be. Yeah, that, that, that must have been tough, especially in your industry. You know, come, show your, you're seeing him, you know, you're dating people. I was married to him and the show. I know, I was. So my heart would break every time. I mean, there's a lot of times in the show, where I'm telling him I loved him. And I meant it, but I couldn't really, me in it. Exactly. You know, I mean, there was a lot of, very interesting backstory behind everyone of those scenes. Wow. That must've been incredible. And really, I mean, that's, that, it's, it took a very tell almost when you think about it, I think about it that would happen. It was, but there was a lot of a lot of heartbreak in the middle. When you, on a lot of sides. Really? Yeah. I believe you on that, a hundred percent. When you actually guys finally did decide to get married and got to blessing and how long did you wait before you said, you know, we want to have kids. It was a pretty quick or it was a to-get. Oh, I wanted to be a mom, my entire life. That's what I wanted to be more than anything else. You know, I loved our business and I wanted to be a mom. So to me, I couldn't have kids fat enough. But we did wait, I think, was about three years before we had our first childhood. To me, felt like an eternity. And I think, in reality, it's really not a lot of people are married a lot longer before they do that. But, you know, I really, I really, really, really wanted to have kids that was just the ultimate thing to me and to empower the ultimate guy. Can't put him over too much. No, you don't want to give me too much kids. You're going to get a little bit of a slow. You can't much of that. I'm going to get a slow a little bit. They had baby too, okay. And that's when I started helping you with the diet. We got you to lose all the weight. You were very happy. And then boom, you went in and got pregnant again. Third time. Yeah. And you had baby number three. Three daughters. I know that you guys love your children because you would love any healthy children. Yeah. But in the back of your head, I know Paul's got to be thinking too. I think they have a son. Are you guys done? Or is there still a possibility of another one? I know, we're done because of other reasons not because of what your body goes through. Right. In terms of appearance. But I would have loved to have had a son. You're probably loved to have had a son too. But, you know, it's not like we don't either. You know, so we have just been awesome. Amazing kids. We really do. And save a lot. You know, a lot. I don't know. Especially take care of. You know, we have people who have more than that. And they say, if you're here with the morning, you have, but no, I think we're done. And what was your, what did your decision come from that you were going to raise your kids? And they were not going to be raised by, you know, helpers or other people who come into your house. You got your very hands on it to you. Well, you know, Paul, in our both fortunate and that our parents are still together. I mean, his parents are, we just came back from, you know, from being with them for the holidays. And, you know, it's just to, to Paul and our raise with the same family values. But a lot of times for me personally, and I can't speak for him, except for what I've seen. And I'm witnessing a really close, tight, loving family. And I, as you I, my experience growing up with very different than his, but I was on my own a lot when I was a kid. And my parents have worn around a whole lot because they were building the business. And I was raised a lot by people I didn't really like very much. And I thought to myself, then, when I was a kid, I'm not going to do that to my kids. I want to be there for my kids. That's a tough decision because people don't realize how busy the two of you are. I mean, really, I mean, you know, why have kids if you can't be with them? You're like, I agree with you. I 100% know a lot of people who are very business oriented. And they, they want to be with their kids, but they don't find the time. You obviously make the time you always have as far as long as I know you. I mean, you guys take them on trips. If you when you have to, when you guys go away on vacation, you take them with you. Of course, not a vacation without your kids. I mean, you know, get away for a night. Don't get me wrong. But every now and then, things went for a year. But, you know, that's a decision that we made. We wanted to have children who wanted to be together. It's about being a family. He has my question because I always, you know, people know your family because they see you on TV. Is your dad and your mom? And I think your mom's, I love your mom. You know, she, she obviously has died with me as well. I hope, is she, is she going to be running for, uh, for fun? Oh, yes, she's trying to get her. She's running again. She's running again. All right. But, are you, are the grandparents supposedly? The grandparents? Can you drop them off at your mom and dad's house? Your kids? And for the night, you will, they watch the grandkids? Yes, but with my parents at that, to be planned. Right. And, uh, because they are so busy. I mean, you know, my dad's on the road all the time. And my mom is running for spending and Connecticut. And she's on the road a lot. But, you know, whenever she can, she's wings by, even on the campaign trail, even if it's for 20 or. And yes, well, first of all, if I ever needed them in a heartbeat day, day, day, day, day, day. You know, but to drop them off for a night, that's like a big kind of commitment. I got you. But, you know, my husband's parents, yep, anytime. That's great. Now, um, what, what made your mom decide to want to run for Saturday? Just at a curiosity, because, uh, you know, I just always wonder what most of the time. I just always wonder what motivated people to do things. Well, I think my mom truly believed, and I do believe as well, that she can make a difference. I just want to. She has business experience. And that's one of the things around the breakfast table, you know, I've moved more of the dinner table in the breakfast table. But that my family would talk about is, you know, politics and trying to just, the lack of, common sense, really, you know, what would when it comes to our government. And the way that money is spent, and when you think about it, that none of these people, I have ever, not none of them, but that a lot of these people have absolutely zero business experience. That they're making decisions that affect the economy of a nation. It's really remarkable. I know they all have created advisors, so don't get me wrong. I'm sure they're really smart people there. But in general, I think you are lacking politicians with business savvy, you know, you need people and I'm talking my opinion, obviously, but this is all what fuels my mom. I've learned a lot since my mom's been running. And, you know, you need somebody in there who has some experience who knows what business people are going through, who knows how to create a business out of nothing like I said before, my parents were bankrupt before. And, you know, I'm sure they came close a couple of other times because they did take risks, but they know what it takes to make it truly, to make it, and to make it happen. And you need people like that. I agree. Why do you think that the process so hard on your mom though? Well, I think the process fueled a lot by, you know, I could do some of the process really good, and some of them aren't, and I think that Connecticut is a very democratic state. And I think that a lot of the media is swayed by that. And, you know, I've followed the media and seen so much of the BS and the hype that it's just difficult to spend. We're low-ending fruit and why not, you know, go after the Jaguar when you don't want to Republican and offer. Sure. And it's trend, you know, and I think that there's a little jealousy has to be involved in this. You guys own a very big corporation, you know, it's like, people want to, they, the people don't want to see you do too well, you know how that is.

RXMuscle.com! Now, you have a place to turn when you want the truth. On bodybuilding diet exercise, up to the minute news and more. Visit theRXMuscle.com forum, featuring celebrity Q&As, with IFBB Professional Athletes, top-amateurs, and brightest minds in the industry. Visit our weekly radio shows, including heavy muscle radio, muscle girls, eight cast-throwers and more. Contest coverage videos, even our own social network excite RXMuscle place. Visit RXMuscle.com! Sivvy Muscle. 3-0! Our next guest is not only the first daughter of the WWE wrestling organization. She's also a client of mine, and a mom of three, and it's my distinct pleasure to have Stephanie McMahon. Hey babe! Hey, Steph. How are you? I'm so happy. You know, it's funny because we did the little interview with you. We showed some of the pictures when you were pregnant to what you look like now. The pictures are a Christmas and a lot of you. And I got so many regular women emailing me and messaging me on the barric... about what you did and what I had you eating. They were so amazed because they felt like, they could relate to a little better because you're not like a fitness or figure competitor. They compete on stage, but you're kind of like a regular person to them in their mind. How difficult was it to get a girl from being a girl who's in shape, to getting out of shape, being pregnant three times, and then getting yourself back into the shape that you are in right now? Well, let me start by saying that I am a regular girl in terms of, I'm not the kind of girl that's always been skinny, that you know, always looked great or anything like that. I always have to try to eat right, to keep my weight down. I just have a tendency to get weight. And you know, I don't think that I would ever say that I looked good before I started working with you and I'm not to say a math. It's really true. I mean, I've never been as lean as I've been until I started working with you. And then I've never put on the kind of muscle that I hadn't still I've been to. I started working with Joe DeFranco. So, you know, I would say that I am a regular person and it's just getting the right kind of advice. You know, and what works for you is an individual and sticking to it. Yeah, that's really the key. You make a very good point. And I know everyone who's listening to his interview is saying, talk about the wrestling. And we're going to talk about wrestling a little bit, but I want to make this point because we had Joe DeFranco on the show a little earlier. And you know, we talked about your training. And so you obviously, you know, rather than try to just roll the dice and try to figure it out for yourself, you basically went in your hired someone and do something about diet myself. Obviously, your hired Joe's new about training. And you really got great results. And you're probably saved yourself a lot of frustration in not doing things the right way. Do you think that a lot of people out there who are frustrated with the way they look should employ people? Even if they maybe can't afford it, go that little extra rat to teach themselves exactly what they should be doing the right way. I think definitely, I'm not feeling for me to take as I can afford it. But it took me 30 years of frustration before I found you guys. I've been in there. I know what that feels like. And you read books. It's as learned as much as you can. And you talk to people who have success and it's just not the same thing. But even still just hiring people. You have to hire the right people. And that's what makes the difference. You really have to get the advice from the people who know. Right. And how did you go about finding gel for instance? Well, you know, I'm really lucky because I happen to be married to this guy who's really into fitness. I hear you, sir. There's a lot of research and you know, he's got a lot of connections, you know. You know, I've obviously taken my husband that's how I met Joel and that's how I met you. And I was really lucky that way. But, you know, I can't say enough about the two of you in terms of the things that you guys have been able to do for me. Obviously, he has been being a WWE superstar triple H. That's right. For those who do not know. And he, you know, the funny thing is that he does do a lot of research because I know he does. And no, it's weird. But you would think like someone can win at the time. But he does read the magazine. He does read the message boards. And he does study that. He does study that. He works at all times. Yeah, he studies. And people don't realize you have to do that. If you want to find out the best information. That's really true. And that's, you know, that's another thing is you can do some research on your own. Whether it's to find the right people or whether it's just to learn as much as you can. And then try different things and see what works for you because I think everybody type is different. I know I've worked with other very successful, you know, nutritionists and all that. Before that just didn't get me as lean as I wanted to be. Or as lean as I've been able to get now. And, you know, it's been successful for other people just didn't work for me. You've got to try different things and see what works. Were you traumatized? But literally after putting on, I mean, when you got pregnant, you gained a lot of weight with these child. Was that mentally, like, really screwing you up a little bit at some point? After the first one, yeah, I got tangled. I, I, I had a third of a title. But I was 80 pounds pregnant with, I gave 80 pounds pregnant with my first child. And, um, when I looked down, I'll never forget that day. When I looked down and I saw those cancels that was the day I decided. I was going to change my body. And I couldn't wait to do it. But at that point, you can't start dieting. Now, what is it? It must be frustrating because I mean, you're pregnant. I know you want to have the baby. Obviously, that's a deprive of experience. And I'd say, when you see your body just like falling apart like that, I mean, as, you know, you've always been an athlete. I mean, you've always trained and you've been in a household of people that trained. I mean, how do you let go of that and just say, okay, you know what? I have to eat nine months and then I'm going to get back and shit. Well, you know, I'm kind of an extremist. You know, it's, I'm either dieting or I'm really not dieting. And, you know, I'm going to get to the point about being pregnant. But, you know, so I had to diet for so long to try to stay in the best shape that I could that when I got pregnant, I just went hog wild and eat everything I've ever wanted to eat. I think one entire life, multiple times a day. You know, you can't have many vitals when you're pregnant. You can't drink. You can't even take antibiotics. So food is really your only comfort. And I definitely indulged. And it was a slow process in terms of how you lose control of your body. But your body is going through so many things anyway. And it is so exciting on an emotional level that you're creating this baby inside you. But at some point you do look in the mirror and go, holy, I'm gaining so rich weight, this is ridiculous. And when the doctor told me I was gaining too much weight and then I looked in the mirror and realized, oh my god, you just have to stop. But then at that point I kind of couldn't stop. It was very hard mentally. And I think a lot of women go through that. They do, and not only they go through it, but then after they give birth, they continue in that eating pattern. And they seem to get even worse. How did you say to yourself, enough is enough? The buck stops here. I'm going to get myself back in shape because I imagine that must have been very difficult. It is the hardest thing. I think when you gain a lot of weight, too little, I don't know, because at least in my case, and I think a lot of women are like this. I'm an emotional eater. And it's kind of like the more depressed you get, the more you say it's good and the more you eat, and the more you don't train. And it's this vicious cycle. And I don't know why it's that way, but it just seemed to be that way. And I just got sick of myself being so grotesque. You know, I looked in the mirror, and I just thought, I don't have to look like this. And actually, I got a lot of inspiration from Jenny McCarthy's book, her first book, She Dain D80 Pounds. Wow. And with her baby, and she was making, she made a big joke out of it, obviously. But she said a lot of really key points. And it's things that I could relate to. Like that she said, you know, I realize that I could eat just one brownie, I didn't have to eat the whole pan. Wow. That was me. I definitely ate the whole pan. And the thing she described the way her body looked, that was just me, I went through all of those things that she talked about. And it actually really did help me. And I just got tired of looking at myself in the mirror. That's the short answer. And you know, but people don't realize though, also, you're not only, you're a real hands-on man. You don't have like a million helpers with you. I know you like to do everything yourself. Plus you worked full time at the WWE headquarters. So you really don't have a lot of time. And you have to literally go home at night after a full, full day where most people would be ready to collapse. And then you've got to start doing your work at a lot of times. Yep. That takes a lot of discipline. It does. But you know, I'm like I said, I'm either one way or the other. And I love training. That problem has always been food, but my problem has never been training. I love to train. You know, I love the challenge. I love to drive. I love to beat my goals. I love to, you know, it just just is a stretcher. Leave her for me. It's, you know, it just keeps me going. I really do love that training and that intensity. And it makes me feel better. And it makes me want to eat better. I tell people that all the time when you start training properly. And, and, and, and, and resting properly. Your body craves good food. And so you can't start eating well until you start training. Almost. It kind of goes hand in hand with each other. And you obviously were exposed to working out and eating well. And a very young age. Obviously your dad of Ninspickman, who's the headhunter at the WWE. There always worked out as hell. All life. Do you always remember from the minute you were born. Him going to the gym? Maybe not for a minute. I was born. But yeah. We had a gym in our house. And, um, you know, then we're very lucky. And, uh, and I always remember him working out. Always. He was a either on the road on TV or working out in the gym. And, um, you know, I've always wanted to be with my dad. I have a very close relationship with my dad. And I've always wanted to do the thing he did. And, you know, and I fell in love with training. I got introduced to it through him. But the physicality of it, the intensity of it, so, you know, the, um, feeling of accomplishment that he seemed to have after a workout. It just all led me to want to get into gym. You know, and working out is funny because it's not obviously a team's board. And I started doing it myself. You know, and I would just go to the gym during the day and junior high or whatever. And put on the music. And, you know, I didn't really know what I was doing at first. And, um, my brother would show me a couple of exercises. My brother Shane. Right. And some technique. And for the most part, I had to worst technique ever for a really long time. But I still loved it. And I could, you know, it's still the challenge of lifting weight. And all that good stuff. And now my challenge is really different. Now that I'm training for strength and conditioning versus, you know, more of a bodybuilding type training. But I found that the strength and conditioning training really with best for me. That is, does your dad, I think, what does he now 60 something? Yep, 60 something. 60, we don't know what we don't count anymore. This is still training with the same intensity because I heard. Oh my god, yes. He, he, if his goal every day to beat a trainer in the gym, I mean, he tells me all the time how he defeats a trainer. Mike, if it's him. Now, it's funny because I don't know if this is, this is true. You could probably verify this. Triple H told me that, um, the same stuff, some kind of like amounts of squats and stuff like that. Uh, in the gym, like to the point where even triple H feels like he's, he's out of his mind. Is that true? You're that sort of feeling. I'm not going to be a third of viable, my dad. For sure, he shot. Do you think that he, he might have gotten into bodybuilding, how he not taking over the whole wrestling thing from the general age? If you ask him that question, he has a whole variety of answers depending on the day, but I think bodybuilding would always be a part of his life. Yeah, you don't think you would ever compete with him? You know, he could have probably would have been a chapter in his book. That would have been funny if he, if he, if he would have happened because things could be changed. Bodybuilding could have distracted him from actually making real money. So, I don't know enough about it. It's done until a lot of us believe me. Yeah, talk, let's talk a little bit about the early days. Cause you grew up, you know, as the WWE was kind of, I'm still a WWE aspect and we was actually blossoming. What was it like in that environment? Were you on the road a lot or did you stay home or, you know, what was it like back when you were liking your teens? In my teens, you know, I would go to all the big paper views and I'd always go to the garden and Madison Square Garden. Whenever we would come to town and afterwards go out to dinner with my dad and sometimes some of the super stars, it was always very interesting. But when my dad taught me the lesson that, you know, if you want to hang with the big boys, you can't piss with the pup, which actually meant that I had to wait up and go to school the next day regardless of how late you were out. And it was a very different time back then in the 80s and 90s. It was not the place. The road was definitely not the place for young teenage girls. And no, I wasn't really out on the road very much. It actually wasn't until I graduated college. That I started going out on the road. And then I was full time on the road for about 10 years. A little bit more I actually had my first daughter and brought her out on the road. We have a tour bus, so we know we're kind of like the odds of orange. And then when my second child was born brought her out on the road and told us she was about one. And then it just got to be a bit too much. In my response, though, they said the office were growing. So, you know, I don't go on the road nearly as much as I used to, not every week. Now I go about one for a month. And, you know, and then it's all bring me kids.

Take us back to when the first WrestleMania was conceptualized. How did you dad come up with that idea? And I know he put, you know, he's stated this in a lot of images before he really put the entire, I guess, his whole bank roll on the line for this event. Well, the idea of what the climate was like right on that. So I was pretty young. So I'll tell this story, but only as I've heard it told. Although I will say I do remember sitting on the Jaiant's lap in the rainbow room after WrestleMania 1. You know, it was a pretty big party. But I definitely have memories of that party after WrestleMania 1 and the whole show itself obviously. But in terms of how it came together, but as the story is told, my dad and my mom took a three day vacation, which they never did. My dad never took vacation. And they were in, I think, for a new dad. And my mom thought that the whole time, you know, they were just having a wonderful romantic vacation and they weren't working. You know, it's so great. And as soon as they got on the plane to go home, my dad looked at her and said, I know what we're going to do. We're going to have the greatest, you know, combination of top culture and the biggest event of all time. It's going to be like our Super Bowl. We're going to have WrestleMania. And my mom, you know, I don't know that they had the term then or any of that stuff. This is just as it's been told to me, but, you know, that was the first my mom heard about it. So the whole trip that's what he was thinking about that whole time. I know it's three days was this, the need I guess. I don't know what his thought process was, but the need for one mega event. You know, that would actually wind up pioneering the paper view industry in 1985. Right. That's right. So he kind of spearheaded this now. When he came up with this idea, was it because he felt that the wrestling needed to be taken to the next level or did he just, I mean, because obviously he put a lot on the line financially, because of this thing didn't make it at here. He probably would have been in big trouble. I assume. Yeah. Well, without questions, you know, my parents have been bankrupt before. My dad's not afraid to try things. You know, and that's one of the things that he always taught us is, look, don't be afraid to fail. It's okay to fail. You just got a win from your mistake and you got to get back up. And you got to try again. And, you know, I think that yes, he's also an entrepreneur and he is going to grow this company into something that no saddened it would be. And in 2012, we announced that we're going to launch a network at WWE Network. Wow. When's that starting? Well, I'm not going to say we're doing a lot of negotiations and all different kinds of things going on. But in 2012, we're going to launch a network. And that's, you know, nobody would have ever thought that this small little regional wrestling company out of the Northeast territory, which started as capital wrestling. And then was the WWE WF, the World Wide Wrestling Federation, and then morphed into the WWE F. And now is the WWE that it would become as global juggernaut seen by over half a billion people worldwide every week. And, you know, I know I'm going to fathom that. No, and how did he come up with the idea that to have whole coag and face off against Andre to giant? And because that's- Well, that was how many it's three. Right. To be clear. Okay. When we sold out the money, I discovered I'm in broke the world into our 10th and 13th record. Was that over 100,000 people? 93,173. That's that time in broke the world into our 10th and 13th record. Why was that? The poll for something broke it after that. That's pretty good second. Yeah, I believe it. Should never have been broken. But what was that like? I mean, did you dad just say I got to do something just super spectacular? I mean, because who would have thought, you know, whole coag and Andre to giant? I mean, and that obviously was the greatest drop probably all time I would think. Well, and that's one of the things to find that you say that because, you know, my dad, people say that he'll never die a happy man, because nothing's ever good enough. And after each one of them, maybe he has over. He's always wondering how he can make the next one even bigger and even better. Yes, it's the top the one before it. Sorry. And that's how driven he is. And he almost can't even enjoy the successes that happen along the way because he's constantly thinking ahead. He's constantly thinking about what's next. Well, this new network is going to seem like it's going to be great. And that's going to be all wrestling all the time. It's going to be a lot of different things. There's going to be a lot of classic programming, which is, you know, yes, a lot of libraries. And, you know, we own the majority of the wrestling libraries of all the territories. So we have all that classic programming plus all of the programming that we've been putting on. We've been on TV. Right. Self has been on TV. Got how many episodes now, longer than last, the longer than Simpson, and that's not even ever been on television. Almost a thousand episodes. You guys are in every word. You guys are in every word. You guys are in every word. You don't think vacations like these other shows. There's no off season. There's no reruns. First, the media won't give us any credit for that. Yeah. You know, you always hear about how, you number one in USA network. It's very proud to be our partner. But unfortunately, the media doesn't always count us the way that I wish that they would. So you guys essentially have made USA network. I would think of the spot. I wouldn't say that, but when we did move, you know, when we did leave USA about 10 years ago, they went from being number one to not being number one. It will be came back. They became number one again. Oh, it's pretty good to us. And the fact, what was it like to meet Andre the giant back in the day? I never had the chance to meet of myself. I mean, it must have been like the biggest human being you've ever seen in your life. I'm sure when you were a kid. Well, my mom tells this story. And this, I don't remember it all. It could be a total magical story. But Andre and I were friends. I'll just say that. And my mom said the first time that he came to the house that we had a trampoline. And it, you know, one of the above ground trampolines in the E.T. Moreover, the house. And apparently, again, I don't remember this. But apparently, he stuck his hand out. And I stepped into his hand. And he brought me up to his face. And I kept him on the cheek. My mom gave me a picture of that moment. I was talking about a WrestleMania one with actually in people. I'm not sure if I could be in people magazine. I've been sitting on Andre's lap. Right. And my mom had a frame for me, and she puts Stephanie's go liver. And then heading on the ring. So it was really cool. But yeah, I've been on Andre. I mean, God, my relative memory is going back stage. I was like, you know, three, four, five years old. And my dad would walk in a locker room and, you know, he'd tell me, hang out a second. And then he'd come back out. And then he would bring me into the locker room. And they're all coming. So he's been sweating as he men with white cow just across their lap. Just so that I could go in and see Andre. I was still awkward. Oh my God, that bleep don't put me in that position ever again. But, you know, in Andre, whenever he would walk back from the ring, he would walk by and I'd be sitting in the stands. And I'd be right on the aisle. He'd get, you know, he would never react to anybody in the arena. And he would never give away who he really was. But he'd walk by many people. He'd be like, oh, that's what he was like. So we would say it. But nobody knew it happened. I did. And I'll just tell one more Andre story. I have a lot of them. But I'll just tell a quick one. Sure. So I was about 14 and Andre took me out to dinner at the spring fresh. I don't know if that you love to do. Just you and him? Just me and him. Well, the only time we ever did that. But it was really, really special for me. And we went and we sat down. And we were just chatting. And all of a sudden he started laughing with really hardy laugh. Andre had this very deep boom and voice. And of course he was a giant. So everything was bigger and, you know, larger than life. And what are you laughing at? We just kept going. Oh, oh, oh. We said, everybody here, they think I'm a dirty old man. He's a little bit like a little bit. He does, oh, trust me. They do. Now, when you would take God to eat with Andre, how much would he eat? We'll see like a crazy eater and drinker. I think he was, but he wasn't in front of me. Oh, good. But again, I smell like I heard many meals of them. But I've also heard legendary stories. And the thing is Andre and a lot of, you know, a lot of the old timers, especially they're very different people around me. Then they are around other people. And I don't know why that is. But I guess maybe because I'm a woman or a girl at that time or whatever. But it's a different kind of relationship. Like early race who's one of the, uh, husband men on the planet. He actually bought my first born daughter, parent earrings and she was born. But he picked out himself. Really? Well, you know, a lot of respects from these restless. They must be, you know, obviously they knew you as you growing up. That's probably what I wouldn't say that. That's, I mean, I respect the hell out of them. So, you know, if there is, it's very mutual and, and the idea is I respect the hell out of them. How did he, how do you, who found Andre the giant? Did you dad or his dad or, who actually got him into wrestling? I've heard a lot of different stories. And I don't exactly remember how it happened. But he grew up on a farm in France. And I think he was about 14 when he left the farm and actually started trying to make a living as a wrestler. But I honestly don't recall right off the top of my head, but he did work lots of different territories before he ultimately came to work for my grandfather and then my dad. Wow. What about Hulk Hogan? Who, uh, who discovered him? Was that your, what are your dad's findings? I believe. And, you know, it's better to ask my husband about some of this history because I lived it at a certain point in time. But, you know, I remember Hulk Hogan and rock and wrestling and that's when I grew up in the 80s. Sure. You know, watching all the cartoons and all of that in terms of the history of Hulk, I know that it was, I believe it was my grandfather who named him Hulk Hogan. And I think he started in the mid-watt. And he was, uh, but you know what again? I'm not going to get into it because I don't, oh yeah, I know he, he was Florida. He started in Florida. Gotcha. I think he was, uh, one of his, uh, idols at least was, uh, superstar Billy Graham. I know that because Billy Graham had told me that and, uh, I could see it giving a, a Hogan stole out of his, his act. They think, also from the, I think a lot of people stole, uh, the different acts. Whoever was successful, why not? Let's talk about some, another big superstar that you, you know very well. Triple H, your husband. Yes. This is a great story. I think it's, it's like, I, to me, it's a great love story too because it really, you know, some, it's really about, you know, art imitating life. Yeah, you were in one of the WWE skits that you dad always, you know, dreamt up. And you actually were, well, you tell the story because you tell a better version of it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, you was actually by accident that I even started on TV. There was this, you know, a quick backstory with, you know, Austin versus McMahon is kind of how it started and there was a corporate ministry and the Undertaker was, was heading up the corporate ministry. So basically, there was this big room and it was all to get to Stone Cold Steve Austin where I was kidnapped and all this stuff and that were abducted. I should say. And that he's story going on. Doctor me and Austin saved me, but ultimately I realized that it was my dad who set up the whole thing. So along the line, in this story at some point, I entered into the scene and I was going to marry a different wrestler. And at the actual ceremony itself where I've been McMahon, my father in the storyline and my father in real life had said no one has done what better interrupt this wedding or they'll be fired. So right before we say, I do the Out on the Stage Walks for Blade and it touched C2T here in his letter jacket and his jeans. He says, hey, dad, you said only family could interrupt this ceremony so I just wanted to show you a little piece of tape. And what he threw to was footage of me as I had been drugged and I was passed out at the drive through wedding chapel and Las Vegas and the bartender would slip me to make me with actually the camera man and there was footage of her blate marrying me and it was legit and late goal even though I wasn't conscious. And it turns out I couldn't marry the guy that I was going to be marrying in the ring. I was actually married to Chip Lates and then they wound up my dad and Chip Lates having a match basically for the enola marriage. And during that match, with when I actually turned on my dad and joined forces with Chip Lates to rule the company because I realized I had had enough of my dad taking advantage of me and using me as a pawn in his game. How did you like getting the ring like that? Did you like it when you were going TV? And you still go on everyone's rubbed. Did you like it? You were on a lot back then. It was so much fun. I had some of the best times on Earth in the middle of that ring. I can't even explain. And I was a real bad guy, a real heal in our business. Right. And I mean, the things people chanted me, oh my God. It was fantastic. I just loved every minute of it. Do you get regular to you get regular in the street a lot? Yeah, definitely not. What about back then when you were on TV a lot more?

people don't want to see you do too well you know how that is you know yeah that's true you know and again i'm not necessarily democratic or a public in the minute i don't want to sound so party heavy i'm really not but i do think it's the as a media just being to particular picture and how people just believe it and you know i have a lot of really strange that when i was growing up and um you know and i've seen interviews with my dad when i was you know at a college i interned with him for six months and and i was with them all the time literally and i watched the interviews that he did that were taped and then i saw how they were edited together and how they aired later and it was amazing how they would reach you and read edit and re-package to content to make my dad see you know so much more out of control than he was in the interview i mean the interviewer would even re-hute and they'd already been very calm asking these questions when appears as oh my dad's just incredibly aggressive monster coming after him when in reality in the interview this guy was being you know such a cure for injury day killer yes they they do that all time every time anytime i've ever been on like the slowest snippets i've been on tv interviews they always they always ask you the the most potent inappropriate question because that that's all they're interested in the answer they don't want anything they don't want to know the truth they want to know that they're looking to find out because they have a story and a lot of times too when company there people get called for comment the writer is already written story they're just looking for a quote that they can put into the story right they're not really looking for what happened or what your point of view is or come in and meet the people they just want to quote it's all sensationalism and again not all of it but a lot of it is and you know it a lot of people don't know that you can't educate the entire public as to how the media does that i actually went to communication college so i learned a lot about how to do that even just in college they keep you so it's you know the media is tricky moving forward into the future because this is my and as some I like you guy and he got stuff to do and then you're taking time out of your new year's data talk to me moving forward are you your brother your husband triple age will you guys be the future of the WWE will you be running it you know 10 20 years or now i mean is that is that the goal right now i mean you're assuming that my dad is at some point not to be able to run the company at some point you dad might say i i want to retire yeah i'm a no no no no no no he'll never want to retire but i think you know ultimately that would be our goal you know if we um if we were able to that would certainly be our goal that we would love to take over the company one day but again we got a long way to go and we got to prove ourselves and we got a lot of the learned so we'll see what happens well you guys you might dad want to retire by the way you know you all really all have to carry on the cast it never ever probably i'll live both of you too he might i've never seen so take better care than self-dnew dad i'm pretty crazy i fell into in a great way but yeah you see i i'm i'm look he lives the lifestyle so everyone around them can never criticize and for anything because he he's doing as much work as everyone else there and he's training hard and so i mean how did you how did you be mad at what's going on when they tell you to do something and they're doing it ten times more than what they tell and you that's what i try to do i try to stay in better shape than everyone i get more to serve so i think and i work harder than everyone that's like i i model myself after your dad and i love you you know hey i love you that definitely i love his work ethic i love the fact that he takes chances based on his own intuition and creativity and you know you guys have a tremendous a tremendous accomplishment you know it's it's always great to see and i'm sure you've grown up seeing it the fact that you know your dad built something that no one believed could could ever happen now you guys are taking over and and helping to contribute to that uh you're going to be launching this new WWE final network channel and that'll be on one of the cable channels yep but that's going to be amazing now what you guys move like raw over to that channel or will it still be on USA and and those kind of things you know they like just think of a way over or yeah i'm trying to try to get some exclusive uh so you know for the penetration we want to be in as many homes as we possibly can so we'll see how that all works out Stephanie i'm so happy that you have achieved the shape of your life and we're going to do another little uh mini pictorial uh when the summer comes around with you hopefully you'll we'll get you back in the best shape your life uh show off some new ab you guys show me how not staying in the best shape of my life oh we're we're working on i mean even better package of you i thought the java friday i've had been a little rough all i'll admit it i thought the java friday we got a whole new plan for you oh no oh you know if you know it's you know it's me getting you two together i love that guy he's like i'm going that to his gym and better fact the film i'm doing some crazy combine training with these people that's great oh he is he's awesome i can't i can't say enough good thing about you oh it's been a pleasure i i appreciate you opening your life to me because uh i really love you and Paul and uh and your whole family and uh you know if anyone doesn't know you guys you're really real people uh you know people can't imagine that because you're on tv but you really are you the real be oh and thank you for for welcoming and opening your house to me Stephanie Nickman Levask the first daughter of the wwe mother of three and uh a girl who is a back and shape on top of it if you muscle radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com the truth in bodybuilding to the next week at this

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Pro 30 year in a row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show this. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, a muscle in the morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, June 4th, 2021. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Some people like to say it's not about how you start. It's about how you finish. But here's the thing, when you start off slow, you have to waste a lot of energy playing catch up. And then you can't finish strong. So in reality, how you start always matters. And I'm sure Andre Ferguson wouldn't mind getting his season off to a good start when he makes his debut in Tampa a few weeks from now. Up to this point, we've heard nothing but good things coming out of Andre's camp, which gives you the impression that he's going into Tampa with zero intentions of walking out of there with anything less than a win. Historically, these are the shows when Andre tends to be it is best. And when he's in the zone, we know that he's pretty much untouchable, regardless of who else is in the lineup. Believe it or not, there's actually a science to creating movie trailers. They figured out when trailers have certain elements in place. It basically gives our brains a shot of dopamine that makes us want more. So we go back to see the full movie, once it's released. And the reason I preface this segment with that is because I think the guess posing is the bodybuilding equivalent of a movie trailer, which means that 10 weeks from now there should be plenty of people lined up at the box office to see Steve Kuplo at the Texas Pro. In case you missed it, Steve came out. There's one of the featured guest closers at the NPC Steve Kuplo classic last weekend at almost 300 pounds. And the general consensus from people who were in the building was that Steve looked amazing. So if you can keep this momentum rolling, we might even be in store for one of those vintage king snake performances by the time. And the next day, July 17th rolls around. How we feel about the wellness division has been well documented on this show. And even though it's only been a few months into the season, you can already get a sense of how big this thing will be a few years from now, which means that the entire division is about to explode with new talent, the same way women's physique did a few years ago. So if you want to see what the next wave of talent looks like to do yourself a favor and buy a ticket to the NPC you're ropa Dallas two weeks from now. So that you can be front row and center when Amanda Coe hits the stage. According to my sources right now, Amanda's plan is to compete at the Europa the weekend of June 17th. And two weeks later, she's hoping to seal the deal and earn her pro-card at the NPC team universe. So if she can pull that off with the way the schedule is set up now, she would still have a legitimate shot of qualifying for the Olympia in October. If she can sneak into the right pro show and earn a qualification. And since this division is still so wide open, there are plenty of opportunities out there for someone like Amanda to step right in and make an impact from day one. Finally, I wanted to close out the week by wishing I get well soon, shout out to our friend Brad Row, who found himself back in the hospital not too long ago, thanks to an intestinal obstruction. It's been a tough go for him lately between this and the knee injury had a few months ago that wound up requiring major surgery. He's been on the wrong end of a few major roadblocks one to many times, but I'll say this, Brad has been a warrior for as long as I'm known him. But regardless of the setbacks, he always finds a way to come out on top and I'm sure this won't be any different. So if you see this, just know that we're keeping you in your thoughts, Brad, and we still are rooting for you, so get well soon, champ. You get another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always detour to your passions and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thank you.

We're going to be launching the tasty pastry for the low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polumbto and today is Friday, August 13th, 2021. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Welcome back in happy Friday ladies and gentlemen. We're going to do a little preview of the Texas Pro today, but before we get into who is going to be there? We're starting off the show by letting you know who won't be there. And if you haven't already guessed by the pictures, Charles Griffin is the person I'm talking about. Heading into the season the plan was for Charles to compete at Tampa and Texas with the goal being to earn an Olympian nod at one of those two shows. Despite the fact that he came out with a pretty good look at the Tampa Pro last weekend, something he could truly improve upon, he and his team announced a few days ago that not only would he not be competing in Texas this weekend, he's actually shutting it down for the rest of the year. The content trait on being undeniable in 2022. But now that we know, Charles is out of the equation and the men's openness weekend, he creates room for a potential showdown between two other athletes, which we're about to jump right into now. The competitors list for the men's open is in big, but it's deep and it's headlined by the potential showdown between Steve Kuklo and Hassan Mustafa, as well as the invol year. As far as Steve is concerned, this will be his season debut and he's slated to compete at the Arnold in October, which basically means that he can play with how to spend money this weekend. If he wins, it gives him a ton of momentum heading into the back half of the season. But if he doesn't, it gives him an opportunity to work the cakes out of the system before the Arnold and the Olympia. For Hassan, it's a different story. He's been trying to lock up his Olympia qualification all year long, and for one reason or another, things just haven't quite worked out. That being said, being able to do that this weekend and having to beat out an Ashley-like Steve Kuklo and Ian Valier would do a huge service for him, because once he gets over that final hurdle, I think it relieves a lot of pressure and frees him up to finish out his season on a high note. One of the things we're keeping in eye on this weekend will be whether or not Earth's Kalasinski can make it to an arrow in classic physique. For those of you who don't know, Earth's basically came from out of nowhere to win the Tampa Pro last weekend, and he looked incredible there if you haven't seen the pictures. But when we first talked about this show weeks ago, we spotlighted Logan Franklin as the man to be here, and for Earth to go back to back, I'll have to go through Logan to do it. We have it on good authority that Logan had the best off season of his career, and that he believes he's about to bring his best look to date to the stage this weekend. And if that's what happens, and Earth still somehow manages to secure the win over a top 10 Olympian, now we start talking about whether he fits into the Olympia equation. And by this time next week, we should all have answers to all these questions. So don't forget to tune in to recap Wednesday to find out. No, in times out of 10, trying to pick a winner in any bikini contest is a crap shoot, because up to this point in the season, the one exception to that rule has been whenever Ashley Colt lost his bed in the lineup. The three time bikini Olympia champ has already managed to rack up six wins, and two other top three finishes this year, which feels like it has to be some kind of record. If she wins this weekend in Texas, it'll give her seven total wins for the season, and you already know for sure that she's competing at the Arnold and the Olympia, and maybe somewhere else in between, which could theoretically give her 10 wins in a season if she rolls through. I'm no historian, but I think 10 wins plus to the bikini international title and a fourth Olympia win would qualify as having the best contest season of all time for any athlete in any division. So if she can pull off lucky number seven this weekend in a weird way, it does bring her one step closer to keeping that historic run going. And that does it yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

Look at her pretty couple of turnous Corinda Cherry Everyone! Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone! Everyone, everybody! Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everyone, everybody.. Everybody, everybody.. Look at this at the moment

holding on the Galaxy WK' plus

Day Palombo here with an R-X muscle news update this coming weekend. The Tampa Pro is here. I can't believe we're in August actually already, but yes we are. This used to be the last show of the year prior to the Olympia or the last qualifier of the year. It's no longer like, but it's still one of the top shows of the year, especially given the fact that we're in COVID times where everything kind of got pushed back, the show started late. This is an important show for a lot of bodybuilders out there who are trying to qualify for the Mr. Olympia competition. And it's a stack line up, and that's what we like to see when we're talking about good shows. Here's the list that's been put up on the IFDB Pro website. Not necessarily missing from that list is really winkler. I have to assume he's not doing camp or he's probably saving it for the Spain show. I think the following week, but we have a stack line up here with it's going to probably be featured by Ian Valier. I have to assume, you know, I've been a very big fan of Ian's physique ever since he turned pro at the amateur Olympia Latin America in Alco Polco, which I was actually at. I remember when I first started the first time, this guy's got a great structure. He adds muscle to this thing. He's going to be a dangerous dangerous competitor. He has. He's got a ton of muscle, ton of condition muscle. And that's what we like to see. We like to see big frames on our overall winners. And Ian's got all the bells and whistles. You know, the last year, I think it was more of a confidence issue with him. This year, I think he's going to bring it. I think he's going to own that stage. I think he's going to be very difficult to beat for a number of factors. He's always in shape. Number one. Number two, he's got, if not the most muscle, the best place muscle on his body of any other competitor in that stage. He's put together really well with a small waist. He's got a lot of wow to his physique. And if he can show it off and on that stage, I think he walks away with an easy victory here. But there's a lot of guys in this line of who can certainly move in and steal this victory for me and if he's off. One of those guys that I really am very high on, he may even press me a lot this year already. Hopefully he's still feeling fresh would be Muhammad Shabon. And this guy's got tremendous legs. He's got a good back. He's got a lot of bells and whistles too. And you look at him, you know, you say, wow, this guy has got an impressive physique. The question is, will he dial it in 100% if he does, I think he's going to have problems with him. Because he's denser, he's more compact, he doesn't have gaps in his physique at all. And he's got a lot of wow as well. So this should be a really good line up between these two guys. Obviously, most of my place, second behind, Hunter LeBrona, two weeks ago in Chicago. So this guy has got to be considered one of the front runners here as well. And he's got a nice little momentum push behind him. One of the freakyest guys in this line up, you know, who maybe doesn't get enough love is Charles Griffin. Here's a guy when he brings it. He's got a lot of freaky mass on his body. He's been improving every single year we've seen them up on that stage. He gets better and better. And you know what, if I'm a competitor, I don't want to stand next to this guy because he's got so much density on his body and so much thick muscle that if he's in shape, he will be very, very difficult to beat. And that's Max Charles we're looking at right here. But I'm talking about Charles Griffin who happens to be, like I said, probably one of the most underrated pros on the circuit right now. And this is a good reason he is because, you know, he doesn't go out there and put himself out there. He's not a social media, you know, fanatic. He just brings it every single time he comes to the stage and he improves every single time he comes out. And that's what we want to see in a guy when you come back to the stage. The judges don't want to see someone bring the same thing they brought last year. They want to see changes in their physique. He's at a point now where he's got so much freaky mass on that upper body from the delts and the packs and the arms that in any position he puts his body in, he looks like an absolute freak show. I mean, look at the side chest shot. Crazy. Those arms are ridiculous. And this is a guy who kind of reminds me almost like a Ronnie Coleman in the sense that he's improving so much every single year. I don't even know what his upper limit is at this point. I don't know if he knows what his upper limit is and maybe he shouldn't even think about that shoot for the stars because I think he's going to, he can be a guy who comes in here and absolutely wins this show if everyone's not perfect and he comes in at his best. We just saw Max Charles before we go back to Max Charles. Max has got probably the best upper body in the lineup. I mean, when he's on, he's on. You know, he's got a great back. He's got a delts. He's got arms. He's got a small waist. He's got the bells and whistles and from behind he's very dominant. His problem obviously has always been the fact that he can't get those legs to look as great as his upper body. But they're not weak anymore. They're not a great body part. They're a good body part. They're in shape. We saw him in Chicago. He was third there. He was in shape. He had separation in his legs. That's what he needed. Some people felt he should have been higher. Some people felt he shouldn't have been that high. I think he was placed right where he needed to be. I went ahead of problem with the Ming Second Place there. He's a guy you got to watch out for in this lineup because of the size and freaking to see those brink for the table. Now, having mentioned all those guys, there's a lot of good guys in this lineup. I can go over, you know, I could talk about this lineup forever. I mean, you got Joel Thomas who's always dangerous if he's going to bring it. Justin Mackey who's got a great physique. Oriental. Oriental. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got Freakness. He's got a lot of dangerous as well. Phil Flahar. I work with him in the past. Tremendous amount of dangerous muscle too because he's put together well. He flows well. He's got Freaky muscle. When he's in shape, he's very dangerous as well. I think what the, my dark horse in this line just because people don't really know is big bunty. Big bad bunty. He's got a lot of Freaky mass and muscle. He's put together very well. This is his pro debut. I know he works at a guru of me and I haven't really been getting some sneak peeks. I think he could surprise a lot of people. I don't know if he's going to come here with the show. But I certainly think he has a shot at the top five here. I think that if you talk about a dark horse in this line of, he might be that guy. So super exciting line up here going into Tampa. Once he gets Tim Gardner running this show and always putting on a very professional show and rolling out the red carpet to the athlete. That's what it's all about. We have a terrific, two 12-plass here too that man. I can go for it. I can go another hour and talk about those guys between guy, sister Nina, and that line up. And you know, my client, Caraz Bezio, who looks amazing in this line up here. We're going to see a real battle in the 12-john Jewat who might as he's like the newest guy who is always in condition. I mean, this guy has never had a shade. You got bold Lewis in this line up as well. I don't think an Aaron Clark coming back. You really, you don't even know who could be the guy who's going to emerge here because there's so many good guys. There's at least five to six guys that can win this show. Depending on how they show up and how everyone else shows up. So the tap a show this weekend will be one that I will be home glued to my set watching and fortunately I won't be up there. I'm still self-sacluding myself, but, you know, until all this blows over if it ever does. But I'm excited. As a fan of the sport, this is going to be a great show. All the divisions of staff filled to the health. And I know it's going to be a great show. And I hope you guys tune in to watch it. We'll be analyzing it, break it it down, and giving you guys our insight, the entire week alone for now. I'm Dave Palombo with an RX muscle. Exclusive news update.

10th and 9th You must and I will repeat There ready for two guys who can't handle the truth The truth you can't handle the true word we can't be Lumball Chris Asito Orangemuscle.com presents every muscle Leo Watch us Welcome to another episode of Heavy The muscle radio I'm daypalumball I'm joined as always by the technician Chris Asito On this What's it today? August 5th 2018 No it's the 6th It's the 6th You know I were recording this early It's actually August 6th 2018 and Chris you're still down there in Tampa After the camp of Pro Has led out And Alexis Rolone has defeated Sergio Leaver Jr And a very narrow Close knit Contest Poor Sergio has to be relegated The second twice now in the same year After that big near Pro when you're before this And what is Sergio's mental state right now? Well I just put it in the same as I am You checked it You checked it Yeah no he's so great He's happy Because I guess he's qualified for the Olympia now Which was you know he wanted to win the show Of course Obviously when you look good By the bill is always happy He looked good You know you get you know people like Yeah yeah you look great So you know he's happy about that Well this was a little bit of a recognition For Alexis Rolone Because the Alexis lost the narrowly a couple years ago To hear to our good friend of Key Williams I remember that There are a lot of people who are very upset about that And you know what I hope to Key in that year I have to say Alexis was harder than he came But you know Keyman a little more muscle than But it looks like Alexis is added quite a bit of muscle Since the last time we saw him here in Tampa Yeah no he looked excellent He's definitely grown in the last two years Since that Second place to rock him And you know he looked really good In a nutshell I mean there's more detail to it I've gone through it with you in terms of like There was they had an epic final Model or model Posing Whatever Posing You know usually that's where I would think Sergio Would shine because he likes that Like you know He did Man man Did he do all that? Yeah I had him winning I had him winning I know people have roughly upper norms Because I bought him I didn't have him winning But I had him winning But this is the flip side If someone You know I never talked to Judges and some judge I met tonight He said Came up to me in Sergio And city almost pulled the camera out Trying to figure out who would win He told me in Sergio straight up he said You know I could make a decision at the end But Alexis Sergio loved that He said he could make a decision at night He said I could make a decision at night He said I could make a decision at night He said I could make a decision at night He said Sergio I had you at night He had the other guy in pre-judging He didn't know what to do That's why we can compare you guys over and over And I just went with my gut Now I'm going to ask you a question Don't even think just answer Okay If this show took place in New York who wins Sergio Right Okay If this show takes place in California who wins Along Okay What about if this show takes place in Chicago So you think only New York Sergio It comes out ahead Because of the New York crowd behind him Yeah Yeah You can see the view It's more cool You can see the view You can see people like it like our age And our kids So they know that Sergio is the son of a woman I love here You know some people get a little nostalgic of that Probably go a little bit Get a little bias to get wild I looked at the pictures And of course I was there You were there I thought from the pictures We can have them get a great wrap You'll love it Yeah, now we're going to wrap up Should be up by the time people listen to this radio show So we will get your analysis Got analysis right after the show Let out I thought from the pictures I thought Sergio looked a little better And a lot of shots But once again it's really hard to tell Because they're both so hard And sometimes hardness doesn't really show In the pictures as well as it doesn't person So maybe Rolone was a little more Gritty than Sergio and certain shots I don't know What do you think that what do you think made the judges pick Because you obviously are bias because you help Sergio, why do you think the judges went with Rolone? I think that they probably went with him Because he had Deeply crushed radio quads Even though Sergio's quads in pre-jageable Is good if not better than Rolone's Because they're bigger And on the side chest he's got very full pecs And he's got a right The quote right looking side chest You know what I mean? It just looks right It pecs are strided You know from show the arms ties and well But I mean if you go pose pose You can say I think Sergio wins a front poses I think Sergio wins the back poses I think Rolone wins The most muscular Or at least close I think Rolone wins the side try I think Rolone wins the side chest I think they both have terrible abs and thighs And so there you know if you break it up that way Sergio, you know big in the line up He's wired and anyone in the line up You know that helps a little bit Right It's funny, you know I start this way I judge very quick When they called for I thought Sergio was very comfortable Same Sergio won Then when they called him on the pre-jetion last call I got stopped That was quick You know the Rolone that I thought Oh quite a quick You know that call out like Maybe I missed a 90 missed on the first call I was just really shopping up a lot And then I thought even shopping up a lot more for night So that's how I saw it Then I run into the set Oh yeah Sergio got much hotter at night The room on soft or something like that I don't know You know No height It's like bleed opposite I'll say one thing about what Rolone's got going for He's got a lot of mature Grany Detailed muscle on his body And I think Sure We like the flow of Sergio's body better His coloring is really good on stage Because he got their really good skin like his father You know And I think that you want to pick Sergio Because you got the whole nostalgia thing going behind him He happens to be very charismatic on stage I think Rolone's physique is a little more mature Maybe he did say that And I think that it becomes very It comes down to like what do you like better And I think certain driving panels will pay Who do you think he has a real question This is the most important question Who does better at the Olympia That's which look will translate better on to an Olympia stage It's me I think he will tell you I think he is bigger I think big usually translate better on the Olympia stage Because they both condition But why is big drink? Tell me why Mr. Olympia is always notoriously the side from Philly He is a big guy He is like the fighter You're a freakier guy He is usually Mr. Olympia So it's always the mass guys that are clashing on a limpist stage. Phil actually happens to be probably, you know, has basically taken that rule and thrown it out the window the last eight years because, you know, he's never been the biggest guy on stage. But he does appear sometimes 3D-wise being the biggest. So, he's the most cartoonist. Yeah, he's the freakiest looking on stage. So I can, you know, that kind of trump sometimes, like, you know, the big rotty type, hugeness. But let's say, it big usually is better on the limpist stage. And that's always the better way, that's why really winked at us while in the limpia. He's huge. And it's impressive. He can, he can hold his own on that stage. Dennis Wolf, he's, that's why Dennis Wolf held his own, always on that stage. He always did better on the limpist stage, usually when he did, on the local shows. The regional shows because he's just more impressive in that line of structure wise. Sometimes when you do the smaller shows, the bigger guys get, like, kind of get shunted off because they don't really match up well against anyone. Unless they're superb, you know, they, they just, they just, they just, sometimes don't, don't do as well. Or it doesn't, they pan out as well to them. But on the limpia stage, that really size really helps. Just like you get the trail, so it's not that big. And he would always win these pro shows during the year. And then go to the limpia and get slaughtered because he just wasn't big enough. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, people, if they're just hearing you're going to really well-dry. Yeah, if they didn't even, if they wouldn't just win work, it would be like, they don't be very every year. Yeah. Well, let's talk about Max Charles, who plays third year. Good Max Charles, great Max Charles somewhere in between. Somewhere in between. Good type of body from the front. You know, just, you know, Max has got the inside out peel to get his back down. Right. And if he does, then usually his legs disappear on torch on. Yeah. Very hard to get that fine balance between upper and lower on him. But the fact that he really places top five almost every time he competes, tells you how good he is just from a genetic standpoint and from a muscle standpoint. He just, you know, it's the old Joel Stubbs phenomenon. Joel Stubbs had the best greatest back of all time in bodybuilding, better than Ronnie Coleman. But he had to, you know, he had the leg issue. Couldn't get the legs up the size. So he had, but he had good condition. You know, so Max was a button cold there. Right. But it seems like Max always somehow, you know, sneaks into that top five just because he's big. Now, in the fifth position, okay, we had kind of another one. What, you know, what? You know what? You miss what? Oh, excuse me. Did I miss fourth and purpose? Yep. Yeah, you must have. Justin Rodriguez. Yeah. Better than New York. Same. Um, I think that he was probably the same just that, you know, if you minus out, you know, volume and Sergio, then you'd probably say, like if Sergio and the loan were not as good as they were, then you'd say, oh, he's, you know, he's better than New York, but because he's grown up against two guys when like great condition. Yeah, but you know what? Justin Rodriguez has good legs, really good legs, and he beats, he lost the Max Shaw, so what had that happened? Um, I would probably have a head of Max. Really? Okay. Ah, well, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's toss. Max is like ticker from the front. I mean, Rodriguez was in the best shape, you know? Hmm. That's what I was going to say, but I'm letting him in. And he's probably going to, him in, him in Sergio had happened, having like a friendly, Instagram view. Well, it seems like Justin likes to view to all these guys. I think he tries to get into their head, you know? You can't get into Sergio's head, dude. No, I think Sergio thrives on that type of style. Oh, are you kidding? I look at the rear back double buy of Justin Rodriguez. Who, by the way, is looking more and more like victim Martinez physique wise every day. Um, I hate to say, but he probably would be too wealthy worked with you. I, you like those type of physics that you have to just get inside out, twisty, twisty, yeah, conditioned, you know? You smell them. He's dialed in with a camel curl. Can I get it in? Oh, he, he is officially still working with them. Yeah, you, well, well, they'll say no. Now that Sergio beat him, but he, from behind he doesn't deserve to be, Max Charles, I'm sorry. I'm a funny looks good, but he has a little layer of water. He looks like victim Martinez. He has the same, the, don't you think he's got the same arm? He's got better legs than the Victor, I think. He's got the same waistline. I bet he, if he's back, got shrink wrapped. He probably looked just like him when he wanted to go to the old three night of champions when you helped Victor. There's a lot of similarities for sure. Very, very similar structure. I see it. If you take, you look at the pictures and take, this, you take Justin's head off him. It looks just like Victor. I would think it was Victor. If you just show me that body, I'd be like that, Victor. Yeah. Yeah. So I, I think they'd write Justin's screwed himself here by not really coming in shape. I think it would, it could have been a three man, you know, a three man show and that top three, he would have been his best. Yeah. He was better than Chicago for sure. He was definitely better than Chicago. I still don't think we've seen the best of him this year. No, I don't need her. I don't need her. Now, talk to me, where did Sergei Kulli F come from? He's another camel cool guy. Oh, he is. He's a Russian. Yeah, just extinguishing these guys to it. Love brightens out of him. He's Russian though. I know, but you know, they don't matter. They go from, they, who's from Kuwait who trained in Kuwait? That's true. Sure. He was better in Chicago. He's a very nice guy. Yes. Yes. I spoke with him through Trump's translator. Who, Rajasthan? Yeah, but I'm just going to say, Rajasthan. Who's probably being indicted this week and he was on our expulsor two months ago. Yeah. Maybe we'll get him on again once he gets some died. I'm going to get him with, you know, I mean, I'm going to get the men and his brothers. I think it's a hell with him. Now, I see, I see Sergei and his, excuse me, Sergei. And his glutes, hamstrings, legs are ridiculous with him. And then I see the bat. His back is not that hard looking from the pictures. Oh, he was just, he's flat here. Oh, okay. It was good. Yeah, no. He was, you know, I think what happened in his, I think he was just a little bit different. I think I'm guessing in Chicago he was really good. And I think he was just as lean and all that stuff is here. I think he was just burnt out. And I don't know if he went back to Russia and came back, which is a big trip. More if he just stayed here out of his environment. And he just didn't have the pop and wow factor. Then he had three weeks ago. Yeah. Talk to me about six place for sheet old record who by the way didn't, I did not work with the show. Mark and his girlfriend. He wanted to try something new. Yeah, but she was big of course. And in some areas very hard and lot of areas hard. He just suffers with like, you know, his, he needs, he's narrow for all that muscle. Yeah. And all by himself. But that said, and I was going to say all by himself. He looks crazy, but he should have placed higher. Period. You think that he didn't get what he said. Yeah, because I can tell you deny all that muscle. He's got a lot of muscle. He looks like he was pretty conditioned here. His lower back is a little too weak. Looks a little to be a little tired of it. It's pretty good. I mean, for the pictures. Yeah. I agree. I wouldn't have had a higher. Well, but I mean, he doesn't know, you know, he could have been surgery. He could have been. He could have fallen as, you know, 5, 4, 4, 5. But I know what you mean. It's weird. He's got a lot of muscle. When you see him standing in the lineup, he doesn't look that big. Or that wide. I should say. No. You know what I mean? It's weird. It's a weird thing. It's a, it's a illusion. I know, but it's, uh, it's kind of a little strange. But hey, top six. You know, he doesn't, uh, it's still pretty good in this lineup. Like I said, this is not a week line up by any means. Brad Row, how do you look? This is a good placing for him seven place by the best all year. Yeah, no. He was very hard. He was a little disappointed. You know, he was, you know, he was, he was a little bit more full than this. Anyway, if I'm, um, maybe broken to the top six. I mean, he just recently, I think, place fifth to six is cargo, which we still about. Yeah. You've said before he has the worst genics and bodybuilding but he's the hardest work. Yeah. He probably hates me, but I say that is a compliment to he doesn't get it. It's a, it's like when I say, feel I hate personally. When you say it by Guy, I'm assuming, Guy loves that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I love that. But I think Brad doesn't get it. He takes a personal vote. What I'm saying is, you know, Brad is a type of guy who, well, frankly, with, you know, his coach genetics. A lot of people would even turn pro and he just will do the way. You know, to turn pro. Yeah. He's got pro caliber legs for without a doubt. I mean, that's probably on stage. And then the upper body is just a little behind them. He's got the small arms that is back. That's just a little bit, but he's got the big enough. But his, I mean, his peel tears. I've, I haven't seen it. Well, so you know, Nick, you like a little. He saw something that you can inject into the by. He's got the power. Chris, you're the greatest. You're the greatest. Lucas Carroll, you impress. I'm looking for Lucas Carroll. What's he look like? I forgot what he was like. I just thought his legs were a little small. Who is the guy who just won the USA? I don't know. Oh, yeah, this him. That is him. I should, I should know. I just didn't interview the guy on our X-mas. Yeah, no, he, he looked. He won the heavyweight class. Yeah, at the USA. He looked great. He looked great. He, he looked great. Consider a big jump to a jet pro show. Um, you know. I don't think he was as peeled as he was at the USA. What do you think about that? Yeah. I think that's a problem. I think I try to come up with two big and the first hit the pros. I'm picking that bigger as better. And, you know, if you're going to sacrifice conditioning, then it's not. Probably in this line of heavy coming, like you did at the USA, probably would have been higher. But I guess you still got to figure top 10 at your first pro show. We can't have the eternal pro. It's pretty damn good. You know, it's pretty good. Yeah, it's big. It is a press of actually, you know. I think that's definitely a win. That's a win. That's a win. You know, punitive. On win, it was a knife. You know, what's your opinion if it's him? He just, he's, he's not. He's a cliche dialed in. Um, you know, he's round around with any's ever been. And he's, you know, he's pretty tight but not very tight. And he's mostly driving, not totally dry. And, you know, in a tough line of p. crashes tonight, I think last year he was, um, pop. I think it was fourth last year. Yeah. When I, you know, I could tell when people were in shape by looking at their face. He doesn't have that hollowed out cheek look. He looks a little full face to me. Yeah. And he's hard. He's by, so maybe he overcarved. I don't know. This certain policy, I see. It looked really good. Like his front doubles. What do you do? What carbs is something. Yeah. I think that's probably. Uh, Joel Thomas. We've, you know, when Joel, when Joel first hit the pros, when everyone. I remember when Joel first hit the scene, the body of the movie. Everyone, this kid was a prodigy. It was a teenager. And everyone thought he was going to turn pro at 19 and then took him a while. He finally got the pro card in a very, very bad year. By the way, and he's probably got more genetic gifts than a lot of guys on stage. He's put on a lot of masks. What was your opinion of him? What does he need to improve the move up at this point? He looks pretty hard. Um, he needs to, like, head of the right way. Whatever that means. Meaning he's just not. I mean, he just looks good like six weeks out. And then, you know, the day of the show, he looks good. But not like the progress that you would expect from six to five before the three to two to one. He looks like he's got all the tools he needs to do well to pro level. Well, he does. He does. He doesn't have the right formula. What you're saying? No, he doesn't have the magic formula. We'll get the magic formula. We'll have to find out. I thought it was a great Tampa Pro show. You know, it was a great lineup. I know you guys enjoyed yourself out there because spending the weekend with Sergio Oliver Jr. has got to be. What's more to do? Who's more entertaining? The week. The week. Yeah. My wife wants in a way. You have to spend the whole week with these guys out there in Tampa. She's like, that's why you get trouble with the wife. You spend the whole week out there because he came down here to Tampa. Right. See, he was a planning to do the show. You talked to mentor, right? Yeah. I talked to me. He went to Chicago. He got second there. He stayed in Chicago. His hometown ate all the deep dish pizza and all the Greek food. No, you know, what skydives and all this else. And right, right. He did right after the show. I did really. I thought you were kidding. Yeah. Right after the show. I said, you got to do Tampa. And I said, I'm just going to let him like unwind a little bit. So like three days later, I said, I do Tampa. And he didn't even return my call. And then like a week later, I said, you got to Tampa. So he said, let's do it. And so he went down to Tampa early. And he went to Ben's gym. Ben, but mostly. Yeah. And Ben told me, quote, he won't be ready. So because then seeing this guy all blown up from all the pizza. He didn't obviously. Yeah. Yeah. So so I said, a lot of times this one looks very like very much fat like. And I said, is he full? No. I said, he said, no. And he can definitely said no. So I, I think. And then brutal. So friends brutally honest. Yeah. Yeah. So I came down on Tuesday. Well, it was Friday, show two because we're getting. I'm getting my head out of my supplement. I helped 10,000 Pierre, which is a Friday pre-judging. Right. So you're saying to me that on Tuesday when you got the surgery I still didn't look good. You know, no, he didn't. But I know his lot of looks like fat. It's weird. Like you don't you know you must have been nervous. You must have been nervous. Yeah. I love it. You know, I said, don't worry about it. So what do you do it? What would you do with them? What did I next come up with? You know, I, I, I, I, I, I reached into my magic dandelion. But yeah, but you don't know what you're doing. That was not with the common conception as a money, a money, the, the, the, the, the, No, it's not common, but, but Nick Eli, Lily says, I, I actually believe that Chris has absolutely no idea what he's doing. And I, it doesn't really matter. You do pretty well for someone who doesn't know what the fuck they're doing. I got an interview. No. So, I, I, I like depleted them down to like, smithereens. Right. I had them depleted. Actually, you know what's funny? That the, the day that Ben said, um, he looked terrible. I hadn't gone need like. Anyway, because I knew it was going to be depleted. My said, Ben says you look terrible. So he better, you know, what are you reading? He picked the, the very, very, very, very, very, very low carbs. So he went, like, Tuesday when I think he went low carbs up until. Uh, I, I gave him a little carbs on Thursday. And I actually did surprisingly low to up a little bit of a try, which surprised me. But his body's weird. It responds quickly. And it holds water. And when he drops, when he, when he, when he, like, when his carbs go down. Uh, and he depletes like he doesn't really flatten out. No, when when when he eats carbs, they, you know, it just seems to like, magically seriously suck the right water into the muscle. It was just, it just transforms. Let me translate that for the people listening. He's a genetic freak. Yeah. Which, well, with that we can from Nick, uh, either I Lily's statement, I don't know what I'm doing. Well, you obviously know how to manipulate his genetics, is it so, right? I know I just picked the guys with the best genetic. That's right. I see, so you have to do anything. I got you, right? I've been into a guy by the way, who nickname Black C. No, because I work with Black guys. Black C. What about Jay? Jay kind of ruins that whole. Yeah. You know. People, when you're working with Jay, they said, I would, Chris only works with these white guys, right? Yeah, what I was doing. Yeah, what I was doing. Oh, my god. Doesn't get any better than that. See, so I came down to his feet. Yeah. And because I knew, uh, Henry Pierre was coming in. Mm-hm. And I knew Sergio had been here. So I said, don't come down. I'll take a little vacation from the kids from the home schooling. Right. Yeah. Well, I never do anyway. Yeah. And, uh, and I'll just make sure that you, you know, I'll pull some rabbits out of my hat and hit you with a magic, uh, dandelion root and the magic muffins and see what happens. And it worked. Well, almost worked. I guess I could say it's a good one. Yeah, I'm in. Yeah. Exactly. I think I would. I should have a good one. Yeah. Was Ben Pocoski surprised? Yeah. Was it like, yes, he would be a successful man. Did you talk to him? No, I didn't see him. I didn't see him. I did see Ben in the gym today because Jim, did he will a test that we showed up the morning of pre-judging and started to pump up his chest and back for one and a half hours. So yeah. And we want right to pre-judge. Yeah. Let me hear about this now. Right. So he competed this morning, which was Saturday morning. And then he decided he was going to go do a chest workout. That sounds like a full-fledged. What was that? A full pre-judging he did this. A full, full-fledged, full hardcore chest workout. Like what? Like full of stuff. How much was he benching? Oh, I mean, machines, but you know, like drop set street plates. Um, uh, on, you know, all these machines that Ben has. He did probably did 25 exercise per chest and 18 for back. I did back too. Yeah. Let me ask you this question. Did he, did he, did he look better or worse on the same? Yeah. He did look better. He did look better. So, you know what? I know I like to be a dictator about, I'm a friendly dictator. So I listen and he said, you know what? I know this will work. So I said. See, you were actually supervising this? I swear Dave, I wish we had a video. Was Ben there? He never said. He was eating between every sat. Was Ben there? Yeah. Ben was right. Was Ben like just taking his head like something. I think he could get a look because I know Ben thought. I was going to get killed. You got to call up Ben and ask. Yeah, I got to ask. I think he was going to get killed. Ben must be thinking of himself. If Chris is here with him in the training, like this, he must look so bad. Yeah. Now at this point, are you saying to yourself, I don't think we were not going to pull this out. Did you think of that? No, no, no. I thought that I saw him the night before. Right. We were in the gym. He was sweating like crazy. He was getting tightened. When he sweats, he doesn't really like, you know, a lot of people sweats. He just deflate. Right. And he was getting better. He's a gentleman. We're there during a giant rainstorm in the power and out in the gym. He continued to ice. He's got that on video. I'm sure he'll post it. He continued to train, right with the right, right the dark. That's great. I love it. So he had done back the night before, like 40 seconds. How do you not give the F, see if they had known the backstory of the judges on this? They would have definitely given them the win because they would have been a great story, you know, after how I won the tap or proud, you know? Well, it was trick into up my crest. Yeah. I was tricking to doing the shot, right. Exactly. Yeah. You see what I had to do? Because Chris tricked me into doing the shot. I didn't even do the shot. Anyway, I didn't even want to do the shot. They didn't want to do the shot. I don't want to do the shot. I want to do the shot. I just happy did it. You know what? He was shocked when, you know, the, the, the, the, the pleasant news was I was told someone said, you qualify to the Olympia, GG. Okay. I'm going to show. Now he didn't go last year, right? No. No. No. No. No. Here's a question. I don't really know the answer to it. Is he the first son of a Mr. Olympia to ever do the Olympia? Has to be. Yeah. It's pretty amazing. Yeah. I think that's pretty cool. Is he the first son of an Olympian to do the Olympia? How about that? Um, that one I'm not sure. I don't know. Do you know of any other sons of who guys he went to the Olympia? I'm sure there's probably someone out there. I don't know. I saw a date. Um. John Hanson will have to. Yeah. We're going to ask the, the new historian there. Yeah, he's in the hole in there for three years. I said there was a day after he said there was something on the top. My mom was in the tent and he came over and he had help with it for thefernty. Don't worry. Are you really saying something? Did you get out of there? Yeah. Absolutely. I'm anointed. He's the lead here right now. Yeah. or really if people would love it. Like he said, you know, put it in the last case. Yeah. Let's talk about the two-to-a-half division. Nicholas Vulliad wins here. Last year obviously controversy. A lot of he had some Jimmy out there, some Scott Distance, some shoulders. It was kind of cut a seasoned short after that Charlotte Pro that he played second at. It comes back here. I don't know if he's hearing anyone complaining about anybody. Body parts. What was your impression of him? Solid win. Solid win. Solid pretty solid win. I mean he's like, last week I talked about B version. He's a B version of Lee Priest. Yeah, he's pretty freaking like what? Yeah. Yeah, he's freaking looking, but he's a little squaddy. And he's lacking a back. That's a problem. Yeah, it's a big problem. When you shorten lacking a back, it's, you know, I guess if you like it in a back at any height level, it's an issue. But you know, site chastise, I try to set up pretty freaking muscle muscular, freaky, standing in the line up. So I surprisingly hard to find in the line up. Makes him seemingly overrated all the side. He has a lot of dense, freaky, lush muscle that went to say. Yeah, but he don't look like the Instagram photos, which I always say, you know, you know, you hate that. You know, you hate that. That's the reason you're in the Instagram photos. But, you know, people get these perfect, like, perfect, perfect. And then they filter them. And then, you know, then you salmon, skating the very laksas line up. And he's very vulnerable, standing the line up. Yeah. Yeah. Talk to me about Derek Olson, who comes in second. I don't know anything about him. The meh, I'm just a little bit. I was surprised. He's round. He's lean. He's not ripped. He's not big. I think he just landed in a based on his quote, shape and flow. Kind of a small way. So yeah, small ways. I mean, I don't have to work back with two of the most overlooked people, like, like, massively so it was Lloyd dollar. And even more so than Lloyd dollar was Mike Argus. Oh, really, Mike Argus. Dick. Six and seven. Mike Argus looked very hard and dense, and with a lot of muscle maturity, which people, you know, in that class, some people did not have a place ahead of them. Well, before we get there, let's get to us while they'll go guns all as a place there. I also another person I really don't know very much about. Very hard, very dense. I mean, very, very sharp. I'm a body was a little weak, but he was over-rewarded, I think, for the condition. So you think you think it went, it turned into a conditioning show, what you're saying? Well, no, because the guy I got second was not in condition. Yeah. Well, he obviously placed because of his structure, is what you're saying. Yeah. I thought the, and I'm not just saying, because I helped him, but fourth place Carthbageau, I helped, I thought he should have been higher. I was kind of a little surprised that he didn't do better, given the fact that these other two guys really weren't household names. And I didn't think they were that spectacular, but I wanted your impression because you were there, obviously. Well, he's way bigger than the guy I get second and third. Yeah, so I thought. And his condition is, I guess, on par with the guy I got second, not as good as I got third, but then I go back to dollar and earnings. He wasn't as conditioned as them, and they got like, you know, crushed, but didn't line up. Yeah. What do you think, uh, I look at Lloyd Dollars' physique, and I really like his good lines. I think he needs still needs a little bit more muscle. I think that might be hurting him. And this line up, but I think his conditioning, I know how he's helped him, definitely dial them in conditioning wise better than I've ever seen him. Yeah, just best he's done for sure. I just think. I'd like to see his legs a little bigger. I think that his legs are still lacking. Yeah, I mean, I could use bigger legs, but I mean, so could the guy I got second. Yeah. So could the guy I got third. You know, the guy I got fourth had giant legs. Yeah, that's, yeah. I thought that, you know, Carrot's badger would, you know, turn pro one of these masters events. But he's a guy who has been a sleeper guy, you know, I just knew it. I told him, I said, look, I don't care how you turn pro. Let's just get the pro card. You're going to be a good pro. And because he's got a lot of muscle on him. And he's got a lot of freak facted to him. And he's shorter than a lot of these guys, which is obviously an advantage as well, because you can hold more muscle through 12. Yeah. He's still can gain 10 pounds in this class. And if you need it too. What did you think of, I used to train the Maradona here who finished in fifth. Maradona was flat from the, he was just flat. He was in condition of flat. I think he had trouble making way probably. Would you say that that was his problem, right? That was out of the world. Yeah, well, two or two was always a problem. But, you know, he's not young anymore. You know, what I do so work with the most years ago. You know, the muscle has a denser snap to it. Yeah, he doesn't look very flat. Yeah, I think if he's able to come in full, he's much more dangerous. Yeah, he might be on the fake muffins or nose. He left me till because he didn't, you know, he said, you don't know. What you talked about at all. And after he left, do we never heard from him again? No, no, it was like a lead balloon. So, boy finishes in sixth, Mike, August, and seventh, I'm looking at him. What about Sylvia Samuel and A. How is his come back? He still come people around. He still making the comeback. He still is by the old responding. He was in jail for a bunch of years. I mean, they didn't respond this time. That was tired. Yeah, the tired looking body this time. He done well previous two shows. But this one, this time around, he was just like wiped out. Ergis has got the Ergis's face looks like he can be hanging out with, you know, you and me, like, eating at the buffet. Yeah, he just looks like a regular guy. And then you look at his physique. And it's like, we should, this guy's like, looks good. The physique of like a 20 year old. He's unbelievable. Totally, totally. Totally. I mean, tell you, skin was thin. I'm sure he's impressive. Yeah. I mean, crazy glutes, hands, like crazy quads. Fabulous front of Bicep, tremendous high chest, great, most muscular. I was, when he first came out and I, you know, I might not know what I'm talking about with contests, but I do with contests reviews. And I thought he'd be in the top for easy. Yeah. He's, he's impressive. He's shrink wraps for sure. He, maybe, maybe, that was Mike's gift. That was always Mike's thing. The fact that he, he's, because he's got to be in his, what, I'll wait 40, so I think maybe 50. Just asked me to say, he has to be at least 45. He's got to be close to me, I think. He's a little younger than me, but not much. And he's still looking good. Good for him. Good for him. Now let's, let's talk about the classic division because that was, well, you know, I want to, I'm going to give you credit. You predicted that Henry P. R. I know would come in here and, and, and, and, and, and, I said, let's, let's, let's, let's screwing off the, the year when, when he did not win. Yeah, you did, you did say that. And I, and I agreed with you, I said, you know, I, I didn't know if he deserved to win, but he definitely deserved to be up there. Wayway, top, top three. And he looks great here. I, this really nothing, I could even say. I don't think there's anything that you could, there's no improvements he really needs at this point. He's bigger than everyone's structure wise to get the tiny ways to get the great lines. Was it even close? Was it, uh, in your imagination? I, I, I, I, I thought he dominated the, you know, the class. So you got unanimous first place vote. So I mean, he's like six, you know, I mean, he's over six feet. It's the height thing that really makes him look impressive because I'm going to tell you one thing, Kion Pearson, okay. And, and I want to just, I want to make a statement here because I can't spend sending me pictures for, for quite a while now. He always sends me pictures and I'm always like amazed when I see this picture. I didn't know who he was when he first started sending me pictures. And I was completely amazed and then we did a muscle in the morning story at him. And I have my, the guy writes the story to me, Corey screwed up his name. Which got him was really embarrassing for me because Kion sends me pictures all the time. And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm calling Kion Williams, you know, and I, excited, I just read the stories. I added them and I, sometimes, you know, I'm going to the whole thing of my dad and I didn't catch it. And he said, Dave, thanks to the plug, but I, you know, you said my name when I said, oh, man, now now I owe you an interview. I said, but he said, this guy is, is a freak. You know, he's, not as big as, structure wise as Henry. But this guy is going to be the future of this division. I think. Yeah, you know what's so funny? I, I own my apology because I'm doing the wrap up with John Hanson. And I'm thinking, I already, I'm thinking, oh, maybe he'll make it to the lumpy of blah blah blah. He's already been in the Lempia, right? I believe so. Yeah. And he looked, or maybe it was the, oh, I get it. I think it was the Arnold. He looked damn good at the last, at the Arnold, I think it was. No, he's, he's, he's tremendous. He's tremendous. The muscle insertions and the density. I bet he hasn't been training that long. You know, I think he's got, I will do this. He's only what? I don't know. Well, I'm going to get him on the show. We'll get him on live with him on the interview. So, but he's, what a structure he's got. I mean, he's a great poser too. Yeah, very good. If you look at his Instagram, you see these poses he does. Like, these like really, you know, creative poses and put some on Instagram. And those are the usually pictures he sends to me. Except to ways that he check people's Instagram. I check snake. I'm on the snake Instagram page, I don't even bother body balls. And I was blown away by some of the shots he sent me. I'm like, well, this guy's like a, he's like a modern day, Kai Green almost, you know, like a young guy's. Yeah, yeah, he does. He has reminiscent of Kai Green. He just has a way of very artistic way of displaying his physical. Yeah, I'm telling you. I'm predicting right here. He's going to be in the next couple of years. He's going to come into his own. Because he's just starting, I'm telling you. This guy's just getting started. He got fresh muscle. He doesn't have a piece of loose skin on his body. And he will be fighting that on that Olympia stage. And this is his division, I guarantee. I think I think at the wrap-up, the answer said the same exact thing. Oh, really? OK. I know I feel validated. Well, you don't know what you're talking about. I don't even know. No. Well, congratulations to both of those guys. Jason Low also tremendous physique finishes in third day. Yeah, right. I want to put in the plug that's my guy. OK. What's his name? No, I just went to all the more years. Yeah, he started out the Arnold this year. I got 11. You know, I'm going to tough line up. And I've been telling him, he's been doing multiple shows and placing high and multiple shows. But I've been telling him, I saw him the morning and I preached a judgment. And I said that you're going to be highly, highly. It's funny. I can remember anything that I said to people. It comes to bodybuilding. But anything else I can't remember what I did. I said you're going to be highly, highly competitive. It's a tough line up. I don't want to say. I'll pay his lucky place third. I was translating that. I'm thinking, no, he deserved third all day long. No, I'm just saying, but this is a tough line. This is by no means a joke line up. This is really tough line up. I don't know. Yeah, yeah. Well, that was his best. So I mean, I helped you. I've been telling him this. If you pick the right show, if you pick the right show, if you pick the right show, you could win. Show. Yeah. Right. Right. But you know, it's hard to pick the right show. You know, you want to show you sit out. You're like, you look at the line up and you said, I could have won that. I'm going to tell you how tough this line up was in classic. Because I helped the guy, Tony Davis, he placed 11th. And if you look at his pictures, you're going to be like, this guy could have won any other show. You know, this was a real, the top 10 was brutal here at this show. Yeah, it was brutal. I mean, the mid-roy is one of the highest guys in the line up. And he had to finish 8th here. I mean, I just think that the talent pool here was great. So anyone who finished that top 10, I'm looking at all the pictures. And I'm like, every one of these guys is great. We've on time. It's fifth place. Unbelievable, this guy. Yeah. Totally great. We covered him on muscle in the morning the other day. And I was impressed them. And I saw the picture of him. And he looks fantastic in this line up. Who's the guy I've got for what? He looked tremendous too. Yeah, no. I'm going to pull those. I was going to mention him next. I just mentioned Cleveland because I know him. But very clean line, you know, very dense, very, very dense. That's what? Damien Patrick. Yes. Yes. There's a lot of talent in this division. And these are guys that are just coming through some. Damien could have been a little tighter in the legs I felt. But these are guys that are going to over the next couple of years. They're going to be battling it out on that Olympia stage. And we're seeing in class because we have a lot of depth. And the open division, you have a couple of super stars. And then the rest of the pack that crashes. Classic, it's the level of how many good competitors there are is unbelievable. And they're closer together, obviously, because you can't weigh more than what your height limit is. So, yeah, you know what the funny thing is, Henry had to make a height and a weight. Oh, really? Yeah, everyone has a height. Well, because he's like a hair to tall enough to enter. Oh, my God. So it was an albider then. Yeah. But then he's dehydrated to make, okay, this is the craziest. He's dehydrated to make the weight. And you know, sometimes you dehydrate. You get shrink. But let me ask you this question. All right, Chris, let me ask this question. I got a bit about something. Why don't they have, when they start to figure these to have height cards. So you get measured once in your life and that's your height. It doesn't change. And that's it. Why don't the guys get measured and whenever they want whatever they go to a show, they get height measured. That's the height. They put it on the freaking, they put it on their NPC card or the IFB be card. And then they never have to be measured again because here's the problem, okay? Just the human body. Slow and it's high. Yeah, it shouldn't. It's just like you said it's a dehydrated. I don't want to say anything, but I know someone who's not weighting, but height it in. It changes. That four different rows, four different height. But it will. That's why I'm saying pick one height because here's the problem. You don't know what you have to weigh if you're not sure what they're going to height you in it. So if you miss because not because you didn't know what you're doing, but because your height wasn't right, now you can't even compete. If you're lucky, maybe there's a 212 or there's an open in that show and you can jump in it. But a lot of times it's just classic. You go with this show, you spend all this money. You get there and make it that they say sorry, your 10 pounds overweight because you thought you were having a jump. That's pretty drunk this week. Yeah. Yeah. See, this got to be a height. They got to put on the MPs on the IPB card. They got to put the heights on that from that one. And I think that that should be your height for life. You know what, if you shrink a half an inch, you go up a half inch, that doesn't matter anymore. That's your height. And now you know you weight because they look at your card and say, okay, here's your card. He's this height. This is what he has to weigh. You get on the scale. There's nothing to, there's no guessing anymore. It's two nerve rags. Let me try. He's going to try to show. And he doesn't know what he's going to be. What height is going to be. And then he doesn't know if he's, if the 10 pounds over it or half a pound under, it's still silly. I think Bob, on the same floor, it's been put on the scale. Oh, I thought my dear, do you? It's a dumb idea. And then the one moment is falling here. It is. No, no, I, I know someone who competed in a show and they mentioned a different height. So he had it coming out like a totally different weight. No, it's ridiculous. He can't do that. I'm going to tell you. What do you, I, you have a balance of dollars in short of the numbers. So, either. Chris, I'm losing you a little bit. I don't know if you're, if you're falling asleep over there. But, no, I think the reception's got a little weird. But I know what you say. I know what you say. Let's talk about figure for a minute here. The lesson bumps that who has Chris bumps had sister actually wins here. Qualifies for another Olympia. I thought last year she looked great, but she was a little big for a figure. I thought. And then this year it seems like she downsized. I thought she was going to go to women's physique, but she didn't. She downsized. Did you watch any of the figure here, Chris? I just, I totally checked her off because of the bumps there factor. Right. She's good. She's a great genetics. Yeah, it goes appeal. Yeah. The value of soltera, second. I was like, notice, but now, you know, no more appeal to. Yeah, for bikini. I said that, I think. I don't think. They said it for, you're breaking up a can here, Chris. I thought they did. Oh, they did. I don't know. I wasn't there. Would they announce it in Tampa? I ought to be held responsible for having a couple. I thought someone sent me the thing and they said it was for bikini. They said that they wanted to see straight. I didn't think so. Oh, my God. After I sent something out and told these girls that you don't need radicals to the bikini. I actually, I helped the girl who went and overall up in Boston or areas this past weekend. I closed the house there and sent her name some her beta and she won the overall there. And she was lean. But she, she had one of the music, you know, you could be lean, but if she's not flexing, you don't know. And how's they made her hit her back double? So I told her she got a crazy back double and he was impressed. She was like, oh, I'll try it. But in bikini. In bikini. But she didn't do it on stage. Obviously, but she did, I think after she won, she did a fruoseck. Because your herzase muscle went to muscle too. But yeah, no stradical. She didn't have stradical, but she definitely had a pretty ripped back. That's for sure. Look, the bikini girls got to be in shape. They don't want them to look in, you know, too fibrary. And the great thing is you can just feed them some junk food at the end and then kind of smooth them out just enough. Women, women can kind of like, you know, you can make up to that. I see Jennifer Dory was said, can I see Indie Paul? Well, let's finish figure first. Let's go figure. And the thought, because I wanted to mention not thought you're so tarot, we featured on muscle in the morning. She's unbelievable too. The two of them, Chris, most of the bumps in an old Talia, Olympia, qualbert, calbert, competitors here. You're going to see them both through good at the Olympia per making my prediction here. I'm this show. Right now. I also really like third place Michelle Pinto too, tremendous physique. But she's not as, I don't have her in the same class as Melissa and the and the folly Chelsea, Larsen, fourth and Moid, a zombies, finishes in the fifth position. Bikini, a lower-life shop, potos. You didn't watch Bikini, right? No, I couldn't stand this straight. I didn't glue some just. She wins. And Jennifer Dory's second. That was going on. It was on the 45th chest. I'm sure. Yeah, Sergio is in the gym. How about Indie Pallino finishing the third show back? I did the her own stage. She did. She had a kid, you know, how many months ago? I know. Which makes it insane. Eight months ago, she had a kid. Yeah, I'm going to tell her she should homeschool it. So I'm so sorry. Oh my god, you're funny. Men's physique, Logan Franklin. Yeah. I'm a good friend. I think Logan is looking so big these days. I think he's going to switch to classic physique to be honest with you. Well, I think that he made, I think a few of those guys could. He's great. This is a good wind frame. I think this is the best he's ever looked. I know he listens to the show, so he's going to be happy. I said that, but it's true. Now, in second place in men's physique was a bader, all-malulu. I don't know if that's the last thing. No relations with Bader Badaia, I don't think. But possibly. No, it's from. I don't know. I'm going to look right now. Just for just that curiosity. Did you watch men's physique? I watched a quick couple calls. What is that? You do much. Did you think guys are too big? No, this is big. This bait is from New Orleans, sorry. No, I don't think they've got it radically bigger. I mean, holy smokes, right? Yeah. I mean, it was the first Olympia one. Well, you know what? More campy. You know what the funny thing is? I think my friend, Carl, was talking to Matt Achtin, who was around when they first started men's physique. Well, Matt was in the show, right? Yeah, and this is funny, because Matt was placing third to the Olympia back then. Third. Yep. He was winning pro shows left and right. And I believe he came in the last place of the show. 16th place. Great. Yeah. That just tells you how I said it goes down. That's what I said in the wrap up. I said that, you know, the amount, I said people who are winning shows, it's fine that you mentioned that. I said people who are winning shows in the board show are. And some people call the board show. I just always get confused. What the fuck? Right men's physique. People who are winning the bat, 2013 into the 2014, would get destroyed at the same championship in 2014. Yeah. Absolutely. The blip. Yeah. The blip. Deep competition is. Yeah. And that's what's happening in the first class of two people going to, you know, people were just winning two years ago in the history. Yeah. That's just the way that's the way. Well, the evolution of the sport and it is what it is. Women's body building that had here, Alina Popa, makes it on the comeback trail. She wins this show, pulling Nelson second, LaDon, the third. I thought Linda Martin here from, you know, running around, doing the interviews and stuff. Yeah. They have the wings and strength spots as this obviously. And that's their big on the women's body building. Probably the comeback of the year has to be Jenny Worth winning fitness. I remember Jenny when she was doing flips on stage at 19 years old, you know, back in the late 90s. I mean, she was the talk of the town and she was, she won the Arnold Classic. She was, you know, I think she was second at the Olympia. And everybody thought she was the Arab parent and then she just disappeared. And I actually interviewed her recently. If you guys want to go back on our explosive on our YouTube channel and check, you know, Google it or I say search it. We did a big, I did a big interview with her when she talked about what happened and where she went and all that stuff. And she kind of got forced out of the sport a little bit and now she's back. She looks great. And I don't know if she just, I don't know, some, some, some, some, some, she didn't really give me the details, but some controversial stuff happened and I don't know. She just got the solution and she just stopped competing and she had, you know, she just did other things. And she never stopped training, but she wasn't training the way she, you know, obviously was trained to this. And so she's, you know, she made a comeback. She's done a few shows now. Her routine is not what it used to be. She had one of the best routines of all time. And obviously she's got a lot of back injuries now. She can't do it, but she's, she's good enough that she's, she went to show here. She's going back to the Olympia. That's got to be, that's got to be an unbelievable story. It's 40 years old to make the comeback. You know, after you were like a, like a 19 year old phenom, 20 years later back on the Olympia stage. Chris, who does that? In fitness nonetheless, as a man to points out in the background here because fitness is a demanding physical sport, you know, the beating on your body you take. Well, you can't even do the gymnastics flips anymore, really. And with any degree of, you know, of a aggressiveness, like she used to because she said she's just can't do it. The pain level is too much. So the fact that she's able to still do a routine that's worthy of winning a pro show is to me. I, you know, you got to tip your hat to her. You should remember to tip my hat. To my hat. I wonder what that saying came from. I'm sure someone else. I bet my father was still around. He would know. I, you know, I said we can't check with him. I just, I just, my, my, my tongue right there. I said, if you listen to the tape, I just, or listen, I said, we can't. I was going to have to say, let's ask your father. Yeah, he would know that. But a lot of people have been asking me about, you know, my dad. I've said, I posted on Instagram and on Facebook that my dad had passed finally on August 2nd. And at the end of the show, it's taken us out. That's what I'm going to read. I'm going to read the poem. I told you I wrote about him when he first better week ago. And I'm going to read it like South Plumberworthy. Okay. I'm going to put a lot of emotion. And I'm going to read it as if he was, I actually wrote it as if he was writing it. I wrote it in, when you read it, it's going to sound like he's talking. He's talking. So I, on his voice basically, you know, after he's no longer able to have his voice. So we'll see. See if it plays out well. That'll take us out of the show. I'm just going to end the show right after that. But let's just talk about women's physique for a minute. Autumn swans and she'd been texting me all week about, you know, what you should do. She was going to do figure. She's like, I'm switching the figure. I said, what's wrong? What's wrong with you? What's? I don't know what gets into these competitors. Head, they don't do well in a couple shows. And they just start doubting themselves. I'm like, you're not a figure, you're a competitor. I said, you're a women's physique competitor. You want the oral classic. Okay. I said, you're going to get destroyed in figure. I said that you're going to be too muscular. You're going to look like an elephant up there on stage with these other girls. Because you're too big. You fit perfectly into women's physique. That's what women's physique is all about. She's like, I don't know. I said trust me. So she thought about it. She obviously changed my mind. She actually had registered as a figure competitor. And I know she's listening to this. Take a few seasons. And she won the show here. She's going back to Olympia. So congratulations, Autumn. I'm glad you listened to me. But Shelby did a good job with her Shelby stars to her diet. And I'm glad she's got the, she's got to have some confidence. At least going into that Olympia. Look, sometimes you just, you don't hit your peak. And you know, you can't blame the judges for you. You can only blame yourself, you know? Did you see the girl came in second? Evelyn Roka? I don't know who she is, but she looks at the phenomenal. No, I didn't see it. Really good. A lot of muscle on her body, but well placed muscle. You know, it's, that's, with women's fatigue to kiss. A lot of people say, well, if you're someone, somebody's women are too big. I'm like, no, they're not because if they wear the muscle well, you have to judge what's up there. And she wears, she has a lot of muscle. And she's really hard, but she wears it well. She's from Brazil, of course, you know, where else? The Brazilian tab, tons of muscle in their body, but they still look feminine in the face. And I think it's just because these women just by nature carry a lot of muscle down there. I think the best women body balls and then physique can better serve Brazilian. Yeah, I think you're 100%. Right? They just have more muscle than than other women. That's just genetic, their genetic gifts. There's a ton of women's physique can better as in the show. Genie Feldman places third, the slime up, tough, tough lineup. So that's why I said to Autumn really made a great recovery year by winning the show. Catherine Hall 4th, Jodi Lions 5th. So congratulations all the ladies in this lineup. It was, I think it was the most women's physique better than any other division beyond us. Oh, bad. I don't know. Yeah, man, it was pretty close to the, well, maybe men's physique was more. I heard this was a record for proshows. I think there was almost 300 competitors in the pro division here. Yeah, 292. 292. John Hansen, we need a nickname for John Hansen. The numbers guy, numbers by Hansen. The funny thing is that, and someone was complaining to me about the fact that they felt that they don't won't give out free tickets to all the, to both shows, because you know, they have Friday in a Saturday show. And so the pro level girls and guys have to decide which show they want free tickets to, which I would soon be the one that they're in, as opposed to having tickets free tickets to both shows, because it's just not enough seats, you know, which is, because Tim also has an amateur show. He's running at the same time. So it's pretty amazing when you think about, you know, that they're having, there's so many competitors nowadays that they can't even get everyone into one arena anymore, you know? Yeah, no, either just so it's, I mean, crazy big show. When we did our rap a fight, congratulate him, can garden for all the work he'd do. Well, you know, it is a, well, it's a well, well, well, run show. Yeah, well, Tim's perfect with this. And by now, I tell you, I told this to Tim all the time, and I say, Mr. Tim, I don't hate sleeping night. This guy's got more, you think you got real estate worries. This guy's got, think about how many shows he runs a year between all the amateur shows, pro shows, he's every weekend he's running something. I would be a nervous rock, I wouldn't be able to sleep in night. Well, what you get it down, you get it down. Right? It's, it's, it's a lot. It's, it's definitely a lot. And he doesn't really does it great job. He's, native his passion. And I think that that's, that's what's important. And you, when you, when you, when you could make something that you like doing into a business, you're successful with it. That's just the way it works. You know, and I think people have to understand that. That Chris is still in Tampa, he's got to get up and, and probably not to wear it. Yeah, 10 minutes to go to the airport. So I'm not going to keep you, but I, I got to read you my, my dad's positive. How did you say, Roy? What's my poem? Oh, it's my poem. Originally, I was going to, and, well, I'm not going to name it. You tell me what the name of it is after. You're the coolest writing, too. My, I'm a man is telling me I have to explain who it's written to. I originally wrote the poem, yeah, maybe I should give some background, so people on the stamp what I'm saying. My dad is arguing with death, okay? That's, that's the, as if death was like it was like an individual. And if you understand that, then you'll understand what he says. He's yelling, he's talking to death basically, okay? And I wrote it because I was sitting in my dad's hospital room. And I was looking at him and I was obviously, you know, very upset and teared up and I was like, what would my dad say at this point? If he had a voice because he couldn't speak. And I said he would be cursing at death, right? He would be, he would be screaming at him, right? Don't you think, can't you see my dad doing that? Yeah, of course. If it was dad in my death in the room, and maybe he, maybe it was. Maybe he was doing this. You just, you just, you don't get it. Get to early. Right, he would be yelling at him. And this is, and this is what he would, and here's, this is my dad yelling at that. This is what the poem is, all right? I'm gonna read. And then you can comment on it. Born the oldest child of poor Italian immigrants, barely able to tread water and taste the rarefied air, starting me at the bottom wrong, thinking I'd never climb out of the pits of despair. You tried to blunt my side, my vision, make me an outcast. But I saw a deeper, created more. I was way too fast. You chased me through, contrived childhood beatings and mental abuse, but I was stronger. Smarter, more creative. I cast you aside. You were of no use. You took the one love of my life, thinking he had finally won. But I had other plans, raising my two cherished children. No, I wasn't done. Four hip replacements, prostate surgery, a heart attack, and spinal deconstruction. I endured, using the sharp pointed tip of my pen to eviscerate all the wrongs, hypocrisies, and absurdities you through at life's construction. Now, as I stand on the last battleground, in the bunker of last hopes, the final race, I dig my worn heels deep into the muck, and I clench my fists and wave them brazenly in your face and shout, with the firepower of 10 hydrogen bombs, to the last I grapple with the, for love's sake, I release your meaningless, stranglehold on me. I am at peace, through I'm eternal and forever. Beautiful, summarizes his life to a tea, right? Yeah, I think so. I think I kind of covered his whole, I figured if I had a right of, you need a title for it? Yeah, what do you think the title is? Either person with perseverance or survival. I was gonna call a death, but I don't know if that's, but two deaths, man, it's a two death, might be a better, maybe a better title. But that's my dad, my dad would definitely be screaming like that, fighting to the end, I could see it. He held on, my dad lived for seven days on no food and water. I didn't think it was possible, I thought you'd die to fear, didn't drink for like two or three days, but no matter what. But I think the grimes did five days. That's true, yeah, Jay did what, like five days too, right? When he went on 2001, he was like, Chris, Chris, Chris, Chris, Chris burned out his kidney 2001. He burned them out. He could get hard at that. Yeah, if like, but he said, if Jay could do the, if Jay could do the no water thing again, he would be an easily beat Ronnie, no problem. He would get dry. Anyway, I wanna just thank all the people I think, I posted a lot of stuff on Instagram and the outpouring of support and people in our industry, even Nick to Julie just posted something, even though he seems to be worrying with me, he posted something very nice about my dad's work. But you probably want to pay for a bold review of his muffin pump stuff. No, no, we already. But like everyone, we can, we'll argue with each other in businesses like that, but when it comes down to everyone in the industry, it does, is very cohesive and I've got a lot of support and love from the community. Even Phil, he's not as far posted on my Instagram, which, you know, same, send these condolences. So thank you, everyone. I can't get back to everyone, obviously, but I read a lot of all the comments and it means a lot to me that everyone was that supported. Because I like to think a lot of people knew that my dad was very important in my life and I told a lot of stories about my, you know, you and I tell tons of stories about our dad. So I think people feel like they almost know them personally. And, you know, he was a character, but you know, his time had come, 88 years old, I'm glad he's peaceful. I'm sure you saw this story. I might as well just tell it again for people who maybe didn't see my Instagram. Before my dad died, I was sitting by his bedside for a couple of days and he really wasn't speaking at this point. I said to him, dad, I said, you know, I know you're not spiritual and all this stuff and you don't believe in all this after life stuff, but you're gonna find out that you're gonna find out that you were wrong in a couple of days. I said, do me a favor. Find a way to send me a message, you know, invalidate that you made it all the day and everything's good. Because I said, I know you, you're creative, you can do this. Amanda told me a rejection, I should tell him, give him a specific thing to do. I said, no, that's not my dad. I gotta, I gotta let him be creative about this. I'll figure out a better way to contact me than I could ever come up with in my own mind. So I'm thinking, you know what, somewhere down the road, I'm gonna get a message from him, right? Or something, something's got, so not sure so long's gonna come on or something like that at a certain time and I'm gonna tell him, oh, that's my dad. The next day, all right, we work very late here at night and we have the, you know, we have the warehouse across the street across the driveway and Amanda goes over there at nine fills orders. And I work here and I've walked the baby monitor in case anyone wakes up. And it's about three in the morning and she says to me, come out to the garage. So I'm thinking, oh, we probably have a three in the morning, we gotta leak, right? What is poor in it someplace? So I go out to the garage and I'm like, what? And she points up to the ceiling. And then the inside the garage, because we had left the garage door off and she comes in, there's a pigeon. Actually, there's a bird. I first we thought it was a dove and then I realized it was a pigeon and I went with a pigeon doing it here. So I get the broom and I'm trying to like, you know, guide it out of here, because I'm an animal, I'm like a, hit it right there. But I'm trying to like just shoe it out and it's not leaving. And I'm trying to think, what the hell is going on here? Burst don't fly at night, right? I mean, it wasn't in here when it was light out. Yeah. And then I remember, Palumbo, my last name in Italian, means the pigeon. I'm like crazy. My father's that son of a bitch. I said, I said, dad, you can't believe you did it already. One day, you already found a way. You found a way already to give me the signal. I said, I can't believe this. The least spiritual part I've ever met is flying in here at night is a pigeon. And he knew that I knew that obviously, because no one, Amanda didn't know what to, did the Palumbo and pigeon in the time. Oh, only I knew that. I don't even know why I did. I just looked it up one day. So he must have known that I knew that. So that obviously delivered a pretty strong message, obviously. And this bird stayed around until when I woke up in the morning, I left the garage open all night so it can fly out. It didn't leave. It stayed in all night. It was still sitting on my car when I got up in the morning. And it was, it was, it's actually flew away. But yeah, but I mean, that's not validation. It's like that people wait the whole life to die of validation from their deceased relative, right? Saying, oh, I just need something. Give me something. And they don't get anything. But my idea, my, I'm not a sweet home any patients. My dad has no patients for this car. Oh, she said there's no pigeons here. There's no pigeons and they're only in New York City. Well, that's another thing. Oh, I know. Oh, well, that's, that was a surprising part. I'm seeing the, I pigeon because birds do not fly in. Anyone who's ever had a bird knows when you put a, at night, you put a towel over the bird cage and they go to sleep because that's what darkness makes them sleep. Because they know they can't navigate it. And I really, that, well, that's around it night, because they can navigate using sonar. But not birds. So where this bird came from? And it had a band around it. It's, it's like. So it obviously was some kind of a homing pigeon, you know? So for people who like, people want to go to the week, I gave you a poem and I gave you the story from, that'll, you know, wrench the tears out of your eyes. I mean, it's a great validation. So yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm mourning a little. I'm sad, obviously, I've had, you know, I have ups and downs. But that, that pigeon thing really put me at peace, to be honest, to do it. It's completely, people like, oh, you have said, I'm like, you know what I'm not upset anymore? I know my dad's alright. It's like the greatest feeling in all time. So I, but once again, thank you all for all of support and Chris, have a safe flight back from, thank you, and we'll be doing just a little bit of a no coming up. This, this week and over the next couple of weeks, we will be doing a lot of, our Olympia, roti Olympia, per coverage starts. I will be going to Olympia this year. So Chris and I will be there doing coverage with Sid and our photographer, Othiel, and I think we're gonna have some great coverage and all the pre coverage will be great and it'll be sponsored by RedCon 1. So thanks for that, thanks to RedCon 1. And we will have some awesome coverage for you. This year at the Olympia, Chris, we're out of time until next week, remember, with heavy muscle radio, the truth hurts. Good night, everyone.

Daypalumbo here with an RX muscle news update. The Texas Pro will be taking place tomorrow and it's an exciting day for fans of Steve Kuplow because we're going to see Steve Kuplow for the first time in his home state there trying to qualify for the Mr. Olympia contest. It's not going to be an easy task for him because he has some competition coming in the way of the E in Valier who is our Tampa Pro champ from two weeks ago. So he'll be coming in there to try to basically stop Steve Kuplow from qualifying for the Olympia because that's where it's going to amount to if Steve doesn't win this show. Valier R. is obviously he's got the qualification ready but he's going in there to say, hey look you know what? I'm the best body building that I can be and I'm going to show up in a couple shows. I'm going to come to Texas. I'm going to come to the Arnold and I'm coming to win only shows and I think it's a good move on his part but it's going to make for a great battle. Of course the Tampa Pro second place finish a field. Clawar will be there as well. That'll be a rematch of sorts between him and Ian. I think if Ian comes in better than he was in Tampa, I think it's going to be very hard to fill the beat him but Phil brings a lot of out to the stage because he's got tremendous conditioning. He's got some really good body parts as back though the bicep is probably one of the best poses maybe of anyone in that whole lineup. So he's going to present a lot of problems for both Cuclowe and Ian Valieri and that's I'm glad that he's going to be there. Who knows at the end of the day he could be the guy who walks away with the win. Now of course we have a McCombin L.A.M. who's done pretty much every show this year. He's got I think the most points of anyone right now in the point standing and he's going to not the most. He's second most but he's going to definitely be going to the limpia. It looks like assuming he does well here. He places top five I think that's almost the lock for him. Of course our good friend Hassan Al-Nassoff also with I believe the same amount of points also he's right up there as well. These guys not only of course they're going for the win but obviously a top placing is going to give them points and it's going to make them at least push them into that absolutely will qualify zone because I don't think anyone else is even close to them according to the point standing. That's a good thing to consider also during heywood in this line up as well. He's placed top five almost every time we've seen him this season. He's also looks like he's going to be a lock or at least a close lock for the points qualification for the limpia if he places in the top five here. So good competition once again I wouldn't even make a prediction on this one. I love Steve Cucleau. I love the involieries physique. Phil Cucleau has got a lot of wow. I love his conditioning. It's going to be a tough show. If Hassan Al-Nassoff comes in and brings the conditioning level that we've been waiting for, he could win this show. He's got all the tools. He's got plenty of mass. He's got good structure and shape. We just haven't seen him bring the conditioning level that we need to have that you know that I guess you could say show winning physique. So Texas should be really great this weekend. We also have another show out in Spain that we'll cover after the shows are well due a wrap of that. That's going to be taking place and I believe this two qualifications spots up for grabs at that show. Anyway, fun weekend. A lot to digest for bodybuilding fans and good luck to all the competitors. I'm Dave Palermo now with an RX muscle news update.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Routes, our 30-year-in-a-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothorque. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be doing today. We're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothorque. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs. And we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. We're going to be in LA. Dave, hello, I'm over here with an RX muscle rant. Today's topic is something that's been earking me for a long time. And that is the exorbitant price of insulin. And you know, right off to that, you hear insulin come out of bodybuilders mouth, you're saying, poor bodybuilders can't afford their insulin. And that's not what I'm talking about. People who have blood sugar problems. And that could include bodybuilders and non-bodybuilders. The price of insulin is ridiculously through the roof. Back in 1995, a bottle of humillin R. Name brand humillin R was like 2018 bucks. Today that bottle of humillin R is probably over $100. And that's ridiculous. If you're a type, you know, one diabetic or even like a type of diabetic that doesn't have perfect blood sugar control. And you've got to use a long acting and a short acting insulin. It can cost you upwards of, you know, almost 500 bucks a month. And if you don't have a good prescription plan or you don't have health insurance at all, you're going to big trouble, especially if you don't make a lot of money. And a lot of people today can't afford insulin. And because they can't afford insulin, they're not taking insulin shots in that. Nine of you need a blood sugar, and they're getting sicker and sicker. And this is a huge growing problem in this country. Meanwhile, if you go down to Mexico, a good friend of mine who lives in Mexico says that these bottles of insulin, they charge $300 for like, length of some chasheeper is like, there's like 20 bucks in Mexican pharmacies. It's the same product made by the same company. Only in Mexico, it's like pennies on the dollar. Why is that? It's the same drug. How could that company afford to sell it next to so much cheaper? Well, just goes to show you that the product probably costs pennies to make. And they're basically gouging, you know, the public, because they have no option. I mean, if you're a diabetic, you know, producer, and you need insulin, right? So, you know, you can't argue with anyone over. You got to pay the money. You know, why do you think people try to order prescription drugs from Canada because they're much cheaper up there? So to me, this is in the trust of the, and thank God, thank God, I know Trump just signed a bill lowering the price of insulin, but Walmart has taken a step even before that. Walmart has a, some kind of an arrangement with no-vernortists, but legitimate pharmaceutical company that makes no-velyn are an obulin, and a bunch of all the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, N-O-V products, okay? And as opposed to humulin' are humulin' and those are, those are just, it's, it's pretty much the same insulin. It's just a little different, so to speak. But they made an arrangement with them where they can sell their rely on brands. So rely on is a, is a, I guess, company name that Walmart gave to their insulin products, so they sell rely on glucometers, which you can buy for nine dollars. glucometers used to be in the hundreds, nine dollars. And I, and I've told you guys before everybody, but we should have it, so you have the glucometers and check your blood sugars, your fastings in the morning, which should be under 90, your two hour post meal sugars, which should be under 130. You could easily test those in finnine dollars, then you could buy a box of, a test trips for nine bucks, come on. Everyone could do that. That is, that is an awesome thing that Walmart has done. You could, people could make fun of Walmart and say, all the things they want about Walmart, but you know what, that is cool, because there's a lot of people out in this country. I have a guy who, you know, worked, does some work around the house. His blood sugars are out of control. I'm like, you get your butt over to Walmart, get yourself this rely on monitor, start testing your blood sugars, and you know what, if you need to, you, you, you, even though you don't have health insurance, you can go to Walmart now and you can buy insulin. They have a generic form that's called rely on it. And rely on it, novo r, which is the fast act of cancel. It's exactly the same as the obvious one r, because it's made by the same company, novernortis, and they, and they actually sell rely on novo n, which is the long acting insulin, which they never sold like that over the counter. And for 10, 10 ml bottle, 24 dollars and 88 cents, you can get r and n. So never in the history of insulin, could you buy a long acting insulin, over the counter without a prescription, now you can, and for under 25 dollars. If you want to get fancy, you want to buy the pens, you know, they're like little pens, and you can kind of dial them up, how much insulin you want. Those are a little more expensive. Those are 42 bucks. But those, I mean, that's still pennies, compared to what the the original price was. But let's go back and go away from people who maybe have blood sugar problems like type 2 diabetics, and type once, let's go to the bodybuilding world. For bodybuilders now who are looking to take insulin because maybe they are on GH and their blood sugars are running high in the morning, and they want to use a long acting insulin, and they can't afford or have access to land this or to Shiba, which is kind of like the Mercedes-Benz of insulin's right now. You can go get the novo n insulin, made by Melvin Nordisk. It's a long acting insulin, and for for a bodybuilder who's producing their own insulin, this is more than adequate to take care of the problem. So in other words, if I was a type 1 diabetic, I would want to have the best because I don't have any insulin production. But if you have insulin production and you add it, you're muting, excuse me, a noveline, an end to your regimen, a shot in the morning and a shot at night, depending on how much you need, usually you start with 15 units at night, a 10 in the morning of the long acting, that's going to be more than adequate to take care of your blood sugar issues. If you're running highs after meals, like you'll say you eat at one of your meals, and two hours later, you take a blood sugar, it's 150. Then you need that means you need a fax-decking insulin. So for those, you can buy the rely on novo rs, which is 25 bucks also, and you can take a couple units with your meals and bring down your numbers. Or if you just want to use some of that r, which is faster acting from performance aspects, in the morning and night, postwork out, you can go get a ferris, well. So this is the reason I'm doing this interview, or this rant, I should say, because I'm mad that they've been charging that much, but I'm happy now that Walmart has stepped up to the plate, and not only made it available for a good price, but made it available without a prescription. So bodybuilders now, go to Walmart, give them your business, go get your insulin if you need it, okay. You can get it without a prescription now. I think you can even buy it depending on what state you live in. You can even buy a insulin syringes there as well, and you can do things the right way. And you don't have to worry about your health, you don't have to worry about high blood sugars, because let's face it, a lot of guys have used growth hormone for years, and now they're running high blood sugars. So they need that insulin to control it, take the burden off the pancreas, as we've said before, let that pancreas regenerate, and in the meantime, for pennies on a value, you can keep your health good, because we want to keep good blood sugar control, because not only is high blood sugar bad for the kidneys, and the eyes, and the extremities, but it's also bad for the brain. And they called dimension out type 3 diabetes, meaning that if you have high blood sugars you're running throughout the day, you're accumulating not only sugar in the extremities, but in the brain tissue, which they're saying is it could be leading to these data aminooid plaques, which could be leading to dementia later in life. So we don't want that, I know I don't want that. So keep an eye on your blood sugar, you get those rely on meters for $9. Check your blood sugars throughout the day. If you are running high in the morning, you might consider adding a long acting, if you're running high at post meals, you can use the faster acting R version. If you're taking GH, you just want to have a little performance boost, you can use both or even one of those. And that's up to your coach to decide, or I wouldn't just arbitrarily start taking insulin, because, obviously, especially the R, which is the fastest, I think, could be dangerous if you don't know what you're doing, and you take it too much. The longer acting ones are not really so dangerous, because you could take a shot and go to sleep, because they take a very long time to get into your system. Just make sure you know how to measure this stuff. Remember, insulin units, insulin syringe is measure insulin units. So if you buy a FCC's insulin syringe, and it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, uh, marquated five, ten, fifteen, twenty, that's insulin unit. So it says five, that's five units. If it says fifteen, that's fifteen units, and that's how you measure insulin. There's no, there's no, there's no magic. With GH, you have to figure out dilutions and stuff like that, but insulin syringe is a mental measure insulin unit. So good news guys, started off with me mad. I'm in a good mood now. Go to Walmart, you know, give them your business, and if you need your insulin, it's available now without a prescription, and for a very reasonable price. Day polumbo here with an R, ax muscle rant.

在门乳对用随着尴尬通道string很美很美 ANS fat刘用朱楼乳有用耳好的拿半淺多是啊雨铭伊斯 Camper钦同时,绝侠把它繞光給這裡約50元看到東EMON不定 communism這些富士叫台灣還有島建議的因為變�gres范園是颜色的在美蛙返金带滾往YES鹿 ότι让把 CO2幻动时ц号放开爱的加3-4部手特首刻范園是在梅郎技对其他的RxTellVision on RxMuscle.com這Astave better known as hashtagAstaveYou're a 30 minute question an answer show what they plumbounderholds the for rookie Glantigen join us as always anything and everything is on the table die training supplementation I have the pros competitions of course the competition seems to be in full swing as we speak and all that now it was in bringing they plumbo Dave by the time this video goes help people have on our channel your preview more or less a reaction video to the New York pro line of being released yesterday and you and I just talking all fair a couple of minutes ago we both agree this is arguably maybe easily one of the deepest if not the deepest line of the New York pro has had in years I mean you look at the the the competitor sheet he invalidate John Delittor also jump off the sheet immediately max Charles who had a sensational following at the all and then you have the wildcard you had doing Walker Dave we just started the tempo pro Hassan most often Justin Rodriguez has been great at the New York pro previous years give the audience a primer of your reaction to this line it's it's deep which means that we don't know who's going to win which means that it's exciting for the fans and that press to watch these shows because there's not a foregone conclusion I mean John I did in my reaction video to this line if you'll see I mean John Delittor rose is the most accomplished you know guy in the lineup he probably has the most pro wins he's you know he's got to be considered the better when he really has no weaknesses aside from the fact that he doesn't really sometimes nails conditioning when he's 100% he's really tough to beat you know because he doesn't have any gaps and holds in his physique and he's not going against really winkler here and and bone act you know he's going against the guys that he's you know his contemporaries who we can handle in this line up obviously if he and value puts it all together I don't think he could be beat just because he's that he's bigger and he's a he's a bigger structure on stage I think he'll look more impressive in the lineup but we haven't seen him do that you know he's got some you know anxiety issues about the whole thing but you know what the fact that he kind of bond out at Tampa even though he's still play second I think that's going to make him come back even better at this show so I think we're going to see a really good of the year he'll be tough to beat obviously Patrick Moore in this line up too he didn't mention in the internet and Quentin Arena who's super impressive he's been impressing me ever since the last year and a half that the progress he's made is mind-boggling I think he's game like 20 something pounds or maybe more here's a guy with you know freaky like Melvin Anthony structure and I think that he's going to you know surprise a lot of people and of course if Hassan Mastoff would put it all together bring the conditioning he's another guy who's just got utils and utils of you know Egyptian muscle on him you know he's coming from that same school of a thought of bigger and he's got just billowy you know muscle no gaps in this physique but we haven't seen him put the final touches on it yet and bring this to pen this conditioning it's anyone show Justin Rodriguez is in this lineup and he's danger so it's exciting because we don't know who I can't even I couldn't even pull top five out and you know and say for sure this is going to be it because invariably there's going to be some guys that are you know big names that are not at their best and then there's going to be guys that aren't such big names who are going to be at their best and they may sneak into that top five group because we unexpectedly because maybe some of the the name guys are a little off so it's a great lineup I think Steve Weinberg got to be happy with this this you know I hope you know that the thing that stinks is we got a great lineup but we can't even have a crowd in in the audience they're watching it so it is what it is but it'll be great for the fans hopefully will be a nice live stream I don't know what the deals that I haven't really looked at up yet I'm sure there will be one and we'll probably be you know analyzing this show for the next you know two weeks after because it's going to be so exciting because of all the different you know types of physics we have and you remember all these physics are completely different John Del Arroz that Ian Valier I mean those guys are about as diametrically different as you can possibly ask for but yet they're both top tier body goals so it's going to be a good good near pro we selfishly for me I was so looking forward to coming to show obviously no longer in New York now in Tampa they have four good questions I don't know if you address this in the video or I don't know if anything was announced pertaining to the Olympia slots similar to what we were told about the the show in Alicante Spain about two to three the top two or three depending on the division or I'm going to get Olympia births is there anything like that that's going to apply to this year problem I haven't heard any changes announced that doesn't mean that it can happen post-humility but I think that's the right work but but I think that they're doing that in Europe said because there's only one show right whereas this multiple shows in the US so we might not see the you know three top three going to the Olympia in the US it's in Europe probably because there are other shows still happening here you know and I you know the Tampa I mean Chicago was moved but it's going to be in Atlanta so we have more shows before the Olympia where that shows in Spain maybe the only one and so I think that's why they did that fair point let's go to the questions of first two questions of course in the day polamo experience app first question day of taking T3 T4 increases cellular metabolic rate what is stand to a reason that taking it would also increase protein synthesis and thus serve to enhance muscular development taking extra thyroid hormone okay specific T3 since that's active thyroid home could potentially increase protein synthesis if you're a little low if you're already at the max you know words if you're at if your if your levels are good or ready it you know high levels you probably won't see an increase in protein synthesis from a from taking extra T3 matter if I can take too much you could actually look you could actually eat up muscle because it's it's increases metabolic rate too fast however however you know you got to remember that when you take T3 it's because you're trying to lose body fat so it's by increasing that amount great you're obviously increasing you know fat mobilization carbohydrate utilization if you're taking something that's protein sparing like animal steroids with it or GH with it you're going to spare the muscle tissue so it's not really going to build more muscle but it's going to certainly burn more fat second question again from the day polamo experience app day of really puzzled i'm lean with a low carb diet and no matter what I do still have a lower abdominal bulge hardly knows some cute that would this be because of visceral fat how could I get rid of it it's really annoying you know having a a descended lower stomach you know usually the look a lot of guys have upper stomachs the the lower stomach distension usually at least to me that usually spells or smells no pun intended of not emptying your bowel properly meaning that you probably need a fiber supplement so adding a fiber supplement like fiber lies you know twice a day will help get rid of that that fecal matter that's kind of hanging out there and and distending your stomach now can it also be visceral fat yeah but usually visceral fat will will be you know the entire you know the entire abdomen will be because you gotta remember we are visceral fat is accumulated is not necessarily it does go in between the organs everything but there's a there's a layer called the momentum the greater momentum the covers the entire abdominal cavity and that's what gets fatty so it it wouldn't just be in one little pocket like that so to me that smells of you know let's get it not not not to be too to gross smells of the fact that you're not getting rid of all your waste and so that could be a fiber issue so I would try to do that now these two questions came from the day before I'm going to experience that this is an app that I offer you can get it from your iTunes store or Android store all the writings I've ever done all the videos I've ever done in one place let's say do an exclusive Q&A video every week just for the app members and I answer everyone's questions and I answer them in a public forum in the app so that everyone sees everyone's questions and answers so it's kind of like learning experience we put up a workout every single week there you can follow it's a great it's a great resource to have at your fingertips or in your pocket you can read it when you know totally you can do it pretty much is right there you always have the ability to ask me questions and I will answer them like I said in a public forum on the app the best questions get answered in a video format which goes up once a week so for 29 bucks a month you're getting a lot of value and a lot of people are really enjoying it you might want to just check it out we give the first 10 days for free so you can try it no obligations if you like it you continue just keep going with it if you don't you can cancel and it's no obligations there let's go to our Instagram questions again if you're not following this it's under official underscore rx muscle if you're watching us for the first time on youtube hit the subscribe button below if you like what you're watching hit the like button give us a comment obviously it helps us in as always we appreciate your support um first question is about someone who we thought we were going to see the new euro pro i'm not sure if you address this in your video Evan sent a pony not on the competitor list so presumably not competing so the question is from john walter is Evan sent a pony making a mistake not competing this year you know i don't even know why he's not competing beyond so i probably should reach that because then we would talking about him is a potential guy that can do really some damage in this lineup on heavy muscle radio early this week before the competitor list was released i had texted see why burger and i said who's competing and he said gave me some of the guys and then he said you know uh Evan sent a pony might compete and i don't so i don't know why he decided not to obviously if he if there was a might there that means that he he had been dieting preparing for the show and maybe he just felt he wasn't ready so maybe we're gonna see him in chicago which would really be in it land there obviously because that's what that show is gonna take place maybe he just needed more time remember he did come back from a quiet you know uh tear a couple years ago and this would be his first show back so you know maybe it was a good idea to skip it for Evan because it is a tough lineup here um there's a it is stacked to the health maybe going for the next one might be a better option if he's looking to qualify for the Olympia let's go to jibby power 66 is there a huge difference in terms of muscle activation between the lying t bar rho and a normal t bar rho uh or a t bar rho using the v handle as a grip like all of them but don't know if one is better than the other you know what the right answer to that question is there's no right answer and then the the fact is that you have to use the handle and position that you feel the most activation of your back you know when i would do pull downs you know i see a lot of guys go really wide grip pulling that and you know what i kind of didn't feel that much of my last you know and i couldn't go heavy enough really to get a good pull and i saw a video door in the eights did where he said you know the best you know hand position on pull downs is a closer grip because you're stronger when your arms are closer to your body and you know what that's probably the case for guys with long arms like dory and like me and i so i i tried it and i noticed much better results but i see guys that have shorter arms to go really wide and for them it's fine because they don't have a long their arm is reaching out to the the very ends of the bar so you got to you got to use positions and handles that you feel in the muscle that you're trying to work the best you can't take my advice because i have a different you know framework and the biomechanics and say a different guy which shorter arms it might be a little shorter and height you got to do what works for you so the right answer is try out all the different positions find what works best for you and then stick with that and obviously it's a good idea to throw different positions in every once in a while but you'll know what what the meat potatoes of what your you need to do is i always found that you know i was able to do reverse grip bent over rows as well as overhand see okay i do overhand now because i'm not looking to tear a bicep but you know but it didn't bother me some guys they they don't have the flexibility to to supinate their hands all the way to do that position so they're stuck like this and so never really fell good for them to do that so they shouldn't do reverse grip they should just do overhand grips and so you got to find what works for your body let's go to jj fitness day europeanian on the belief that type my fascia is a limiting factor in overall muscle growth you know that was a that was a a theory put forth or probably by many people but but john parilla was a big you know my alfashile stretching guy you know he felt that yeah to do like this brutal stretching techniques to really stretch that fascia to allow the muscle to expand and grow and you know and that that was the for a long time that was the theory of how muscles grew like they would like in other words the growth was limited by how much the fascia would expand and i just don't you know it made sense at the time you know but it's just not the case you know the muscle will find the way to expand if it wants to grow if not you'll just feel very tight fascia sheets around them i mean this people to get what's called the a theory compartment syndrome their lower leg because their calf muscles get so big and then that that fascia can't stretch but the calf doesn't stop growing it just gets bigger and then that fascia gets so tight they have to actually go in there and surgically open up a little bit slice it open so i don't think that that's the case having said that however i think stretching is good for flexibility purposes to get full range of motion when you're doing it because i see a lot of guys they they do partial range of motion and i'm asking the gym while you're doing that they're like i can't go down any further i can't they literally are stuck because they're not stretching enough so there there is a definite benefit to stretching you know once the muscles warmed up of course never stretch cold and getting that muscle so it's but i remember to the end of my career you know i really would have to stretch do a little warm up in stretch before i did legs if i want to really get a full range of motion and and move fluently where i was all stiff you know and i think that was a lot to do it because i was sitting a lot in a computer desk and i was getting all cramped up in it and it's funny the last couple days i was i was been walking around like i'm 90 years old because it's everything stiff and i went in the pool view of the day did a couple laps and was swimming and the next day i felt like i thought i was going to be sore from that i was actually i felt better than next day because i was loose all i loosened up all those muscles sometimes sitting for too long is not necessarily a good thing let's go to m nixiu ski we've gotten these questions before but new audiences like to get them back into the mix your opinion on artificial sweeteners such as plenta during prep some people say it makes your stomach bloated on state i haven't really noticed any um abdominal issues from from that however having said that i i will prep a sit by saying that some people have our more sensitive to artificial sweeteners than others in some situations some people's gut you know they're back to bacteria the gut ferment these things and they produce gas from it so if you're a person that that doesn't do well with artificial sweeteners and you get gas in and bloated from it they don't use them you know cut a amount a couple days before the show there's nothing wrong with that you know and go to water you know it's fine but if you can get away with drinking diet so it is in diadrinks and it doesn't bother you stomach and then stick with that i you know there's nothing wrong with it you know you have to kind of experiment you know because once again everyone is different you got to remember the the the the gut bacteria ferment you know uh prebiotic you know fibers meaning that like you know imulin fiber which is in stevia balance um even just just regular fiber supplements in general that they eat this stuff that's what they do and they weigh the eat is they ferment it and sometimes some people when the a lot of fermentation going on there is gas production but usually usually it reduces that because what it's doing is it's helping to move the you know fiber supplements will also move all the fecal waste out of the body quicker so everyone's different you know and everyone responds to things differently and you have to do some trial and error that's why you never experiment with something new like the week of a show it's ridiculous if you haven't been doing it all long don't edit it in the last week okay and and then you know crush your fingers that it's going to work that's not the way to do it you experiment ahead of time you take notes and observations to see how you body responds to different things diadrinks and i drink it yeah okay great if i can't drink it it does blow up my stomach and i got to cut it out of week before the show and that's all the written you know that's how you go about it perhaps a philosophical question here i i'm i'm not going to try to pronounce the name they one question why is it hard to grow without the use of gear once you touch it it seems like you've been waiting your time with our dieting and working out why is such a massive difference recovery strength the adding size simple diet of work i think means nothing without the gear and without the work or the diet the gear is nothing he goes in conclusion body building is the hardest sport out there it is the hardest sport out there because it's it's a accumulation of all these variables together but if you don't have diet and training and and and sleeping down properly then then you could take a little bit gear you want it's not going to do anything we all know that so the gear just makes things work better you know it's kind of like an enhancer so the problem is that no one gets the other variables down pat and then they take gear and they get moderate so so results from it you know you take gear everyone's going to grow from that okay to a certain degree but how much you grow and the benefits you get okay from it are really dependent on the other variables you know when i took my first cycle my diet was perfect my training was perfect i i i responded so well you know i was gaining 25 pounds you know 20 to 25 pounds a year of muscle for the for five years in a row there was a reason because i had all the variables perfect before i ever took gear okay had i taken gear and i didn't have these variables perfect that i probably went to meet those kind of gates and that's it that's an important thing to understand now having said that i made it very good games the first couple years i the first four or five years that i was training okay without gear just by learning to eat right and train right so if i would have taken gear then i would have been wasting my time because i would have been using the gear to grow and then when i actually needed the gear it wouldn't be there and that's why you got guys like Ronnie Coleman who were natural for many years they started taking gear and their body is exploded because they they had maximized his ability to train he trained heavy he you know he ate right he lived the body but we lifestyle it didn't matter that he was an undrugs so when he added those in it just made everything work better another person that comes to mind kighine responded incredibly as well same thing same look at Sean Clarita look at the the the gains he's made the best three four years he was a natural body but it's so so you got to understand that the the gear is not that important until you hit a point where you've maximized everything you could have done prior to that and then you added in and you get that added benefit of a really getting explosive growth let's go to nick wall in 66 what changes do you think flex Lewis will need to make it to be his absolute best going from two twelve to the open this coming Olympia i don't think he has to make any changes i think now he just doesn't have to drop as much weight i mean think about the guy was probably in shape you know six weeks out from the Olympia and any had to try to figure a way to make weight which is basically lose muscle over dehydrate yourself nothing nothing dumber to do for bodybuilding you know shoved into the loose muscle in fact over to plate yourself but if that's the way you can make weight then that's the only way you can make weight so i think it becomes in now at his natural weight you know which is whatever it's been up i don't know what he's up to now you know we're gonna see how much better flex those we're gonna see how much more round freaky grainy you know flex Lewis he might not be that much bigger you know people think always gonna be twenty pounds he he might not be he but if he was two twelve at the two twelve Olympia the last time he competed years ago he might be two twenty two which is ten pounds but you know why he probably sucked down eight or eight to ten pounds he might be what he was had he not had to suck down only in better shape and so that would be a devastating look with his frame his height and his muscle bellies so i'm excited i think a big mistake that he could make is that he tries to come into big and doesn't bring that same brain but i know flex and i know Neil Hill did not gonna make that that's an amateur mistake to make he's gonna come in just as good as he was conditioning wise at all as Olympia's definitely is gonna be bigger and that's gonna be deadly that's a deadly combination of them i'm gonna be exciting for everyone what we've been debating this topic since the belief twenty fourteen twenty fifteen that you know when the role was started they could be considering it uh finally now is gonna come to a reality in a matter of three and a half months let's go to Benny and that's Ivan do you burn a lot of fat in between back to back shows when you're not doing cardio but you're depleting depleting hard and carbing up and cheating post show you know i i think you do i think you get a rebound i i you know have had people do shows and then i feed them more i do give them less cardio and they continue to lose fat somehow because i think they're it's like their metabolism's are an overdrive and it's good to take advantage of that the problem is that a lot of people will be afraid to eat more as they think well i got another show coming up in two weeks i got a train even harder you know now you only do that if you need to get leaner but if you're in shape for the first show you have to actually eat more do less cardio cut back to fapper is a little bit otherwise you risk coming into depleted to flat and you won't be able to recover from that and that's you know i'm working with you know with the field plahars in that situation now i mean i'm giving them if you sort of food i'm giving them this best week or so he's eating a lot you know he's eating like burgers and fries every night because i got to keep this guy full you know he cares metabolism is just cranking away and that you know you gotta do you gotta do you know to take nor that and if i were to keep just training harder and harder and pushing a more more more he would have just come in small and depleted and that's not the look you're looking for so you have to understand that after doing your first show look for that metabolic you know increase it it happens every time well scotton kneel zelewski who has a perhaps a new nickname for you call you Dave the dentist killer now is that something that we can potentially go down a shirt i don't know yes so why am i the dentist killer you don't remember the story from two weeks ago i'm losing my mind again i don't sleep if you don't sleep you don't you don't solidify memories because i said i'm supposed to go this Monday and pick up the the mouth guard that that he made me the third one and i actually i think i sub consciously overslapped on purpose i completely forgot about the appointment and i knew i knew the night before i said i got to go that dentist the morning and i just i just didn't get up and i didn't even think about it i said i said i love the message and i purposely didn't call them back because i'm kind of giving them like i'm like i you know what let them let them hold on to the night guard a little bit even though i paid for it already you know because at this point what's a difference i already waited all this time i'm that you know i'd rather get a couple extra hours sleep than to be exhausted for the day because the i already know what's going to happen i'm going to go back there it's not going to fit me again and they're going to have to make it again and i'm going to go nuts and do a crazy wrath even worse than the last one so i figured i might be well rested but i'm going to do my rant so his question is does EQ lower estrogen or is it bro science the only study i found is show that the metabolites of EQ can act like an AI but that's one study what have you seen in your experience i don't think EQ acts like in a enrumptace inhibitor at all no i i haven't seen that i haven't noticed it empirically at all we know master on can act like an estrogen receptor antagonist we know it can actually do that so but that's pretty well-documented you can tell you get a little dryer on on on master on haven't noticed that on EQ i think if that was the case a lot of people would probably take it right up to a show and you probably could you probably could do testing EQ up to a show if you had i knew people in the past did it like that not that those such as guys take today but you could but it's it seems to be more of an offseason you know stat or at least in the maybe like the first eight weeks of contest prep guys will use testing EQ to get started but then then that seems to be a drug most people pull the last six days week so i would say no let's go we'll take three more questions go to classic busy nash i already eat plenty of chicken beef eggs and rice and still struggle but on mass my question is what are some cheap quality foods to bump up my total daily protein fat and calorie intake i make them across the homework science that i guess generally when you have a situation like that somebody who's struggling to proximate what would your guidelines be and and i was seen by a it's a financial issue he wants to go cheap that's what i mean that's what i'm getting it you want that yeah look when i was when i had no money and i was in school and i would i would i would go get the cheapest whenever they have sales on tuna i would go buy cases of the stuff and i used so much tuner in white minute rice i can't tell you how much about that i ate now in age what i would do is i would i would back then i was eating peanuts with it but you know peanuts is not really a great source of that i would buy like a couple like a case of my macadamia nuttoil which is very recently price and i would just be pouring maccoil into my rice in tuna and just be eating that all day along that i mean that that's like my father would call that poverty food but he said yeah i don't understand why you like poverty food you know because that that's i always like you know dry it out you know stuff and you know i always ate the the cuts of meat that my father would consider to stuff the eight when he was during the depression you know i never i didn't like fatty cuts of meat i just wasn't into like the whole you know your prime rib and that kind of stuff and sirloin stays to had fat hanging off him i was more of like a top round you'll wonder broil which is a really lean cut a lot of people don't like it because it's a little tougher but that's just me you know i i i find that i you know i did well with that but you know now i know knowing what i know about fats now i would like i said i would be pouring macadamia nuttoil maybe buying some avocado's you know mix in there and rice tuna and fats i mean come on and do it i mean that's the easiest even have canned chicken now if you go to like a sams club which is like a price club they have like you know i buy i know a man likes it we buy like they're they're in cans i was like tuna only it's chicken so you might want to switch around if you want to do chicken you can one day you can do tuna another day it's relatively cheap two comes in big cans and you can eat that all day long i mean there's no it there's no excuse why you can't get enough protein if you go and use to go the canned chicken or canned tuna route and just buy some cheap minute rice big you could buy big bags of it cooks in like couple minutes in the microwave it's so simple and then you have some oil you have a bag of nuts or almonds or walnuts or you know and or just used like a bag because they get a nice bottle of oil or macadamia nuts even you know are pretty good but i like the oils because they kind of mix into the food really easy i used to have like these big tub where containers where i put tuna rice and usually pour some at that time it was no macawai we were all of oil over and that's what i would eat all day long and it was delicious i didn't get a lot of time for a couple of more questions let's go to shad water fit i've always heard that taking gh and insulin at the same time can be counterproductive what is the science behind this is this related blood sugar levels in different ways with each hormone when is the best time to take apart from each other if this is the case they don't compete with each other essentially but usually in in the natural state when you ever insulin levels are high gh levels allow and when gh levels are high insulin levels allow so they work in tagging is typically to each other naturally in the body however if you put them into the body at the same time they will synergize each other believe it or not so there's nothing wrong with taking them to get i used to take my insulin shot with my gh in the morning because the insulin will override the the gh's effect of being a creating an insulin resistance in the body so that's that's a good thing you know so it'll enable you to absorb your food but yet still get the growth effect from the from the growth hormone so there's nothing wrong with taking them at the same time because you're taking two geogenous hormones you're not trying to release them from the body you're actually taking the hormone and putting it in there and that's a big difference now if you were trying to say oh i'm going to take this amino acid to try to make my body release gh and i'm going to try to take this other you know food to try to cause insulin surge now you're having to worry about well can i do both at the same time maybe not but when you're actually injecting the actual hormone doesn't matter last question it is from n-royer 31 and this is only you spoken about before in terms of that dark place that you have to go when you're training heavy super super heavy they visit normal to be so intense when training that you get really nervous before every time you go to the gym and when at the gym going into a quote really dark place to be able to get under the really heavy weights yeah i i i would be thinking when i would do legs i would think about that workout all day long it was it was terrible it was like a leg day oh oh i'm going to have to do legs and it wasn't i loved legs because i love the feeling of it i liked the the progress i made but i knew it was going to be a very very uncomfortable workout i knew that i was going to be putting weight on my back that i wasn't comfortable with doing myself i was going to need a spotter that I trusted there with me i knew that it was going to be an uncomfortable day but it was okay because that's that's what i was putting all my effort into and so i would go rehearse the workout in my mind a little bit throughout the day thinking about what i need to do how i was going to eat to prepare for the workout you know what i was going to put it to my stomach pre workout today wouldn't throw up you know getting nauseous usually it was a shake that usually sat well in my stomach and when i got into the gym you know it was it was all work you know and of course the first couple set you know the only real bad set is the last one the sets you know you can do the weight because you've done it before it's not a big deal when you get to that last set where you get to have to wrap your knees get that belt on perfect you have to talk to your training partner hey you got to have to watch me here watch me in the way down you know whatever you know this might be a weight that you've never really executed you know no or either that or maybe you're going for more reps and you've ever done and you want to make sure that if you get stuck this this training partner is going to get you up okay and you know that your nervous system is going to get traumatized from all that weight you're going to have on your back but but this is what you're doing and you're laying on the line because you want to make your legs better than they were the last time you want to improve on stage so you have to get into that mindset of look I got to challenge myself every time then in the gym whether it's one more wrap or a little more weight or more intensity whatever it was I was always trying to push and so that made the workouts you know a little more stressful in the sense that I felt that I had if I left the gym and I didn't get 100% out of what I was looking for when I got in there I felt like I failed which wasn't always a failure because sometimes you know you get a little twins you hurt yourself and you would get a little depressed from that not having the best workout but then there were times you got in there and you did everything right and you hit those weights you wanted and man you felt so good when you left that gym because you knew you put you you left nothing on the table and that's that's what bodybuilding is all about at the most competitive level you know at the level on that now where I just want to look good and feel good I'm not trying to set any records I have no stress I go into my weight room upstairs in my house and I knock out my workout it's not a big deal because I'm not trying to set records I'm lifting weights I know I could easily handle I'm just stimulating the muscle to feel good so there's a big difference between taking it you know and pushing your body to the ultimate limit to be the best that you can be versus just going into the gym and having fun and being healthy so you know it depends on what your goals are and that does it for this episode of ass-diver mind right now on our xmuscle.com the rxmuscle youtube channel Dave's reaction video to the New York pro lineup released last night Dave lays out the entire lineup in his opinion by opinion many opinion it is the deepest lineup the New York pro has had in many years for a day of global and our producer Tyler short I'm so thankful for rookie we'll see you next time

【 tripod hours】位員连连耶01250太子1今天的影片就可以 deutsch還有這麼低地點 altro一看果炀我極為 impacts搖能嘗譜是澄防美國會遜失呢未大家射鳴千萬 去新茄日本 Lima Temenچ是輸客應遜追射你介意小花我已經拼час了виHaram他就是朋友��啊對 這塊符子最大的這是真的擔心真正的超正的他們不太 cricket歡迎起來他怎麼偷看都不 rotate因為他都在返向這個面其他 penser大風的但是它完全不知道是你能夠大它完全不能太下add然後它是基礎時間或者すUNGK清 funded他人甩油里負責75%戰去尾业 dismemory一個人要雇獲習近平已經再來調習很多去發展過嗯就如此偷有信�你知道你煩惱這個蜜 主要是開編排加油你們明有什麼 despair嘳嘎嘆放上水ilage致他這是什麼並不是 Siri但我覺得我覺得有一個什麼所以我要講得很好是在嘴巴記素中共有代事他需要 canonical建立多eth这些人都逛逃那是不是它處理法可能什麼代事是不是海國那如果怎樣如果符合什麼ived我本來這樣你索瓜Hailey這個只有5多個 Vielleicht只能收視其實去自覺,對排的你們中共有 огром事大家在能看到 對對於泳 crisis我沒話聽 fearful欸你站在那裏現在說解譚拉画了總有多少 estud已經傳ưởng instantly一行洗水買了一個港幣跟作組和 還在這壽時轉gged到成條線都未是一般的如果蔬豪有點你知道你要秘密採討當然是 involve表情因為你還轉動稍後一眾躥很困難剛才如何 começo來速大 這個過程我一定要説所以那時就是為什麼我是知道我終於遇起我其实illight 过了航 defense Communidge PolicemanAnd you are born into Miami thatís imI see that with a lot of Spanish people Tu even arrival in become a because very soon Ashbe お今英國用節的行轴I actually had to go to耶la?" 那是會面對嘛那是把田征 你的樣估計他做資料當然肯定理物只是不知道沒有影響老geord人那個 penetrate因為準備了各位要做這些我也實在繼續關飾 Materials在國内因為生耍作作可是很有關其實最後她就是因為有關係會我穿複製的還有什麼玉風其實有關係我經常講話是我會不會是他們應該怪我不然他們當然的話我只想知道他們不想叫他們我都沒有需要但我懂得來我的切臘其實我你可以翻台灣What is that a rough part of Miami de Europe as a kid? Originally, when my parents came here, coming from another country you migrate to where, you know, most people from your country Or else it was a little rough, they were only fortunate in moving on the area So we got in to a little bit of a better area It wasn't great but there definitely wasn't the worst of the worst Now growing coming up to a school, obviously play football Um, you know, what is that something that just came to naturally needed pioneer來貨單積的我還哭啦延避興,超過 моей ETF這個是什麼叫型我認識了這組的事可以請來這裏設定我也是一個小銀行我還認識你們資訊中會有一個開心所以下去對吧 Fabel我曾經無放了你也會知道為何會發生這裏設定無另外一個共和十分你 biblical我來講问题我準備給你凱點解好See Couldn't你進行做給三師是我我今天得當乎了平日沒有我好我冒就是凱點解你是沒有聽得出所以我突然到這裡我最少跟黃歸公平為什麼是英文我不是蘇蘭誰 在哥哥可是如果我還在面前親哥抱歉我也很好我了解我是沒有冒箱以前我在โ�金 小總統說陷阱其實這是真的今晚是的時候。我是想的人都說起來 一個年齡但是讓他自己习近了也不想有人留外國過年,例如在 UCLA不想人家說然後我們說剛才過年剛才過年不知道原來我就聽過民眾們都找到其實...只是返回不是算了可是還encia什麼初者但是去了也只是講作成文明日我不管是來不上它的電子真的我是在 2014有一個部頂屬的鵇雷那我覺得大概代表少儘管費還在度步以再侮辱你最親切提及鋪好我就是將鋪抽給你和孕肇班反懡但到底在第三Make你的一個嚴重不用 dashboard我好你喜歡整個你不介紹什麼你好可是今我在壞畫者对我的人真的評隔但是我回現在最初是我我雙心來啊这也是与了那把你们特术演起现在注意马上盐手就是找我们要呢看让大家我对我呉那我我也也已被開放了應該要加上被戰彥牠每關都擊破了現在還有一 troph還為甚麼最後賣如果用專捨卻老婆搶中間完全沒有 Trainer上漫拗關於上Barket還有每關都變 mois因為外偷隊的隊員對接下來人們趁 Τhe死下的你等一下有寒館嗎我再確定留言真的覺得他們不會思考你們慢些小華 Buffalo,其實我很想周請跟講他們會重點對16做更多的 ��養 對你們更多開始做更多 你能在這 это我説最後都能發生所有電影但不是仍然是我說吧 fuer懷用的你在這個時候你所說 所有的是我想真的做掉了我有禀慣我有訓練我相信有種類型才是有irring小小的把用到你對自己的不對話所以你出身以後來要為你提升 accept你認為人民的節目妳說得對付錢重視你還知道怎樣你們懂得講不得 妳都是揮肌我覺得你是全身送生活我早知道我的自己的用力我也會在家中開打工作你這樣沒有問題對民防 vortex是第一人啦我認為我們的 applying因為我們へ指中國可能的情況下你看沒問題在以前生活得到特略不過沒有沒問題如果說不明但是在當時連在我當時沒有要才握制when他們退了麻煩,他們就可以這讓你剪掉四地方有通的時間是地點相對他們不太喜歡未能讓我們面前所以它們的時間或者州在台灣在共產黨、車一間中建的以前跟日本的槍nych裝在!最快ocalapost还有一個以my,雜士顧間甚至是間位試上民主級的地方甚麼時候你我身體 barley沒還可以沒雖然需要賑贈我是老德雖然是能的我是爸爸至少亡你們的 Inspiration我只有大運她好像說穩定誰在充中是洗髮他們種最好她真的不坐膓我待會看看我左脸上這不穩定她在安全部霧身營五月你記得嗎?你 Ethan 即刻越隨便找到我做好朋友曝乾我就是一堆Jev...簽我的這我是公司我要提前誤你們拘捕的各类辣菜стран fat菜所以到現在想到現在他綱米麥米麥有敷訣發現性果 org還是結果蔭嘩因為我沒有看過但是我會因於脫胎 successes未出喜歡當我拉偵酷我撐鑑有什麼昨天一直以出Hyouritas Japan分 goofy他要描运我而砂製thia你全部 files我们在许识我知你您不是说我要向你跳出来 myös特 quelquechez不是他拿另一张我还是 Fuck off微笑A you guys 早智您对头件你不懂谁其实我才财ย Into you你前面我都说你不懂话我也不懂我在之後 連你有看的是所以怎樣交給什麼不是不我感受就是像 Affrisia因為的這樣沒有我故意回到Friendly robbery我對我隨著他พ Crow除不是不同的東西是我真的怎麼樣把他損損我把他損獎的代表係到1 президím relationshiptyeda去了aboutyeah可能ON看 man過6short就會令你精心的食感記得拿出什麼司責檜讓我不得對嗎就是你的軟度います想起去的時候我覺得你現在一直在向我但是 在業界呢美國人以本來 due過了г,在美國笑中美國人發生了美女老皇主道您中國家嗡無聲論 他們想取不住代主隊長周�即去全裝 一遍大家都覺得桥子也知道所以製造尖的事我重要了所以会把事分战想起到这个 bullshit或有这些刺激会订阅可是很好感觉从那里你的战上也可能是说随着人就使尖向说 pancake- mixer原先品牌avan跟我做了弃唱演公主糟的oru你刚才到弄得到當如新年你首先我史� lingu超過得不到我 tan多年我只起我就認真以 Matsu雖然在打 intensity我都要回去了但是我想說也被他有些 deceived批評來提高他們要問他們他們說 因為這就是他老 Aristotel這只是個主想因為你可以讓他蔚愛他們又要止這北母肉又說可能還跟你拘据沒有但他現在已經是份量的олог 不惡因為證明 complement搞犯 unavoid你看你自望所以他們確診於也不論我爲此次結束是行事地著人家Schdon我我跟你講從這一點你比較多如果你看So I will see why I meet at this pointI mean Right?I mean How do you deal with thatThat's a tough pill this whileI mean Because of my upbringing and my faith basedI don't quote you why I. Only why I expect it. Today it gets overI that Sweep Problem Oh, I'm trying to talk of my problem I don't look at those situationsáo準備沒辦法我我無法ẵcje同樣答案,不是我是不知反應教政大致,你說不斷就是做哪裡,做過關的當我生意故意,不用管頭生意好loud我就跟大家在意补的�וך哀畔不知道個月跟黎元不會,但是這些我都不明白我說馬剛到尋寂的時候你要不要說什麼冒把你是覺得我不會讓他說過我如果這種很危險我的孩子就是蠻讓人這一時候但如果我不讓是正題如果我的體貸是當然自己知道死的不過根據,意外最後一點她會執行出出錢就是足以死身還有個後面是出貸跟這麼不錯的甚至趴幾本��不ерш一點我想你會說明 contra時因為你要覺得換你想淵詞跟毛泥曲自然想知道怎麼辦所以我們不願意 Experational我告訴你每個人來到大小孩教��서她在一邊我说了你D Once or twice what point of is prep for the North Americans do you step in?我看過了很多的手嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯嗯5X4的手嗯Rod calls me up嗯and sends me some pictures and askand you ask my opinionif you don't track as what does he look likeand thenand then I started to find out about how strong this this man wasand I blew my mind with when I saw this Instagram handle by the way he goes by呃 no breaks big bad bonding啊哈哈哈哈 right triple b his guy and he's a threat and I'm telling you I we haven't seen well and I really hope this goes viral for Jeff because we haven't seen this kind of training since Ron he's plotting eight plates asked to the calves for reps six weeks before the show you got you got that on the Instagram see if you can pull that up Tyler pull it up right now you're going to see in saying stuff he's he dead with the nine plates on each side why why didn't really that oh my god five plates on each side for reps like it was candy oh so that's why you and ride have this kinship in the gym on because they're the same they we all pack man who are what's that I said they're about you know we're not they're not everybody we're playing the disco 1990s 1980 style heavy and high what's big bad bonding me where did you get that name from so bungee is basically from my Haitian heritage so bungee is probably like literally translate like the tough guy the big guy like he got that he's he is basically like kinku bad in the mario that's guy you have to think when he went he know one of the hardest from my current and in big bad bungee is just if you would have told me I mean if he would have told me that he's brothers with a key a key Williams I would swear the two of them look exactly the same and they they basically both just to strong as each other hey you know I think a key is uh is he Haitian also I know I think he's Jamaican maybe he's Jamaican I think Max Should is Max Should is Max Should is a man but a key man him looks him they look like they could be brothers they have they even look alike like a little bit I think if you if you had if you had no hair you know like he does you look like let's let's talk about his hair smile just a grownage hair for 13 years it goes down he's he's about five a hundred and a half is that right five a lot of six foot six foot into him he goes down to his body building you want to round down Jeff and and and and another sports you round up yeah yeah but but it goes down it as as tall as he is it goes all the way down to to the top of his rear to the very low part of his back we haven't seen hair like that since Ty Green and his is much more impressive while his Ty Green is not real you know Ty Green is fake yeah so Jeff he got real hat that's the real deal this guy's the real deal the way he lifts a real it's impressive and I'd be I mean the honest with you because I mean I lost him and that that was really hard for me but I mean he just lost his brother and and when it got down to crunch time down to do the key he was in my any three weeks before the show bearing his brother and then he falls he finds right back to go zero cards hundred reps the whole my whole hell week that that's been coined hell week he went through the whole thing under rods supervision the two of us work together rod and I worked together and you know rod is brutal in the gym there's no trainer no trainer that's going to push you like rod because when rod says two more you're going to do it just because his voice is so deep you don't do those two reps he might punch you or something that's even worse Jeff earlier for odd helping right Jeff how much muscle did what did you gain from what do you weigh at 2018 or the Americans 2018 well 66 to 66 that all right on wings but you really I'm sure you weren't this lean no no see that was the difference so it's it's a different kind of weight yeah put it that way okay I mean how big things can this guy get I mean he's got a huge frame what do you think would be the ideal way for this guy to really be as a dominant pro at competitive weight yeah I think he could compete easily in the two 80s I agree yeah easily and right now you're two ninety what Jeff about two magnifog the kind of five right now we just competed he was 271.8 at the way ends you know 263 on stage that's that's the magic that happens the last few weeks when I suck them in and pull the wall you want to see him to 80 on stage just suck dry right right eventually that's coming right this rebound in itself and the fact that Rod's really targeting his back and Rod does exactly what to do is I mean he's a he's a fact animal he has exactly what to do to bring up Jeff's back they're trying to we got special workouts we're going to be posing three times a week he's going to be doing the stairs three times a week as up now so you're going to see shredded glutes like like pro calibre shredded glutes I have enough time Rod has enough time Jeff is motivated it couldn't be better and we're going to I mean literally posing every every day but on really posing sessions three times a week and we're ten weeks out now yeah and we sell now well the good thing is that you know with the work ethic like that and and when you lift and that Rod you could test this I can I could talk directly just Roddy Coleman is a perfect example when you lift heavy weights and you got great genetics and you eat right you got the right people advising you you grow and you grow dense big round muscle that's what you do and you can't help but grow I mean look at the guys who lift the heaviest you know the a king Williams and the Ronnie Coleman's and the Dorian Yates they got muscle to show because of it there's not many people that is lifting the weights that you are lifting Jeff and the gym I mean is that are you a naturally strong guy or do you notice that as you've gotten bigger you're you're weight you're just your strength is increased exponentially I think it's a combination of two but you know training with Rod ever since I got with Rod like my my strength games have jumped exponentially like because he's a big performance of training training hard and heavy right so well I got with the 10 reps with a moderate rate and we're I push as you put heavy weight on that for 10 to 50 when we're running that big without ride pushing you into that uncomfortable zone and that's important but you think about it Dave you have to be if you're trying to bring about any type of change and a physique there's other ways you can do it but those people don't last long do that now so what we're saying is so I think it comes down to a skin constantly pushing that ramp a little bit now granted you can't go hard every day in a day out you have to cycle and go back a couple of weeks let's go back in you know it's something that you have to be looking at in the videos okay fine we we're pushing now you're about to lose a little racket right now but that's the good thing about a train like we we train we train with a group of guys and like when he came back from Florida when his situation what it was what do we do do we wrap on the wrong give a coup by our moment and say hey bro you got to show you know like that what's the guy see he friends they're sorry yeah you'll say yeah you know that I bought but you know it I was about it because a pack mentality one's up and next we'll shoot them down let's keep it going pushing I'm a huge proponent that you got to find someone who's strong in the new and then it's going to push you out of your comfort zone otherwise you're going to stay in that zone and you're not going to make improvements I had a group of guys that I worked out with when I was coming up too that was strong in the me and maybe they didn't have better physics than me at some point but they were stronger in the me and they maybe do stuff that I didn't want to do because who the hell wants to get under you know a squat ball with 700 pounds it's a I'll do six plates for for for six reps no no you're going to get on the 700 you're going to do for two reps why don't really want to get on to there and you know what that forces new growth in your body that's that's what you got to do all this time we have a situation where a guy says maybe okay coaches that's a place on the squat right I know that I'm going to put my point is is it how do you know yeah a time is right you got spotter you got the right training yeah let's go to the go right you're next thing you already do it they look at you like oh my god I did right that's my job I'm a thing for you now yeah but you you become a do let me think for it it's very important I always say that you got to have a good even if you don't have a group of guys you got to have a good training partner who's willing to push you and be there to be able to spot you because yeah I've I've gotten on the bars where I really didn't trust the spotter too much because I was in a foreign gym and I just didn't go as heavy as I wanted to because I was afraid I was going to get crushed with the weight and then would be knowing that it pulled off me so it's great that he's got you and all the other guys there on a regular basis pushing him you know yeah that's the great part because I remember the group that we train with there's a guy who benches more than me there's a guy who does leg curls my hand then we have a group of ladies who go at it really hard so even when I need some inspiration right I have to look over and see the group of ladies working hard and I'm ready to go it doesn't take much to motivate me but I could always find it but David will be the situation like man which will train the girls of the oh yeah you know you don't spare feelings and it's going to try to be ladies baby because we do want something different over here right you have a choice Jeff who's your if you look into bodybuilding world now what what physics do you like like what like what guys do you admire and say that's that's a guy who want to look like or that or even maybe in the history of bodybuilding what's your word of where your favorite body will just coming up well if we will say right now yeah I'm a big proponent like I love shink and round this so I would like I would say Sean Rodin but my favorite bodybuilder of all time right that's what you like to do okay I feel like his body proportions and his muscle belt is I think he just had a beautiful physique right you know Ronnie was amazing he had the wild fact you could never go on without mentioning him but flex will it was always my favorite bodybuilder now if you had a compare your physique to someone like who like who are you trying to emulate when you watch videos like who do you try to imitate and steal stuff from and incorporate it here with you who would you say you think your body looks like the most oh I don't know post the public say that I take I take parks from everyone that I see like even the way that I pose when I do my last but I I learn that from watching Brandy Kirby right all people like you know he's a newer guy you know grand scheme of things and you know my side chest I've just taken things from everyone that I see so I wouldn't just narrow it down to one person right I don't think my my physique is dissimilar to anyone type of person so guys I'm just trying to make the what I have work for me the best that I can right right well I wanted to you know thank you for coming on Rod thanks for joining us to me thank you Jim over there good luck with the and you're doing some great work out there in in Colorado with the I've again treatments I appreciate all you guys coming on the show all the time and good luck at the nationals because you know what it's a crazy year but sometimes crazy years result in in great results so I you've had a lot of hardships you've overcome I like your your never quit mentality and I think in the end of the day you're going to come out on top so good luck to you they're good to be shake that's what is Instagram and the description so people could see it's basically they saw it we we had it up here we would put flash in pictures and Instagram stuff I'll show you guys if you want to check him out go go hit a go like his page and if you want to also contact the mean what's the best way I mean the room in a line dot com there you go you got a whole website like I guess dedicated to helping people who have substance abuse problems so check it out no that's that's my personal website they have real real reset so I yeah that's the shirt that the gym's got on there the rest of the gym's got on that's the eye-begining that's what we're doing it's not just drug addiction is depression people get off any depressants it's the second one is gambling addiction that's another one too so yeah I don't have a side of a game here gambling addiction that's what I want to know like a logical yeah it's all psychological recessive research you have no longer had the compulsion that you usually have it it gets rid of compulsion this is the fault it's two people that want that are in that have an addiction pornography yeah it's a little bit craving to one of the compulsions one of locks for anography great great I know a couple guys I'm gonna send over to you you really love what he had it you know what I mean so people who are ready for it like I don't know if Tony huge is ready for it hey he needs a reset he probably would do it just for the experience right he tells me he wants to do it and we're planning on flying to Thailand whenever or maybe he doesn't want to do it maybe that maybe he doesn't want you to reset them then he might have been bored but his life has been reset him I'm wondering the same thing it's like you always said what's this guy's life it's really interesting so we'll see what happens whether it's going to change him in a good way or in a bad way or in a good in bad way all right well guys that's going to be it for today I'm day polo with the for I mean a lie Jim Tamagini big ride and of course Jeff Charan font we'll see you next time

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live With Brought to You By Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today is a really cool interview. I'm here with a guy who's been competing for over 40 years in the industry. He's trained pretty much all of the California. He's written books that we're going to get into because this is some cutting edge stuff. He's one of the most knowledgeable guys that I know in the bodybuilding industry. I'm really happy to finally join him and then talk shop. Doug Brugnoli, welcome to the show. Thank you Dave. Very much. It's nice to be here. It's nice to talk to you because a lot of people are always telling me and I mean, don't come up to me. I've been trying to hook us up for years and he's always saying, you and Doug, you both talk the same language. Finally, I just, you kind of connected. I said, you know what? I'm going to get you on the show. We got you here today. I wanted to just before we talk shop and science, that's stuff. In the 59 years old, you competed, and you won the AAU, what was the the AAU universe for masters in overall? Yeah, in the 60 now, this was last November. Holy Mackerel. Yeah, I don't know if you know the AAU took a high 80s. They weren't doing any bodybuilding. Oh, they were, I did a thing for another two. If you were in 1990, I think it was in 2017. And then Martin Drake, who's been in the power to think world for decades, brought back AAU bodybuilding. So it's still kind of on the rise. It's not kind of where it was. Right, I understand. But you're 60 years old over 60 years old, and you competed, and you won the thing. I mean, that's impressive. And I'll tell you why it's impressive because I know how my body feels right now. And I feel good. But I'm not in the gym pushing maximum weights and trying to get to that point where I want to compete. So how does your body, or how has your body held up so well after all these years of killing it, you know, in the gym? Frankly, I don't mean to get cut to the chase. But this is what my book is about. It's that I discovered through the years that conventional weight training, traditional exercises are very inefficient for the body. They're very bi-efficient. We mean load versus amount of weight used. So for example, a muscle doesn't know that it's getting, let's say 90% of the weight you're using versus 30% of the weight you're using. But physics determines that, right? So if your muscle has the strength capacity of 90 pounds of resistance, let's say, you don't choose the weight randomly. You choose on a base which you can handle. So that's the capacity of that muscle. You're choosing a weight that loads to capacity. It could be 300 pounds and 30%. 90 pounds. It could be 100 pounds and 90%. 90 pounds. So 300 pounds damages the joints, damages the skeleton, damages the spine. And feels like shit, frankly, and feel, especially, and it didn't make me feel so bad when you were 30 years old. But when you're 50 years old, it feels a lot heavier than it used to feel. So basically, I just figured out what the most efficient exercise is worth. Was able to get, because people say do you train heavy? Yeah, go, well, if you define heavy, by a weight that limits you to four to six reps, then yes, I train heavy. But you do you train heavy by a number of pounds? Yeah. Well, I'm going to ask you with those exercises I started in a minute, but I'll tell you what I realized. When I was at toward the end of my career, I competitive career, I should say, I had really bad shoulders. I knew I needed shoulder replacements. I put them off from when the doctor first told me that I probably weighed 20 years before I actually got him, which is what the doctor recommended. So he's like, don't get him to be absolutely here. So I started modifying my training when I realized that I had issues there to do only exercises that didn't put my body into a position where I had to stabilize too much. I already had all the mass I needed. And I found movements that didn't hurt that I isolated, but that I overload. I used to heavy weights and I can handle. And for some reason, I held on to a lot of my muscle over the years. I don't know if I kind of did what you did in a not knowing what I was doing. But so having said that, I'd like to hear what you think are the most efficient exercises that will elicit the best response in the body, but yet not damage it. Well, look, I mean, what all of us bodybuilders should do is we should say, you know, what does each muscle do? It's such a logical question. Yeah. For example, the lack, what does the side deltoid do? Right. So the problem is, if you have a muscle muscle, right, when they contract, they pull the insertion toward the origin. Right. So the question is, how can you do that? How can you cause that contraction to happen with the least joint distortion? Right. Well, overhead press will screw up your shoulders. And does not simplify the fact that the side deltoid insertion has to move toward the origin, which would be a lateral movement. So an overhead press is only a shoulder exercise in that it simulates a side lateral. That is what that side deltoid is designed to do. So why complicated? Why shortened the lever, which requires more load? Right. Because you have less migration. Why shortened the lever? Why externally rotate the shoulder joint so far that it's actually almost in an armlocked position. Right. Right. Why do that? If it doesn't actually improve the mechanics of the insertion moving toward the origin. Right. So the next question would be, is, okay, so if you're saying that a side lateral is every bit as good as an overhead press, why doesn't it feel that way? Right. What does it feel that way? Because you've got the resistance curve wrong when you're doing a standing side dumbbell raise. It's too easy at the bottom and too heavy at the top. Right. Right. Because your lever is vertical and neutral the beginning and horizontal and heavy at the top, well, that's the opposite of the strength curve of all muscles. Right. So you have your at the beginning and lighter at the end. So if you get on the side, on the floor or horizontally, and you do that same movement, all of a sudden now you have that same feeling of pushing that you do with an overhead press, not of swinging. So you talk about leg on your side? What do you talk about? Yeah, that's one way of doing it or a very slight incline angle your head is a little bit higher than your hips. Okay. You do a side raise using a strength curve. Excuse me, resistance curve. The match is the strength curve of the muscle. Have you ever win the muscle as stronger? Lighter win the muscle as weaker. And you're still doing what that muscle does, which is bringing the assertion toward the origin. You can do it with cables by setting the cable, the pulley up, you know, at hip height. What I did was what I somehow figured out was that if I sat on the side lateral machine and I rested the pad on my elbow, okay. And I just lifted one arm at a time, unilaterally. For some reason, the stability was there that I didn't feel pain in my shoulder. Every other movement showed the press over. I couldn't do it. Grinding, popping. I got on that side lateral machine one arm at a time and I can do the whole stack with excellent, perfect form and you know what I did, lose an ounce of muscle for 10 years on my shoulder. And that's logical. That's logical because you can load your deltoid every bit as much as you can with an overhead press by doing the side lateral raise machine. Here's, you said an interesting thing, you said unilaterally. Yes. Why is that better? There's a reason why it's better. I want to know. And it's something that I talk about in my book. Well, there's actually two reasons. One is something called bilateral deficit, which is that as the name implies, bilateral deficit less than, right? And you do two arms at the same time. Each arm is a little less strong than it would be by itself. They've done studies on this and they've shown this actually true. If you're doing, is that because of the nervous system activation? Right. And there could also be like an attention thing. But if you're doing a two dumbbell curl with a pair of 30 pound dumbbells, it'll be much harder than if you do 30 pounds, 30 pounds, 30 pounds, 30 pounds, right? And part of it has to do with the posture, right? So if you're doing one arm, you actually lean toward that arm. And so your geometry changes a little bit when you same thing with, and even more so when you're doing ladders, shoulders, side deltoid and lats. And that's because we have this thing that I call unilateral focus. And what that means is that if you do curls, both arms are pulling in the same direction. Right. You do any triceps, both. But if you're doing sideways, it's going to the left and this going to the right, those are opposite directions. Interesting. And you like you're trying to do a push down with one hand and a curl with the other. You're brain can't quite focus on both and your posture changes. Intuitively, intuitively, I just knew that I wasn't getting maximum stimulation doing both at the same time. I don't know why, but I just knew it. If you have a good field of your body and you can actually have good mind, muscle, connection, you know when something's not working properly. And that's how I arrived at all this is that I would always do what you do. What you do, which is I could feel what I was feeling and where I was feeling it and then I would say why. Right. And then I would research it and I would find bilateral deficits and I would find unilateral folks and I would find these things. Oh, there's a trigger. Okay, for example, here's the one. Why is squats? Let's just say you were too squat without any weight on your back. You squat, dance, squat up. Why is that in some ways harder in a cissy squat? Yeah, I was wondering that. Why is it? Right. It's because of this thing, CRO, um, um, reciprocal innovation. Again, a central nervous system interference. When you do, when you activate the glutes and at the same time you activate the quads, a couple of these things are canceling each other out because the body will not allow you to contract opposing muscles simultaneously. Interesting. You cannot fire your bicep in your tricep at the same time and no one even thinks about that because no one tries to do it. Right. You're going to activate hip extension muscles, which are your glutes and you're loading them by way of squats. You're shutting off your hip flexor muscles, which is the opposite joint function. One of the, one of the hip flexors is the rectus femurus 25% of your quadriceps. Yeah. Shading off. Right. When you're activating the quadriceps, what's shutting off? The hamstring. What is hamstring? Do participates in hip extension. Right. So you're having this neurological conflict going on that's making the squatting thing harder than it would be if you just did knee extension separately in hip extension. But why does it work so well squat? No one says it does. I mean, all we know is that, no, we know is that Tom Plats had big legs in his squat. Well, we know that squat, I have never seen anyone's legs look better than when they squat. For some reason, when people stop squatting, I see weird like different. They don't have the same shape to their legs for some reason. Well, okay, so the first thing I would say is when they stop squatting, what do they do instead? Right. That's what matters. Okay. So look, there's no doubt that activating your quadriceps when all four heads are working is better than when only three heads are working. Right. There's no doubt about that. And you can mathematically calculate. That's why my book is called the physics of fitness. You can mathematically calculate how much load is going on. So all levers have a muscle that move it. So the lower leg is the muscle that is operated by the quadriceps. Right. So if you know just the most basic physics, which is like the pendulum that hangs vertically is neutral, right? If you move that pendulum over to the side, you want to go back to the neutral position. When it's horizontal, when it's perpendicular to gravity, that's when that lever will be heaviest. Right. Zero when it's parallel to gravity, 100% when it's perpendicular to gravity, and percentages there are in between. So when you squat, your lower leg, which is being operated by the quadriceps, only dips forward about 30 degrees far from horizontal, not even at 45 degree angle, not even at a 50% active angle. So that means that whatever you have on your back isn't loading your quadriceps much. And so you put more weight on the bar, you can press your spine more to compensate for the 30% angle of the lower leg. It's just letting that lower leg go lower as it would in a 60 squat. Interesting. Okay. So here's the math, okay. If you are a 200 pound guy and you have 200 pounds on your back, that's 400 pounds divided by 200 pounds. Right. It's 200 pounds. Multiply times the length of your lower leg lever, which is about 20, multiply times the 30% equals about 940 pounds of load per quadriceps. Never mind that the rectus femmers is being shut off, right? 940 pounds of load per quadriceps. But if a 200 pound man without any weight on his back does a 60 squats and lets his lower leg get near. Explains. Explains. The 60 squats and people who may not know what a 60 squat is. Okay. A 60 squat, let me demonstrate it here. Good question there. 60 squat is where it's at a leaning forward as you squat, you lean back. It's like you're doing a limbo. Remember when you do the limbo and you get underneath the bar? So what you're doing when you do that is you load only the quadriceps. If you don't load the glutes or the lower back at all. Well, no, no, no. I'm just talking about regular, this is what in space, in space where you're either just balancing yourself or you can hold on to dipping bars or you know a Smith machine bar or something like that. It's very lightly not assisting yourself anymore than you have to, right? If you lower your lower leg to the point where it's almost horizontal, that's same to a 100 pound guy without any weight on his back will load his quarsips with a thousand 200 pounds. That's a fact. That's engineering. That's architecture. That's what any mechanical engineer, structural engineer will tell you the exact people who design cranes know these numbers. This is the math. That's the fact, right? And the problem is that we are such muscle heads that we are convinced that having a weight on our back where the plates are rattling and looks more impressive to observers automatically loads the quadriceps more than that Sitzesquat that doesn't seem to be doing anything. But from an engineering standpoint, that's completely false. I get it. Show me one more time the Sitzesquat you think people should be doing that they can get the same benefit from doing no way, just body weight Sitzesquat as what you said, putting all that weight on your back. I'm going to move this back just a little bit. That's okay. I think this is important enough to show people. You're not seeing my legs, does it? I see what's going on. I can see what's going on. No, I don't know how to describe it. They're throwing a knee-spelwork. So I understand what you're doing. Let me do it this way. That's a technical perfectionist. Perfectionist is right. That's a title. Wow. And that's very hard to do. People haven't tried to do it. It's not easy. If Ron had did that move and he'd probably put 405 on his back, right? While he was doing it. I'm sorry. Say again. I said if Ron had he commented that back in the day, he'd probably be able to do 405 for those with that weight. With that. Who else did it? Is Tom Plats? Oh, he was a Swiss-Coucite, too. Rich, Rich, Gaspari. I mean, Leila Brada. And the thing is that people would do Swiss-Couc and Barbell squats and like presses. And the fact of the matter is that's redundant. The quadricep does one thing, primarily, other than the rectus femurs, which assist in inflection, it does one thing. It extends the knee. So the idea that you get a knee extension, knee extension, knee extension, knee extension, different kinds of knee extension, some which in all the hip flexion of safe extension and some which that is redundant. The idea is that all exercises can be mathematically, not only mathematically, but also from the standpoint of how ideal the anatomical motion is for that muscle and for that joint. They can be rated on a scale of 1 to 10. Let's say 10 being the best. And then you would say, well, then why would I do an exercise that's a seven on that scale? Why would I do a six? Why would I do a five when I can just do more of the 10? Right. And then let that muscle get the most. It's like having several doses of vitamin C. And then taking some that are 500 milligrams, some that are 200 milligrams, and then what did you just take the 500? So having, having these sets, would you do have CIS-Coucite when you do your leg workout and would you put weight in addition to your body weight? Well, first of all, let me say there are several ways of doing CIS-Coucite. That's one way. The other is using the bench that you describe where you hook your ankles on behind this thing and you can. So that's another way of doing it. Frankly, I think the best way of doing CIS-Coucite is either with inside a squat rack, with a couple of heavy elastic bands above you, so you can actually use these elastic bands to help you get out of the bottom. The problem with CIS-Coucite is, it's body weight or nothing. Right? You can't just move the pin. Right? So you can add more weight, but then that creates imbalance. Right. You can subtract weight by weight of these elastic bands. Right? And these elastic bands or ropes also help you balance so that you don't lose your coordination in fall the one side. The best way of doing a CIS-Coucite is with a dual pulley machine, or a single pulley machine, where you've got a slight forward pull on the cable, and you kind of lean back like your water skiing, and you do a CIS-Coucite with that. And I'll tell you why it's really interesting. When you stand straight, you are balanced over your heels. If you did not have a forward pulling resistance from the cable and you lean back, you would fall back. Sure. Right? So when you put a certain amount of weight on that weight stack and you lean back, your body weight is offsetting the weight that's on the pulley. Interesting. So you can actually do a CIS-Coucite with less than your body weight. Right. By putting a lightweight on the weight stack and leaning back a little bit, and this minus that equals less than your body weight. And you can also remove the pin and add weight to us. It's balancing you in coordinating. Right. I would do when I would squat back in the day, so as heavy as 600 in something pounds, you know, for reps, we would end sometimes the workout with CIS-Coucite with body weight, and it felt like a million pounds, you're right. It was unbelievable. People don't understand the magnification due to the physics of that exercise. They think it's a CIS-C-C exercise, and it's it's foolishly called that, right? In my book, I forgot what the name of the, there was an emperor or something called that. And even it's believed that it was named after him. Oh. But the point is that the physics of the CIS-Coucite is such that it creates much more magnification to the quadricep, and gives you far more load on the muscle with much less strain on the skeleton. And in terms of your question, the number of sets, the number of sets, obviously, as you well know, depends on a lot on how much weight you select, the intensity of each set. Yeah. Right. You can do endless sets if you're not using much intensity, right? But if you're using a fair amount of intensity, most of us can handle somewhere between eight and 14 sets per muscle. Hmm. If you, yeah, I think putting your leg extensions and curls is up with that, right? Yeah. So you can do half of them on CIS-Coucite and have them on leg extension if you want. Right. They're very, very similar. Sure. Or you can do just one hour. You know, now that I'm working on an agarage, and we don't have a leg extension machine, we just do the CIS-Coucite. And we blow our, we blow our legs up, you know, quadrants and hamstrings with cables. Is this, is this our CIS-Coucite? I get this question a lot of CIS-Coucite's bad for your knees. They are not. They are not nor as leg extensions bad for your knees. And that's what we hear a lot. Yeah. Let me grab a proper quick. I love props. Can't go wrong with props, you know, that's for sure. All right, let's see what he's got here. So, you know, let me tell you how ridiculously lacking and logic, the idea that a CIS-Coucite would shear the knee. You've heard this, right? Sheer. Oh, don't do leg extension. They shear the knee. Right. So I created this little model right here, which is basically an upper leg and a lower leg. Right. And shearing would be this. Shearing is the idea that you're moving the lower leg, the upper part of the lower leg away from the joint. Yeah. So the first thing I did is I created this model. This would represent the Patella tendon. Yes. Coming from the quadricep, right? On the knee. So sometimes the criticism is focused on the fact that the resistance is being applied to the distal end of the lower leg, meaning at the ankle, right? As if that's worse. And it's actually better because the lower, the lower it is, the longer the lower leg, the more magnified it is and the less weight you can actually use. Right. Right. So if I push low on this thing here, as I will here, you can see that there's no. It just swivels. Sure. Right. If I push high, I can shift it away. But if I was trying to, let's say, shear your knee and you were sitting in a chair, I would actually have to put my hand just below your knee and another one below behind your ankle. Right. And I would actually push in opposite direction and actually because the ten minutes of ligaments in there are pretty sturdy. Right. If I don't put anything behind your ankle and I push on your upper, just behind. Nothing's going to happen. Right. Right. Now if I hit it with a hammer, maybe. Sure. But it's not going to happen with resistance. So the real crux of it is this. Is that if you put 50 pounds of load right here, this is about the weight of the knee. So load right here, this is about a 20 fold lever, 20 to one ratio. Okay. That means in order to extend for the quarter six to extend 50 pounds of the ankle, it has to produce 20 times more force. Wow. That's a thousand pounds of quarters of force, right. That quarter of force coming up. And over the knee, which is pulling the the the the the tip of the up. Sure. With a thousand pounds of force, while only 50 pounds is pulling it in. So that's anchoring force. So just no way mathematically that that upper leg can move away from the knee joint when it's got 20 times more anchoring force than it does vertical four. Oh, right. Look, it's it's it's it's basic science and physics like you said, it's not it's this is not you're not making this stuff up obviously. So, you know, and here's another thing. You'll say, oh, don't let the knees go over the toes when you're squatting. Oh, don't let well, what they're indirectly saying is don't let that lower leg break from the vertical position. Right. Well, guess what? As we just said vertical means neutral. Sure. So they're indirectly saying don't load your quarter ships at all because despite you having no knee problems. Yeah. It's bad for the knees. No perpendicularness. Yeah. It's necessary in resistance exercise. It's amazing how these experts out there give at this advice and it's not even actually accurate. Correct. I don't what what do you think a lot of this these these suggestions came from originally is it just they they just made them off. I mean, it has a science scientific base, you know, and they'll use they'll use you know analogies that don't even logical. You know, the one I'm sorry, I don't mean to break from your question, but if you look at it at a skull crusher. You know, the weight is in your hand. That's no different than it being at your wrist, right, which would be the equivalent of your ankle, right. The same thing without the leg extension is basically the same thing as a tricyp extension. The leg is like an arm, right, two bones connected by a hinge joint. Sure. Right, the hamstring is like the bicep, the quadrific is like the tricep, right. No one ever says the skull crushers will show your elbow. Right, true, true. I mean, it doesn't it doesn't make any sense, you know, so. Wait, what I do in my book is I encourage people to ask the right questions. That sort of boils down to is like, like, how is this any different than that? Right. So we always see a bench pressing is so terrible for your fly bench pressing. Do you agree with that? It disagree with it and what's your first obvious thing that's wrong with the bench press is the range of motion. Right, you know that you can't bring your hands together like you would with dumbbells. Right. So you know you're missing 25, 30% of the range of motion, right. And if that's okay, then it should also be okay across the board. It should be okay for your leg extension to stop 30% short of a cushion. And by-sips your triceps, everything to stop 30% short. No, it's not okay. That's that's flaw number one. Yeah. So number two is that when when and I always encourage people to imagine that muscles are like ropes. And then muscle origins are like a person holding that rope pulling that limb toward it. Yeah. Muscles always pull toward the origin. So imagine you've got a man standing on your chest holding a rope, E a muscle fiber. And that rope is going all the way across. It's going to pull that bone toward it. Gotcha. Right. Which by the way is why incline presses are not good. Because the highest part on your sternum pulls the bone and the flat bench direction. Okay. If I go in an incline direction, I'm assuming that I've touched a fibers on my chin. Interesting. There are no touch of fibers above the shoulder joint. Right. Right. Why not come incline presses definitely seem to improve that upper part of your pecks. And we've seen it. Well, that's an illusion. Okay. What that is is because I can tell you for a fact. I don't even know what your training program is. I can tell you for a fact. You never spent six months doing only incline presses. I at one part of my career, I kind of did only incline work. I'll tell you why because I felt like every I felt like I always feel that most people have a good mid to lower chest. It's always the upper chest that seems to be lacking. Now, I don't know the bio mechanics the way you do. So I just assumed that I did a very low incline pressing movement. I would do dumbbells. I would do benching that way. And I just did nothing flat. I did I just six months of incline presses. And my my chest and my upper chest was worse than ever before. Yeah. I mean, so most people don't do that kind of clear study where it's only this for six months. Right. From an evolutionary standpoint, and I know you like evolution, right? We were once upon upon time quadruped. Sure. As we became primates, we became more and more upright in our arms, push progressively and downward direction. But our arms never pushed enough or directions. Ever. It was never one of my endorsers as an evolutionary biologist. And we agreed. There was never a need for an astralopitheasein or any endothal. Or any kind of hominid to ever use his arms, his pectrals, his shoulder joint, and what would be considered an incline angle. Right. Therefore, the skeleton, nor the muscular church, every ball to accommodate that movement because there was no need for that movement. Right. Right. So it just doesn't make any sense that you would now move your arms in an incline direction, even though we never evolved to do it. Right. But I mean, you could artificially do that just to overdevelop. I don't think we were meant to have overdeveloped upper pects, but for bodybuilding purposes, it looks good. So by doing that movement, it might not be a natural movement, but it might create the desired outcome that you want, which is a freakishly developed over, you know, upper pectmas. Well, that sounds good. And wishful thinking is wonderful. But the fact is, again, muscles only fall toward their origin. Yeah. Right. So you do what have to be an origin in the region of where that upper arm is headed to. Right. But with, though, you think that if you overload a certain area of the pect muscle, even though you're not getting a good buy, I guess, advantage, you know, because you're not really moving in the right plane emotion, you still might be over stimulating one set of pect, you know, five or over the lower ones. Right. I hear what you're saying. But the part that your question is is forgetting about, is that there are no five or five, because they're with which to pull. That direction of pull cannot be accommodated by any muscle of the chest. So how do you, how do you target upper pect fibres? We know that there's a pectarralis, you know, major upper pectarralis major and lower pectarralis major. Well, what there is, what there is is upper sternal fibres. Yes. And pelvicular fibres. But to how do you stimulate those, perperegly? Right. Well, again, so if you're doing a flat press in my book, there's a picture of a really, really, different woman doing flat dumbbell press. And you can see that her clav once the arm is up, the clavical shifts from the position to this position. Right. And then you can see that the upper arm is moving right toward the origins of the clavicular fibres, as well as the upper sternal fibres. Do you think keep elbows out to the side? Well, anytime that you're doing a chest exercise, you should always allow the limb to move away from the origins and you're doing a dip and you're doing this kind of movement. You're not moving away from the sternum, nor from the origins. Right. You need to move the arm to the side and toward the midline in order to be moving in the direction of the muscle fibers. And they always tell you not to do that. The power left is always keep their arms tucked in. You never hear, I always is for vital and always kept my elbows out to the side. And felt that I got maximum stimulation that way. But a lot of people say, oh, you can injure yourself more that way. Well, look, here's the thing is, at all times, in all parts of the body, all parts of the anatomy and exercises, you always have to ask yourself, is my limb, which is where the insertion of the muscle is, moving toward the origin of my target muscle, yes or no. Right. So when you're doing a front press, you're moving toward the clavicle, which is where the front deltoid in the collpicular pectoral are. So any kind of front pressure, something like this, will target front deltoid more because you're moving toward those origins. Gotcha. Anytime you're doing this, you're moving toward the sternum and you're moving toward the sternum fibers. So you do a decline direction, you're moving toward the coastal fibers as well as some of the sternum fibers. So why do power lift is tend to have a more tucked in elbow approach? What are that way? What they're doing actually is shortening their lever length. They're bringing this thing in and they're creating a very short lever and they're doing this. And so instead of doing this, which creates more moment arm, which is the physics term, the longer the moment arm, the more magnification, they're trying to minimize the magnification. So when someone says, if you use this particular method, it'll make you stronger. Well, no, muscle capacity is muscle capacity. You have the strength you have, right? What you can do is you can change your physics by shortening your levers and making your levers be more vertical. You get a lesser percentage of the load, but that's like using a crowbar to lift a heavy rock. And thinking that you're stronger because you're using a crowbar or thinking that you're developing more muscle, because the rock you're lifting with the crowbar is heavier than it would be if you lifted it. A rock that was half that size, half that weight without the crowbar. You could actually work harder lifting that rock without the crowbar, get more muscle stimulation with a rock that's half the weight. Then you could with using some of some physics that allows you to use a heavier weight. It makes sense. Fab, let me go back to the me go quickly back to the bench press. The bench press doesn't do what the dumbbell press. The dumbbell press pulls the upper arm, the humerus toward the middle end of the body. When you're bench pressing, it can't do that as well because your hands are wide and they're stuck on the bar. So now what you're doing is actually pushing in an angle, that's why your triceps getting engaged. If you put oil on that bar, your hands would slide out of the bar, proving that you're engaging your triceps. You can't actually pull toward the midline and that's why it's less effective for the pex than an exercise that allows you to literally pull that arm toward the midline of the body. So you can use more weight, but it's kind of in the illusion, just because using more weight doesn't mean the pex are working hard. Since I've actually since we've had this whole COVID thing, I've been training in home all the time. I mean, I have a cable crossover machine and I have a dumbbells, and that's all I'm doing. I'm doing cable crossovers and I'm doing dumbbell presses and my pex feel like I get a pretty damn good workout. So it makes sense what you're saying. So I think the cable crossover is you're talking about the tradition of one with the pulleys that are about eight feet apart. Not, I don't have a big one. I have minor or little closer together because it's okay. Well, that makes a big difference because when they're when they're really far apart, what you're doing is you have two little resistance here and it's too much resistance in the central. Yeah, I agree. If they're if they're closer behind you, then you have more to beginning and less at the end and that gives you the resistance. Subscribe then matches the strength. Yeah, it's almost like a, it's almost like a dumbbell press. Like a dumbbell press, right? Let me ask you here because this is always another miss or something that people don't get right. When they want to build a wide back dog, everyone says, why pull down? Now, if you talk to Dory and the story needs to always the believer of the closer to your body, you are the strong you are the big you're going to build a back. Which is it? Well, again, when someone says the strong the closer your grip the stronger you are, you don't get stronger, right? Just because you change your grip, you're changing the mechanics of the exercise, right? Which might allow you to live a little more weight, but anytime there's something allows us to live more weight, we should be suspect of it. We shouldn't claim to it in embrace it, we should go, oh, I'm obviously changing my physics to reduce the magnification. Reduction and magnification allows me to use more weight, but that doesn't mean uploading the muscle anymore. Okay, so what you're saying? So here's the thing is when you're doing a lot exercise, you have to actually any exercise. The first thing you do is you say, what where is the origin of the muscle? Where is the insertion of the muscle? And what constitutes full range of motion? Okay, so with the lat, when your arm is extended like this, you've got to let the fully extended origins are in the bottom two thirds of your spine, and on the top edge of your pelvis. Right. Back of your pelvis, right? So what you want to do is you want to pull again toward the origin of the lat's, right? In a downward direction, right? So if you're doing one arm cable, then you start here and you end up with your elbow all the way at your side, which allows you to get full contraction of the lat's. Right. Okay. But when you're doing a close grip pull down or a close grip chin up, you're starting too high. You're not starting here, you're starting too high, which means you're already sort of pinching the shoulder joint, getting a little bit of an impingement syndrome happening. Right. And then keep in mind that the lat is pulling on the humerus, which is connected right about there, right? So when a muscle pulls on its on its lever on its limb parallel to that limb, that's called a mechanical disadvantage. That means that it's, that muscle has to pull in a direction, not of the direction that limb can move. Interesting. Right. The limb has to move in that direction, not in, not in, not in that direction, and yet that's the only angle for which it can pull. So it's starting from mechanical disadvantage, right? And then when you get to the bottom, you're seeing, you can tuck your arm in, but you started with a huge disadvantage at the beginning. If you start with a wide grip and you go like this, you end up here somewhere. So you've lost, you lost some range of motion at the end. That's why, and again, because of the just like on the deltoids, when you're doing lats, that lat is pulling that way and that one is pulling this way. These are opposite directions. That's why it would be better to work one lat at a time. I was going to ask you that. Yeah, one arm, a cable, a scrave a cable overhead and pull it down, huh? Right, but at an angle, you don't want it to be straight over head. You want it to be, you want the movement to be parallel to the muscle. I'm going to try that. That's that's what you do on that tonight. Right. You have to avoid the mechanical disadvantage that happens at the beginning, right? And then you want to get a full range of motion. You want to end with that, with that upper arm bone getting right up against the side of your torso. I'm doing it tonight. And by the way, it should not be straight to the side. Right. Right. And the reason for that is because if I get in this position right here, there's no shoulder joint problem. But if I pull my arm down, you'll notice that you have a certain amount of ability to externally rotate this arm. Right. And that's about as far as you can actually take it. Sure. So the idea that you can tuck your elbow into your side, and at the same time have your hand next to your side, that would constitute a dramatic excessive external rotation of that shoulder joint. So what you should do is you should start with that cable at about maybe a 45 30 degree angle, not quite more towards the front, but not quite to the side right about there. Right. And as you pull in, you actually rotate your torso slightly toward the... Oh, interesting. Okay. And then you rotate away from it and then toward it and then away from it and then toward it. And that gives you your full range of motion without externally straining the shoulder joint. I'll do that, you know, it's interesting to say that because I do that one arm at a time with the low cable. I do like a one arm cable row. Like almost you do a one arm dumbbell row, but I do with the same thing where I turn my body in and I kind of pull back, you know, with it. And I feel that I feel a real great range of motion. I really feel the lack contract a lot to that way. And that's when that's one of the reasons why it's better to do one arm-latt pull in. And then it is to do a two arm pull down because you can't rotate to both sides at the same time. Interesting. Okay. And the other thing too is you also find that you lean into your rotate and you lean your torso in that direction. Yeah. And you can't lean your torso in both directions. That's something to talk about. It locks you into much. One more body in the back. We got to go far to this at the time. I got so many questions to ask you people who look at this. Caves. We have people. Obviously, no calves are a genetic muscle group. Some people just have big calves, some people don't. Right. But I had weak calves, you know, very high calves. And I really worked and got my calves to improve quite a bit and bring them up to balance with my upper body when I was competing. I'm up to part of my upper leg. What would you say is the most effective calf exercises and set numbers of reps and how to execute them? Well, the first thing I'll say is that you cannot change a high calf. Right. You cannot make the tendon shorter and the muscle longer. Exactly. The typical calf is the tendon length is set by genetics and the muscle length is set by genetics. Right. And you can make it bigger and making it bigger sometimes it might make it look fuller. Yes. But you cannot actually do anything exercise-wise to make the tendon shorter and the muscle longer. Number one. Number two is that, you know, when someone asks me, what's the best exercise for? I usually start up by saying, well, what would be ideal for the calf? Right. Let's reverse and generate. Right. What is best for the calf for the most part is a relatively straight knee. Right. Right. A bit knee like a seated calf machine, right? Right. Creates what's called active insufficiency. Active insufficiency happens in the case or a muscle crosses two joints. Okay. Like the bicep, like the hamstring, like the calf. So when that secondary joint is bent, it brings the origin of that muscle, close to the insurcer of that muscle, which shortens the muscle. And that's why when we do, by the way, when we do, let's say a spider curl, right? Right. We feel the bicep cramping, right? When we do a standing calf or remember back in the day when we did flat leg curls, yeah, there's no hump in the thing. Yep. We would feel our hamstring cramping. And so you would raise your tailbone up to prevent the cramping. Well, you're actually relieving active insufficiency. When you're doing calves, what you want is more length. So if you have your origin on your humorous, if this is your knee, your origin of the calf is here, right? And your calf is down here. By straightening the knee, you elongate that calf. So standing calf raises a better, you're saying, and seated. Well, what I'm saying is standing like press any kind of calf extension, where your knee is allowed to be mostly straight. Now, what we hear this like if your leg is at a right angle, you work more of the solius muscle, you're standing upright, you work more of the gastrochmuscle. Okay, that's a good question. Here's the answer to that. First of all, is that it's a presumption, right? That if the calf, if the gastrochneemia can't work as hard, then automatically the solace will take over. And that's not necessarily true. And the other assumption is that the solius has much capacity for a grove. It does not. The solius is basically a sheet of muscle. Yeah. Right? And so they've done studies on this and what they found was that the solius works more when the demand is low. Either the demand for speed or the demand for force is low. Right? And your standards must be an endurance muscle. The solius works more when the demand is higher, either for speed or for power, the gastrochneau works more. Right? You can never get the solius to grow enough to compensate for any thirst. The bulk of the calf is always always going to be the gas. So standing with the leg extended in the straight motion is the way to go. Right. Now it could be like press it could be standing. But you do like press of course. You're not to put a bunch of weight on your spine. That's an advantage. Yeah. But what I was going to say was foot position does not matter. Right. You know, this thing where you've turned toes in, toes out, you know, it doesn't take much observation. And thought to see if some guy's turning his toes in, he's rotating his femurs at the hip. Right. It's not like your lower leg is staying foot and then you're right. If I get some of his moving, right? The mechanics of the ankle doesn't change when you rotate the entire leg. No, that makes sense. But you don't want to, you don't want to have a perfectly locked leg when you're going heavy either. Sure. Because that strains the knee. And if you have a tendency to high-pricstend the knee, that could be super bad. You want to have a little tiny bend in your knee always when you're doing caps. What I do at home because I don't, you know, and this is relevant because a lot of people have no gyms. I take the, like, a little leg cuff we can kind of do, you know, you know, you're, you're in a ratify type stuff at the top. Yeah. And I actually put it around my, I pull it up over my calves. And I do standing calf raises with that thing. Where I actually lean back against that pad and, and I seem to get some stimulation of my calves that way. I am all right. Yeah. I'm going to do some idea. Yeah. I mean, it's going to be a good pass at home if you don't have a, you know, a leg press machine or something like that. Yeah. We know we're, we're making do. And what we have, we have a double adjustable pulley, a free motion machine. We have dumbbells from 2.5 up to 65. Yeah. We've got a slight, we've got a decline bench adjust to almost flat and then more, and a seat with a seat back. And that's it. We're getting a glute machine, a hip extension machine. And that's, and then I think we'll be complete. We can work our quads fine by doing those sixy squats on the cable. We can work our hamstrings fine by putting the ankle cuff on the ankle and doing leg crows with the cable. Okay. Well, we can do very well as hip extension. Glute bridges, glute bridges are just literally less than half the range of motion that the glutes have capacity for. So what do you do with hamstring wise? Yeah. What we do is we, we just connect the, the ankle thing here. Right. And then, and then we just do a single leg leg curl with the cable set up, you know, kind of high. And then we're building a bench a seat that allows your lower, your lower legs, your tibia to hang without the feet touching the ground. Oh, okay. And that way you can do your leg curl and not have your ankle and hit the ground. Right. But I, I didn't even thought of doing the other way. That's quite a try to do that. Because that's the only thing I'm going to have a trouble training is my hamstrings at home. Yeah. And what the, as you would get into the same, the calves, you know, we just do standing calf raises with body weight. If you want to add weight, you know, you can always, you know, use cables or hold a dumbbell or something like that. It's awkward because it's not as convenient as a leg press machine. Tell you, put that cuff around your both calves. You can do it or you can do one at a time. I, both calves are good because it kind of just barely fits in there and it holds pressure against them and you can do standing calf raises. You know, if you do one leg at calf raises, you double the weight. Right. No, yeah. It's very hard to balance. Hey, this was a great interview. I people got to love this and you know, we only covered the one book that you wrote the physics of resistance exercise. I want to go over one of the old books that had written about four years ago, a million dollar muscle because it was dealt with exercise myths. And I really want to go over that. So I want to get it back here if you'd agree to come back. I think I'll, I'd be having to go. This is awesome. I know, I got to try to catch up to Rick Dresden, our good friend. He rested piece because you were on there. I think 30 times on his podcast. Right. Right. I'm hoping I'm hoping that I can take it over. Yeah. I'd like to continue Rick's corn. Oh, that would be great. Yeah. You know, I'd like to, you know, you need to get permission from his kids and we don't know what that's going to entail. But I, I think I can do Rick's corner. I can have short. How kinds of guests come on. Yeah. You know, good. The golden guys. I want to get back. I want to talk more about the training because we don't really go over training as much. I think as as people likes. This is going to be a great interview. People want to get in touch of you. They can go to DougBriganoli.com. More training 365.com is your personal training course. And then you got healthy learning.com as well. Doug, thank you for joining us today. And I'm going to have you back even next week of the week after. Thanks Dave. Good talking to you. All right, guys. That's going to take you to the end of another episode of live with. I'm Dave Palombo with Doug Briganoli. See you next time.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Motor 30 year in a row and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low carb clock tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods muscle in the morning. On day polo and today is Wednesday, August 12th, 2020. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to the show. I know it's recap Wednesday but since there weren't any pro shows this last weekend, we don't have anything to recap. So I figured we give you guys the next best thing and talk about some of the huge news stories from last weekend or so starting with the New York crowd. In case you haven't heard the New York crowd be officially moving the entire operation down to Tampa, Florida. So they don't have to cancel this year's contest. Now for me, the most surprising thing about the story is that they had to move the show. It's that they managed to get this all together so quickly. There's show is still scheduled to take place on September 5th, which is only three weeks from now. And from what I understand, they're still planning to have athletes from eight different divisions competing there. The New York pro is and has been one of the premier events in bodybuilding. So I'm glad to see that we can pull together as a community to make this happen. Because it shows how resilient we can be when our backs are up against the wall. You need to go. We told you where there's smoke. There's fire about rumors surrounding Phil Heath competing in this year's Olympia. And I don't want to get up on my high horse here and say I told you so, but I did. I told you so. And now Phil has made an official last weekend. Phil took over bodybuilding social media when he announced that he was competing at this year's contest with a dramatic post about how he was coming back to settled unfinished business. We've talked more about this over the next few months, but as far as Phil's concern, that couldn't have been a better time to make this move with all the travel restriction in place. We could be looking at a lineup that's missing half of the guys who were in the top 10 last year, which is huge. Obviously, if Phil can be 95% of what he was a few years ago, this might be enough to bring home his eighth sandout. I read a report earlier this week that said Tesla just passed toyota as the most valuable car company in the world. Stop thinking about that for a minute. If you invested $1,000 in Tesla stock five years ago, your initial investment would be 498% better, which is absolutely insane. And do you know what else is insane? Wesley Vissers, because this guy's stock is through the roof right now. According to reports Wesley just started his Olympia prep on Monday when he was sitting somewhere in the neighborhood of £270, a bigger and more complete Wesley is something we haven't seen on a classic Vixie stage today. So if he shows up as good as advertised, he'll be selling we can count on fighting for a top 10 slot. Sometimes I think sports and music live in a parallel universe because they both exist in a space that needs everything to work in harmony to make the finished product come out just right. Let's take Connie Slisiot, aka Connie Orange for example. Since she teamed up with a old friend Louise Rogers, Connie's been one of the most consistent hitmakers in the fitness industry. Not only has she become one of the top amateur figure athletes on the international scene, but she's also become one of the top influencers too. You can't do that without having all your instruments playing the right notes at the exact same time. And if she keeps going at this rate, it won't be long before she starts taking over the top of the pro league charts and cementing herself as one of the top talents in the sport. And that does it the yet another edition of muscle in the morning on the Palombo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Old School Body Building Clothing Company. If it's been three and a half hours since you last ate protein, now you're starting to freak out, you are old school. If watching someone sit on a hammer machine for five minutes between sets playing with their phone, pisses you off, you are definitely old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body, and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, there's 30-year-to-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car soft tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Alright, self-ish-mine on rxmuscle.com. This is ass-day better known as hashtag ass-dave. You're 30-minute question and answer show with Dave Palombo. All your questions as usual, diet, training, supplementation, I-B-B-B-B-B-B-Rose competitions. Whatever's on your mind, bodybuilding or beyond, it is all on the table. We're going to go right into the questions. We have a couple of big guests lined up over the course of the next 30-to-40 minutes. So we want to get as many questions as possible. Let's go first of the day with the Lumpo Experience app. Dave, when should I use your power building program and for how long, for those who have not yet tried out the day with the most experience, if you want to get them a little primer? Yeah, I created this app a couple of years ago for people who wanted to have like a continuing education type of situation where they're always learning and it's an ability to watch and read all my writings, see all my videos I've ever done. But then also have the ability to ask me questions unlimited, I answer it however, an unusual way. And for everyone sees everyone's questions and everyone's answers. And then I take the best questions and I do an ask Dave like video, like I do here, except it's exclusively for the app only and it's at a much higher level. The questions are really more complex and more interesting, I think. So if you're interested in that and then of course, we put up a workout every single week. So you can kind of change up your workouts if you want. It's a great resource to have it. You're back in call. Now the question was what again? No, the power listing. Oh, all right, the power, how long? Yeah. One of the workouts we put up there is my power phase routine, which is usually like a six to eight week program. Usually when guys are in the midst of an off season where they're trying to put on maximum size, it focuses more on the basic movements and it takes away a lot of the little accessory movements as I call them. It really heavily focused on the leg workout is 10 sets of squats essentially with a couple little other stuff and they have it not much more. Benching on chest aches a lot of incline benching, bent rows on dead lifts on back day. It's really focused on the power compound movements so you can build not only strength, but mass and not worry about having to do all the other stuff because when all the other stuff takes away energy from the stuff that you should be focusing on predominantly. So this is a really good building phase. I usually like I said recommend usually eight weeks is the most you can do it because it's very traumatizing to your nervous system to have to have that kind of heavy weight with that kind of intensity. So don't do it for too long or you're going to get stalemate and once again, I try to have guys do it when they're in the midst of their maximum eating and maximum if they're using the maximum gear cycle as well. It's a lot more of that. We're going to be bringing back iron debate. We'll do that live as well. We like these interactions with you. The Rx muscle community beat on Instagram, beat on YouTube or be on YouTube live. So we look forward to doing that a lot more. Let's go to Actar, McShafftar, do all pros, good one here. Do all pros need gynaus surgery at some point should you budget for gynaus surgery when using gynaus. It's like asking to all figure and bikini and women's physique pros need breast enhancement surgery and most of them do and most guys are going to need to have gynaus surgery if you want to have a nice peck line there. There are some not many but there are some people that just don't have breast tissue down there. They don't have the glands in there. It's like some women just have small boobs. They never have any tissue there just genetically that's the way they are. The majority of men that I've worked with all these gynaus surgery and sometimes a lot of the guys wait too long. I would budget that into your bodybuilding career type of curriculum because at some point you're probably going to need to do it. I send a lot of people to Dr. Blow and White Plains in New York. There are other guys around the country that are getting good at it but Dr. Blow is the best if you look into the best he's still the best to guide a go to. But I would certainly you know I was in a rod. I took one shot at testosterone and I saw my nipple hanging a little bit. I went and got it taken out. I didn't want to deal with it. It was good because it creates a lot of anxiety in people because it doesn't look good. You're always playing with it and you know you can't get on stage without these judges saying something about it. If you have a bad get it taken out that's my best advice to you. Another good one here this one from sweeter fothel at what point in someone's lifting career slash lifetime should they stop trying to PR on mass weight is there such a thing. Very rarely did I ever try to just do a one rat max type of thing. Now when I was trying to move up and wait a lot of times you know the first time you attempt the weight you have to have you know you want to make sure you're trading part in his day you have a good spot because you're not going to be able to use the weight and sometimes it's scary. Remember the first it took me a long time to get 600 pounds in the squat because I think it was a mental thing in my head that was working against me. So I had to actually go down with the weight with someone underneath me and actually lifting with me so I can actually get a feel for the weight. Once I got comfortable with how heavy the weight felt on my back and got used to it I was able to move up. But I never ever went you know just to say okay I bench press 500 pounds that was never my intent my intent always was to do multiple reps with that weight. But sometimes like I said you have to get used to the weight and that might be a one or two rep with a spot type of situation initially. But I wouldn't be going for trying to just let's look at unless you're a power lifter if you're a power lifter and you're trying to go to set records then obviously you're you know that's a different that's a different mentality however and a different training style for bodybuilding purposes we're trying to get bigger. So we want to move heavier weight for multiple reps very rarely or very infrequently do you want to do one rep maxes. It's going to manzo low what carrier oils should be avoided when running injectables you'll see a lot of different compounds using different carrier oils and some say that certain ones are toxic the body. You know I really wouldn't know which ones were toxic. I never heard of any of them being toxic like you would never use mineral oil mineral oil is a amino stimulatory. So in other words you take mineral oil inject I know guys to try to use that as a site injection oil and they got really sick from it because your immune system attacks mineral oil. So you want a neutral and what we call a neutral oil that your immune system will not really respond to you know that's you know your your MCT oils your grape seed oils and stuff like that cotton seed oils there it is a hole hosted them and then the ones that have historically been used in all the oil based injectables out there you can just read the ingredients on the pharmacy ones see what they use that you should be using because these pharmaceutical companies have researched which of the best ones and which are the ones you shouldn't be doing. Unfortunately I think a lot of people you know they they buy you know the raw powders from China and then they can't get an oil and some people are using oil from the kitchen cabinet and they they think if they run it through a filter syringe that it's a sterile. So I don't know what to tell people it's a very rough time now if you use animal ox sterile right because there's no very few steroids are being made in actual factories anymore like pharmaceutical you know places where there's you know quality control and everything's tested it's kind of like people making it in their house you know and I don't care you know just just because it's in a nice box with a good label doesn't mean that it was necessarily made with the most sterile techniques or in the most you know professional way so it is what it is that's why I always recommend the people buy the Roy test kits I sell it daypalombo.com it's a bill well and product and test your test your stuff because you know what I've been saying 50% is is fake now I've been seeing more I would say probably 75% of the gear out there is not what it says it is so it might not be completely nothing but a lot of the injectables now are coming back as testosterone propane and a lot of the orals are coming back as Diana bowl you know that's understand what it's just the fact I know this because people buy these kits and then they send me the results and they tell me to interpret them I see it all the time I don't even have to ask people anymore if I have a client or someone who contacts me and said hey I'm taking this testosterone or I'm taking this deck up you know product and I'm getting super sore at my injection site I'm getting fevers I know right away they're using testosterone propane that's classic test propane you know side effects it doesn't hurt when you're injecting it but the next day or later it gets like bruised and then sometimes you actually get like a fever you can get you know chills from it you get almost like flu like symptoms because your immune system is overreacting to it classic propane also women they think they're taking out of our they're getting bloated they're losing hair and they don't understand why well because they're taking Diana bowl and they're not really taking animal so test your products as far as the oils go that are you know of concern use a prize that you know a lot of people have used don't don't use products that you're not sure of because buy and far if something is not a good carrier oil someone will have figured it out already hey stay away from this product but once again most of the most of the oils that people seem to be using seem to be reasonable because pretty much everyone uses the same stuff just be wary of people who say hey avoid this product a lot the really the best advice now is anecdotal if people say the stuff works pretty well then what it's worth purchasing and then testing it with the right test if it comes back what it says it is then you can use it and maybe you should buy a bunch of it and stockpile at a that point because there's not that much good stuff on the market anymore it's good to sell opal sb boss the best way to assess someone's genetic natural potential and we've discussed as many different various forms but I guess at what point does an athlete say or are they have reached their their I guess their genetic potential before decided to go in hands it's very it's very hard to determine that you know you could tell when looking at a person if they have good genetics for bodybuilding because you can see their bone structure did they have wide clavicles so they why they have a small waste what kind of a flare do they have to their you know to their legs bone structure is huge bodybuilding whether the person has the the mental fortitude to be able to put the size on now do the training eat the food take and they're willing to take the drugs that's another story all together as far as natural potential how far to go before you actually take an animal cycle it's impossible for me to give you an answer on that because everyone is different however when someone starts hitting a plateau and you know that you're eating perfectly you're getting all your meals in you're not missing anything you're doing to everything you can do in terms of supplementation you're training right and you just not progressing at that point then you got to sit down and say to yourself hey do I want to go to the next level do I want to take an amolix and and then that's a personal decision but how far a person know is really going to be dictated by their structure number one but then there what's up here in their head because you know my structure was good but it wasn't great and I went very far because I had the the the mental strength to do it and I've seen other people do the same thing branch Warren I don't you know he obviously had a nice structure but I don't think anyone in their right mind would have ever have guessed that he would have been able to pat on as much mass on that body as he did and and to go as high as he did winning two Arnold classics winning you know coming in second at the Olympia behind Jay Cutler I mean he really maximized what he had to work with because of his strength and his brain of his mind so it's a two tiered component visit genetic component and then there's a mental component unfortunately most people don't have both they have one or the other comes along you know as a rare individual that comes along everyone's in a while like a Ronnie Coleman that has both and that's why that he was so successful let's go to excellent one 87 Dave what are the pros and cons of natural test boosters for a natural competitor and could you also discuss what you should be looking for as far as brands and key ingredients you know when I design test the lives I can only speak to my own product because because you know I made it I always felt that the best way to enhance natural testosterone production is number one to reduce estrogen because we know that estrogen is what shuts down the pituitary and high epithalamus and the brain and prevents your body from producing more natural testosterone so if we can limit estrogen but not annihilated because we know that if you limit it if you get rid of too much estrogen you lose your sex driving and your and your androgen receptors don't have a lot of receptivity so you want to limit estrogen okay but without getting rid of it you want to limit your body's ability to convert testosterone into DH he literally doesn't build muscle okay it might give you sex drive it might give you you know secondary male sexual sexual characteristics but it's not going to give you muscle building and if we do that limit estrogen limit DHT we're going to have more natural testosterone by definition at that point because less testosterone will convert to other things then if we throw some direct stimulant or stimulators of testosterone production in in addition to that now we have a multi tiered approach to maximize testosterone in the body we eliminate estrogen which frees up the hypothalamus and pituitary to release more elutinizing hormone and and and and and follicle stimulating hormone which is going to stimulate natural testosterone production and sperm production if we limit lemonade DHT or lower DHT the ability to produce DHT more testosterone will stay as testosterone and then direct stimulation that's what I did with testolize that's why I don't call the testosterone boost I call the testosterone optimizer because it optimizes testosterone through all these different routes once again I can't speak to other people's products and I wouldn't say one's better than the other or worse than another I just know mine works very politely and it's one of our best selling products because of the science that I put into it take two-three more questions Tom holds worth over your thoughts on HH fragment do you think it's effective in fact burning you know these HCH or a growth hormone fragments that they produce are interesting because when they've done it they they they the growth hormone molecules of hundred ninety one amino acid for all so it's a long molecule it's all convoluted and everything like that and they found the different pieces of this hormone like if you clip this many starting as this many amino acids to this many amino acids they do different things and one of the fragments I know is they say is is the fat burning fragment it's the fragment that in other words you don't even need the rest of it just that fragment alone will bind you know and cause lipolysis or the liberation of fat for the fat cells on paper and in experiments however I'll tell you this I've never seen anyone use these fragments and get the same effect that they get from using real growth hormone the whole intact molecule why is that? Well be probably for the same reason that you know if you take a test the austro and you as a as a growth agent you grow really well you get some side effects but you grow and then if you take like anovar which is a derivative of testosterone which theoretically is similar and it should be even better because it's more it has more anabolic properties less and it's been a purpose it's not even close to a strong testosterone because when you start removing things and taking away the whole to use a piece of something you don't get the same effect and that's what I'm seeing in these fragments they on paper should be more effective because it's only the the fat burning component but they're not as effective as fat birds as as taking the whole intact GH molecule and that's the best analogy I can give you and that's the best thing I can only tell you what I see and what I know and the people who are using them if it worked as well as the real GH molecule don't you think everyone would be using it and it would be getting great results but they're not they're not and so that's unfortunately the reality of what's out there right now let's go to Carlos Benavita 7 blasting for six months massing cycle then transition of recontest with no change in testosterone short thoughts yeah I think testosterone should be pretty stable you know I think you know I find a thousand milligrams a week is pretty much you know what I am in favor of use the that comes out to about 250 to 300 milligrams every other day and that should be standard whether your offseason or pre-contest the that what I change pre-contest is I might throw in different antibiotics like mass around and trend alone uh wind stroll you know as opposed to maybe sticking with the more of the long acting injectable antibiotics like echo poise and deca and stuff like that and dianna ball I'll stick with more of the you know so I I have my certain drugs I like to use offseason I get the certain drug like to use pre-contest and then I'll also use like fat burning agents like climbed uteroll I might throw some cydomel which is T3 into the mix to help with that bring because the goal when you're preparing for a competition is not you're not really worried about building muscle what you'd built worried about is is leaning out and so the most potent leaning out substances would be you know climbed uteroll and T3 and grow homo to a certain degree probably third on that list and then maintaining your muscle mass with the drugs you're taking and having a hard look to it at the same time and so yeah I think it I usually go from offseason right into pre-contest and then I clean the person out after that. I've got a funny one I'll say that to the end it's going to send Tony strong your thoughts on grains and their effect on gut health the healthier your gut the more nutrients you can absorb similarly. Yeah you know there are certain people that are not very good digesters of wheat proteins or wheat in general gluten okay that's another way of saying it they have a some kind of analogy to it they're just their bodies attack the immune system goes after it and that can create a lot of gut issues obviously with inflammation and you know sometimes it can cause ulcerations and there's a whole host of different you know melodies that are linked to that grains specifically most people are not gluten incentive though or gluten allergic I think that you have a couple people you know I don't know what the statistics are how many people out of how many people but for most people they can handle wheat okay and they but a lot of people eliminated thinking that oh I got to go gluten free because that's what so-and-so didn't got such great results well so-and-so was had was legitimately you know gluten intolerant okay I had I have a very good friend my friend John Gratio he found that he can't have any gluten he anything with gluten and it hit it completely messes up entire gut he can blow it in he he feel terrible so does he go gluten free feels great again but he legit and he got tested he legitimately has an allergy to that stuff so for most people you can they can handle it and then I think that the best thing for gut health believe it or not is not necessarily giving your body a probiotic all the time because you want to maybe seed your colon with the good bacteria but then let it grow the best way for it to grow healthy is to feed it what's the best way to feed it soluble fiber soluble fiber is the food source for these gut bacteria they ferment it and they make energy for themselves for it and and fuel essentially which is good because when they ferment this soluble fiber they actually release these short chain medium chain fats into the bloodstream which tells the liver stop producing glucose so a soluble fiber supplement not only nourishes the gut bacteria but it also helps you with blood sugar control in the body which is great while you're dieting why because lower sugar lower insulin in the blood less fat storage so it all goes hand in hand so once again probiotics are good like if you're on antibiotics or something like that but once when you're not on those and you want to just keep those gut bacteria that are there healthy feed them give them a good fiber supplement fiber lies works really well the ceiling is is a great soluble source of fiber that the gut bacteria would they love to ferment this stuff and I think you'll you'll find that you get some good if you're looking and once again if you are an antibiotic so you do have some gut bacteria issues and you want to recede you can use probiotic foods like Bobby Salach route a coconut key fear or you can even go on a website like natrin natrin makes a really good powdered probiotic they have two different ones one's called megadophilist one's called bifidofactor you can alternate days do one one day one the next day maybe do a month of that and then fall and I mix it right into my fiber life supplement believe it or not but I won't do it continuously I'll do two weeks of it and then take a break off and maybe I won't use it again for another six months but I don't want to stop the fiber the fibers what's feeding those bacteria. It's good if a Robert cat and he's best site to shoot a stonstron or the quads okay. Nooo no quad injections go watch my video why you shouldn't shoot your quads I it's a very popular video you will get an infection I guarantee it it might not happen the first time of the second time it will happen and then you will be very very very upset and said do not shoot the quads ever ever ever ever ever trust me I promise you go watch my video you'll know all the reasons why it's funny whenever I say this there's always someone out there who's been shooting their quads and they've never had an infection and then the very next shot they take again infection after hearing my video and they're like why don't I listen to them don't shoot your quads the private best place is to put it into the glutes the delts side delts lats right here big juicy muscles that you can go nice and deep and inch in a half in and push that stuff in there and let it get absorbed that's the best advice I can give you. Good at Jason marks I at BD Pro what are these wellness pro competitors what are they taking what's there I guess gear uh regiment like you know they to me they look like little mini body builders and some of them have big legs in the body bulls so I would assume they're probably doing what the women's physique you know competitors are probably doing I see I see bikini girls that use testosterone as as as an a and as stupid as that may sound because their coaches put them on it that should never be the case obviously for me as far as I'm concerned if you know if I'm thinking about someone that I care about and I am worried and I want to remain very feminine and not ruin themselves and of ours the safest thing to do a little GHS say obviously the fat burners like you know clubbed or old side of me I'll have no side of X in terms of mass formalization the the probably the strongest any woman should do is would be something like wind stroll and always when women use anobox the best of the user are pills because orals are not in your system all the time so you're not being exposed 24 hours it might only be like you know 12 or 16 hours out of the day so anobar windshield pills are probably something that women can get away with without too many side effects pre-movell used to be good but 99.99% of the pre-movell and at least the injectable pre-movell on the market is safe it's actually test proponents you don't want to do that there are some pre-move acetate tabs out there that are available I think that 25 million rent pills those those would be all right maybe a crack them in half a half in the morning half at night those are those are drugs that are safe and the great thing about women is their receptors their energy and receptors are so so receptive to some they're so sensitive because women produce dairy very small amounts of testosterone in their body and it comes from their adrenal glands their adrenal glands produce the HCA which converts the testosterone in their tissues and so their bodies have to have really good receptors to recognize those very small amounts so when women put even the weakest antibiotics into their body like anobar their bodies respond them amazingly because they have way more sensitive receptors than the men do so there's no reason for a woman to take super strong drugs all they're going to get a side effects and you know what the biggest mistake women make is they start taking the strong drugs and they say oh I'm getting nothing but good muscle gains I have no side effects well it doesn't take a boy you know six weeks to go through puberty it takes years so it's a cumulative thing so you do test the ostrone for six eight weeks and or maybe longer and the next time you use it all the sudden you get a million side effects and everyone's like I don't know this then I took out the first time I had no side what was cumulative okay your your cumulative getting side effects women should not use anything more than when showing out of our last one of uh from booby bobby trap lord a good friend of the show is he name seeing as your legs were so big what did you do so the franken beans that in constantly shaving never your body bull is talking about that I am you mean I guess you know my legs were burned the guy I had a I used to walk with my legs like separated like you obviously the bodybuilder walk there are guys to do it who have skinny legs just because they think they're all like I used to legitimately have to walk out of separate my legs and so big but I always wore like like bikini underwear like you know they kind of keeps it tight to your body I don't know how guys do the the box of shorts with big legs because yeah your your stuff kind of hangs a little too low at that point but yeah I mean I always like I said I wore like some kind of a tighter you know closer fitting you know which is not good if you're trying to get your wife pregnant by the way but as far as holding everything in that's the way to go it's almost like you were imposing trunks all the time except they're you know they're made a cotton there you have it it's funny because I was kind of scrolling through the comments or whatever it's there was some back or there I guess is not something that bodybuilders generally talk about but there you have I don't you know I know I'm not gonna mention names I know a bodybuilder a couple of I was who don't wear who didn't wear and they may be even to this day they don't wear anywhere and which is I don't know how that you can possibly to me that's so uncomfortable I don't know why anyone will want anything you know just hang swing it in the breeze there that's got to be super uncomfortable especially for guys with huge huge legs because it kind of just gets smooshed between that so you definitely want to kind of hold it off a little bit that's for sure so I guess if we're gonna go with this is a terrible have to go something along the lines of protecting your Twickenberries there you go that's gonna be for this episode of ass Dave next week we will be back live on the shows so if you want to get your questions answer live on the show interact with us via the youtube comment section live comment section we'll be doing that we're also gonna be looking back to bring back iron to be as well perhaps any live format for Tyler Shore and Dave Poulombol I'm so deep for rookie we'll see you next time

Welcome back to Muscle in the Morning! On day of the Lumberland today is Tuesday, July 24th, 2018. Let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. After we get a wrapped up binge watching Luke Cage on Netflix, and I swear at one point during an episode, I caught myself thinking, well, I wonder if Joel Thomas could beat this guy in a fistfight. Over the last few weeks, bodybuilding's version of the indestructible man has been looking even more like a superhero than usual, which can only mean that he's got a date with a pro stage circled somewhere on his calendar. And if I were a betting man, I'd probably be willing to lay down a few dollars on the South Florida native jumping into the Tampa Pro next month, which is the show that we've seen him look right at a few times since 2015. When you see him in the gym, this guy has to sort of thickness and nastiness that makes you go crazy as a fan. So if you can figure out how to translate that to his in the stage, he's a guy who can absolutely make some noise in the top five call out. I saw one of those motivational speaking videos on YouTube a few weeks ago, where I heard this guy say that you should never let your ambitions exceed your work ethic. And I could say with complete honesty, that I haven't talked to too many athletes this year who had a work ethic, like 2018 Muscle Man Pro Champ, Charles Griffin. Less than two months out from making his first trip to the Olympia stage, the third year pro looks like he's a man on a mission. Over the weekend, we saw a team Griffin released a clip from a shoulder session where we saw some of the craziest next level density you're going to see on this side of the Mediterranean. Up to this point in his career, Griffin has been one of those guys who makes explosive leaps up to latter almost every time we see him. But when you look at the landscape, and this year's Olympia lineup, we'll see if he's got enough firepower to make his way up into the top ten with the elite talent in the sport. The horror-c-e-o and motivational speaker, Andy Forsella, some people like to talk about it. But very few people out there actually want to be about it. And I don't think you have to be a genius to figure out which of these camps really winkler falls into. Now that we're finally starting to creep past the halfway point for Olympia prep season, I think it's time we start paying attention to raining and defending Arnold Orstrelia champ, really winkler, who's probably put together the best eight to ten months stretch of his career recently. True to form, Ruley's been relatively quiet over the last few weeks. But in the few red crumbs that we've seen sprinkled out, the bee seems like he's still lurking out there, hungry as ever. A 100% wooly winkler is one of the scariest body those on the planet as far as on concern. And I don't think anyone would be the least bit shocked. The ended up bringing home a top three finish when the Olympia is all set and done. I don't know how many of you guys out there are football fans, but usually when you hear about in the lead athlete in a high-demand sport, tearing an ACL, the way Carson Wentz did last year for the Eagles, you're looking at a nine to 12 month recovery. That's why it's almost hard to fathom when I see 2018 fitness international champ, Whitney Jones doing right now four months post surgery. Over the weekend, Jones released a clip from one of her recent training sessions that makes me question everything I thought I knew about the human body. By all accounts, not only is Jones blowing away any and all recovery projections that I've ever seen, but I think she's probably also the front runner for the fitness Olympia crown now, which makes this whole thing even more incredible. I've been on record as saying that these fitness girls are by far the best overall athletes in the entire industry. But if Whitney Jones can somehow come back and actually pull off the win, somebody should call up Netflix and let them know that we've got their next documentary lined up right here. At this point, life, I honestly don't think I can remember a whole lot about what I was thinking or doing when I was 23. But I promised it wasn't anything even remotely close, what I've seen lately from classic physique prodigy, Keon Williams. Less than two months away from his rookie debut at the Tampa Pro, Pearson has really started to generate some buzz on social media from some of these updates. Last year's Junior USA champ looks like he's ready to come smoking out of the gates down there in Tampa, where I've heard some people mention his name as a potential winner, which sounds a whole lot like what I heard a few years ago when we were all waiting for Terrence Ruffin to make his classic physiogave you right down there on that same stage. Whether or not this kid is ready to be as good as advertised is still anyone's guess at this point. But if the hike turns out to be real, man does that make the future of this classic physique division start to be really interesting. And that does if yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day to day, Palombo remind you to always be sure to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Thanks for watching.

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-gulling days, I believe in only putting the best in my body. And that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Botter 30-year-to-year-to-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car of cocktail. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. When you're asleep, they're just getting started. John, Dave, Pulando, after hours. Welcome back guys to After-Allers. Oh, I've got to take my mask off. Oh, we're in a safe, we're in a safe there. I don't need my mask. I'm Dave Pulando and I'm joined as always by John Romano. John, do you have a mask on? Oh, that's a better mask than mine. Oh, I can't hear you though. But I got to tell you, this is a high-teen. I don't want to get COVID-19, so I'm going to ask. The Tyler's back. We quarantined for two weeks, but we don't make a mask. But I didn't make a wear mask. I got an RX. I got another RX, Muslim ass. Kind senior made these great masks. The reason I like them, John, if you're going to wear a mask, because you know, some planes you can't go into certain stores without them. They have like an adjustable ear thing. So if you have like a big head like I do, you can kind of make your, you're more slack here. If you have a small head, you can kind of show it up a little bit and make a little smaller here. So thank you, Hind Senior, to these. That was pretty cool. I don't wear a mask. I refuse to wear a freaking mask. I have a worn one yet. Yeah. That's all right. But you know, in certain stores, they make you. But then I don't go to them. They don't, somebody else gets my money. I got my pop, Tarty, my legendary foods. Tasty pasties. We'll not happen to you, those. I gotta get the same, you send me a love these. They're great. Keep saying that. I know. I forget. But you know, Bruce, but I gotta get, I'll just tell Bruce to send him to you. Or to see him. I have a slight rant to do before we get started. I was, I, I, I, I, I don't know what happened. But as I'm getting old, I'm falling apart. I feel like my dad saved us. But I've been grinding my teeth at night. And I've been chipping my teeth off. And I, I cracked an old feeling. They just had to put a, a $2,000 or maybe $2,500 cap on it. You know, a new porcelain, you know, thing. And I've been noticing the front teeth have been getting little chips at him too. And he said, it's because I'm grinding my teeth. So I said, you know what, fine. He's like, I'll make him. Now, if guard, you put it in a night protection tube. Now, I've been wearing my old bleaching trays recently. To protect my teeth while they're making this mouth guard. So they, they make it basically bite into this like crazy weird, you know, substance polymer that then molds your, your teeth. And then they send it out to the lab, the lab sends them back to this little thing. So I, no, I don't have any time to go to the dentist John. So I got to go for a special point when they mold my teeth. Then two weeks later, I got to go back. Okay. And I, and I get up at like, said, I got to go for the first point because I got to work, right? So I get up on three hours sleep by going. They try to fit it in the same thing and they're doing this. They can't get into my mouth. They said, you know what, it's not fitting where I do. It goes, I'm calling the lab. I, this is, you know, this is too important. We obviously want a good fit. I said, yeah, especially since it's some pay $550 for this thing. So I come two weeks later, it goes by. They call me up there like, come in. We got the new mouth guard. Fine. Third visit now. I go into this morning also. I was, I was like, you know what, let me just call in. I'll get in another time. I'm so tired. I'm going to spend two late last night, three hours get up. I'm like, screw it. Let me just go get it. I drive there. It takes like a half hour to get there. I get in there. The tech is like, the first of the yelling at me because I'm a minute late, you know. I'm like, there's no one here. I'm like, what am I going to do with Stictus Mavgarde my mouth and I'm adding here? So I go in there. The girls try to put it in. I know, it's not fitting. I can tell us if she's panicking. She's like, I'll be right back. So she goes and gets the dentist. He comes in and he's like, oh. Like, it's my new thing. My son Logan calls me all the time now. I'm going to give you a face time information so that he can call you. All right, cool. Yeah. Logan, I am doing a TV show. You're on the air. Call John, call John Romano. All right. Hi. Hi. We're doing a show. Can you say hi to John? Hi, John. What's up, Logan? I'm going to give you John's phone number. But you could call him anytime you want. He said, you even early in the morning. Okay? I'll talk to you later. I big boy, I love you. He'll call back six under time. So I get, so the dentist is like, you know, he's pulling one of these, he's like, he's looking at some fine work of art, you know? He's like, hmm, trying to put it in. It's not even fitting. It's almost like you would put this in my son's mouth. That's how it doesn't fit. So he's looking at mold. He's like, well, I think we have a problem. Yeah. All right. I said, well, yeah, I kind of surmise that when the tech had to come get you to put the thing in my mouth. He's like, I don't know what's COVID and you know, cut backs and furloughs. It just seems as though, you know, this lab is just not, they've been dropping the ball lately. I'm like, don't you send them all there? I mean, what's so hard about making a mold? He's like, well, we're going to have to read, we're going to have to read, we're going to have to read and read, we're going to have to read through your teeth again. You know, making a new mold. I said, you already got the mold. I have to lab screwed it up. It's because they took the right mold and they didn't do the right thing with it. Well, what do you do it again? Which now I'm starting to think it's his fault. You know what I mean? Like, did to the more on his take in the mold, the tech is not getting right. All right. What? There's something in that stuff that they put in there that instantly triggers your gag reflex. Yeah. I have a big mouth, but it doesn't bite me. But by point it, so now I'm saying, I said, you know, I'm not happy. I got to tell you, I'm not happy. He's like, I said, this should be, if the lab is screwing up this many times, I'm losing days of work. I'm losing sleep. I should be financially compensated in some way by this lab. You know, not answering my question, of course. Well, we can remold you, but so I'm thinking of myself. If I sent out protein-powered, so when it had no flavoring system in it, right? Because I forgot to put it in. And I did it three times. Okay, and the people called me up and said, hey, you know, what's going on with your protein? Yeah, no, there's no flavoring. And I'm like, I'd be mortified. I'd say you know what I'm gonna send you a case for free. Now, I did a rant on it on my Instagram, John, and someone who was a dental-like tech guy said that these mouth guards, that I'm being charged $5,000 or $50 for, cost like $30 to make. But it's a lab. So you would think the dentist would be embarrassed enough to say, you know what? The lab is not gonna charge me now, because they obviously fucked up 30 times. I'm not gonna charge this guy. He comes in four times a year for cleanings. He just spent $1,500 or $2,000 or $2,000 whatever it was on a crown, you know, nothing. I got nothing. No accommodation whatsoever. I got a hands like this. That's typical of our society today, though. Don't you say, people just don't give a shit about their work. It does, they don't hate pride anymore. When I had mine done years ago, they took the mold. Yeah. And then the mold came back with the mouth guard on it. That's what it's supposed to do, yeah. So I mean, there's no two ways about it. If fit that, it's gonna fly. I think they sent the wrong, I think they sent the wrong, sent them a mold. That way. That's what happened. They mixed it up with somebody's. But twice. Twice. Come on. Twice. They weren't in charge of which baby to let go of. Yeah, exactly. But if I look, I breed snakes, you know. I send snakes out. I sell a lot of snakes on work. And you know what? I'm a freaking, because I only sleep throughout, I make mistakes. I've sent out the wrong snake to people before. And I feel terrible about it. And you know what? I always over, I either give them the snake for free if it's expensive. I'll say, just put it back in the box, send it back. And I'm gonna send you something. I'm gonna send you two snakes, okay? So free your time. I'm gonna be able to snake. Reptiles, you know, Reptiles believe it and I shift very well. They don't need a lot of oxygen. You put them in a snake bag. You put it in a bag and like a styrofoam box and slate a box in the winter. You put a heat pack in there. In the summer, you could put a cool pack or sometimes you don't even need anything. And you shift them. You know, it's good. If you're at the over that. But, he doesn't up your ass over that. No, that's, I guess it's acceptable. There's a certain way to do it. You have to sort of live or... So you go to a post office with a freaking box with a snake in it. Fettax, yeah, Fettax, they know me. They know me. Yeah, you gotta drop it at the hub. You know, there's a certain fettax has a certain animal carrier policy. I just can't send, you've been a misnakes, or even like that. But, you have to list what's on there. There's a freaking live snake in the tube. Yeah, I walk into fettax to like, oh, we, they know, they know it and what comes in for me. They must, they're all yentas in that and that fettax location and cape and, you guys hear me? Speak your snakes. Hey. I was gonna say, you should mail your fucking dentist to snake. They, oh, you heard my story, yeah. So it's on, you can't do that. Yeah. Send him a fucking squirrel snake. Did you see this new video that this new documentary coming out called Rore? No, it's Tyler, see if you can pull this thing up. It's called Rore. The guy, the director of the exorcist, I can't remember the guy's name. He was married to, what's the girl's name was in the birds, the movie The Hitchcock, movie The Birds. Pippie, what was her name? Not you have a Jason Lee, with the, uh, you know, I'm talking about the blind, the Hitchcock, he was in love with her. The Hitchcock. They, they want? She was in all his movies. Yeah, you know, this actress, she was married to this guy who was the director of the exorcist. And Melanie Griffith was their daughter. You knew that, right? My Melanie Griffith, and they grew up in this house of lions. The guy decided, they got all these cubs, lion cubs, and they were living with the lions. So they started filming a documentary about it. They built up a, they had like 150 lions and tigers and all kinds of cray. And they were, they weren't like training the lion, they were just wild. People were getting mold, the videographer, got scout, they, they said it was a miracle. No one died making this film, but it must have been made back in the 70s and never got released. So yeah, it was made 81. It was, I don't know if it was released or if they just released or something like that, it's an insane movie that the trailer is, is, is, is nutty. I mean, these lions are just running after this guy and like he's like, and that there's no, this absolute chaos on this set. Everyone was petrified, you never knew what was gonna happen, you know. 50 untamed lions and tigers. Yeah. That's a shit. Did you see that documentary that guy that was with the bears up in the last day? Now. Right. Well, and he got eaten. And he did. He got eaten on film. We had a whole recording. The worst part is, the worst part is, his EA produce girlfriend with him who had a deathly fucking fear at us. Oh, my God. And she got eaten too. You guys stay with me just do? Oh, she got eaten too. Yeah. Well, on the movie, I mean, it was the whole family. And now like I said Melanie Griffith, who's the famous actress obviously, American John Johnson for a while, but she was, she got hurt in the movie. She got molded by one of these things too. When she was a kid, she was a kid. That would have been, they would have protected the services would have been all over this. If this had happened in these days, you know. Back then, you could do whatever you want and no one gave a crap. But they actually got, had rotted up by the neighbor and they had a move. They moved to the, they were living in trailers. These were like Hollywood people living in trailers at an animal park that they dealt with. Like on this open land reserve. It was such a 90 story. It's, it's absolutely insane. You would have protestors outside the house. Oh, yeah. It was an old ad shit. But they filmed this. It was all like, it's like, it's not made up. There's no acting. And there was one, I don't know, you know, today's side of the race is, but they had one black eye in the movie. He was this African guy. From, literally, grew up in Africa. He was, I think it was an actor. And he was petrified. He was petrified of the tigers in life. So he was like, and they're like, what do you think about all the lions in here? And he's like, he goes, you know, I'm from Africa. He goes, in Africa, the lions are in the jungle. We're not in the jungle with the lions. He goes, we don't touch the, we don't hug the lions in Africa. He says, but he had to be a murderer. That's the same premises that Nucklehead with the fucking bears, only. That's, they don't, they've got it. He said it was a miracle, no one, he said it was a miracle, no one got killed on the Saturday. There was a couple of clothes calls, but there was a mirror. Everyone had stitches and scars. And he said if a good day on the Saturday, no one went to the hospital at the end of the day. What's the name of it? What's the name of it? R-O-A-R. We can watch your smile. I'm sorry. Is it on YouTube? I'm trying video, you can write it for $3. I remember three bucks on Amazon Prime. John, John, that guy tread, will brought his fucking girl who is dead scared. Dead scared to those pairs. She's like, I don't want to do this. And he, and they recorded him, get neat and. Really? He had a big front in pan. He was beaten him on the, like this. When the member director, he was listening to it in the head phone, I can't help but I was there. And he goes, who must get along? This is what he says. You must never listen to this. Yeah. Yeah. That's how freaking gory it was. You hear the screaming and dying. How come they didn't say, John, how come no one went in there to try to help? He was alone. Oh, wow. You know, Alaska. It was in Alaska. It was in Kodiak Island. Oh, he didn't have a film crew with him as well. So no, no. Nobody did himself with me. He wanted to live amongst them. And he walked around with the cameras. He was tread well. Yeah. He walked around with a camera, filmed the fucking, and those bands are there. They're so big. They're like, Well, first of all, they're wild. They're not domesticated. They thought he raised them from clubs. These are wild bears. Yeah, he was cool with all of them, except this one mean one. Right. That's the one that ate him. He only need one bad scene. That's all. Good. He would talk to the bears like they were dogs. He, he little bear. You know, like that. And they'd be looking at him like, what the fuck you. Yeah, they'd probably, he didn't know there was a Jimmy the bull bear there. They killed the bear. And then they go and they take it and cut them open. And the guy that the doctor says, I was talking to these two people yesterday and today they come back and garbagebed. Ah. He's in the body, do it, David. And no, they weren't no polar bears. They were fucking giant. Great. Black. Oh, really. Where's the bears? Yeah, brown. Wow. Giant, grizzly bears. Big ass bears. You know, people do stuff. People do stuff with stuff like that. Almost deserve to get killed. Thank you. Like, Flippest you that guy, Alex Hinald, who climbed El Capitan with no rope. I think he fell, right? Oh, we lived four hours. He went with no, they did a documentary on it. Was fucking insane. What, yeah, I saw that one. You said to me, you said to me the legs. I said, yes, fell. No, he climbed, he climbed the in four hours. Crazy. That's right. Climb, squat with no rope, no protection, no nothing. Just a chalk bag. And he did it. Phil Kro said they were petrified the whole time. The whole time they thought it was going to die. That's 3000 feet. Oh, no. They thought he was going to die. They didn't think he was going to make it. Yeah. What about the Asian guy that climbed up that fucking, that would do all that stuff. And he would hold one of the entertaining videos. And he died. He let go of it. Yeah, that was the Osmond. Donni Osmond. His Danny Osmond. His legs. All it takes is one slip. You can be the greatest climber of all time. But all you have is one misstep. I mean, you're done. They can't see the guy. He's a brain scan. And they said that he was missing something in his brain. Yeah, it's called fear. Johnny's that. Yeah. But there was a scapegoat. But there was an orgasm, an organic thing that could pinpoint to that. He basically needed that fear to stimulate his brain. Oh, that's ridiculous. It must have been the same thing that that guy in the living with the bears had. Because there's people out there that are just fearless out there. Because when you see people like, you know, you've seen the tire king that movie, right? That's different. Those tires were raised from kittens, you know, essentially. Yeah, they're still dangerous. They'll get me wrong. But they weren't like living with wild animals there. So it was a big difference. Well, sir, a lot of those circuses, fucking animals, they were raised. We got something on the screen there. I don't know. We got to get from Zermok. Get the kids. You guys see me? Hey, Carl. I see you. Hey, Carl. Hey, Carl. Hey, Carl. All right. I got Carl here today because I wanted to talk about a lot of body balls, you know, complaining to me that they don't know how to make food. And I catch all these body balls, guys. And Greg, you know, you made your own food for you. Johnny made your own food. They cooked with like the print. They'll spray half the can of Pam in the pan. And then they don't know why they can't lose weight. They just don't know how to cook. And I'm going to say this. And I'm going to buy a fake flat from the women, a worse cook than worse than them. They don't add a cook worse than them. You would think back when our parents were young, the women all cooked, they'd all cook. And they knew how to cook. That was something they learned from their mothers. Nowadays, women only not call it order out food. I think men cook more than the women do nowadays. And they don't have to do basic shit. I got three messages, DMs from a guy in one week. Guys asked me, how do you make rice? Rice? No, it's true. It's true. Because you don't know that you got to freaking wash the rice first. You know, it's so simple. My father used to boil an egg in a frying pan. He just took it like fucking this much water, drooled in it. That's it. That's that. I tell people to poach their food when they're trying to make chicken and everything like that. Crazy. So anyway, I got Carlos here because Carlos is going to help us with some recipes. Carlos, if you're giving aside from people ordering the chicken from you, which is probably the easiest thing to do it, by the way, I love you chicken. You sent me so much of it. I'm still eating it. I think that was about to send you some more. Yeah, yeah, I love it. Because I'll tell you why. You know what I did? I usually put it in a pan and I get all fancy with it. But the other day I was starving and I just had time. I literally threw a pack in the microwave and I thought I was going to taste disgusting. It was absolutely, it tasted like you just made it. It was delicious. It didn't have any like any of that, like, you know, weird smell or anything like that. It was, it was perfect. Right out of the microwave oven. That's all I did. It was put in there for two minutes, not even. I mean, yeah. The way it's packaged the vacuum shield and frozen the whole process. Like it's impossible for it to like go bad quickly. It tastes perfect. You have it seasoned absolutely perfectly. It's amazing. Thank you. Thank you. And so chicken pound.com. So guys, check it out. You can buy your chicken by the pound and it's already flavored and seasoned and cooked. It's just frozen. That's it. Not pound chicken.com. It's chicken pound. It's chicken pound. It's so great to have those done in the freezer that like you just said, Dave, you're a fucking different time throwing a microwave boom. It's an easy way to eat. The keeps you're from eating terrible shit. Which is the flavor you can do while dieting, call it. Which is the ones that don't have any sugar. Yeah, cilantro, balsamic, lemon herb and then we have a plain and then for the real hardcore guys, we have a pre-contest plain. So anybody who's got, that's chicken, no spray, no salt, no pepper, nothing. I like some seasoning. You can eat seasoning when you're dieting. You just don't want the extra sugar. Yeah, but there's those nutty people who I was like, when I first started body building, I was one of those guys. I'd rinse my tuna fish on the water. Yeah. I was one of those guys. Oh, you still got a few of those people there. I knew this girl. I'm not going to say who I'm going to name this. She would boil the chicken. Then after she boiled the chicken, I don't even know what she was patting dry. Just probably the water out of it. She would literally boil it for hours. Then she would pat a dry with paper towels. There was probably negative fat in the chicken. She wouldn't put a single ounce of salt, pepper, no seasoning, nothing. I don't know how you eat this stuff. It's like chill out. And she was never misalmpier. No, but she did really help her when I caught that. That's the national level. When you boil the chicken like that for a long time, it gets so dry. Oh, 180. It's like chill out. I got to tell you, years ago, I used to get grossed out when I was a child. I don't eat chicken soup. I used to watch, I was like four years old. I used to watch my mom cut up this chicken with the skin on it and all this stuff. And she wrote it in a pot. And then when he came out, he ripped it apart and he picked it and he ate it. I was like, I'm not eating that. We'll chicken altogether. There was probably delicious, too. I want to eat it. Oh, it smelled amazing. And still his day, the smell of her chicken soup was amazing. But to this day, I can't eat it. It's boiled chicken. There's nothing like your good chicken. It's like homemade chicken noodle soup. That's like the best. You wish kind of sullen. That's right. Yeah. That's right. That's right. Now, it's called, if you're advising people, I'm going to ask all three of you guys for your own recipes. What's the two easiest recipes to prepare? You the chicken fish are meat. If you had to give some, I guess, and then I'll do John, you can do carbs for us. What would you say, Carlo, is the main, the easiest way to do prepare these things. For people who are on a pre-contest diet, want to make large volumes of food and make it tasty, but also make it healthy. Sure. I'll give you a marinade. I think marinating is going to make it easier for everybody to eat it and you can create different marinades without actually sacrificing on your diet. And explain what a marinade is because a lot of people like who are under 25 years old probably have no idea what you're talking about. Okay. But marinating is a preparation of ingredients that will season your food. You actually take your food and you let it sit in this marinade and this preparation okay, for years, there are a period of a couple of hours or overnight depending on what you're marinating. So, a little of thumb for us is when we're using a citrus marinade okay, for me period okay, in my companies we do the same thing. When we're using anything citrus or acidy like balsamic or cilantro, cilantro, apple like the lime juice or lemon juice or balsamic binners, anything like that, we don't marinate it from more than two hours. If you marinate it overnight, the acid can really start to tear apart the meat so it'll affect the meat. And if you're timer right, you might get it tender. But if you don't timer right, let it sit too long and then you'll overcook the meat, it's going to be too hard. So our rule of thumb is two hours on a marinade when it comes to the acid with the acids. Again, balsamic vinegar, cilantro, lime, lime, and lemon juice. So you prepare your marinade. I'll give you two quick recipes. One balsamic and one lemon herb or cilantro lime, all you have to do is change the lime juice with lemon juice and you'll get the same result. So what I would do is I would take a cup and a half of balsamic vinegar. I would take two to three tablespoons of either, I like extra virgin olive oil and then my next favorite is your mac oil date. Okay. And then I would take about a teaspoon or two of salt, a half a teaspoon of black pepper. I would take basil, use about a tablespoon of chopped basil, about a pinch or two of dry oregano. Okay. I would mix that up with a whisk. Let it simmer for a little bit. Let it get cold and then you take your meat, you're chicken breasts, you can take your steaks, you can also marinate your fish with that. Okay. If you like a balsamic oil to that, who is it? Is it very, very small now? It's going to, it's such a minute of mouth. Okay. Because you're not placing it on the meat, the protein and then eating it. You're just marinating it. So, it would absorb a little bit, but it's not going to absorb a lot. It's mostly going to absorb the acid, which is the balsamic vinegar in this case. Right? So, you can do that. On the other side with the lemon herb or a cilantro line, you can take two cups of either lime juice or cilantro. I'm sorry, I keep saying cilantro. It's lime juice or lemon juice. Okay. Or you can squeeze fresh lemons. If you squeeze fresh lemons, you want to use two lemons and use about a half a cup of water. Okay. That ratio is going to create enough marinade that you need. Okay. So, let's add some salt to taste. Black pepper to taste. Parsley to taste. Okay. Or cilantro. If you're doing the lemon herb, you want to do. He is your herbs for lemon. Let me break it down this way. So, let's do sea salt, black pepper, parsley, and oregano for your lemon herb. Okay. You can throw a little extra hot pepper flakes in there. If you like a spice to it, it doesn't affect the calories. You can add a tablespoon. Here's what I do. A tablespoon for every cup of fluid of oil. So whether it's mac oil or extra virgin olive oil, one tablespoon for every cup of fluid. So if you're going to squeeze one lemon into two lemons into half a cup, squeeze four lemons into one cup, add a tablespoon of oil. And then you're going to throw the pepper in the rest of your herbs, whisk it together, let it sit two hours. And then you're done. We eat our fish or chicken in the actual marinade. You put them in the actual marinade, yes. Okay. You put them in the actual marinade and you let it soak for a couple of hours. Okay. And that would be all. You do the same thing with the cilantro. So with the cilantro, you want to take four lines, two cups of water, sea salt, black pepper instead of parsley and oregano. You want to use cilantro. Use enough cilantro to give it a really good taste. So I would go it about four tablespoons of cilantro. And then you can also, if you're a big garlic enthusiast, either one of those. And the balsamic for that. I get kicked out of my house about use garlic. I'm not a lot of news garlic. No garlic. I don't get thrown out. I don't go crazy with the garlic. Just too much. I sweat it out my pores, though. Hey, Mr. Easy. All right, now so now, Carl, how do you cook it? What are you, what are you put it on? You put on a grill and a pan. Yeah, grill, broil or bake. Okay, my preference is only going to be grilling if you can. If you can't, next best is broil, right? Right. Turn your grill around. If you're going to do a whole chicken breast, assuming that the chicken breast is about a half inch to an inch thick, okay. You'll cook that in about seven to eight minutes. The way I do it in a broil or grill is I go about four minutes on one side. Three minutes on the other. I test 165 degrees of Paul Trin about 145, 150 for fish if you like it on a medium well side, okay. And that's really all. Now, if you want, you take some of that marinade and before you put any of your proteins in there, set it aside and then you can use that as a topping. Okay. So if you want that extra flavor and you're not real strict with your diet and your contest isn't coming up, you can use that as a topping later on. But don't put your meat in there and then use it as a topping that recipe would poison. Love it. John, what's your give me some of your recipes for do you agree with what he said? Absolutely. Yeah. One thing about any meat that people screw up is they overcook it. It's the worst thing that you can do because I mean, I mean, things like fish and beef, you can eat that raw. Right. Well, I mean, the amount of John. Actually, I've been doing this for so long. I just can tell you can take the bite up. I just go by. One thing about chicken breasts, which you guys should all do is the chicken breasts come like this thick and what happened, one of the reasons why you overcook them is because you're cooked by the time the inside cooks, the outside is, you know, well, the overcook. So what I do is I butter flying. You'll let it, you'll let it breast down to take a sharp knife on the side and you go, like that and you flop it open, then you got like two halves. Now those are going to be like three quarters of an inch thick probably and then you can cook those in a frying pan with a little spray salt. You don't have them. No, you can, you don't have to. So that doesn't make a tender. If you pound it. It does, it does, but I mean, but it also makes it really thin and big. I pound them. You know, you know, Greg pounds, you know, chicken. I pound my, you know, you know, you know, that's, that's not making it. How are you waiting for that? Pat, how do you know, pounding it will make it definitely better, but it's a big process. So if you guys are actually going to do this, exactly, just butter flying, I like to do things like really the marinades are a great idea. Those are always work good. I, I just pretty much just use a dry rub, seasoning, either a Greek seasoning or that I like a lot or salt and pepper to me is right. You got to watch out that some of those seasoning, then pre mix once do have some carbs sugar in them. See, you got to watch out that they don't. Yeah, I mean, look, look, this is not pre-contest and I don't believe in this exact you know, you got to like eliminate all fat. You got to have it. We are not building a fucking space shuttle, okay? This, you got to eat, you got to enjoy your meal, you got to live if you're not dieting for a contest, you do not. But I, right, but I'm talking about for people who are dieting for contest, how not to get we don't want to get hidden hidden calories in there. If you're dieting for a contest, you should be using, you should be using salt, pepper, and garlic and that's it, man, a little bit olive oil. You should not use anything else. This is natural, it's pretty good too. I like to mix that into sometimes. Mrs. Dash, you can use that stuff. I just keep it simple. The furious chemicals is possible. So, salt and pepper, he's a little, you know, olive oil is flavored, spray in a nonstick pan, heat the pan up, spray it, throw those down, you have to cook and probably two, three minutes aside and they're done. The big thing is not to overcook them. You slice one of those open to test that it should just be turned in from, you know, that beige to white. Right. As soon as it does that stop because it's going to keep cooking after you take it off off the stove, especially the coverage. So, if it's, you take it off a little under cook, that's fine, and we'll finish cooking on the side. And then the difference between a dried out overcooked chicken breast and one that is cooked correctly, that's why you only need salt and pepper. Because it tastes fucking amazing. You haven't dried it out. It's juicy and that's, you know, one of the benefits of knowing how to do that. And a good quality piece of meat, too, right, John? Like, that's the most important thing. Guys are going to the supermarket, please get it all the time. People are reaching out, you know, they see our stuff, fun, Instagram, and all you're selling chicken for 10 bucks a pound, and I can get it for $1.49, but they don't realize these birds are coming in their gigantic. Right. And each breast weighs half pound. Happy breast. Did you see that one? The black dude held up like this, and it's got, it the breast was like this big, and then the legs were like this big. To like, you know, it's just, hey, the thing about how tough that meat is when you try to eat it. Most black dude like big legs in front of you. That he wouldn't eat the chicken, so I ain't just miss. Listen, because of that, they're the correct one. Call us those old, you guys do all the prep and all that stuff. That takes a lot of time to do all that stuff. It's worth it to have like getting from you. You get the best stuff that's already made, put it in by time you take it, and I want to have just, it's just make something to out. No, no, no, no, no, no. That's a really good point, Mr. G and Carlo, you'll agree with this. It's not, no, it's not the recipe. It's the technique. If you have, if you know the basic technique, if you understand, you put the olive oil in the pan, you throw the garlic in there, you're right there. That's the basis for like 500 things that you can make. You know, you're not like talking. You're not talking. One little tweak here and air comes down to personal preference. And once you start to understand the article game, it's very, very simple to make. One little tweak, and it takes like a completely different recipe. So it's a key ingredient and technique, John. I think people can't, John, I think people also can't be afraid to make mistakes with cooking. Cooking is also a lot of instinct. I think Jimmy, we, I don't know what Jimmy is, but he has all his stereotypes. Calient have like instincts for cooking. I don't know where we get it from, but I just know what to do. And I don't even know why I know what to do. But I know what to do. Eight, two, one, two, eight. I know what Jimmy is. Well, I know what Jimmy is. Oh, Jimmy! Jimmy! You guys are together? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. Jimmy, come here. He can't use his phone. Come here. Here it is. I almost believe him for a second. Oh, he is there. Holy, Max. You got a shovel too. He's picking up dog shit. Who's dog shit is he picking up? I just had an argument with the neighbor. Oh, he's just, I think the door should be. I think the door should be thrown over the fence. I know what I'm just, I don't know what I'm just doing. Because he's got dogs. So I think he ain't gonna notice if I throw the dog shit over there. You know what I'm saying? Why do you have a dog? Yeah, I do. I throw over the fence. But Jimmy, you don't have a dog, do you? Yeah. Well, I got joy custody of Bella. You know, she comes over every couple of weeks. Yeah, Bella. Bella. Can I tell her? Can I tell her? Yeah. I'll see you take all that. You take your dog shit and throwing your neighbors. Yeah, Bella, his bell. Bella, Bella, Bella, Bella, Bella. Bella, Bella, Bella, Bella. Look at him. Jimmy, let me ask you a question. Jimmy. Yeah. If your neighbor threw his dog shit in your yard, what would you do? I make a meeting. Well, that's not where it ends. So what happens is, you know, he's got like a, he's got a white BBC, you know, six foot feet. I can't see over the fence. So I know he's got dogs. I just shove over the dog shit here with my nice long fucking spade shove. Yeah. And I'll watch it over the fence. So I think he's got dogs. He's got shit over it. Two egg and door, different, right? Yeah. So now you'll see your pops is head up over the fence. Yo, he was your dog shit. So my mommy's cute stuff. Don't you fucking dog shit. Oh, my, look at the dice. I was like, don't you know, my mommy's cute. And my wife just hung the clothes out. I got clothes on the clothes. I just shits it my clothes. I'm sorry. I take it easy. I need to talk shit on my own. I said it was the one. I was the one. I thought it was the one. It's not. Got to be. So I had to come to guide that as well. Just food now. I'm like, all right. I'm sorry. I got a fucking dog shit landed in the guys under way. I'm not wearing the fucking lying. And the dog shit went right in there. Right? Let me ask you a simple question, Jimmy. Well, how hard would it have been to shovel the shit into a little bag and tie it up? I don't. What's up? Hey, look, this is a show where he's going. Look. Hey, check this out. This is where you. What are you actually doing over this house, Mr. G? I, well, I had to come to the long end. I, I, I, I lost my, my credit card. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, my back here. I got my little money. So I'm gonna be loaded here. Hey, he's a guys loaded. Look at this. Can't see. Oh my god. This is a little. See, I'm not gonna be back. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. I'll repeat my question, Jimmy. I really spoke in head about what a friend to go to. I didn't put the dogs in, man. I just went, what was the problem? He goes to dogs instead of my mom and go, you're ticked my clothes. Stop with the dogs, Jimmy. I said, I think I'm easy. I didn't know. We had to read Jesus, right? I didn't all have said it with the dogs shit. I'll repeat my original question. What would you do if you saw dogs shit flying over your fence? It to your fucking yard. Throw that. I probably pick it up with my shoulder. I probably will watch it back. You're like, you're probably going to do it with the dog. You're like a good, you're not like a good shit fight. No, you're just shit fight. There you go. You can go over to his house with the shovel and probably not the front door in. And his shovel in his mouth. Yeah. That was here in South Carolina. It was shot. Yeah, probably. Probably would. How easy is he? Then he has to throw the shit over the over the fence. It's more work. It's more work. It's less work. It's a put in it. I know. I know. I'm going to move it that far. This way he's thrown it in freaking 600 feet. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's fucking nuts. My neighbor did that to me. I would fucking burn his house. Now he's, now he's thrown it over to the other neighbor's yard. Oh, right. You know what the promise you had. When you have a neighbor like Jimmy, what do you do? It's like you can't, you can't yell at the guy. The dude. Yeah, arrow in tar and then you're white. And then just send it him over. That's what I would do. And flame in arrows. You're getting flame in fucking arrows, Jimmy. You throw shit on my over my fence. How many fucking ships does that dog take though? You know what I mean? I put the shit on his front door. That's what he should do. You guys, you guys see the dog. This is the dog Bella. Bella. What did I just want to talk about? I just want to talk about it. I want to talk about it. John, he's not a very big piece of property. Did Jimmy rent something there? It looks, it looks rather large. Yeah. Look at the hacky ship. But what he says is, uh, what did he say? Probably Bella. Oh, Bella. Yeah. I'm full. All right. I'm full. I'm full. All right. Mr. G stop talking. I got to go to Greg. Greg, we're talking about recipes. Give me your recipes when you were a bodybuilding. First of all, uh, me, if I was going to do a showback, you know, way back then, I wouldn't even put anything on it. I was like, nuts like that. Are you a person? Right. I'm a purist. Nothing. Now, I wouldn't even have salt on there. Nothing. Wow. I used to do the same type of shit boil it. And that's how I know it gets dry. And then I figured fuck this. I'm going to try microwave and it was even worse because microwave and drives it out even worse. I mean, I'm a basic guy because I don't like, like, garlic or onions. I don't like any of that shit. So for me, believe it or not, if I was going to cook something here, I used, like, say, on, you know, to Spanish, I used to Spanish stuff to sit on or a dobo, the goa. Yeah. I like a dobo too. It's good. You could just do that. A dobo. It's like an all spice. She just told a little bit of that on and it works on everything. And I'm a red meat eater. I like a lot of red meat. Yeah. I used to eat a lot of fish. I don't need fish anymore. Do you grill it? Well, why do you make the red meat? Yes. I grill it. Grills right there. Right. These two seasonings are all you ever need. I can't sit. They're being keyed up by your, uh, you green screen there. That's the reason. I don't know. I used to say, I used to say, I used to do a little bit more than the car. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. Right. But then I used to season with those, she's like, the red is red, you know, and I mean, the pocket. And it really, and it's, I don't know what the hell is in there, but man, it is really good. But what do you do to grill, do you bang on? How do you cook? I grill. I definitely grill. And I do basically same like Carl, I would say, or I grill, you know, I grill or I grill. That's the way to do it. Yeah. Now, with now, would you prepare large amounts of one shot? Did you make each meal in the hallway? No. See, that's the difference with you guys. I can't marinate shit because I want to eat it right to fuck now. I'll send it stuck in hungry. You know what I mean? No. I'm wondering, guys, you know, it's like that. You buy a fucking gown of ice cream. You say I'm going to take a bowl of that shit and you want to be in the whole gown. Yeah. I do the same thing. I can't wait. I can't wait. I can't. Look at George. I'm going to make those cookies. I ate like two of them the first time. I'm like, I got it. You know, I'm going to want to, yeah, it's like, fucking 3000 calories. But I'm. But I can't. I'm like that. I can't prepare food ahead of time. I mean, I can. Like when we have company, you know, but I, if it's for me. Fuck. You're, you're like an addict, man. You just can't. Right. If I, George, if I made a whole fucking pocket chickens, right? Like five breasts. I've won if I swear to God, I would eat the whole five. I, I'd tell you, okay, I got to put these away. I'm going to eat one. Once they won, I still going, you know what, fuck it. Let me eat another one. And before you done, I eat them all. So I don't really like, I can't, like, fuck a cook and wait. Right. But I'm a basic guy. I do not. I got to like, I like peppers and shit. You know, sausage and peppers and chicken and peppers. But that shit of fucking low in my stomach. I burped that shit next week and it'll come up. You know what I mean? So I am a bland eater. No onions. No garlic. I, I can't stand that shit. Right. But we agree for somebody else with somebody's smoke. You know, you know, smoke. So you can, I do that. I pass a car on the road. I can smell the guy smoke and then it's gone. But when you do any garlic or onions with somebody else, he's that shit. The bread is like fucking wretched. You know what I'm saying? I, I stopped doing. I stopped eating. I felt bad for my wife. I was like, you stink. I said, all right, I don't smell it, but I'll take your word for it. Now, I don't know what's in the game. You can stick up a whole room with the bread. You know what? You know, when you walk into gym and it just smells like salami bread. You know what I mean? Like every week. A black man used to smell like garlic from a mile away. Oh my god. The next morning after that wine and garlic, you would be punished. It was like training. It was like spawning in garbage. I don't know. I don't know. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. That's a black ground. What do you got going on it? It's called Zoome. Well, welcome to the 21st century. Yeah. Is that like green screen? No, it's in the, it's in the Zoom program. You can make your own. Yeah. Oh, you're kidding. I do. See Carlos got on it. Yeah. Now, I do a Carlos. I don't, I don't know who you're going to be. Then I've introduced me who's on the show. Oh, Carlos. What Carlos? I'm going to go on Carlos. I'm really kissing my homogress. I get to get you, you did a guess. The pier is for me when I promoted the extravaganza with Bob Bonham, and he has a go. You've been pressed like 1,400 pounds or something like that. I spotted it. I said it on me. So we've zully warm it up. Yeah. It did like 600 pounds revenge bet, revenge reverse bench. I just wanted to get it done for. I'll let that out. You don't get it. Who's I can? I'll never get that out. Hey, Carlos. Oh, we've mentioned, remember the extravaganza you promoted. They bottom held that for years. Who do you think was the most impressive woman left there at those things? There was some really good with tats. It was as you did some crazy stuff over there. Has it the long was crazy? Yeah. You know, little, little Joanna Lee who just passed recently, right? Was it Joanna? Little Joanna Thomas? Yeah. You know, about Nicole Bass. Nicole Bass was crazy. She lifted it. I didn't even know the show. Yeah, Nicole. Joanna Thomas took part and at least one of them because that's where I met her. Right. Look at her. Ray Hollett. Ray Hollett was crazy. She wasn't. He was a vacuum. You still used a lot of weight. Yeah, right in here. Yeah. Here. I mean, they were. Oh, you're not going to see. Can you. Can you. Can you. No one's doing a show here. Can you guys start talking to each other? Sorry. Thank you. What a good show. I didn't get forgot. They weren't a commission. I'm just going to show the bullshit point on. They're always trying to steal the show. Those two. Very dangerous. It's already good. We're so really good. I'm not done. No good. We want to see the shit. I was on the floor. I was on the floor. I was like, oh, finished talking. I think they nailed it with any Revechao and test. Any Revechao, yeah. Crazy. Crazy. Seriously, fuck away. Those girls would sit up. You're fucking colon. Holy shit. You know, I could be wrong, but do you guys remember Denise Koshar? Yeah. Yeah. I think she competed once. And when I saw her, first excuse really, pretty. I was just kind of like holy crap. And then I know I met her through Bob and Kenny Castle and all those guys. And then, you know, that those women were pretty. And you know what Greg, you would know this. You know what, just ran into. Been working at a little bit different, I mean, close local. Kathy Unger. Remember Kathy Unger? Oh, yeah. I remember Kathy Unger. I remember Kathy Unger. I did put a less weaker so she's doing personal training at the studio where I've been working out at. So, way. What? What did she do? I think she was natural. Wasn't she natural? Well, natural. Yeah. You know, who was this, what did a strongest girls I ever saw was Honey Van Aiken? Oh, yes. She was at it. You're right. She used to train with Carlisce. I saw her do be inclined bench presses with three, 15. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Carlisce is, you know, spotting. She didn't even know freaking. Wait, wait a minute. And then she do it on a single outside and smoke a cigarette. I'll tell you what. I spotted Heather Darling bench 500 pounds. Yeah, that's crazy. Heather Darling. Heather Darling. And she's a lawyer on top of her. I'll take. Right? How? Dude, 500 pounds. She said it's on it. She should have done it in competition. She would have been. She's the type guys in the gym. She, you know, they, she tell a guy doing like three, 400 pounds. Can I work in with you? You only do some of the go a little heavier. And then she would get on it. She's fucking bang 500 pounds out. Yeah, no, I've seen it. Yeah. Yeah. You remember that right? Carlisce. I remember I witnessed a lot of it. You know, I mean, I have. I have. Bob ran the tight ships. Oh, I'm so happy. Oh, I'm so happy. And they would come in and, and when are students? He went to swim. He went to swim. And do all of the shoots for women's bodybuilding or the bodybuilding. Yeah. And everybody, who's the one that's in jail for shoot for killing the husband? Sally. Sally McNeil. What a piece of worship. He came in and started yelling and screaming at me because she was lost. And didn't know where she was going. And Bob stripped orders after I was done answer the phone. So she was calling the gym to figure way over there. She comes in and starts blasting me. You know, it's the fucking phone. I'd be trying to call it. You're looking shit and shoot you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's right, though. He's right Bob. We want a crochet. If you left a handle of the cable crossover. He would he would. He would have noticed those cameras all day long, right? If he, I'm humble value it from the jet. So, John Bully stopped the music. John Bully. Put back your weight. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I could tell you me. Well, yeah, who who is there for the rocket today? Dude, I remember I didn't want to say it. I was going to bring it. All right, I'm going to pull the Greg. Can you guys see this or it's going to be interesting here. I didn't throw that shirt. I tried to rock. I got it. No, they could see because you had it in the green. I'm going to put it in the green. I'm going to put it in the green. Sure, right here. Yeah, right here. I can't see it. Now you see it. No, no, because it's not we're not seeing him on the screen. Right, right, you're stuck. Don't hold it up. Make sure you go like this. Yeah. All right. So it's a clear, clear, sweet and I after we worked out. Okay. See if I see you back in 2000. So so he comes in and it was a former wrestler Greg. You probably met Jimmy Powers. You remember him. Yeah, I remember him. He was number on his own. He would. Yeah, he would wrestle a lot with Rocky Johnson who is Duane's dad, right? Greg has to Jimmy and I are to count his number two. And I was John was kidding. So Jimmy, wait to go work out. And it's a Monday night. I'm on the morning. So they're in town. The rest was in town from Monday. I think comes the way. Right. Now at the time I was working at the gym as well. But I wasn't working during this time. I was getting ready to go work out. And so Jimmy and I stand in there when Dwing comes through the turn style. Jimmy recognizes them. They talk in because of course. Jimmy knew him when he was a kid. So he goes in and he's working out. And actually before he goes in he says to me, he goes, you look like you're getting ready for a show. He was always a bodybuilding fan. Always a big bodybuilding fan. So he says to me, he looked like you're getting ready for a show. Yeah, I'm doing junior essay. It's a couple of weeks away. He was what are you training? That's it just been wise. So it looks at me goes, come on. Let's go. So I'm sitting there and I'm going to say, I don't want to say it wasn't a huge fan, but I had a lot of dressing in me. So I knew who he was. I did me 2000. So it's very early on when he's be, I'm getting ready for a show. We get it throughout the 50 times that people wanted to take pictures. The whole workout was basically kind of irritated, but we got it in. We get done with the workout. I'm not the front Dwing's in the locker room. Bob Bonne and walks through the doors. And I said, oh, Bob, I said, you made it on time. The rock is here. So he looks at me. Goes, huh? I said, the rock is here. Oh, good. He owes me $14. I swear to God, I'm my daughter. Okay. So I look at him. My face drops it. Now, he's Jimmy Powers. He's another, he's with me there. Carla, you should have pulled the $14 and pulled it out of your pocket. You should have paid her. Wait a second. Let me finish. He's not to, wait. He's going to give it a bit. The part of the story. It gets better. The $14 is for. And Jimmy looks at me. Goes, is he serious? So outcomes, Dwing at a lock. Yeah. She has hired a bob and thanks him for the workout. And he goes, by the way, don't go any way. You only $14. You know what he knows of the $14 for? Well, tank top. He took a tank top. The last time he was in the gym, he took a tank top to work out and he didn't have any workout gear. So he needed. He wanted the $14 back from the tank top that he took that he wore. Not like he was advertising for the guy or anything like that, right? So he needed $14. So for Dwing, just was like mouth open and he's such a great guy. I think everybody here's met him, right? Of course. Humble guy. He just turned to, I forgot, I was a Steve. He always had a guy with him. Like a big, burly body body that would walk him up in Naniah. Okay. He just turned around and he goes, Steve, can you just do me a favor, please? Can you just take care of this gentleman? Whatever you need, just please make sure he goes. That was it. Now, I don't know whether it's true Greg, you would know better than I. But I heard that for years the WWE guy stayed out of there after that incident. Any proof that I correct? Well, I, yeah, I believe so. But you know what I said to me, I was only kidding with him. I was breaking his balls. He wasn't kidding. No way, Bob. He wasn't kidding. No way. No way. No way. But I've just tell you, Rob was saying to me, you know what I'm saying? He was saying what you did. Bob should have given him 25 shirts to wear. That's great advertising. You know how much it's worth at the rock, rock, rock and around, we're in your fucking shirt. Are you kidding me? It costs a million dollars if you would have Kim Kardashian, make one Instagram post for you. The rock has more followers than Kim Kardashian. Yup. And he's wearing your shirt. Yeah. He would tell the New York Jets would train there and he would tell them, Pupack, you wait. He would stop them. It just hollow, Tayyik. Carlos was there all the time. He would turn off the, I mean, Carlos worked there and, Yeah. And I didn't, I would just be there because Bob, but I would just, he would turn off the fucking music. And he would tell like, jumbo Elliott and guys, you know, wait, one time the New Jersey nets will work in there working out there, right? So the New Jersey, that's at the time they're actually pretty good. They Jason Kennedy team their Coleman, old these good guys, right? And one of them left dumbbells underneath the rack. So he's in his office and I'm at the front desk. His office was behind the front desk. He comes out and he goes, you see that? And I go, what? He goes, look, I'm there there. So I'm like, what? He's like, there's a dumbbell in the rack. So I'm like, I'm not eating see that. He goes, let's see who did it. So he goes back there and it's one of the nets, right? So he goes, make the announcement and tell him to put the weight back on the rack and go, oh, he plays from the net. So I'm not going to do that. I think I was just doing it. I go, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll be right back. I went over and I put the dumbbell back. Yeah, I don't blame you. Yeah, that's a barrier. Follow this guy out. It's crazy. Why was Bob so militant like that, does great? It's just, you know, he lives by principles. And I do that. I was actually filming a TV show once and they stopped it because he was like, okay, listen, we got to close up. Yeah. So we had to wrap it up. I'm just saying, you know, he was just one of those guy. I mean, Carl will tell you, just didn't. He had did bend when he said put the weight back. He meant even the handles of the fucking cable crossover. The way it should be. Or do you do the right one? I don't know. The three people were right. He wasn't all wrong with everything. I got to tell you because there's somebody who trained there for many, many years. He had the most organized gym. Yeah. Part of the art. Very clear. I don't want this to be a strict bashing session. He had with the open. Nobody's bashing. He was up on 30. How many 30 years? Close. 35. Yeah. He was just, I mean, so I mean, just bent alone. You know, they're bashing and we're just talking about the East Coast Mecca. That has, that had the title first. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Well, that was in Jersey. In Jersey. It was East, it was strongly shapedly. And then there was time in. Time in Jersey. Time in Jersey. And it was those two because I grew up in both of those gyms. I was. I was. When I was reading it muscle and fitness flex all the magazines. We're talking about strongly shapedly gym and diamond gym. I was closer to where I was located. Me too. So I actually, I went found it, mapped it out. Okay. So it was about 20-minute ride from my home. And I started training there because the first I remember seeing it in the magazines there was a particular weekend when one of the Murray Mike Madderazzo and Kevin LeBron role. Yeah. So here I am. I'm, I drive out to this gym and I want to start working at it because I want to run into these guys. That was 1991 or 1992. So his gym was a big, big deal. Yeah. And you know what Bob never ever charged me ever to go into that gym ever. Me neither. He always loved me and he never charged a lot of people. He never charged me. He would, you know, he would do anything. He would bend over back. At the end of when I had my own nutrition products. You know, when I first started species he sold my products there. So I have an, I always, you know, Bob's a good friend. I consider. I just, I, I love Bob's militant nature because he didn't care who you could have been the president of the United States and that that was his rules were his rules, you know, that was it. Yeah. I want to say. You know, I'm a special friend. You should be able to. If I put weights away is like the most basic fucking thing in the gym. I don't know where people get this attitude that they should be exempt from putting the weights away. Just put your fucking shit away. It's that. Do I have a business? Go. You have a good at any business? If you, if you, if you, if you, if you lay in all over the pun, I have a profound respect for the way Bob ran his gym and I really mean that like I had a profound respect for the way ran his gym. There was some, there was some incidents of course you heard me tell a story. But from a gym standpoint when you walked in there, somebody who wanted to train the, the most frustrating thing you can do when you're getting ready for a show or you're getting. Deep into a workout is going to grab 50 pound dumbbells and only finding one of that, you know. You never had a worry about that in his clothes. So ever, I learned a lot about how to run a business from him in the couple of years that I worked there. And he was very, very good at that. Maybe a little bit overboard with, hey, Jim's closed for a clock for clock everybody. Yeah, clock, clock everybody's out. And it didn't matter if you were his friend. I don't know if right. Did he ever give you the key to the gym? I don't think he gave anybody the key today. I was, I don't only go to, I mean, I train you sometimes, but I would only go to, because I was a him and then, you know, I would hang out with him afterwards. So when he was close to the gym, we were off to the diner. But the thing is, no, he ran, he ran a very, very, very tight ship. But, but he also, you know, he would help whatever you needed. You know, I'm saying they did a lot of photo shoots that Jim, a lot of commercials that that Jim, you know what I mean? I mean, if he liked you, he really liked you and he took very good care of you. Like you said, Dave, like there were certain people that we knew when they walked in, we could let him go. But I can't tell you, most of the time, I had to pick up the phone and be like, hey, this guy's here and he's got a guess. Yes or no. And there was some noes. There weren't, it wasn't always a bottle of wine. Bob would hold champions day and day every year. Right. If you placed top five in a national show, remember, it was only bodybuilding back then. You could come to he invited you to Champings. If you showed up with another person, like you just drove down there with another person, that person wasn't coming in. The Martinez came, I remember with someone once, he's like, hey, coming in. Yeah. That was it. Those are the rules, you know. When you were in the area and you worked for him, it was a big deal. The work, the show. I'm sorry, the event. It was a big deal when he said, you know, you know, I was like, well, I was just going to do something. I was like, yeah, I'll do it. It was like, oh, it was a big deal. It was great. Hey, Jimmy, did you ever do a workout at Bob's gym? I can't imagine him letting you do the pound of weights in there. Well, I was listening to you talk and, you know, Bob used to call me all the time and invite me to Champings day. Right. He used to go. I used to drive in the Jersey. You know, and I used to do, you know, I think I don't know. I call us might even see me there one year. You know, I would load up, you know, 800 or whatever, you know, do whatever I got to do over there. You know, people looked, you know, who's a lot of fun there. John, I'm fucking laughing at John. What's that? He left because you called him Carlos and it's Carlos. But you know what, Jimmy, you probably, you're very respectful. What's the time? He's like, did you put the weights away, Jimmy? No, I didn't have to say anything. You know, that's a double chin. Yeah, I got to be at half of it. You know, but I can't, you can't better over the years. I started putting shit away. You know, when I was done working out. Do any plates, you know. Jimmy, Jimmy and I got thrown out of it. And it's all. Jimmy, remember the time we got thrown out of the tennis club? The way you're in Washington, remember? Yeah. Yeah. Jimmy Pilecia, the bull, the iron bull in his prime is working out of the gym. Like a nodalist, not even. It's like a, what are those universal machines? There's a shitty gym, right? At a tennis club. And Jimmy's over there freaking doing pull ups on a machine on the thing that You had no pull up bars who's doing it immediately, right? He's going, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, like this. And this fucking guy comes over when a tennis suit. Remember it with the white, with the white, the white, whole tennis outfit and he goes, excuse me, excuse me. But we don't, we don't have that behavior around there. And she goes, what? What? What? What? I can throw it. Yeah, no, you're doing. You remember Jeff King, is that my saying that right? Yeah, Jeff King. Yeah, his wife on the gym and the Pittsburgh, or I don't know where, where was the gym at? I think I'm that sure. No, you're thinking of Kim Kim King in her husband, right? Kim King. Kim and Jeff King. What makes my face? Yeah, it was Jeff King. It wasn't the Jeff King body builder like you're thinking of. It was Kim King in her husband. They were both competitors, yeah. Right. So the gym was, uh, and like, and, um, this fucking guy fucking days, I'm listening to this guy with the cock. Dude, he's got this guy. I can't take it on the show. Jesus Christ. Fuck me. I mean, we had him. I don't know how to hit him. I don't know how to hit him. I don't know how to hit him. Don't talk shit out of him. Come on, don't talk. I did not already, it ain't work. When we asked him to stop. Yeah, go tell him what the fuckers are doing. I don't know. Jimmy, you go do it. I figured I'll let him get beat up. I can let him get beat up. I can't let him get beat up. It's all going to be a story. I think it's a story. I think it's a story. Finish the story. Yeah, so anyway, I was in the gym. I guess it was the woman. I went up on a honeymoon. Yeah. And then I was trained with Dory and Yates and Steve Weinberg was there and everybody. And I walked in. She ran right over to me. I wasn't even through the door. What he says, I know who you are. I know you got a reputation. Of course the gyms object goes up. Tell you right now. I'm watching you. I just walked in. I said, that's me. I'm going to see you in the Bronx. I thought it just wasn't a problem. I'm not going to bust anything up. Because I know you got a reputation. I said, I never hunted my reputation like that. But that's fine. No problem. I figured I was a fry zephy at the time. I walked all in. I started doing a little bit of a back workout. I loaded up the lap. I pulled down. I should fuck it. I loaded the fucking bin in the front. I just thought you were going to fucking fuck it. I was making him run. I was making him run. I was making him run. I was like, I normally do. She came running right over. I'm right over. She goes down. Get out of my shit. Get out of my shit. Get out of my shit. What do I do? She said, you'll be a pull out of my machine. I scream. I'm fucking doing lap. Hold down. I was a whole hundred. What if I didn't know? She said, I want you out of the house. You know what? I just got my shit during the age of the day. It was a little late. I was even there. I said, you're mad at it. The funny thing is she didn't throw you out. I flipped it heavy weight. She threw you out because you were yelling. No, I was doing the lap. Hold down. I was so bad. I had the whole rack on. I was a little annoyed because she attacked me. She didn't like me. She didn't like me. Because I walked in. She, that woman just didn't like me. I was like, I'm not going to do it. I'm going to do it. Can you imagine Jimmy the bull working out of planet fitness? I'm like, get about it. Holy Christ. We have to film that. I went to LA fitness over here with the. He used it for me. I was thinking 10 minutes is fast to get thrown out of that. You would last one and a half. They called a police. They called a police. They called a police. What? They called a police. One day before the pandemic epidemic. What do the fuck were in here? I went to the New York Sports Club. The Jim in the village over here. Yeah. I was at 15 minutes. They got the manager threw me out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a February. Can't me? Yeah. I went down here to do a little work. I went down here. I paid for the day because they were all juppies over there. I started training with the machine and dumbbell. The guy came right away because you got to leave. I said, what are you talking about? He goes, we can't have that here. I said, I'm lifting. Guys, we can't have that here. Yeah. We can't have that here. I'm lifting weights. What do you mean you can't have that? I would have my phone to do it. He'd have fucking shuddy me sandwich. I'm fucking lifting weights on me. I got thrown out. I got thrown out. You know what I'm trying to fact it. Most of all people have told him that. He has to leave me to believe that maybe there was something to what he was doing that wasn't right. Maybe. Just a baby. No, come on Dave. You know what I mean? 35 fucking years. Come on, man. You know what I got on the GM. I just stomach tense when I train. You know what I'm doing? I'll be, you know, I'm going to pull on the same line as the other one. I'll end with this story. On the same line as Bob Bond, I'm corporate, corporate, and I'm going to Jim and he used to run the NBC before Steve Martin. I hated his guts. He had a Jim and a Babylon. That was a, was it a, a world Jim. And I had never met Jimmy. Jimmy came in there one day, carrying a bench, a hamstring bench. Look what the fuck is this guy doing? Like, oh, that's the bull. Pilechia. And I was training with it with Carl Sun, Tony. I said, Tony, what's going on? He goes, I told him if you want to train. Yeah, I have no problem, but he's got to bring his own bench because he's not running our bench isn't here. Because you would buy your bench all the bars. So I think Jimmy got hamstringed to make him a bench for free. I said, my dad and send him a bench. Is that what it was? He did hate cock. Cocker panoramic order. Fuck it's son, Tony, but there's all my boxers. Yeah. I thought you told him about Paul Cardonia. You remember Paul Cardonia? Yeah. I remember the Cardonia. Bob Cardonia is the most amazing. His son's in the WWE now. What is his name? He was in the WWE. Yeah. Tony, companion? No, um, uh, good. Oh, Bob Cardonia. I thought he was son. Bob Cardonia. Hey, Dave, you remember that guy that used to train? Did you want to never go to that Jim over there? Bob Cuts. I got that Jim ultimately. Yeah. You remember that guy that that fucking nutjob. He was like the manager to place. He had fucking, uh, here's the way a wig. Oh, yeah. What was his name? Crazy Labyrinth. What did they call him? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The guy that the guy used to put his wig on. He had, like, you know, you're going to, the boy got a place. He'd get a, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the the the, the canvas put on your boat. The fucking snaps on a, the fucking scope. He used to put the wig on and snap it on. snap it on it was like Larry crazy Larry or something like that right yeah you remember to snap yeah he was like we're going off yeah they used to play soccer and they used to play soccer and they used to play there was friends with him I don't even have to make friends with him but I don't know if he was a in the from Bombardy Billor from England yes personal train plates yeah don't you miss the game what was that guy's name first office what was his name quick Frank Richie so now Larry what was crazy Larry's name crazy Larry it's all we know what's the crazy Larry yeah what's crazy Larry one and Bob Codona sold the first snapals it was the old guy that used to bring the snapals and little six inch bottles of those and that's where snapals this is back in the 80 that guy used to spit like all you talk to me is to yeah yeah yeah yeah there was some rose yeah I'm fucking fucking snaps in his head and the foam kind of matters that dude was literally fucking crazy and he was not that guy I'll tell you one thing though my sister what she was training there for a while she was like he was working out with her and some someone was was talking nasty to her he almost killed the guy he would he defended her so I I can't say anything bad about the guy but he almost you know when he snapped he would go great no pun intended of course when I say snap but when he snapped he would go crazy he was like Bruce you remember Bruce that was that you know you never Bruce crazy Bruce oh yeah Bruce he's the train he Bruce is the train he used to work at the fish market and he would come come with when those those unitarid things that they wear you know like the slots yeah one stuff like like the mechanics where the slots he's been like fish and he he would do squats bench squats will like 30 pounds two bench you know like fish yeah yeah they would they would do behind the next things but like five thousand fists so crazy motherfucker back at it but he was the patient who the uh no you know I remember what they called the whole I the power twins I remember Larry's the air impression you got it wasn't crazy Larry it was Larry's legend Larry the legend wasn't Larry the legend fuck right George Larry the legend that's what his name was yeah how do you know that I just became to me I remember that's what they called him Larry the legend yeah he was he was he he he he was one of those guys at the switcher go he he'd bunch of a wall he was just one of them guys you know he was like the watch dog a that's he he was very loyal to Bob yeah very loyal oh very loyal man that's what I'm saying he was like I thought he owned the gym when I first went in there you know the way he was treating it oh yeah I'm forgetting about it man that guy was it was always there too it was the smallest gym you'd ever seen that that bell more gym it was like it was microscopic I don't even know how he did but it was a beautiful gym it was tiny on peppering ever you yeah that never first personal training office was in there it was it was long and narrow right yeah was it like you walked in it was like long but it was like a nightclub in there right they had like the blue lights and stuff like that yep yep yeah it all hardcore equipment in there I got to say was it never you know can't can't saw he expanded too much he should have kept that gym now got gym was a gold mine wasn't it yeah how there was a really good location it was always busy there he started selling franchise he saw like six gyms he overexcended himself even said it yeah and and when you fridge I wonder what ever happened to Bob God though when the place was eating stuff he pulled me over he really he became a cop but he pulled I knew it was him he's about 15 years ago and he's and he's got the sirens on and I know it's him really he's trying to pull me over and I wouldn't pull over he's like can't watch us down and finally goes over he goes you fucking make me look bad with the fuck he though he did he did he did he did he did he did he did he did he did he did a good job oh they love really he was like a trip like a four trip what to re-black belt so they loved him they used to stand him in to get all the criminals yeah well he was crazy he was completely he was completely he was competing he was competing over sixty you know yeah and all natural he was competing but anyway all right well guys I call a thank you for joining us today of course given us those recipe ideas and I I actually enjoyed today show I'm actually in a good mood so thank you guys for for making that oh chicken by the pound I get it order I try the order in five times I get it order chicken pound dot time correct color the chicken pound dot count right yes all right guys home it this is the COVID right call do you have any a coupon code for arcs muscle is it like 10% off yeah all right so don't forget to put your arcs muscle coupon code and get 10% off tell him rx muscle and after hours that you call you know I'd like you to make like a holiday I think you should make a holiday flavor for the upcoming holidays maybe like a I think pumpkin's like that yeah something like that you got to come up with some kind of like special like season and for like the holidays I'll get on it we have two new flavors coming out soon they have holiday oriented but they're really good yes that's good yeah you gotta have a cookie by George yeah I get one of George what you know what I thought I had a good idea Carlos got a great distribution network Mr. G why don't you have Carlos ship your cookies for you and do your cookies good luck getting the cookie out of Mr. G you get John you're getting candy you get a protein candy okay broke don't hold your breath don't hold your breath okay one time okay subscribe I love you man love you guys all right we got to go we got to wrap this thing up I'm day polon but with the entire whack pack we'll see you next time

哎嚅哨沉只要cent 所以說香港瞭報因為中國性會超過12星以上 legend我是其他的粉絲好!好! welcome back to RX Muscle Supplement and Science! Today we're going to be here with two special guests Am I good friends? John and Sharesas Horace from Titan Medical Center.com and we're going to be talking about immune system and this is a very important subject to obviously given the fact that we are in these COVID times and people are getting sick and you know what? I thought who better to bring in here than someone who has had personal experience unfortunately with this COVID virus, Sharesas you have gone through a hell of a last couple of months you want to first of all welcome guys to the show! Thank you! Thank you for having us! We love to be part of this show! Well, the good thing about what you went through is that I always believe in my life. I always say, why did I have to go through this? Why did this weird thing happen to me? And you know what? I believe things happen for reason. I believe that a lot of things happen in my life because I am been put here to help educate other people and how to navigate their way through some of the things that I have gone through. You guys obviously are in the business of health and wellness and you know, hormone replacement and immune system, fortification and you know who better to be able to advise people and that then someone has actually gone through this whole COVID trauma. You had a horrible experience but you know you've come through it and a lot of it has to do with some of these supplements that you were taken to help you bolster your immune system and get you through this. So I think it's... Thank goodness! Give us the whole... Had you first find out you had COVID? Well, I'll sum it up for you. So you know obviously you know that I work you know like 24 hours a day so rain or shine. She works a half hour and one can I do every day which is 23 to half hours. She works 24. 23 to half. You know so it doesn't matter. I've always pushed through everything. So I started getting sick one day you know it was back in June and I started getting a little sniffles cough you know maybe a little sore throat whatever. Long story short. I'm like I had John I'm not feeling too good. So day by day went by I want to say about a week went by and we did have a couple positive COVID cases come into our clinic when they wanted to get tested. What what what? They can June. Okay. Yep this was in June. So you know they came in and they honestly they got tested. They were positive and you know they wanted to get IV treatment that had glutathione vitamin C and zinc in it. That was like B thing to do to try to boost the immune system. So anyways I wasn't feeling good and I'm like hey listen you know maybe we should maybe I should swab and see what's going on. Right. So I did I swabbed and you can just can't just you can test in your clinic right? Yes. Yep we did the nasal swab. So you know I didn't I didn't the nasal swab sent it out you know you know you know and obviously now this this was an absolute nightmare Dave okay and I'll tell you why it was a nightmare. So I fended out and obviously I have all my staff here and they're all waiting for this result too because now I got you know all these other people in the office with the sniffles and are running knows and now everybody with allergies has COVID so you know it's like oh what's going on so I get the result back and I get the result and it's negative and I'm like okay well you know this is this is fine I'm just sick right. That's when I started feeling this is where I started feeling kind of weird so but a few days after that and it progressed pretty quick um we have a two story house so I'm going up and down the stairs to just grab things whatever normal things and I can't breathe and I like told John I'm like I can't breathe when I'm walking up and down the stairs like like I literally can't breathe and you know as day I was just standing there and I just I felt like it wasn't a pass out it wasn't good like it was really scary like you could get it up on getting into your lungs almost no no no it like and it honestly it stayed that way for probably it solid like 40 days like 40 days where I had to like wake up and you know I don't cry because my baby but you know literally it may be cry because I'm you know I just I didn't know it got to a point where I didn't know what was going to happen so moving on you know I I get this negative COVID test and I'm like I feel weird something's wrong you know you know your body so you know something is wrong um so I get a chest X right chest X right comes back I had pneumonia all right cool so I got pneumonia that's cool I could ride this out right I can't get a body take some antibiotics I'm good right I got a little inhaler I mean thank goodness we have access to everything doctor IV you know I went through the whole ring right X way that service year so it was like boom boom bam right okay so couple days later I'm like John I can't even drive like I literally can't drive you're on the track that's not getting better is it been essentially what happened I was on so at this point um the we went ahead of the game and the doctor's like listen if you can't breathe you can't see this isn't that this is what happened I started um gaba peintin because I started getting pain and I couldn't see it was dizzy and so gaba peintin was helping with the nervous system um I also started dexamethasone and I was helping with the inflammation obviously because I couldn't breathe it was a steroid um I also did an inhaler and I was on antibiotics I was on augmentant um unlike John I'm swapping again and I'm swapping you while we're at it right so swapswap boom three days later positive I'm like golf both of you both of you both yeah and you know I was totally asymptomatic wow crazy you know it was like what was it? I was in a question with the question I had pneumonia you think that you got it worse? No I think that the COVID caused the pneumonia I think the pneumonia COVID go together the 100% a hundred percent because I mean I've had pneumonia before and I never felt like that where I couldn't breathe and I couldn't see um I mean even looking at the clock it was like double digits and that's scary because I can't fix it so I'm like you know this is not good let me sit down I need to work you know and it's just getting to a plenary can't work so obviously everybody in the office freaks out you know we had to test everybody for COVID thank goodness I would say what we have 12 employees two came back positive um we had to sterilize the whole office everybody's working remotely people are hotels me and John are not a kid's positive we're not always him living out of like dying on my deathbed how is on this how you how was the children don't see to have any symptoms right you was fine yeah Peter's fine and the crazy thing about it Dave is that my dad we retired my dad for years we lived in my house yeah right it does nothing but stays in the house he's high risk kidney disease heart disease so at that point like we were scared he was gonna catch it because we had it my son had it with death sentence for him yeah you can't get him but he did right we swapped them twice totally negative I'm holding those symptoms so we're like thank God wow yeah so um this is where I took a little deep turn so I told John every day that went by and I'm on this nebulizer holding it up to my mouth you know trying to breathe um because it literally felt like I was trying to breathe through a straw I've been that's the best way I can explain it just a straw here and try your best to breathe um that's where I started getting legs swelling and listen I'm on decks of methods I'm on everything so it's like what else am I gonna take to get better um started swelling up you know my stomach started swelling up I look like I was pregnant until John I'm like you know I don't want to go to the hospital I don't want to go to the hospital I'm not going I'm not going because I know you don't leave well no you don't I'm like they're gonna kill me there they mean they don't leave they they they they they you know exactly they're gonna kill me I don't want to go there you know so and not only that but in the hospital when you're over 18 they make you save by yourself so you don't have anybody there to support you you're a buyer self so anyways we go to the dons of our favorite place to hang out um by the pool you know in John's like get some sun I'm like literally dying so I'm like whatever just I'll take sun whatever I've been these good at all yeah um so next morning I wake up and literally crying so the point like just I couldn't walk so my knees for whatever reason it was a sepsis but the knees locked up um and I couldn't walk so at that point what else are you gonna do you gotta go the hospital right so John's carrying me out of the so it's hell and um takes me to the ER well first we can't I'm not gonna lie first we can't take this office we ran stat labs here because I didn't want to go I Dave I wasn't going you could run actually last one year office I didn't realize that wow cool yep right here we drew the blood I called one of my nurse practitioners I'm like hey I need you it's and Dave this is for the July oh my god I'm for the July on for the July you know I'm like I'm lucky to have the staff so anyways I'm like come in I need you draw my blood hurry up so we run the stat labs like if there's old back in two hours and my white blood cell count is at like an 18 which it shouldn't be over like a 10 so that point this is not good once the ER they ran all the labs you're not leaving you're staying because you have sepsis um they also diagnosed me with the elius or you I think that's what it's called where your um gastrotrack stops moving so that's why my stomach is all like that yeah yep that's why I blew up like that so I'm a hospital nothing yeah the only thing they gave me was you know obviously they had to start up like three IVs on me and gave me all these different antibiotics that push of antibiotics um my you know lactic acid was was super super super high she had lactic acid acid acid acid lactic acid toases yeah so basically like what the best way to make you like make you as understand because a lot of you guys out there work out right um so if you got the best personal trainer on the planet and they worked you to death every single portion of your body that's what it felt like two days later like I couldn't even lift my arm because it hurt that bad that why you could just work to because you're you're so much like yeah I could walk as my legs were my legs were swollen um I you know it's just literally I was just I couldn't do anything how long ago you've therefore before you started feeling better well so here's what happened um obviously you know I've been in nursing for a while so I'm very familiar with what will and will not kill me um so I'm in the room with the special air and everything and they don't have any more COVID rooms right so I'm there for two days and you know there's patients that are older patients that need that room um and I just told them I'm like less than I'm like I'll be fine I only you know medical clinic I'm good you know just discharge me because I don't want to be here anyway I mean think about being on fourth of July I'm in the you know this ICU room by myself being treated like literally being treated like an alien because you know everybody's coming in in a bubble suit nobody wants to be near you because they're scared of you yeah John couldn't you know oh did you get in there? no no I was by myself like and I'm hearing the fireworks gone outside you know and I'm like I'm drawn on FaceTime like an crying and like this is so bad I'm like so finally after I have the phone I was like hey go I hit the button the nurse button I'm like hey I don't know what you have back there but whatever you got put in my IV I'm going to sleep like I just want this night to be perfect I'm done so um the you know I want to say like this this breathing issue slash stomach issue slash pain that I couldn't stand up straight pry lasted a solid like two or three weeks like you're in the hospital three weeks no no so I was I was out of there I'm like I'm out of here give the room to someone else and I just was basically bedridden for well you should say why see you might be at home at least you could have like John that fear yeah I mean I have I have access to everything so you know I'll just keep a close eye on it but I mean even when I left the hospital I still I ended up going back to the hospital again like what was it a week later because with COVID there's blood clots you know I want to say what fit like 50 or 60% of patients with blood clots so they have me taking a baby astronaut to make sure I don't get a blood clot and then you know it's just it's frustrating day because nobody is every doctor that came in that room because they gave me pulmonologist they made cardiologists and internal medicine doctor they're all coming in there and saying the same exact thing like okay so let me sit down and just let me discuss this with you this is the most common and unfortunately we just don't know we don't know what's going to happen you're all in this together oh my god we don't want to hear it you're my dog you're not sure it's just crazy you just take things into your own hands and luckily you have a lot of alternative therapies at Titan Medical and this is why I really wanted to really get out there to people that sometimes you know because they don't know these doctors don't know what to do there are things out that you can do and and they're I guess they would be considered alternative or off-label type stuff and so these doctors won't prescribe in the hospital but you can take matters into your own hands and that's I'm always a big believer in and finding solutions you know that you need to the problems that you have tell us some of the in modalities that you guys use to help you get over this and recover from this illness so that the biggest thing that all the doctors and you know before I left the you know hospital the biggest thing was super high doses of vitamin C right glutathione because they do give glutathione of the hospital if you can believe that or not and and zinc so you know instead of taking it obviously over the counter and a pill format where if you get something over the counter you even know what you're getting and then if you digest it you're only getting what 10% of what you still don't know what you're getting but you know I obviously took the injectable so we have an injectable has glutathione it has vitamin C and it has zinc in it all in the same exact shot and I just took that shot I took that along with the thymocene alpha one I'm a huge believer in the thymocene one and one and so yeah so the three and one is the trifecta shot you have now that's um that's the zinc are trying me right that's the zinc the glutathione and the injectable vitamin C which I've used vitamin C in the past it could be a little like a little painful right in an injectable form right right yeah you just dilute it down with like a vitamin B12 right right you could just dilute it half and half and yeah super highly concentrated yeah is really well I think it's it's see is ascorbic acid so it's the acidity of it probably is what also irritates some of the tissues um interestingly obviously you put zinc right in the bloodstream obviously you know you're observant that's for sure exactly you know you can't believe you need and glutathione I've been saying oh you know banging people in the head with that I mean that's the most important thing for immune system liver health I mean anti-oxygen you know I mean everything that goes wrong during COVID can be counteracted with glutathione it seems you know and our bodies just don't make enough of it and that's really especially as we get older you know I think that's what older people are are hit harder with this this problem well a lot of those a lot of these doctors out there you know especially the old school ones they don't even if you believe it they don't even know about glutathione they don't even know what it is right right how much it's natural producing our body I mean we keep in blood tests for it here so we can tell you what are glutathione levels are and black haeless and this is going to help you know but we know more is better that's that's the thing I mean if you're coming if you're going into like a a war zone okay and you have more tanks and more missiles and more soldiers you're going to win the battle it's just it's pretty odd you know it's pretty logical right if you go in under under arms you get to get overwhelmed by the enemy and they're going to be so you know glutathione is a weapon of mass destruction we can use you know but if you don't have enough of it in your body it's your older maybe and you're not producing as much obviously fortifying with it is is logical I mean you know if you're going to go try to combat you know COVID so what's the dosage of all these ingredients in trifle and that trifle factor reformula sure so for the try new booster it's right the the vitamin C which is 200 milligrams per ML it's also got glutathione which is 200 milligrams per ML and it's got zinc chloride which is 5 milligrams per ML so you're getting all those and one ML per shot so if you're going to do a half you can half that dosage you're going to cut or 70% or whatever you're going to do yeah I mean at the end of the day if you're sick and you want to feel better you don't care you'll do whatever and if you're not sick and you don't want to get sick then you'll do whatever so we had a lot of healthcare workers because we're nationwide so we service nationwide so whatever state people are in we service them right a lot of people especially with the break out we had a lot of healthcare workers are in these different states like like wash and states yeah at all and all these big big place that got hit first even in New York and these people were taking it they were going to get in the patients and they didn't become covid positive they also wrote a review about it which is really cool so you know it's it was used which is a preventative and obviously right now you know people are just thinking about covid 19 but there's other bacterial infections or viruses out there that can still get you six you want to make sure your immune system is built up and five to take in the sense yeah I've been taking a little good to try on you know for a couple years now from you guys and I feel great I never get sick and if anyone gets sick of my ass I get like it lasts like a quarter of the time of everyone else and so now I'm going to add in these I'm going to try the new one the try a immune booster I want to see how that feel on that with the vitamin C as well now another thing you used which we've talked about before but I didn't you know no it would be so relevant to covid was the thymus and alpha one which is we know an immune system modulator that which helps you know enhance the enhanced system if it needs to be and you talk to us about that and how that helped and and what your dosage was you were taking so I was actually taking a higher dosage obviously because I was wanting to do whatever it took to feel better and get back to normal so I mean I was taking the forty units right per day yeah so it was fifty-hundred micrograms per day and you know what I was saying but I don't mean to interrupt you but I would I didn't know you told me before the show was the zidax and is the act there's actually a brand name of uh Simonson alpha one now it's not just a peptide the bodybuilders here that's actually it's like a drug that they're giving now for me that's correct and this is going to be the people with the research yeah I mean with the research coming out right now they're talking about uh T cells and how how how important T cells are as far as your immune system especially with covid-19 yeah well the big thing about that most enough one is the augments T cells which have killer cells and helper cells so basically track down they get the memory of these cells and they go after it again you know T cells after antibodies you know they don't know how long anybody's gonna last in the bloodstream or a system so at that point after that that's where T cells come into and really I mean that's that's what it is they use it as far as like uh chemo patients as far as I say with this speaker for cancer patients too it sounds like a yes yes so it slows cancer growth so when you look up sedaxin which is the farm pharmaceutical name for the commercial product they'll tell you in the website you know obviously when it was FDA approved for so this is one of the FDA approved was for it so at that point you can look it up check it out it's really really cool it's really important are there any side effects like you do you do is there anything like flu like symptoms right like that I even I listen before I even started taking it because I didn't want to take a turn for the worse yeah I made sure to do all my research because I was like I don't want any more side effects because I can't handle any more drugs but yeah I've been taking it now I want to say the like it's been the full 90 days and it'll have to take the 40 units anymore but I mean the regular doses 10 units every day you're going to bed yeah yeah now comes in a 15 milligrams bottle which is 15,000 micrograms so that's a pretty sizes of nice bottle and if you're only taking 500 units a day you know it's like kind of a prophylactic that'll actually want to live in that bottle you know absolutely so it's it's it's it's it's it's a great product you know I haven't even tried it but luckily I haven't needed it but I do you know that's how people have you know cancer so like that and they're always asking what they could take for it and you know I always tell them that the usual litany of vitamins and fortification types stuff like good asylum but I didn't know this is an option and this is something that people should probably look into as you know because them not even if you're not I mean not even if you're sick I mean we have a lot of people that have been taking it just as a you know preventative me personally I went at women's or land we went to a land of our bodybuilding show not just recently we were there for a couple of days I decided not to take it with me obviously because of reconstituted it's cold and I'm like you know I just don't feel like it so I'm being honest but I didn't take it for about six days and on that six day I actually started feeling sick again and I'm like okay okay okay okay okay I bet it's double does when I go help you know it's it's important I think in these times that people have know that there is options you know and once again I personally I'm a preventative type of guy so I like to prevent myself from even getting anything but if you do get it okay here's an option you have to you can increase the dosage and and people can contact you a Titan Medical Center dot com and talk to you about these these formulas that you have and I know you obviously give discounts for people mentioned day polomba and art muscle so you always take care of older people I send over there really well customer services great you know what and I got it also commend you your doctors are great over there because you know telemedicine has gotten like a bad rap like it's like oh they get the crappy doctors you know the duty that's not true you guys actually have doctors that kind of care because I've sent people there and their blood work was often they call me up complaining like oh this doctor wants me to do this and this and it's like he's right I look at their blood work he's actually right he's actually he caught something that probably your normal doctor wouldn't even catch and and he's just wanting you to address it you know and that's what doctors have also do you know yeah go do your donation hurry right it's big for us so I mean patients obviously in the minority there was all to come afterwards because without their health they're not doing anything they're not getting them for a show they're not going on you know lives and you know doing daily quality of life things yeah so I was a big thing with the way to all medicine is now because of covid 19 obviously logistic wise we were already set up for telling that so all around the United States where well he's doctors primary care and we start doing primary care services too for patients throughout the state too as well so primary care we can help them too but you know they weren't set up for this so primary care people are calling us and they're like I can't get in with my doctor even for covid like I don't know if I have covid or not you know so we were able to do this right away for patients and you can tell us it is ironic that you guys yeah it is ironic that a lot of the hormone clinics specifically you guys were completely set up for this it was like it was almost like you guys were made waiting for this to happen you know and really I'm like oh my goodness yeah it was really only now what you did it because it was a convenience because a lot of people out of state couldn't travel but but it really worked to the benefit of even the people in the state so because now no one all of a sudden everybody all these doctors is it didn't you know it said telemedicine no no no no no no no no no no everybody's been telling medicine the world they're all those on it's perfectly fine so yeah you know even like the doctors now you can even email them now like this like when you when I sign into the month my mind short portal you could actually say hey doc you know and talking them they'll actually email you back and say are y'all sending for this test or something like that it's it's it's it's amazing it's a little different it's cool I actually like you now I don't want to wait and doctor I do it's more convenient for me it ought to go there you know went with the rheumatologist after I got the blood worked done because he did a full work up on me for the glupus and all these other things I mean he did it on tell him that I wish they could do my colonoscopy through the telemedicine but unfortunately hey student of Dave soon you'll stick you know take a pill and it's just gonna it's gonna be a camera it's coming yeah mark my words I believe you're right I want to talk about it for me out because I I said a lot of people to you guys for the pregnancy protocol I developed years ago and that was you know to help people get more fertile men get more fertile so they can get their wives you know pregnant and it's worked very successfully in the past you know you get something ingredients on the list weren't really readily available coming soon now finally they're making synthetic FSA which is also known as HMG or pergoneol if any of you guys you know been looking for those things this was something you couldn't get now all of a sudden it's gonna become available and that's usually the key ingredient in raising a man's sperm count talk to us about that coming yeah so FSAH on the manufacturer product is available now so it will be helping patients out with that as far as that goes that along with ACG you know clomeid and glutathione those are the great protocols you know you're behind that protocol 100% so we'll be able to off that to patients you know by themselves or altogether to really make that boom I mean we've helped a number of patients get pregnant you know not knowing if they could get pregnant or they could do you could also send them in for sperm analysis so if they don't even make sure that it's them because some people don't know they think it's automatically them and it could be the wife or you know it could be them who knows so until you really run those tests and really do know or if you just want to take a shot in the dark and say listen I'm just gonna pump up my body right ago well usually in a perception of time for guys that are bodybuilders usually it's it's the guys fault so 99% of the time so but it's great it's great that you guys can do this and provide the service and you know it's funny you can use as little or as many as you want I always say look if you know if you want to fertility dogs that they're gonna charge you 35 thousand dollars per year oh my god 35 thousand per year oh per year oh per year oh alone is 1500 dollars you know and that's for like a week or two you know that so this is a much better way to go and I'm glad that you guys are so we'll be able to give a substantial discount that medication to us right so I'm just throwing out the right now I'm getting a price down I was like that but it would probably run 500 bucks so it's a third of the cost that would you get from a plate when it can't be PG wake way cheaper anyway you know for the patients stuff like that even what they were charging for ATG it's I mean it was like $2,000 for an 11,000 and I knew I'm like ridiculous I mean let me bring that up because a lot of people are very concerned because they heard they heard that ATG will no longer be made and that's not true what's happening is it can't be compounded anymore in a generic app they're March so you're you have to sell the brand name pervinole is that correct I'm sorry I'm sorry about that so correct no excuse me yeah yeah prognol so it's got to be manufactured there are a couple uh compounding pharmacies five with three bees out there which are FDA outsourcing facilities that are going after the biological license that big farm has right now it's a couple million dollars to do and they haven't secured those licenses yet but hopefully they'll be able to do it in compounded ACG will be out there because it will be it will be a lot more inexpensive for patients going bad thing with you know manufacturer products like that is big farmer there are a little bit more expensive as far as that goes but even for us if they had to go for manufacturer prices we're going to give our patients a super discount on it like 150 bucks probably still maybe it's kind of a box maybe up it up 50 bucks bucks more than what we already charged it's still giving to it because we want to try to pass on the saves the patient I mean that's great that you guys are offering that because people worried about that because you know that's a typical you know everybody bill is you know are stopping a cycle or are they going off you know hormone replacement you know they got it today like to do HGG and I know it's part of your your hormone replacement protocol you you prescribe HG to make sure that the testicles keep working so that you know that kind of through a little monkey wrench into what you guys would do in two yeah no 100% at the end of the day I know some of these clinics out there and I've heard this because obviously I can see all the text messages coming in from all of these awesome patients but you know you have to come up with a solution a lot of these doctors just took people off HG they're up so I can get it I don't know what to tell you I just you know here here's some you know here's the rest of your stuff I'm like good and then then they're trying to substitute so I was through the compound farms he's lost a lot of money in this right a lot of revenue because HG is huge weight loss for HRT and stuff like that so what they's inside was alright we're gonna try to look for a substitute so when you start looking at these different substitutes now the DEA is starting to look at peptides over 15 chain of amino acid and base peptides they're really starting to look at okay some these shouldn't probably be on the market yeah so at that point they're looking at they were placed it now with kiss peptin that was supposed to be another one that's supposed to help regulate LH and stuff like that and a lot of clinics have been pushing that and in Coleman Feena not Coleman but there's another one that they're using as far as that goes they're trying to relax a little bit like that yeah well I told John when all this happened I'm like listen we're gonna make any decisions here with our medical staff and everything because obviously we're gonna go over it but I'm not reeducating all these patients that's what these people have been with us for like six years you know I'm like I'm not gonna be like I'm not gonna be like I'm not gonna be one who's better reeducated not you you don't say in that let's say you do reeducate your patients right and then you put them on this peptide now DEA says to the company far as you guys can't make this easy right so then you're back at square one right and you're like oh what I do and now the patient like well you put me on this you put me on this life people will pay a little bit more for the for the brand name Hcg if they have absolutely absolutely 100% you know they're gonna get the best they're gonna get the best results like that too instead of just trying to script together and put together whatever you can to give a patient so we want to make sure that our patients are getting the very best whether it's therapies or patient service you know whatever it is right well I appreciate not only the services you guys offer but also the customer service that you give all the people that he said and over to you and that's why people back in you know look you you're not Walmart okay over there and people have to understand that you're not giving this stuff away for free you know you're not going to lose money over there so they have to understand there is there is there is a business component of the business but you're there to get the people to take the right things if they need that are going to help you know treat whatever issues they have going on and that you're first of all looking at the health first you're not going to just prescribe things to help it's not in perfect order and that's another thing you'll get frustrated like that but yeah some of them don't like that but at the end of the day we'll tell them hey listen your health comes number one let's just fix this let's fix this and then I promise you it'll be easy sailing after that plus you know patients they obviously they obviously get the service right so they're paying for the service too as well they call text email all times a day and night because means you have the phone at night time to not to be like this this is eight years later eight years later I'm still on the text message coming up mine yeah it's like the wall mart it's like a wall mart day if it's tarjet yeah yeah yeah the tarjet people always say to me I'm afraid anyone it's actually too late I said you can't text me too late some possible I said because I go to bed and I'm wrong that you days just roll right they just roll in the middle and you see I think pretty much continuous but that's how I'm so happy to hear that you are doing better you sound great you look good and you know it's just a testament to the fact that you know you guys are doing the right stuff over there and you know what now you have personal experience of anyone calls the clinic wants to talk to you or wants to you know maybe they have a COVID situation they're going through and you can maybe give them personal advice because happy to help you've experienced it all you know yeah I can't say I'm happy how to go through that and I did ask John why me I'm like I haven't done anything wrong anyone so I don't know what you're saying to cut that you got to be honest with you know but it's like hey we're gonna we're gonna do this to this girl and we're gonna make your go through this whole thing so she can let everyone know the COVID's real I'll tell you look you want to know the truth why you got it and why John didn't get it the the reason is that I got sick and he did it I'm saying you want to know the reason I'm telling you the reason he takes more stuff no no that's the reason is that us men and I could speak for him and I were weak we couldn't handle it when what you went through and I was in the basket cases we probably would have died and yes Amanda I'm going to record it yeah I'm editing the night look I truly I completely admit that she's way stronger than I am that sense matter we can't handle that stuff you could still run a family in a business and also be sick we couldn't handle it so that's why you got the COVID need and that's the reason that's fine size if you want to take it out is John takes what stop on it make sure you mention our ex muscle day polonbo they'll give you great discount the customer services great there and they will take care of you are promised that thank you guys for coming on in a film and sitting on what's going on come back next time we got to see you here in our multi-million dollar city I'm afraid I don't want to patch it I can't let a lot of atoms quarantine I got a mask for you you're good we got a time strong must be the same I have one of those like Bandito masks I look like I'm going to rob a bank when I get what I go in the supermarket all right guys we'll talk to you later thanks once again for supporting this site and then for doing all that great stuff you do thank you Dave we appreciate thank you for everybody that's after we appreciate all right guys and that's going to take us to the end of another RX muscle supplement in science review we'll see you next time

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Old school bodybuilding clothing company. If you wish your fancy fitness center was a hardcore gym, you are old school. If you just ate chicken and rice and are about to eat chicken and rice, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. So what we were talking about before we went on air this is how we're going to wrap this show up. We have some funny stories. Some of the funny is material that we have before we actually go on air. And there are times that they will jump in. I was going to say it for the show, so we wanted to bring that to show. So Tom, we're going to go to you first on this one because you had a hilarious story with you and Milo. Pretty much right before we were about to go on your like Milo. Remember the last time that I saw you this and this happened, you got to tell the story. And then Milo, we're going to go to you next door. Okay, so this is actually the first time I met Milo's in person. So the first show I ever worked at, worked at Boothet was the 96th Olympia. It was in Chicago and we went out, so I had to counter the metrics at the time. So did Milo's. Dave, did this right before you had one with metrics? Yeah, it was before. I was going to let the year before. I think so. Yeah. I was very jealous that you had that contract by the way, and that I didn't because I really wanted to work for metrics. But so we went to lunch at the Olympia. It was me and Milo's in Jim Quinn in punishment and Debbie Croft, who was a fitness competitor. So we're out, eat lunch and Milo's is telling a story about how he was on a train. Now he and Suncht met. We're on a train going through Europe someplace. And so when they get to the border and whatever country, you know, now there's the hope that there's open borders. But at the time there wasn't. So, you know, he gets, they get stopped at the border. The guys are coming around and checking past boards and checking people's luggage and all that. And so the guy comes up to Milo's and he goes without, without basically without saying the else. Again, this is the way I remember at Milo's. He comes up to Milo's and goes, so where's your testosterone? Because of course Milo's was, you know, whatever, 265, 277, the punishment was about the same. Maybe a little bit bigger. You know, where's your testosterone? And without miscelling a beat, Milo's goes, it's in my balls. Where do you think it is? Exactly. Now I told you guys, I told that story a hundred times. I love that story. Like, I'm giving you something for that to your mind story. Yeah. Well, you know, I just finished it up there. I said, in my balls, where else do you want to see it? Yeah. I mean, shit, but you know, when somebody asked me this kind of, that's my first response of course. Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. We talked about it a lot of times, many things. But like, couple of weeks ago, I was with Chris Kermier. And then he told me, Milo's, I was always wondering, what were you taking that 1997 European tour? You know, because me and NASA were watching you and you were sweating too fucously. There's like November. It was like snow outside and, you know, we only had to take it here in the T-shirt. Okay. Do they have a tattoo this story? They've? No, I don't think so. Okay. So, 1997, and you remember how 97 was? I think that the NASA deserved to beat the European in Olympia. Yeah. And then there was a super tie-up lineup. I mean, Leapree's, it's probably there. And then there was Chris Kermier was eight. Ronnie was nine to I was standing at Olympia. Then we go to Hungary and in Hungary, actually, I beat Chris Kermier first show and been staleer. And then we go to Spain and next day, and then we go to England and Chris Kermier beat NASA. I mean, this is now NASA, a good bit, Dorian and then Ben Olympia. Now Chris is beating in it because everything was so so close. So, carry case, Dorian's business partner at the time, so okay, Neal's. The only way you can get little edges, you know, just try to get, you know, a little bit even even more linear. You know, you're in great condition, but you know, try to, I said, what can I do? I mean, it's like three days until the next show. So, said, did you ever try that DNP? I didn't really. I didn't really. And at the time, I didn't know much about it, so it's just like, okay, you know, like, should, uh, if something that he believes can make considerable difference in three days. Okay, you know, mine is rough. So anyway, I, I, I, I, I, I. This very little that mealus wouldn't try that. Yeah. I see there was very little that you wouldn't try that then in the day. It's not a big deal. You're not going to make it. Could you not, could you not just cover yourself and gas a lane? Wait, something fire to you? That would have done everything. Probably, probably a tripled into it because, uh, you know, I started taking it and, uh, oh my god, you know, it's just like, cuteness. I was like, burning up and all this shit to serve, but people traveling, you know, saying how, how, Bobby, let's be all this, like, check our skin on, uh, on, uh, on, uh, abs, like, oh shit, I'm tight. I'm good. Like, but I was like, burning up in the, uh, like, like, just a mere and then, uh, not still looking at me, uh, I'm sweating, but I mean, I was just like, pouring out. Okay, I'm not telling you nothing. So now, uh, day of the show, and then we get to the hotel and hotel it really, you know, check a public, had that little mirror up there. So you can't really see your body. You know, it's like, okay, you know, you can save, but, you know, so when you look down, right, your abs and my legs are a little too pleased. This is the curse shit I'm gonna fuck them up, right? So we go, we go backstage and, uh, you know, so I think the clothes up and I look in the mirror, I'm, you know, I'm a rip, but I look kind of skinny, but this is probably that the mirror that makes you look narrow. You know, they have this in some theaters and all this, so I'm like, okay, but then master passed right by me and fucking master looks the normal. And then I look at Naxa, look at me, they're like, he shit. And then, you know, I call my friend, I was traveling with me and he came in and he just pays drop. Like, where did he come from? I mean, I lost, you know, he looked at me like a 20 pounds. Oh, my God. Holy. And I felt the worst in my life. So I'm very vocal about it. Anybody there's in the infus and get off of it is the unhealthy thing you can possibly do. Yeah. As you know, it's, uh, it's a, uh, a right poisoning and a lot of people want to take those short cuts and I was guilty of it, okay, and I pay the price for it. But this is that one of the things that he saw was going to, to find out, so I told him. But, uh, you know, just to make it a little bit more interesting, I did have a lot of guys coming to my gym and wanting to take a German we'll say just straight like this. Milo's, I'm a living proof that no amount of unobotic spirits can kill the man. I said, okay, whether what do you mean? He didn't stop for years and he was using two-pit amount. I mean, I said, what is this stupid amount? Over 100 cc, uh, shit to week. Like, he would just, whatever he will have, you know, 100 cc, okay? Oh my God. A guy is still alive and I, you know, so, of course, I don't want people to get this in a wrong way. Abuse can be a serious issue. So I'm far away from advising anything like that. But at the same time, they've, or Tom, I'm sure that you guys know dozens, if not hundreds of athletes that you'd be super scared about they have according to the cycles what they were doing when they were competing. And, you know, most of them are still around, you know? Yeah, most of most of them are around. Yes. I mean, every time it happens that, okay, somebody died and everybody's going to point you, oh, this is, I mean, in every other sports for many, many other reasons, younger people do die. Yeah, he could be some, uh, consequences from, uh, using. But I, again, emphasize, you use it wisely. You can enhance your health. And, and the standard Tom, you have no reason to use it now. But you did say that you put the egg and the, the sauce that on an table and nothing happened. But I put you there. I, I hope you age that egg if you didn't throw away the sauce. I'm not going to waste a good egg. You know, I don't, I think it's all, it's all really about knowing when to stop and when to start. I mean, this is a terrible analogy, but I'm going to, but I'll use it just because I know you both know maybe Craig Titus probably was one of the biggest abusers of animal exteriors. I mean, back in the 90s. No one would take more than a certain amount. It was like almost like unwritten law. This, you've never did more than to test this, this much testosterone. You've never did more than this much parable. You never did this. You never took more than four, I used a J. There was like, there was like rules that people just sucked it. Craig didn't play it by those, but he was like, almost like, like, he's like the guy's today. He would take ridiculous amounts of stuff. But he went to jail that one time. You know, He was a forced, you know, whatever it was, a year and a half, two year break, whatever it was in the jail. And now he's in jail for life, but so he'll probably live to 90, you know what I mean? Because he never really had enough time to permanently damage his organs. So my point is that you could play hard for a limited amount of time as long as you know, when to say when and stop and allow your body to heal. So the body has an amazing capacity to heal. You know, you could have a high creatinine level for six months and then back off what you're doing. And then your kidneys will regenerate. But if you do that, if you have a high creatinine level for 10 years, you're probably not going to recover your kidney function. You know, after that, same thing with liver. The liver will regenerate. But if you never give it a chance to regenerate, because you never come off or you never, you know, back off a little bit, then you're probably going to have permanent problems later in life, same thing with heart. The heart is a muscle. It does get bigger. You know, I had an enlarged love ventral from for many years, you know. And now I go for, you know, CT scans because of my Aorta. And they're like, you don't have any left ventricular high perturbing anymore. I'm like, imagine that. I had an athletic heart, you know. So as I stop training as much and I got smaller, the heart shrinks inside. So you have to know when to say, okay, you know what? I pushed my body, let's back off now because you know what? I'm 45 years old. I'm going to start getting older and I'm not going to my body. It's not going to have that capacity to heal anymore. So it's all about balance. You know, you have to know when to push play hard, you know. And I played hard when I played. And then when I realized, okay, I'm done. I got it back away now and I got to think about health because I do want to live a long time. And so some people don't care if they live a long time. But they say if they can't be a top-level body building, they would rather not be around. And we know, I don't know if the name names. We know names like that. They're not hearing more. So, you know, we've talked about this for me, let's see you and I. There are no 400 pound, you know, 80 year old guys, you know. They don't live that long. They die in their 50s and 60s the most, you know. So you have to decide, what do you want from your life? You want to live a long life? Then you better figure out a strategy to get you there. Just like you figured out a strategy of how to be a big body builder and get on to the Olympia stage. And I think that a lot of people don't have an exit plan. They only have an entrance plan. Well, that's so funny. I used to tell people that when I was in my body, when I was partying. And I was in my 20s that, you know, what? I'm going to, I'm not going to live that 30. So what difference does it make? Yeah. And the way with anything. Now, the only problem with that, of course, is that if you say that, then you need to die in 30. Yeah. Okay. The problem is, well, that when you if you live the 45 or 50, then you're not looking at and say, oh, shit, what do I need to do to survive the 50? Right. But what do I need? You need to reassess the whole program. So that you do live that long. And then you need to start looking at your home. But, David, do you want some correct title stories? Yeah, let me hear him. Oh, I'm going to throw this down. No, no, no. Yeah, I can't say it. Right. I prepared him back to the 2002. I believe you. Hey, tell me you hated him. Tell me you hated him. Hey, did he listen to me? Hey, you? There's no way he listen to you. Yeah. So this is how this, he was using like no vein in normally, right? Yeah. And I thought he meant, man, you have to get off of it. And I said, I don't have to climb his climb. And then he's in my gym. And I see in the middle of the work like he walks into the bathroom and I go right up to him and I find him. Right? So many times. You know, then, but he always wanted to say, what is next stage? Next stage. You know, so he was competing. I was preparing not an Anthony also for that show, San Francisco. And there were backstage, you know, I couldn't go because I was in Japan at the time. And the track is coming in. It's 20 minutes to stage. You know, I don't look as good as I want to. I got what he said, I can do. So well, I know that you always have that injectable basics. But if you do the intermasticity, it's not going to work. You have to go through the bathroom and do IV, it does go slowly. And because it works instantly, right? Yeah. So apparently 20 minutes before, he didn't look at it. I think he could beat Malvin. And then, it says, as he was doing it, then he just opened the water coming out and he managed to beat him. So it's a crack tide. It's a crack tide. It's really like in the last minute of the Justin. But you know, promoter from San Marino, Gianrique Capica, for example, it those 2002 as Tom mentioned, I'm going to track Titus' room. And we had a protocol that he supposed to take. He didn't supposed to be on a new banner. Of course, and he didn't supposed to beat the junk. I'm coming in. And he's pushing out the table full of. He can imagine fries, ketchup, burgers, shit, all kinds of stuff. That he didn't supposed to beat. And then, of course, the coming is sorry, bro. And then, he didn't even say hello to the Jericho Piccale. And this is the guy he meets for the first time. And here's a tiny little knife in shit. And then, here comes Kelly and Ron Ron, and he takes from her new bane. Yeah. He takes the girl and stuff, injecting ivy. Right? And he's just, you know, don't you have a technique? My shit that I did. And then, oh, what's the name, bro? Oh, no, no, no, no. I'm like eating. Yeah, that's typical in a crack. And I love that I mean, he was a personable. He was super funny. But as you know, he had his demons and, you know, as he did mention him, I just wanted to say those stories. Don't, don't you say he hated working with him? Don't you tell me that, that's correct. Yeah. And then, you know, the way drawing important was, I don't know what somebody would pay you and then never listen to you. Yeah. But I'm imagining these conversations between doing, and you know, doing is not a big talk. I'm imagining these conversations back and forth. Well, Craig's asking, what should they do? Yeah. And then, Craig starts arguing about what he wants to do. Right. That would be Craig all day long. Yeah. Let me go, sorry. I got one more. Real quick. Okay. This is going to be about corn here, though, okay? Right. The Manchester show, the week after the Olympian, 2001. Okay. The guy comes from one of Kerry Cays' assistants. So, Kerry Cays was a promoted show, also Doron and his partner. Right. And the Manchester England, the guy picks me up at the airport, drives me to the hotel, he grabs my luggage. I'm all eight things. You know, so we're going up to the room. As we're going to my hotel room, walk another hallway, and there's three pizza boxes, we need any games to go on. We pizza hot, pizza boxes. We need any games to go over the hotel room. And I go, look at the guy and I go, hey, hang on one second. And I go to knock them the door. And the guy's like, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, what are you doing? How do you know who's in there? I'm like, I don't. Just hold on to something. And that from the door, my little opens the door, about, you know, this one is like, let's open up. Just want to make sure it was you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I had my, of course, chicken rice. Yeah. I mean, that was literally, yeah. It might have been sticking rice in one meal. And I didn't eat perfect. I'm watching this guy with pizza boxes. You know, then he's like, picking up the former ordering. The difference was time, you were going to go back to your room. Eat your chicken breast and go to sleep. Chris was planning on going out dancing for six hours. And some club that night, so he had a few a lot, you know, to give us body a little bit of grease and salt and water, so that when he swatted 20 pounds on, when he came back the next day, he'd be ready to get on stage. Probably didn't even go to sleep. He probably go right to the venue from the show. Yeah. Not just now, I don't know. Yeah. That's funny. One more thing about crack changing the things. Of course, I gave him an instrument protocol, introvert, Kyle Cuyves, and all. So, I've been a couple of days. He's, oh, bro, I didn't tell him, but I'm doing something even better. I said, what, you know, I went and it didn't buy the dexter. I bought the crook shows. Crook shows. It's a natural sugar. It must be better. That's for a lot of God. You know what, he's the fruit of the interwork out. But yeah, as far as Chris, to me, I also prepared him in the 2000-2003, and there was a kind of thing. You see, he needed this kind of stuff. We were in Amsterdam, and Dorian Yates, Dennis, and Chris, he went out. So, of course, there's a tribute, like, to box with the 18 different kinds of whatever, Marijuana, actually, he's a god knows what it, you know. And I didn't take it because I can't handle it, right? But of course, Chris did. Next thing you know, he's out of it. I took a picture, I actually posted an Instagram, like, couple of weeks ago, he's sleeping in the dark bar. And then as soon as he woke up, he ate eight ham and cheese sandwiches. He did it before the show. Eight ham and cheese. Because he has a bungee. Yeah, because of course, you know. But he can get away with anything. I mean, I still think that Chris really, that is, he had a 100% to the bodybuilding he could have in Mr. Olympia. I think that too. Yeah. It's the incredible structure of the Sonoma physique, not being missing. I mean, yeah, it's a, I love the guy absolutely. You know, I just think that if he just did that little extra, you know, Dorian was committed to that too. Dorian said he should have been Mr. Olympia, you know. He was trying to train him. But I think it was he got to hold him to late. I got two funny stories though. One is, you know, I always champion myself as probably one of the greatest eaters of bodybuilding. I had a great appetite. I had a great ability to down food, poor shakes down my throat. He didn't mad. I didn't miss, you know. And I thought I was the, you know, the best eater. One point I was probably eating about, you know, almost six metric shakes a day and probably six food meals, which is, and they were big food meals. It was a lot of food. And I needed to, I was like 319 pounds, you know. And this is before guys with 300. That, in fact, this was so early on that, that, that guy, like, I remember Jake Colors, didn't an interview. He was like, oh, there's no reason to be 300 pounds, you know. Like, because no one can be 300 pounds. It was like Dorian and me and, and, and NASA. So, and I was an amateur. So, to me, I, I prideed myself in the fact that, and I was pretty lean at that weight. So, you know, while I didn't have their structures, I certainly had a lot of mass. I went up to Canada to stay with Greg Colbex for the, for the, for the, about five days. I stayed at his house with it. It was married to Kim, his wife at the time. And, um, I go up there and Kim had Greg on this eating regimen, where she would, and I don't, if you, but guys have a hungout with Greg, you know. Like, Kim would have a shake in front of him and a meal. Like, he didn't have to think about the food. She prepared everything. He would just like, like, a machine go to the table and eat the food or drink the shake, you know. And this went on every hour that he was awake. There was another meal of shake there. Now, when I stayed with her, she had great hospitality. She, she's like, I'll make all your food and shakes, don't worry about it. She's like, what do you need? I said, well, I'll eat whatever Greg's eating. Because I'm thinking, I mean, 12 times a day, right? Or almost that much, you know, I could certainly eat as much as he can, right? I mean, I almost didn't make it. I seriously, I think when I left this house at the five days, I gained eight pounds, okay? Because, and I was so sick to my stomach from eating because this guy was, I thought, I was a machine. He was eating like his shake, my shakes with 50 grams of protein. His were like 100 grams of protein. My meals were like eight or nine ounces of protein. His meals were 16 ounces of protein. I've never seen a human being eat that much. I mean, it was unbelievable. I was impressed. And like I said, up at that point, I don't think I ever saw anyone who could eat better than I could. So Greg was a creature from another planet. I'm telling you, it was, you might not like a structure or whatever the case in terms of competitive bodybuilding, but there was no one bigger than this guy in the history of our sport. And I was in the 86 and 11th before when I was, what I met Milos, Kobe, that's the first time I ever saw Kobe, I see that he was walking around in a tent top and a pair of like, but I was told in Chicago, but a pair of the little, like, teddy white and not to not tell you why he's the little, um, Spanx. Well, Spanx, they're the short ones. Yeah. And I mean, every bit of 384 pounds, and gigantic. Like I don't think I'd ever seen a bit of human being. Yeah, yeah, he's enormous. No, no. No. I had was actually a tie between Nasser and Milos, but I've told the Milos one before, when we were into buy, we were, you know, we were in the, Dubai of the way it is, Dubai today is Vegas. When Milos and I went there in 96, it was basically sand and one hotel. And we were in this hotel and, you know, we were all dieting and something like that. And so, you know, we go down for breakfast and Milos is like, you know, we need, you know, we want, like, I think we, him and I got like 14 egg whites or something like that, you know, for breakfast with a bowl of oatmeal. And then I think they wanted a charge, just like $500 or something like that. And Nilos, like, not. Nilos went crazy and, and was screaming at the, I don't even know what language he was speaking, but he was screaming at them and finally the, the, the guy who brought us there, the promoter whatever came in and was like, Milos is like, we need food, we need food. Like, next thing I know, there was like 600 chicken breasts, like the liver to a hotel and we had food the rest of the weekend because of that. And so I thought I was a big mouth, Milos man and wiped up the floor with those people. It was unbelievable, but I definitely, I've never been charged $100 for egg whites. So that was the most expensive meal I ever had. And then the other, the other funny eating stories, we're doing, I'm doing eating stories, is I was, a guest posing with NASA, El Sombody. And it was called the, something, great, Easter Grand Prix or something like that. It was in like the Bronx. And after the show and I told the story before, I don't know if you guys have never heard it. After the show, we went to city island, which is a really nice area, like, to be cheap little place or you wouldn't think it's in the Bronx, but it is. And there's like all these little outdoor, like cafes, you can get seafood and this guy took the promoter was an awesome guy and he wanted to take us for like a real nice seafood dinner, lobsters and whatever you wanted basically, he'd basically was on the menu and, and it was taking them a really long time to bring the food and NASA was diving, I think, for the Olympic or at the time. And you know, when NASA gets, you know, when he starts getting like, you know, fed up with people, he gets really nasty. And he's like, he, he was completely taught, the, the way it just was a, was a woman, which met NASA didn't, he wasn't respecting it from the menu, she took her zorner. And he is, and she comes over and she's like, is there a problem? He goes, yes, I have a very big problem because you are incompetent, you don't know how to cook food in this restaurant and it's established. I'm obviously, I've been waiting and I am preparing for the Mr. Lachini, not the Mr. Olympic. What, preparing for the Mr. Limpia competition and I need my food and this is, and the promoter is like, like he saw a barist as NASA is so, it's being so kind to standing through this woman. She's like, well, I'm sorry, sir, you know, it's very busy the restaurant. I don't want to hear your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your excuses. Uh, we, we are here with a very important party. I am a, I am a dignitary in this, in this, in this party here, and I, I am waiting for food like a plebian in, in the, in the streets of Calcutta, India, and I don't understand this, and and so she's like, I, I, I, I started with the food as on its way because I don't, I don't want to any food. I don't want to, I want to, I want you cooking any of my food. I don't trust you to cook my food because now you will go and spit in my food, bring me a ball of ice cream. That is all I want. And he, he, he, he, he. Well, I just, that was, that was, that was the meal. And he was barbaric for the Olympia. I said, Nasa, you got to the Olympia, you kidding? I asked him, because I believe ice cream because these people are in bacilles here. I will not, I will not be subjected to there, they're incompetent. That's a pretty good impersonation of Nasa. I got my Nasa down, Pat. No, that's not the best. That's actually not our bad impersonation. But that is not what you see. That's our Nasa guitar. If I could do the cooking, I would have it, reel down Pat, you know, if I could do this. I mean, I'm going to add on, my one-middle Nasa story. We were at the police and fire games in Orange County. Okay. All the winter guys at the time mean Nasa, my draws over there. Were you there, Milus? Yeah, I think you were there too. So we're standing in line. I'm wondering if you're going to be as wave to the crowd, right? Yeah. That's all we're doing. Wave to the crowd. And the lady comes over to us and starts talking to us. Nasa starts heading on it. And she introduces herself as Congresswoman, something from Orange County. You think that would just sway Nasa from continuing to add on it? No, that didn't slow down Nasa one bit. Hey, give me a call when you get a chance. Let me write your number down in the back of your card. I'll give it back to you. I don't know. No, no, no, no. We're not going to call on that. Come on. It was probably like this. I don't know if you know I've spigated eight languages and we can have some dignitary talk after this. I will take you out for some coffee if you would like to have my number. I mean, many women want my number, but I will only give it to the people that I think are intellectually worthy of me. Obviously, being a Congresswoman like you are, I think that we might have some interesting conversation and hopefully we will have sex after. Oh, that's awesome. Yeah. You will jump in. No, well, I mean, I have something Nasa's story. But you got the best Nasa story. You know all the scoop on him. Yeah, well, well, well, let me just take his mother is from Serbia, right? And the father is Egyptian. So of course, you know, we talked many times and then as Tom said, Nasa was all over every goal that he can possibly convince into the conversation. So back online, he told me, yes, you know, my mother and father, they told me basically one woman can never be in that for the man. So I went to dinner with his parents, I posted a picture in Instagram as well. In other words, his wife, this friend, father, mother, and sister. And so he goes, okay, you know, he's kicking me under the table. Ask, ask my mom. Just tell me then let me ask, but on my language, right? So the visitor doesn't understand something English. He's Serbian. So I ask her this, okay? I would just like to know if it's true that you erased Nasa, you know, be the idea that one woman is not for the man. And then she looks like this. Of course, I can one woman be in that for the man. I, you know, are you crazy? One woman cannot be in that for the man. And Nasa, three of them, like his love, when he's like laughing like this, it's a funny, a lot of fucking insurbing. Yeah, anyway, but he was raised that way that was normal. Yeah, so he was just accepted. So after that, I didn't ask any other questions. That explains a lot in me, that's right there. You just told now I and really understand Nasa's whole mindset. Yeah. Right. When you have a model like that, you know, how can you replace it, right? Yeah, but I have the things that I really had to issue with Nasa and we talked about this all time. And like you said, Nasa, you know, you're all they see good in people. You're all they're in people are nice and feel they prove otherwise. Let's say yes, of course. So what do you think? Oh, no, no, no, no, I think everybody's in Nasa. And feel the three of them. You're going to bring it up. Yeah. Everybody's going to bring it up. And let's be proved for the people. Yeah. And then we'd have a hard time proving anyway, right? Yeah. But the head issue now, I was constantly like fighting with him until one point, you know, he came up to me and said, did you change your mind? And because I had the issue with a few people that end up really being in Nasa's. Yeah. And I trusted him too much, but she had a good time. I see a point, but I'm going to stick for this. And I win your race, sitting away, you believe in people and good in people, you know, stay to that great. But let's just- Oh, but Mills, I want to just give a little before you finish. You know, it's funny that you know, you say that and I think this is, you know, to not give a little bit of an inspirational message to people, you and I are very similar like that. We're very trusting in people. We believe in the good way. We like to see the good in everyone. Even though a lot of people, you know, have issues and they- and they- and they disappoint us, you know, whether it be, you know, business, you know, relationships that you've lost money on or people who have disappointed you maybe even even people you're in a relationship with. But at the end of the day, you know, when you have that positive attitude about life and about people and you're seeing the good in everything, you always wind up bouncing back better than you were before. And you- you seem to live a hat. I feel like people like us live a happy or longer life, whereas people who are very negative and see that always looking for something, you know, some conspiracy and everything, those people tend to be very unhappy people in their lives and they usually don't live that long. So I think there's something too that the idea of looking for the positive and everything that happens in life and looking for the good in people because we know it's there might not come out all the time, but we know it's there. I think that's a better mental outlook on life. And I think a lot of people say adopted that more would be happier in the lives that they are leaving. Absolutely. If you share the love, you love people, love your neighbor, love the stranger, right? If you can give, not take. It's a much greater gift. I mean, and if you just make those little steps that if something not sooner go to open it and ask people for something out of the that's that's how it was raised. But a lot of is something that is missing nowadays. That's for sure. I'm glad that they view it. That's right. And if you just somebody does you wrong, they say, mostly people, they're going to get their car man. I don't want anything better to have to do them. You know, just because they did me wrong. So now I should be changing my mind and wishing somebody some ill will. You know, no way. But before I forget because that's super funny story about eating, eating, we were in Dubai. But this time I was with the Ronnie Coleman jetjep Marsh, Flex Wheeler, Artuger in Hong Kong, 1982, Boloyangian virus there. So of course, Bolodian speaking, there's a time and there was at that time hardly anybody is spoken with there. So when you go there, like you try to order food, it would be impossible. But that time, it's just the Bruce Lee movie. You were sort of some boat and you know, like, uh, enter the dragon when they bring up different foods. Okay. So Ronnie and Artuger, that eating something that you said come on. They're eating like crazy. I can't determine what it is. So it's so the girl, what is it? Oh, chicken. It's great. And the Ronnie's eating and then somebody is translating. And let's not that chicken. Right is it? Right. Oh, oh. There they go. Ronnie, this is this rat ever tasted man. Milo, this was Boloyang. The one who was in the entrance of the dragon. Oh, yeah, he's in. He's in. Yeah, I'm not why I knew it was Sunday, but I never seen Milo Bolo at the Venice scrolls. But yeah, Bolo was in the movie into the dragon. A lot of people didn't know he was a gold general regular. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, and he was, yeah, Boloyang was, yeah, you know, he used to be a muscular guy and that's a little bit of a record. How many pounds of a rat did Ronnie? I mean, Ronnie was eating like you can't even believe. But then I just remember that then because the face that he made, I mean, he was just stepping his face. You know, because okay, I owe the chicken salad there. Right. And I'm looking at this. I see everything, but chicken. But then it's a chicken skin. The only part of chicken they use for the chicken salad is chicken skin. It's very fatty in the food in Hong Kong. Very fatty. Yeah, but the argument and the, I mean, the two probably went the bathroom and threw out the body probably finished his meal. Sure. I said, Al Q, probably went the bathroom through the rat off. Ronnie probably finished his meal. That was a pretty different protein. Right. Oh, man. There you go. Good story. I think that he's going to put a cap on this. What we're probably going to do is split this up in a multiple episode. Yeah, this would not do justice if we just had it in one lobster episode. But it has been an absolute absolute pleasure. Tom, middle ocean. Of course, Dave, me having the absolute best seat in the house and enjoying listening to these stories. And I'm sure the fans are going to enjoy. I mean, between the three of you talking about 90 years of experience in bodybuilding and all the hilarious stories and all of course, the inspirational stories. This we talked about training. As we talked about, that equation, putting it all together training, the gear, the diet, and putting together the perfect physique. So gentlemen, thank you. And thank you again. Tom, me, Lo, Dave and our producer Tyler Shore. For everyone involved, I'm so big for you. Keep we'll see you next time. Hey, Dave, me, Lo, see you guys. Thanks, guys. Awesome. We're going to play the great show. We've been treating you after 15 years of the drama. I enjoyed the show a lot.

I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. To use only top of the line formulations, does for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Welcome back to Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Polumbau and today's guest is a very special one. He was the 1997 NPC National Champion. He was a really good IFVV pro and he's been missing an action a little bit and we found him and we're bringing him back today. I got to tell you the first time I saw this guy was at the 1995 NPC Nationals. I looked up on stage. Don Long was the shoe into win and all of a sudden I know where we see this guy up on stage and we're like who's that and the guy I'm talking about. The guy who was up in that stage is Tom Prince and he's here today. Welcome Tom. You left the bodybuilding world at some point. We're going to get to that whole story and you just disappeared. You didn't want you just completely dissociated yourself with that. You were on top of the game. You were like a guy we saw all the time. You were in Gold's Venice. You lived the bodybuilding lifestyles we like to say. How difficult was it for you to just detach and leave? I did good question. Not very much at all. To let me say it this way. Not the time. Not only did I have kidney issues but I also have lingering other physical issues. I've got zero cartilage in my left shoulder. Welcome to the club. Welcome to the club. I got two shoulder replacement. Right in the club. I've got 50% range of motion and my left shoulder. I've got to throw some both knees. My back sucks for it. I had at that point probably completely burned out my body. Gotcha. Physically it just wasn't there anymore. It couldn't be. Even in the last year I competed last year, last year, two years. I'm really trained. 2002, 2003. I'd already had a change of my workouts to going mostly like higher reps. Right. I hated it. I'll be honest. I hated it. I don't know how it keeps in the gym. You're still training. Maybe it doesn't matter if you didn't resolve it. But doing shoulder presses for, you know, and you got set up as a performing interview. You know what I was doing? Like, 225 for 27, 28 reps. You came like a thing. Like how many reps did you do this for? Right. It was just was born. Yeah. Like it always somebody building, between the way things hurt and the training. Bodybuilding is no longer what I knew bodybuilding to be. Right. So this was the reason I was in the sport I loved. Sure. At that point, you know, you hear football players talk about that. You know, or basketball players, you have these injuries and, you know, like all of a sudden, like it takes to the point away. Well, I told people that I said, when I realized in a hit of point in my career that I felt that couldn't be better than the year before, that's when I stopped because I didn't want to see people to see watching me go backwards and progress, you know. And mentally, how do you do that? Mentally, how do you go into a no-one? Yeah. So, like, you know, like, do about 80% of what I think I need. Like, is that 80% going to be enough? Can I still do it? I mean, mental, that's that messes with your head. Oh, of course. I was faking my way through the last couple of years of competition. I couldn't shoulder press. I couldn't do any. You did 225 at least. I couldn't do anything. I was doing the side lateral machine and maintaining muscle mass, you know, doing it that way. So it is. I can understand your frustration for sure. But you, you dissociate yourself. I would, I would have thought initially, I would have seen you maybe as a coach because you were one of these guys that were very, you know, knowledgeable. You had a good educational background. You understood the science of nutrition and something that you had no desire to continue in that capacity. You know, and I, and I did for a couple of years. But I only really did it. So let's say 2004 I helped, uh, will Harris. Yeah. At the USA. And he and everyone is classes turned him from. And that's still my favorite all time. Person I helped moment. Right. Because I helped a guy who had never been in top five in the national show. Yeah. He was trying to finish it around. Yeah. In that's to him. To his credit. I'm not trying to take credit for that. But, you know, so 2005, 2006, I probably have to go 20 people a year each of those two years. But even that was while. The business my life when I started got going. Right. You know, initially, you know, my wife and I started a property manager company. Um, so we manage a part of buildings for owners that own a farm building. Right. Most of the owners, you know, they want to their absentee owners. Exhum the mail. They don't want to, you know, they don't want to be snitch and toilet and peating a farm. Yeah. You know. Um, so not though I'm doing that either. Yeah. You were sponsored by making sure the rent is collected and all that stuff. To all that stuff. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean, peating building the exteriors. Anything. If you can do it at an apartment building, we do it. That's a good service. Yeah. It's a good service. Right. You know, but yeah, and it's not glamorous in any way. You know, um, financial. It's a lot more lucrative than bond. I was going to say it's nice to be able to pay your bills though, right? And I have to worry about it if the supplement companies get a sign you check every month. You know, right. Absolutely. But so, well, what, but the first three months of our property manager of business. We'd even make a dime in the first month you made money. I love this one of my favorite stores. First month we made money. We made three hundred and thirty three bucks. Woohoo. Yeah. But you know, now I think you're going to start. Now I can be perhaps off the trend. But you guys were smart. But you guys started it while you was still making money and body building. So it wasn't like you needed the money. So, but then when you actually didn't need the money, you actually would, would do it well. So that's, it worked out right for you. Yeah, we started, yeah, we started the company in the middle of our, April of 2003. So it was, I started my contract. 2003, 2004, we were, that was far. That was far. We're making, we're still doing well overall. Yeah. Money wise. And then I had, and I kept two people's diets for 2005, 2006. Just to make sure that we, that are income was solved. Yeah, you was smart. You got to have a little strength in the income. I always tell people that. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Let's go, let's say, let's go back. Let's go back in time though first. Let's go back in time though first. Let's go back to this. Back to 1995. Don Long had placed third at the, You know, second at the nationals in 1994 behind the Mayo. He was the guy who was going to win it. I was third. I was tired. I was tired of second. Yeah, tired of second. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. I remember, yeah. Right. And remember. Right. Right. Right. Right. Me. And remember, I remember. And remember this as, Iamba. Was that, he said, I remember the first call out you were not in the first call out you were not in the first call out you were not in the first call out. You were actually thinking like all the way in the end. No one was even looking at you. now you have thrust into the limelight was that was that an exhilarating experience for you? Okay that. Yes. That was that was even to this day. When he nationals almost went in the night at champions competing at the Olympia the Mike all-time favorite show that I did and how I felt afterwards was in 95 nationals because that was like being on a meteor went literally riding it and meteor was yeah so I I'd only done two show was ever crazy. So this is the third shot I've ever done. No one knew who you are. I don't think the judges knew who you are. No one's not nobody nobody nobody except down long. Yeah. No no no no no no this is a true that year 1995 down guest post in West Palm Beach at a show in June. I went back stage because I was helping the front of mine that was in the show. Yeah. And I said say hello you know and he came over to me. He said Jesus man is like like wow you like you look really good. What show you did 24 and I said the national said he goes this isn't this national. We got now at the time I was like two 85 oh you were that big I know you've been digging that exactly five eight okay so you know he's like really I guess we'll see you there okay now that's part of the story okay so we'll hold that for later so go to the 90 foot so we go to go to lands right I'm sitting the front wrong little at way it's by myself. Everybody's about to start back as you can get yeah as you can get in the way you know and Don comes in walks all over into the front pops down next to me he's like hey Tom how you doing now I'm a stun year number me right but so we waited next to each other shir cans everybody will buy the way the whole room stopped from Don went away in oh sure like he said not only was he the favorite his face was on the cover of the of the of the program right he had a vibrant he had a vibrant ad that was in there was in that program that's right where I was in the state of caffeine like Jesus Christ mentioned going up a competing against the guy and to advertise an imminent you know he's easing ads and I totally crap you know so anyway so go to the first call up first call outcomes the call up four guys and I'm the last guy they call up oh by the way number 79 I was number 79 I'm gonna walk it out and I'm on the right end yeah and sure now so once they're the top through top where we go through up our poses they put three guys back they put back Don and during me off to the side they roll sitting down. Kevin the roll comes back he's rubbing down shoulders and you're sitting on the floor next to me and you're and you're flexor keeps going God man I got this shit I got yeah I had to go he's done yeah I had to go he said he was better than everyone yeah right and I'm like and I'm like I didn't say anything okay but I knew John Don was down with just shaking his head I just kept my head still I didn't know this guy Kevin the wrong on the other hand was like smile on you know like so this is this is great so when I let it go at that so we go back out there we're gonna have one more line up we're gonna have one more call out and I I I I was like I don't look to that just face I couldn't see if it was but I knew it was gonna be me and John if you're had this like big like jelly roll hanging off his normal yeah he was always that shape of a little bit no way he's gonna be like I just couldn't even though I was nobody there's no way I could have this guy could be me yeah not net conditioning it's sure it's in they called out me and Don and that what in a flash it was like a light bulb going off when they called out just me and Don yeah there's a boom also in that in that moment you realize oh he shit I might be a problem yeah and I'm just going to the show just to see you like hey man you either got it already done don't find out if you don't you'll get your ass kicked hat and had it flowed under the back of retirement but the been okay Tom how did you flowed under the radar for for those years because I mean you put a lot I mean you were big you weren't what you showed up and you were ready to be a pro ready I mean really I mean you just didn't had have any stage experience at that point which was that was that was the only amateur aspect of you you know you know I love you know I love first one of the Minnesota until it saw a Minnesota nobody knows you yeah until I was twenty four right in four to twenty five and then we moved to Florida when I moved to Florida people started it gets an only that was when I did like when I did the most of Florida there yeah in 1994 I met Jim Manion as a matter of fact top Jim I even called Jim Manion after the show because he made a combat to like the head judge about me and I just wanted to hear what he thought yeah okay I didn't even know that wasn't like maybe you don't call Jim Manion you didn't even know he was really right yeah well I mean I did but I didn't you know I like so what do you mean a combat like well that kids like you've got a really good lucky is a definitely a national a lot of them you should be a national right just wanted to hear from him to be honest I could have one tried believe it right not like I doubted myself but just you know that was a hell of a compliment from the top guy sure also I I call him and spent about like two minutes out of all the money is great and you know like end of like end of story but like a seven you're right nobody knew me what we do you doing for like work I know you were a student you were like a perpetual student like I was at at some point but what we what you actually doing was going to grad school and uh minutes of Jim okay what Jim will you managing you know it's not there anymore it was a world Jim and in boy and beach floor a boy and beach okay alright I remember that yeah yeah what do you live now by the way I'm gonna keep tomorrow I'm on the west coast oh here in the right guy okay yeah I'm gonna ride everyone wants it in Florida I guess when you get all the uh I'm a whiter but I I loved I love I love it I wish I would have moved down here earlier I now that I'm here man what I couldn't when you lived in New York yeah like I know like even though I happened to love New York yeah but I love New York between like May and September yeah exactly you know like it's too the best great thing about Florida was you'd walk in from the parking lot and you'd already be sweating and warm up yeah you know you take you like three minutes to warm up and you're ready to go I love it I love it I'm gonna have to be in a check-in 20 minutes I know you're a shatter than the part with the heap of last thing I went out the Venice you know we used to go out there all the time out of sick you had to go there because that was where the the epicenter body building was and I really wanted to move there I I thought very hard and long about moving out there at Conner's was trying to get me to move out there and then I said you know what I can't I don't think these people my father would use the expression of fake people called him paper mishay they're like paper mishay people right here I couldn't wrap my hands around the people out there and I thought that I I was like a New York authentic New York guy and I just I like the idea of New York not because of the weather but because I felt like it was more motivating it's I felt like no one worked out in California you know and I was afraid I'd get lazy out there and that's why I didn't move to the honest with you I mean you definitely have to be you know your own in and of yourself the wrong separate entity you do like I you know like you're not you're not going to you're not going to be able to rely on all the other guys in the gym that are so motivated right but all this energy you know I mean like some of the average people in there I don't like I don't want to name names but some of the average people have more energy in drive than some of the people that maybe should have been a little more into it did you did you find when you moved out to California that that it was you think it was good for you or do you think it would have been better if you had not moved out there I mean at the time you got to remember this is pre-inner that yeah okay or basically you know I'm the internet was not a bit thing but I'm I moved out here and at the end of May in 1998 it was just these are the big money out here got you you know it's easier to go do magazine shoots you know I give you it like we were talking about the 2001 that a champion is a little bit earlier yeah you know I did do I did three photoshoot before the show I ended up doing five photos shoots after the show well like that's expected that's it if you're a magazine and you got to fly people in from places to do eight photos shoots you know you use them yeah for and after it's a lot of my I mean it is just easier if they can call pick up the phone and call somebody that's sure I've been down the road the ten minutes down the road when I lived literally ten minutes from events scroll did did you love that body building lifestyle in Venice you know wake up early in the morning you go to the gym you know you go out to the firehouse you eat that did you like love that whole that whole scenario yes yeah I loved I mean you know the like the like the at the firehouse like you know you know when you talk about all these things like you know the jam and I think of the people of course yeah you know the people of Venice goes down the front of the foot was hundreds and hundreds of them we talked about the firehouse the firehouse is awesome you know I think of the owner and he's like a like a homata yeah you know it's a little Japanese lady you know the firehouse she's cool it could be you know like you were a fixture every time I went out there I know we see a firehouse walking on the street I mean I max muscle I mean I knew all the hangouts you guys hang out you and Bob you know Max muscle is fun yeah yep but it was like just to give you an example like it's a firehouse Bob Chigaroa got he's got a dish named after some but you guys might be selling more money than anyone else in the history of the fire there's literally we ate their twice the day six days a week you know so I'll do you try to put me up there too maybe try to you if I had you be just trying because he lived right across the street yeah yeah you live in the firehouse in there clotting over the calm building yes right there's over the powerhouse there right yeah exactly used to be there but you know Bob's got his dish named after himself you know like you wanted the name of dish after me and I asked for not to I said I don't he's done but I don't want to see my name on the menu and I can't come in here but it's Bob's personality better you know yeah Bob definitely is he's worthy of a food dish for sure now now let me you you remind me before the show and it's funny I didn't even remember it's the for I the first time we actually met was at a guest posing that you Jay Cutler and Lee Priest were doing at the I think it was the one of the John Kampers shows out there in Jersey I think I was out there watching I think John John Kamper up at today wanting to come out here and jump on stage these guys you're gonna be competing with them with the nation's in 96 and it was it was a lot of fun I didn't remember until you sparked my memory but it was Lee Priest it was you Jay and me right right that was the hey day when you could get guest poses it was like you know and brim it people don't remember there was no social media there was no people didn't have access to what you look like or I looked like or leave looked like you had to go to the show as to watch the guest posing and then interact with the people after with get pictures and photographs and buy 8 by 10 pictures did you enjoy the whole circuit you know the guest posing circuit and something that in the very beginning in the beginning I did when I was a name officer and maybe the first couple years I was a pro you know what I liked being at the shows yeah like physically being there and physically hanging out with old people that had met and got to know and even if I didn't know anybody you know some of the just those things I had were you know I remember guest those are not full of Tennessee and having that be like I had a blast I didn't know one person yeah what I got before I got there you know but it was just fun the what ended up sort of happening over time I hated the travel part of it and the fly around yeah I averaged um 20 to 2 weekends a year going somewhere that's crazy yeah and you're not you know December January February you're not doing anything right so it's 20 weekends in nine months yeah it's about every other weekend for the nine months it was good money like that you can make good money although you were probably on the contract with leaders so you probably had a lot of required appearances you had to make too we had to just I did a six a year yeah that's a good six required but it mean even still like like if you're making an appearance at the Olympia looking at a booth that counts as an appearance even if you're not guest posing but it was just an actual physical travel I hated it I wanted to be home what was your what was your best year you made money wise would you say no I can tell you exactly what it was little over 140 grand wow yeah so uh that was 2001 so I which we 99 I kept track of all this stuff because I had somebody sort of tell me this and I thought it helped me a lot Chris Kromer was the first guy that ever talked to me about money and how pros me money and all that and his contract leader and some between between 98 and 2004 I average 130 grand a year that's awesome and I mean that's not that's not huge and that was good that was good money back then it's good and you know as you if you can't if you add my wife making 50 grand with it now it's 180 grand now it's a pretty good overall income right you know what yeah we were gonna be loaded but we were doing well that was so many of money to be able to live and save how do you guys make it up money to live not enough money to save and meaning the money to put some away for a business one day yeah that was smart because a lot of guys don't save a dime I mean flex wheel is said you even admitted you didn't save anything used to buy you know stereo's for his car that was 35 grand and you know they didn't realize that but you know eventually the party's over you know and then you know you got to you got your left with what you left with you know you know I don't think any of these guys would mind me saying this so I don't think I'm definitely not this isn't an knock on them in any way but between flex and Chris Kermir Paul Delet none of them saved it yeah you know they live like this is gonna continue forever right and it's just even though they're working good money and all of them in more than I did yeah you know at the end you know like you said they had nothing left let me ask you a question Tom because after that that 95 uh nationals we replaced second you were really on top of the world you were doing photoshoot I mean your face was all over the place did the pressure get you a little bit because I know that you had problems peeking out at the next couple shows that you did I remember one title to speak you in uh 97 USA I mean that you could have won that show if you wanted to you know you look good there but I felt like you just hadn't you like some of some reason you couldn't duplicate that 95 conditioning what talked to us about you know what was going on psychologically at that point with all that pressure yet on you so the 97 USA I tried to do a couple things a little bit different but again one of them was you know I was always a little bit um um hyper motivated you know hyper strict with thing always right and I was a kind of person that didn't let anybody in the hotel room didn't let you know I when I was dieting you know almost didn't talk for 16 weeks barely spoke right you know I was still focused on what I was doing that and and I was always a little bit envious of other guys that could get away with them might not be in quite that I don't even quite that discipline I don't mind the discipline but guys you could just relax a little bit more they were not as neurotic about what they were doing right exactly you know and a criss-premiera again great example yeah he could be a little more relaxed I don't like I don't know if I need to be that relaxed riding a tube no nothing no stress ever the guy has right right yeah I like that which is wasn't me you know and so that year at the USA you know a couple people want to come over a little child room hang out so let people in you know I didn't mean you're looking me that morning the morning of the night show we're the morning of pre-judging and I'll be honest like I being relaxed does not work for me yeah absolutely does not work for me there's a couple of things I probably missed or is a little bit laid on or because you know the morning after the after you know the day after the show you always look so good yeah that was dressed as drawing you wake up you feel great or feel better you know no stress amazing how much better the body looked to no stress you know so didn't that did not happen so what what went wrong tell me I mean what would you let's put me in I see what what what was the main thing that that that happened it just screwed things up I was got a person wrote down what time every meal was yeah more down every if there was a pill no matter what it was had that written down I didn't do it that year or that not that year but just at the show you were weighing in it in other words oh it was like an hour late with food like that's what you know not hungry you know you know stop you know stop it can pills all at the same time you know stop normally I instead of like we're a little still what was distracting you that there had to be some some some some kind of event or something that was going on that was just keeping you from being so focused I mean here you are trying to get your pro card you were the number one guy was the pressure getting to you or was there something else like if the pressure got to me got to me before the show you know we were we're going out on the weekends every Saturday night but I never never missed a workout never missed a cardio session well on Saturday nights we've dropped some clubs you know between midnight and five in the morning so you're part one some days yeah we're part you know well that too at that point and just for that year right you're in the 96 Nationals in the 97 USA you know I did it too much and you know someone chat came into the picture after that that was like the first conversation he and I had yeah was hey I heard you're a little bit of a party or is that true and I said no you know or is that true yeah it's true what we see you were done you were in denial so you you had a Sadie self hey do I how bad do I want does I got a clean up my act a little bit here right exactly and chaps like hey you know it's not a problem you that you want to be a partner but it's going to work with me you can't be a partner right so he he basically I'm just waiting on the line like listen like I'm not going to waste my time just turn around yeah you know what

I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. To use only top of the line formulations, does for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. When you started working with Chad, was there a big change in the way you approached diet and supplements or was it just more of like you have accountability to this guy now? Right, the accountability part of it. As a matter of fact, like when it came to the food itself, I remember just telling, like listen, you don't need a break down every meal. You tell me how many grams of carbs it does a protein on me. Like I can do that. Sure. I can divide it by six and divide it by five meals a day and break it all down from there. How many grams of fat do you want me to eat? That's fine. How much protein you know, basically even let me do one of the cardio. I don't know what I want it. But it was more of the accountability part of it. And I told the story before, the thing I love the most maybe in why I'll forever be such a great friend is the phone rang every Friday night every night. You call me every literally six days a week. The phone rang at midnight one the morning. I'm like, what Chad, it's one in the morning. I'm so happy. I don't tell. I'm pretty good. I didn't figure it out the entire night. You want to make sure you are home, right? Right. Yeah, I didn't figure it exactly. I just show her. Like he's called him to make sure I'm home. I'm not out. I'm not out. I'm not out. You know? But, you know, you know, he had fun with the two of them. By the way, I'm sure he did. You know, not only would it be, not only would we have a kind of situ on the morning. He's gone all right. I'm going to go, you know, Kim just put a tattinous pizza in the microwave. But you're not calling me, keeping me home from Friday and you're bustling my phone. I'm not even beating the phone. Come on. Yeah. But you know, you know, back in that time, so you did that for me. You did that for me. That I did. But you know, I did the same thing when I was competing. I used to go to bed like four in the morning. I would go literally. I go to the diner at like 12 midnight. I would eat like a full fucking crazy dinner just because, you know, we wanted to get bigger and bigger and bigger. It was never, there was never. It didn't matter what time it was, you know, you do crazy stuff like that. Absolutely. Absolutely. 90 seven assials you come in. You, uh, we, we're, we're you happy with the way you look. Was that a good look for you in your mind? Um, that was a look that I knew that champ wanted to go for. Yeah. And then of course I agreed with it. Like it was an at that point after having been second three times. Yeah. You know, twice the national's the ones of the USA. But I didn't care. I just wanted to, like, I wanted to win. You know, so I was, I wasn't going for. My best look. I was going for what's it going to take to win? No, what was Chad strategy? It just to bring you in as hard as possible. He was going to be right. And if that was, you know, if we overdided by 10 pounds, yeah. And so be it. What did you wait that show to your member? I've been doing two, three on stage. I was like, that morning I was 235. So you would have liked to have been your 10 times. I don't look right. You would have liked to have been I bet 10 pounds heavier, right? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Well, you remember the guest boson, uh, uh, a little Chicago and uh, J. Cutler was there. And I was like, the J was like, man, you're ready. Jesus, you're going to be able to hang on to that for five weeks. And I'm like, I think so. I said, no, I told you, let me call Chad while I got you sitting here. So you can tell him that. And sure enough, I'm getting the full chat. And Chad's like, yeah, you know what? I just had, uh, he was friends with Chuck Sanna. Right. No Chuck. Yeah, he had Chuck, I know Chuck. I'm friends with Chuck Sanna. Chuck saw me, he says he's still need to lose 15 pounds. Like what? Oh, shit. Oh, my god. 15. Like I mean, ultimately I lost a 15 pounds on. Yeah. Chuck was right. I went to 35. Wow. That's right. I was basically 250 that day. So, you know, but I really want you to exactly like I did. I do say if I would have stopped right then. Right. But I like that look for me. What did you weigh when you when you I placed third at that night of champions in 01? That more 257. Wow. So that was my scale with me to the toes shows. That was your best look. I think and your biggest problem. You look to me at least. Yeah, definitely. What did you do anything special for that show was it just a accumulation of constantly getting better and better and better up into that point? Yes, that matured of years. And I sort of, I guess I started down. You know, like just believe in the trust in my genetics a little bit. Yeah. You know, like believing that like, like listen, you don't you don't need to do this any you don't need to do anything anybody else is doing. Right. You know, I used to have a great one line or that he's to, you know, try to use that I came up with, which was this don't defense and body building. You know, there's nothing you're going to do to stop anybody else. Sure. I think it about anybody about just like worry about you. Did you worry about the other people? Did you study all the other pictures and say, Oh, I got to be this guy. I'd be this guy. I mean, a lot of people do that. Um, not so much, but if a guy like with, well, that is a whole different thing. But yeah, like if the 96 nationals going into it, I'd seen Jay as an amateur. Like two years before. Yeah. When you did the tournament champions and just a great front of my, I thought Jim was coming exactly like you did, which was a little bit soft and a little bit watery. Yeah. I'm not saying it was way off. He wasn't way off. But he couldn't have done a harder. Well, he didn't win the overall. So the problem was, yeah. Yeah, he was also 23 years old. Yeah, he didn't win the overall. So obviously wasn't as fast at that show. That should have been your show. I think everyone would agree. I mean, I got sick. So like, and that was the other thing about that show that, you know, if you're an happen, you could stick right before the show. There's nothing you can do. Pulling water doesn't work. Things don't, you know, but it was tough. But he was exactly like, you know, he's going to look. So yeah, sometimes I did, but it only worked like one guy. Maybe. Yeah. That was a frustrating show for me. Because I was like at my best, really, at that show. Even though I had a little bit of a leg injury, but you couldn't really see it. You're four. I was four. Yeah. You know, Warville, Berk was there, which it wasn't the Orville that had to be became. It was much smaller there. And I knew you guys were both off. But I also knew structurally that I couldn't beat you guys. And that was frustrating for me. Because I was kind of at my best. I was probably the biggest guy in stage. And I was hard. But I knew structurally I wasn't as good as you guys. So it was frustrating for me to know the, hey, this is pretty much, you know, my best and I can't beat you guys. And so, but I was happy that I placed it was my first top five place to get the national. So for me, it was a thrilling thing to be up on stage. You guys, because you guys had a lot of magazine exposure and stuff like that. And so it was a cool show. And that's it. And I think we went out after was did we go out with to some club, what you guys? We went to eat. I think what you guys after that show, right? And yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, maybe yeah. Yeah, I think that's the first time I kind of sat down and talked to. We kind of went over the, you know, what all the, all the stuff that was going on and all the, you know, gossip and stuff like that. But it's interesting because once you turn pro, you had a tough time becoming the pro that everyone thought you were going to become like you just weren't showing up. It like looking like the conference we wanted. What happened? What, I mean, you had Chad there. Why, why are you having problems like, you know, bringing yourself in at your best? That old one night of champions was the first time you showed up, you know? Right. Okay. So the first, my first first show was a 99 night of champions. They got like 13. Yeah. Remember they were direct testing at that? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, they said they were going to direct test. And they didn't. Yeah. And they didn't direct test at that. Then the championship is never dated the night of champions. The guys from the, the guys who were supposed to be taking the drug test or take the yo analysis test. Yeah. Some of them never made it every year. Yeah. To me, that's the way you're not wanting to pay for it. Now of course. Of course. Yeah. But so that happened that year. If I were to lost another like 8 pounds of water, I would have been fine. But my body wasn't super super dry all the time normally. Oh, the diabetic can screw me. But Chad had the whole, the whole, you know, alternative, you know, the, the direct they weren't testing for him. Shocked that he wasn't able to dry it out with those. He's talked about that. That's why I'm mentioning it. You know. They, they had a list out of the diuretics that they tested for. And then there were ones that weren't on the list. And that's the ones he was using. Yeah. Gemini actually was on the list. I, you know what, at the time, I didn't even, I didn't even know that. Oh, you know, I did. I did. I did. All right. Okay. Without, you know, what happened in 2000? In 2000, because I didn't look the way I wanted the night of champions. I thought I'd go back to just like, you know what, you know what, I mean, I'm an overdid. I just a little bit and pull this off me and not, you know, do a little bit smaller and right. You know, see how I do. And I did okay. Didn't, you got a ninth of the Iron Man. Yeah. You failed, but failed the directress there too. Oh, they took out the count. They did test the that one. Yeah. So I failed that directress. No, it's years later, by the way, they had threw out all the directress thing. Yeah. And said that wasn't an issue, but, you know, I like to, I look at that shows when I, when I look at the pictures from that show from the Iron Man and the Arnold that year. Yeah. Like I looked, I looked. Yeah. But you got to remember as a pro, you're doing, it's not just a time you look in a picture by yourself, you know, you're competing against guys. Of course. You need to be better than the next. Right. Right. You know, so if you're over nine a little bit, most guys when they're over nine a little, they musta doesn't come off evenly. Right. Well, you lose something. The wild fact. The shoulders are quite as round and your other facts aren't quite as full. And, you know, you lose in spots. You know, so, I mean, and I, again, after that, saying they're back to two of that. So going forward to 2001, I just threw everything out and like, you know what? I'm gonna go back to what I did then, 96 USA. And I'm going with that. And mail that. You look great. I, you know, I actually thought you should have won the show. I wanted to just put it out on the record. I, when I see, you know, when I showed you up that, I was like, this guy should have won this show. You were the biggest guy, you were the hardest guy. You know, Dexter was really good. He was sharp. Orville was good. But I thought he could have been a little tighter. I really thought they were going to give it to you. I did. Hey, you know, I had so many good things happened to that show that I, I don't consider to the negative. Yeah. That was thrilled about what I looked. That's thrilled as a call, fine to the Olympic. That was a big thing. Yeah. You know, getting to go to the Olympic was cool. paycheck was nice, but I don't know, I care about that. But I did care about filing, getting my condition right. Sure. It's the worst thing, I did only real negative as a kid from that. Because I know, that was the last time I could be to Ron's healthy. Yes, and that's that's why I want to get to this the final, you know, part of the interview was the kidney issues. A lot of people don't. May know, may not know, you know, you started having kidney issues when was the first time you started noticing that you had what having problems? I didn't realize it was a kidney issue, but again, the two days before the Olympia three days before the Olympia. In 2001, I had these little little pockets of water. You know, and like so, like there'd be like, so pack a water on the inside of my quads that wasn't there on the outside of my quads, right? And which had never, I'd never seen ever before on myself in a first show. Looking at yourself, but like, what else that? Like, why is this sort of like if there's on me, if there've been a little didn't film a water, it was all pretty evenly distributed, right? You know, not like, she either but not here. You know, so that was the first time I didn't know what it was. It's the middle of the Olympia. Believe it or after the week later in Manchester, England, kind of figured it out. Like, okay, well, just don't carve up as much and see if we can keep the water out of you. Sure. So you never had it, you know, and I was trying everything I could to think of to, like, somehow manipulate this. Don't in 2002, saying, the problem just got worse. You know, that was a big sign was almost watered your whole. My ankles were really bloody. Yeah. How much water I was hiding from blood work or anything like that and noted, you know, checked your creatine level or anything about it. You know, what I, I didn't until it was way late. Yeah. You know, get ready. You know, it didn't, again, in the off season, you know, me being a little bit bloody didn't really bother me or no, did I, that was normal. Sure. I mean, you were for you. I hope a three, 15, right? Like, through a five, through a, I mean, that's a lot of wait for guys to do your height, you know, I mean, right. Yeah. And well, you know, okay, your socks are a little bit in debt to it. Yeah. In your ankles. Well, yeah, that's everybody. Sure. You know, I didn't think I was unique in that way. Um, but so I didn't really pay attention. Once a diet started, just my own, you know, my natural personality when I was dieting. Yeah. Yeah. Don't talk to anybody. I don't want to be bothered with anything. You know, I could have just shoot not really wasn't going to the doctor because any diet started. Don't make matters to this show. You don't want to hear any lectures from the doctors. Yeah. I understand. Right. Yeah. Exactly. Oh, yeah. And you know, when you go to the doctor, like, you know, right, you get all the questions. You know, how your liver runs on just slightly. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Me and every other body of the liver, whatever. Yeah. You know, you know, you know, you know, you're the same thing from all of what was the, what do you remember was the first time you had, you, you finally did the blood work and you saw the crazy creatinine number. Uh, I had a side of pull out of the 90 champions in 2003. And I went to the doctor and my creatinine came back and uh, like five, one. Oh, my god. Oh, shit. Yeah. That's how I was like, whoa, you know, like, now 3.9 is kidney failure. Right. 6.9 is acute kidney failure, meaning you don't never come back. Right. Like, once you get past that, it's over. Right. That's far should a kidney's go. So I'm still slightly, again, in my head, again, a little too motivated from my own good. Yeah, as well as one of my favorite lines. I've been busy using motivation when it should have been using common sense. You know, and so five point, five point one, I can get it down. I'm just stopped taking everything. Right. So I'll stop taking everything for just about, I mean, literally about six months. And I didn't shrink them, hardly at all. Right. You know, I mean, I never want blood to 80. But I still train it because I'm so e, you know, to your stomp down the body with a lot of protein and all that stuff, right? Right. Yep. Okay. And it was going to try to come back in 2004. And after it was after the 2004, trying to the pro-Iriman, that ended. What was your kidney function after that six months of like taking off the gear? Wait, or down, wait down. Oh, I think I'm down. Like two, two, seven. Okay. Which is still high, but you know, the high, but it was much better. Right. And in my head, it was like, oh, it's, again, in my head, it was better. Yeah. But it really wasn't. You probably should have started trying to drop some weight. But, you know, in hindsight, it wouldn't have mattered. It seemed like as you don't you have focal, gourmetly or sclerosis? It right. Yeah, that's, you know, focalist mental segmental. Same mental, the marical, the sclerosis. Yeah. Yep. So ultimately, I didn't realize that was a problem at the time. Mm. You know, at the time, they, at the time, they told me it was all the, um, yep, after the life was taken. Right. Although cellulbrecks, I was taking cellulbrecks, right. Different were shoulders, my knees. Yeah. It's a, it's a, uh, it gives out to people that have, that are authentic. No, I'm, I'm sorely anti-inflammatories. I'm not good for the kidney. Well, you know, so yeah. Yeah. It was, it was helping me a lot. But it was, of course, it's killing the kidney. Right. It probably wasn't helping the situation that was going on in the, right. Right. At what point did you start realizing, hey, I'm, I'm, I'm in pretty much dire straits here with these kidneys. Did they, did they say to you at some point, hey, you're, you're, you're going to lose these kidneys. After the, I remember the, I remember the, yeah, 2004. Yeah, I didn't take for a long. And that was months. And you went on to Texas right away. Is that what happened? Uh, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, I got, I got really sick. And I went to the hospital and they did a, you know, and at that point, my kidneys were, 8 point, my, create and the level is 8 point 1. Wow. And there were done. Yeah. And now I just said, in, in hindsight, like what you just said, I've got a genetic condition. Sure. That I was born with that would have come out at some point regardless. Right. Might have been, you know, five years after that, but who knows? Yeah. Right. I mean, so, uh, yeah, I mean, I might have happened earlier or might have Yeah. But that I, I'll never know. Let me ask you this question. When, when you find out now, I mean, now there's a reality check it. That's it. You're done. There's no more body building at this point. You know, right now I'm, I want to try to save my kidneys. I want to figure out how I'm going to, you know, live the rest of my life. How, you know, what kind of a mental state you're going to, there's got to be a dramatic acute depression right after you find something out like that because it's like, here's your whole livelihood, you know, and now that it's been taken away from you. You know, what, for me, there wasn't. And, and nothing more than, um, you know, I'm not even saying like, I was so mentally tough that, you know, that, that won't happen to me. That happens to other guys. Uh, not at all, but, you know, I never viewed myself just only a body building. Right. You know, body building was something I did, not who I was. Right. You know, so, you know, like, I, I, I was thought like, I'm a reason of my intelligence individual. You were a piece of the, I, I didn't do that at job. And work for regular job. I mean, am I going to be asked passion in about it? No, probably not, but, but I will be, but I, I think, I think, I'd be honest, and I think that passion, that I have for body building, I think that's within me. Yeah. I mean, that's in here. Of course, of course. Of course. Of course. Yeah, but, you know, we're like that initially though. A lot of people don't, can't come to grips with that. They can, you know, their whole identity a lot of times is body building, you know? Right. I knew that. And that, that passion was like, it's like a laser sight on a gun. I could take that like to focus on that. I knew. Right. You know, really kind of person loves a challenge. You know, you can make anything a challenge. Right. You know, do you watch the Michael Jordan thing with, uh, you know, talking to Michael Jordan documentary on the SPN? Yes. You know, Jordan would like a little bit of a find anything to get mad at, to find anything to make a challenge. Right. And that's all he's doing. Right. Why are you doing the best guy in the NBA? What's he got? What's going to keep me motivated? Right. You know, any little thing you can find to latch on to the focus on, tell, kiss them off. Right. You know, he's getting a two or two tell of this, stimulate his adrenaline and make him mad. He can go on and driven and, you know, yeah. And so do I love property management? What I do now? Do I, am I, am I as passionate about that? As there was a lot of body building? Well, no, not exactly. But do I love the challenge of business and something that I never and any idea that I would do? Yeah, I love that. Yeah. But that's why successful time because you don't, you don't get up. So that's obvious. That was there ever a point where you would nervous like, hey, you know, what I'm, I'm, I'm I die because, you know, because of the fact that I don't have kidneys left, you know, I mean, that has to go through your head at some point, you know? Yeah, what goes to your head? Um, just to carry that, like just to piggyback off what you just asked. You know, when you get, when your on dialysis, the dialysis machine only cleans about 80% of your blood. Right. Well, if it's cleaning 80% of your blood, what is the other 20% of the toxic blood going? Like where are those toxicities going in your body? Sure. There has to be a reason why it's got to be a reason why those your body wants those out and now has, now can't get rid of them. Sure. You know, so eventually that's going to start building up. You might start having other problems. Right. Right. And, you know, and I've had a few other problems. That you, you did get a kidney transplant initially, correct? A day of the, before I did, didn't, the kidney transplant was really enough, how I ended up finding out that I've got FSTGS. Okay. You know, they did the transplant and four, five days after the transplant, they did a biopsy of the new kidney. Yeah. And that's when they told me, hey, we did a biopsy of this and your cells, or your blood's attacking the kids and your children. Oh, oh. Like a little bit right off the bat. Sure. Oh, that was a big, whether that was a gut punch. That was brutal. Who, who, who don't need a kidney? Was it a random person or? Well, yeah, random. Yeah. Oh, wow. Nobody in my family. Everybody's at my kids or two young. They both offered and between my mom and my wife, they weren't a match. Well, basically. So, you had this kidney and what did it last like two years you said? Two and a half. Yeah. It was that, I mean, it, it, did you realize, did you know it was coming to an end at some point where you like, because obviously, you were going to the doctor. Did we see it like, Ari Tom, you know, we're going to have to put you back into the analysis, is that when did that happen? I mean, I mean, they told me, excuse me, they told me that was going to happen right after the death of the results of the biopsy. So, I was still in the hospital, we're coming from the transplant. Well, they told me that. Right. And I remember that point saying, I'm, I want to go home. No, I want to keep you in the hospital for, to do a few more. I want to send me to something called for recess treatments. Right. I'm like, like, no, I'm going home. Get like, little and let me out of here. If this is going to die, how long is, how long was the kidney's last? I'm roughly, you know, about two years. Like, like, just send me home. Right. I will cover better at home. So, and just, you know, I mean, all you can do is say, you know what? I got, at that point, my business was really doing well. My wife and I are phenomenal. I've been married for 26 years now. Yeah. You're my kids were adults. Like, everything was going great. They shut my health. Yeah. You know, so, you know, I did, like, there was so much more positive than the other one was negative. I just said, screw it. I'm just kept it all in my life. What year, what year was it that you went back on dialysis? So, the transplant was in 2012. We're back in January of 2015. And you've been on the last five years, continuously three times a week? Yep. Is that, I mean, how is that? I mean, how is your health now? How do you feel doing dialysis, you know, like that? And why didn't you choose the route that Don long did, where he was doing it every night? Like, it's at home. Yeah, because I didn't want to do that? Oh, okay. Well, no, you know, again, you can do it at home. But like, I would rather prefer to be at a clinic and let them see me. Right. And let them, we have to do all that. I didn't want to do it at home. And because of some of those wrong at home, you gotta have somebody else that are with you. Yeah. You know, and what am I going to do? I didn't want to keep my life off every night while I was on dialysis. Right, I understand. You know, and I mean, she's got she works on my company too, of course. Right. Or it's not, it's our company, not my company. But, you know, she, I want her to have her own life. Sure. Her life wasn't taking care of me health-wise. Right. You know, like her, you know, so, you know, so, it's much easier. It was so, it was so, it's so easy to go, you know, two dials is getting it down there. I could answer the phone, taking calls at work, what was your dialysis? I got you, yeah. You know, I brought my, you know, little, bring my laptop with me. Got you. A little, I've got many with me. And work on the computer at more add dialysis. Right. And I can actually use that time. I'm not just sitting or sleeping. Right, you're actually working. I can't even. Right, yeah. You know, so, is that, I mean, is it my favorite, but I can, again, like I said, if you want to, you can turn anything in a, how do you feel? Now, how do you feel Tom, like, you know, on a regular basis, do you, have you adjusted to it? I mean, is your body adapted to the dialysis? I mean, I mean, you do it a long time now. I, yes, then, I mean, since, uh, watch it out, it's been 16 years. Yeah. If I don't count the tears of the transplant, um, yeah. I mean, it was better 15 years ago, because I was younger. Yeah. You know, not at 51. And, you know, it just start to, not feel as good afterwards. Right. You know, a little groggy for three or four hours afterwards, but, um, I don't know that if you'll get all with, what, what, what, you able to stop taking the anti-rejection drugs once the kidney, you know, stop functioning? Yes, thank God. Yeah, because that's, that's the worst part of it, I think, right? So, yeah, nobody tells you that prior to the transplant, nobody tells you, they said, oh, you're going to feel great. Don't worry about it. So, the anti-rejection medications, um, yeah, that you can keep your kidney. What they don't tell you is, I was a kind of person that would get sick about once every three years prior to that transplant, would the anti-rejection medication? I was getting sick like three or four times a year. Right, because your immune system is all- You know, it's all- It's all-right, yeah, you know, and, you know, maybe that's obvious to some people, but that wasn't obvious to me. Right, come on. Yeah. And by the way, you might get sick three or four times a year. Anybody who's coming contact with, that sneezes arise a cold, you're going to get, and I hate it. Like, I feel better on dialysis than I did with the transplant. That's- that's, yeah, that's a- It's weird that you and Don Long who kind of were 1995, you know, sitting next to each other at that way and you're both wound up with the, with kidney issues, which is just, you know, bizarre, you know, bizarre coincidents, really. Right. Now there's been a bunch of people, right? Yeah, well, that has really, that's true. But I'm just saying you guys were kind of like neck and neck at that show. Um, I guess- I guess it's better than going to jail for the rest of your life or trying to, for killing someone, so. I'd like your other body there. That's a whole other conversation, yeah. Yeah. When you look at the day that happened, yeah. When you could take that half in, right? We found out, Craig was going to jail. Yeah. This is all, again, we don't have to talk more Craig at all. Yeah. So Bob called me and said, this is the entire conversation basically. Yeah. First thing out of his mouth, he was, if I could name one guy in our industry, one guy in body, that committed murder, and we'll spend the rest of his life in jail. Who would just say, he barely got the words out, and I went, tell us. Okay, tell us. And I go, I go, I go, don't, I go, you're kidding. Don't tell me he did that. He's like, yep. Oh my God. Yeah, crazy. Not to- I don't know if I don't know what was. I didn't realize that I had to matter. A blood, what? Well, you do, I didn't know you knew Melissa, James, yeah. She, when Craig got, when Craig met her, he met her at the junior Florida when he was guest-posing. And he came back and he was telling me all about me, and I'm going to fly around to come stay with Kelly and I, and sure enough, he flew around. They came in and we went to Craig Kelly, Melissa and I, I mean, Craig Kelly and Melissa, and I went to the right. Right. Went to the flyouts together to eat a couple of times, and she didn't really, very super quiet. She didn't want to talk much about it. But, um, you know, just sad. She was like a fan, I think, really. They got roped in without their whole, you know, their whole mistake that they had going on. I think the whole rock star lifestyle they've lived in really. Right. I'm no question. Which, look, when you look at today's variables, I know you don't really follow the sport that much, but, you know, who do you like? Like, what physics do you say, hey, you know what? These are, this is a good physique, you know. Oh, I like kind. Is Craig going to beat this, you? Yeah, it's the, that's the, how million dollar question every single year, I don't think he's going to ever compete again to be honest. That's a key. Okay. He's making more trouble with me. I mean, what he competed, what does he need to compete for? The last time I talked to him, I didn't get the idea, he didn't get the impression that he wanted to compete. Yeah. I had to impression that he didn't want it to be, actually. So I like to him like Sean Roden. It's, yeah. Roden, hopefully Roden. Those are the two. Roden guys own the problems with, you know, with the rape accusations and all that stuff. So he's going to deal with that. I don't have to know these guys on that level. Yeah. Tom, you know, look at this. You're not the physique. Yeah. Looking back at your career. If you had to give the fans, we'll end the interview with this. The fans like a bit one piece of advice that you think that you've garnished from your whole, I guess, experience in the bodybuilding world, what would it be? Like if you had a take home message from this interview. I mean, I think the biggest thing is believing yourself. You know, the believing yourself and, you know, stay true to yourself. You know, if you love it and you're driven by it and you're passionate about it, absolutely go with that. You know, you know, and no regrets, right? Right. You know, no big, no other sage-related advice, no other than that. Yeah. Well, I think also another, I think a take home message also for you would be, you got to be out. You can't, you have to be brave enough to recreate yourself if, if you have to do it, you know, you don't have to, you wrap yourself around your bodybuilding identity. People always ask me, Dave, how do you deal with the fact that you're not as big as you used to? There's a body who I said no because I've recreated who I am. And that's not who I am anymore. That's who I was. And I could be proud of it, but now I'm someone else. I'm doing something different now. So, you know, I guess I was thinking just bodybuilding, but when you say it that way, you absolutely, no, then I would change it to what I said before about it. Like, what if you're passionate about something absolutely, you know, like I said, it's a, it's a, it's a weight that passion is within you. It's a laser sight on a gun. Yeah. It focuses on anything. You know, you get behind it and you're driven by it. You be shocked at, I was like, I know I'm shocked that I like property management as much as I do. Even saying it out loud, I still can't believe it. You know, I can't believe that I'm that I'm interested in this in some way. Well, you like the challenge, it's a jobiest, you know? Like I love the challenge yourself to do different things. And that's what makes you, you know, a passionate guy, and that's what makes you successful at what you do. Absolutely. Tom, it was always a pleasure to be your friend. And you know, I thank you for doing this interview. I think a lot of people have been wondering, you know, what you've been up to. And, you know, your journey was an interesting story. And I think it could be a lesson for a lot of people. And I think another take on message and I always tell people this because I, I, just like you put my hand in the sand a lot when I competed. Guys, go make sure you get checked out. If you feel alright, get your annual, you know, medical examinations. Do your blood work, whether you want to see it or not. Just check it out because, you know what, sometimes some of these issues can be averted. Sometimes not, but at least you be aware of the status of your health, especially when you're putting it on the line, you know, every single day in the gym. Absolutely. There's two of the things that are easily avoidable. That you don't want to wait to be, you don't want to be trying to fix them after the fact. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you can name a jar of dirt longs. You're getting these, you're liver. Oh, that's tough. You can't fix afterwards very well. Yep. You know, and it's not worth it just to say I was whatever. Two, two, ninety. Yeah. You know, 300. 300. 300 to different story. If you say 300, you can just, I'll just kidding. Hey, Tom. Right on. Best of luck. Yeah. With the property management, and I understand your grandfather, too, is that true? I'm a grandfather. Yeah. Unbelievable. I'm a daughter. I'm a little girl. I'm a new father. You're a grandfather. If you're, you've got to cut, you've got to cut. You've got to cut. I've got to catch up. Right on. All right, Tom. Thanks for joining us in, keep in touch. All right, guys. That will take us to the end of another episode of live with brought you by species nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for Tom Prince. We'll see you next time.

Welcome back to Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a good friend of mine. He's the promoter of the Arnold Australia as well as the guy who runs all of Australia in the bodybuilding world at least. From my perspective, it's pleasure to welcome back to the show Tony Darny. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I know it's very early over there, still, right? Yeah, I've got up early just for you. Thank you. Well, you got nothing else going on there. It's not like you can run a gym or anything like that or any bodybuilding shows. They've got you completely shut down, right? Completely. It's really bad, so. It must be murdered. It must be driving you crazy because you're a workaholic like I am. And if they don't let you work. You must just not know what to do yourself all day. Well, yeah, it's been difficult. And I feel for the members, you know, because with the gym like this, Dave, a lot of people come here for mental health reasons, you know, I'm sure about building muscles and flexing in the mirror. You know, a lot of people, this is what they do to cope, you know, and without that mechanism, right, I think it's really hurting a lot of people probably a lot more than what the virus is. But, you know, I'm never going to feel sorry for myself. The first lockdown for us was 13 weeks. So I actually worked harder than ever. I came into the gym every single day, I think for 91 days, completely renovated the place and we polished the floors, put insulation in and that's the most important. Head up more pictures and made it, you know, better than ever. And did all the things that I can't do being in 24 hour gym. Right. Then we got to open up for two weeks, which was absolutely fantastic. And then they gave us 12 hours notice to shut everything in the state all over again. So this time's been, you know, more difficult. I mean, I'm lucky I can come into work and do my own light orders. I'm doing a big warehouse conversion next door for education, events and stuff like that. So I've been staying busy with this. If I had to sit around in the apartment all day, I'd, you know, don't know how I could do it. You're like me, that you probably could find a million things to do despite not opening the gym as something that like you said, you're reading the whole gym. But obviously, you know, having to cancel the Arnold Classic in Australia at the last minute, you know, I never talked to you after that. But I have to imagine, I know you, because I know you for a long time. You must have been going, you must have done everything in your power to try to get pull that show off because, and I remember we did talk about it. Because, I mean, this is your livelihood. This is not only, do you make your money from a bit at your passion, that's what you look forward to every single year running that show. So that's the pull the carpet from out from under you. I mean, I can't even imagine the depression you must have been in after that. Yeah, it was crazy because, you know, I left Columbus, obviously the, the expo got cancelled there. Right. And at that stage, it was two weeks to go into our event. And looked to sum it up, we missed out by a week. If it had been a week or early, I would have gone away with it. Right. And then six days before the event, the government just said, no, there's no expo's we're closing the convention set and down, you know, bad luck, kind of thing. And it was, it was just a point for me and also for my staff because that, you know, there were 365 days straight on it. I've invested everything, I was sorry, but you know, if I lose money, we ran an office for a year, you know, with seven staff, we, we did all that, all the advertising, all the billboards, all the steel and I built out the phrase, we all the street posters, all that sort of thing. So we pretty much, you know, lost, lost everything. And with six days notice, it was really, really difficult. So, what do, when you lose that kind of money, and I don't know if you want to share the number with us, but when you lose that kind of money, how do you recruit that? I mean, what do you do? Do you just take that, do you personally take the loss for it or how does that work? Business work. Yeah. Yeah, basically, I just took the hit, you know, just moved some stuff around and, yeah, but I've had a very more, honestly, wouldn't wipe me out, you know, it was this close. I guess I was lucky that three or four of our, four or five of our big sponsors and exhibitors who put their money in agreed to leave it in for next year, just helped me through it, you know, and without that, you know, we wouldn't have, we wouldn't have been able to get through or would have been bankrupt. Wow. So, God. Yeah, it was pretty bad, and I thought, well, at least I've got the gems, you know, to keep the cash like, right? Yeah. It was the sun, the Sunday night, should have been the close of the Arnold. Yeah. So it was Sunday the 22nd of March, and I thought, you know, at least, you know, tomorrow we'll go back to the gym and we'll just rip into it and just, you know, I'll make it up. We'll take me a while but I'll catch that. Right. Right. One of my buddies called and said, hey, turn your TV on and there was our prime minister, which is equivalent to your president saying, all gyms close tomorrow, 12 noon. Uh, huh. What? So it's just, it's this year's just been a ship, you know? Yeah. It doesn't matter how you put a day of it, it's just a fucking ride off this year. And now we've had to also cancel. So here in Victoria, which is where Melbourne is, our state's been isolated from the rest of Australia. So when I'm traveling, even into state, let alone international. Wow. And therefore, you know, I had my, all my state shows and national's due to run in October. And I made the decision last week to cancel the whole thing because, you know, what's the nationals if you can't have each state being able to show it? Yeah. Travel to the show actually, right? Right. Right. And then a couple of states could come here, but then they'd have to isolate the hotel and their own expense for two weeks when they got back, which is about $3,000 to do. So it just wasn't fair. So basically, all income streams from this year have been wiped out. Oh, thank God. You know, Tony, the reason I bring this up, and I think it's important that we bring back, you know, we bring light to this, is because your guy who has worked your whole life busted your butt to get the nice things that you have in life cars and houses and gyms. And, you know, you started from nothing, you built yourself, your own little empire. And every year, you, you kind of laid on the line to, to raise up your game. The problem with that is you never expect to take a hit like this where they're going to completely turn off all your businesses like on the drop of a dime. So here you are thinking, ah, you know, I invest everything every year and I try to make my stuff bigger. Now all of a sudden, all the money you put into it is gone. I mean, I mean, I mean, I can't even imagine how that must feel because you kind of risk it every year because of that. And there's really no risk usually who would expect, you know, some kind of an epidemic like this to pop up, how do you mentally stay positive in that situation and say, you know, why I'm going to recoup this? I'm going to come back better than ever. A lot of people will get seriously depressed and would almost like to give up. Well, I think what kind of makes it easy is I've never been driven by the financial aspect of it because I've been broke so many times Dave and I've lost it before. So, you know, I'm driven by by passion and loving what I do. So I guess that makes it easy because I, you know, I've built this, this brand with the gems that I absolutely love, you know, I never, I never get up and think, oh, shit, I've really got to work. You know, I can't, I get out of bed and I can't wait to get here. And that's never changed in the 20, something years I've done it. And each year, you know, being a promoter and doing things on the scale that I do and always scouting up, there's a chance I can, you know, lose it every year. So it's not like normally, you know, it's been, you know, you know, you know, I've talked this been a ton of years where I haven't made money or I haven't broken even. And I've actually gone back with my answer, I will just go again. Yeah. And I've always had that attitude. So although this one's kind of blind side is a little bit. I thought it took me an opportunity just to have a good reset and to think about the things I do enjoy doing. And then, you know, as I said, to renovate the gym, it was really, really well, me, not just this gym, but three of our gyms. Yeah. And how many gyms are you on now, Tony? I'll just go back to three. Okay. Three here and then we've got a license, one of our franchise, one over in Perth. So four, four, dolly these gyms in Australia. Gotcha. And with build of fantastic brand, you know, the people love our renewal rates higher than probably anywhere in the world. And you know, that was the other killer. When we did get to open up and everyone saw what we'd done and the renovations, of course, it was so desperate. We had the best two weeks of business in 25 years. Yeah, just in this gym, I mean, runs without headquarters here. Yeah. I've over 400 members, new members in two weeks. Oh, wow. We're back. This is going to be great. Then we're going to honestly be the 12 hours notice just to pull the pin. They do have to set up special combinations in the gym for like distancing and stuff like that. Mass. What was the protocols that you had to put in place? We were allowed to have 20 people per route. So fortunately, this is, I guess, like, if you think of Gold's Venice when, you know, you go through one opening, there's another problem. Yeah, I've been doing that. Yeah, it's great. Yeah, I'm like that. Right, right. So it's like that. So that kind of meant we had five spaces here. We could have up to 100 people in the gym. Oh, that's good. Yeah, that's good. So what I did, I put extra staff member on each entrance to each room and then they had to count. And if we got to 20, no one could come in. You have to wait to somebody finishes. What? What a panic. Yes, that is. You know, you go do some sit-ups, room and other whatever. And the members were very understanding. Another thing is, because we're 24, 7, you know, we'd never close. Don't forget to, if Donald's a story, we're not first open up here in 1998 and we're the first or the only 24-hour gym in Australia. I threw the keys away because I didn't want to have the only one I haven't planned to be. So when I'm in the door, I said, well, I'm not going to need these ever. Nothing's ever going to let this place close. Natural disasters, whatever. So it's really the keys. So when I heard of the news that we had to close, the first thing I knew was calling lost my sense. You know, like, so the morning that we had to close down, we had to move. So how do you get this guy to go round the three of our teams, putting new barrels in the locks and giving his keys? Those go on a weird. You know, I always think that Dave and this might be good for the listeners that you consider and feel sorry for yourself and be miserable and just be like everyone else. Or you can stop and think, hey, you know, my worst day has been in some poor person best day. You know, I've been all the shit holes in the world. You know, I've been to the forvalorizing Brazil. I've been to the townships in Africa. I've been deep into the slums in India. And I think, think about those people in those countries that have got nothing and what they would do to have the lives that we've got even in lockdown. And they don't cut off their friggin' leg to have the kind of freedoms and lives that we've got. So although it's difficult, I think you've got to keep perspective and say, you know, it's not that bad. You know, our grandparents went through way worse than this on a daily basis for years at the time. So I'm not going to let it get me down. Fuck around. You know, it sucks, though. It sucks is that it's like ours is being caused by ourself. In other words, there's no, we don't have to have this, you know, this kind of quarantine. The government decided they're going to do this to us. And it's disheartening because it's like we don't really have a saying. You know, I always felt like, you know what, if you don't want to go to the gym because it's like, I have three young kids. So I probably wouldn't go to the gym. Even my gyms are open here and floor. I don't go to the gym because I don't want to put them at risk. God forbid, I get COVID. But that's a personal decision that I made. You know, if I do want to go to the gym, I can go to the gym. You know, my gyms are open. They're making money at least to gym owners. I don't know why the government feels necessary to put a to sanction and make their own rules telling you you can't open your gym. I mean, your gym probably was the safest place to go with all the protocols you had in place and the safety snacks. It's like, you know, they're not allowing you as a business man to do what you love to do. And there is essentially, you know, potentially bankrupting you. I mean, if you had just started these gyms recently, I mean, you could have been out on your ass, you know. Oh, man, if it had been even three years ago, it wouldn't have made a bet. If you're stopping thinking about it this way, two days like when we first opened, you know, restaurants where I opened was something to have limitations on restaurants. But when you're checked in, you had to write your name like on a clipboard with a pen. So they give you the same dirty pen that everybody else uses. I hand you a clipboard that everybody's touched. And then you can make up some bullshit name. You know, you can be Dave Colombo. I just make up a phone number and they've got no way of tracing that back because it was all about tracing. Yeah. And so when I spoke to the government about it, I said, and I did some media and some big radio shows, you know, talk radio here. I said, hey, gyms are the safest place in the world. Because we're in the sweat business. So I said, we've had hand sanitizing stations in my gyms for 12 years. We've been in the water down. And then when someone checks in with their membership tag, we know what time they got there, the name, the data birth. There's a photograph up on their file. We can tell you what time they got there, what time they left. We've got 28 CCTV cameras just in this gym. So we can even see who passes who in what room. There is no close contact. You know, we've got the benches or 1.5 meters apart, which is like 6 feet or whatever the equivalent is. You know, I taped off every second treadmill and switched it off so that nobody could be next to each other. Yeah, we went above and beyond anything they could imagine. And this is where I agree with you that I'm so well, if we've done all that and people still want to come, well, so let them come. Right. So we've got hygiene stations everywhere with the, the spray disinfectant and paper hand towel. So they had to come in and they had to agree that they wiped out every single bench they used. Yeah, and the big guys in all those fantastic, they're wiping down dumbbell handles the ropes. Because they want to work out. They don't care. They'll do whatever they got to do. Exactly. Right. Right. And then we don't get to say in that in fact, when they get any consultation whatsoever. And you know, what I do my daily questions on Instagram, people always say, oh, they told you when they can open, I'm like, I'm that don't call me. I'm not going to get a watch. I just got to watch the news like everyone else. Yeah. We don't get consulted as an industry. And you know, you're not just me, but as crazy because we can still go to the, well, this lockdown in the city now, it really is just a pharmacy and the supermarkets that are open. They've closed all the retail. But the last lockdown, I could go to the retail life. We're going to be think called Batings, which is like your home deeper. Yeah. And you go there in your lineup and there's a thousand people in the store. And they don't take your name. You don't have to scan in and then check your ID. Right. I'm like, well, that really is close distancing. It's not being released. And even now, I can go to the supermarket here, which is packed. I don't know the market. That's packed. And their excuses now, we've got mandatory face masks. So if you go outdoors without a face mask, it's a $200 fine. Oh my God. If you get caught during the day, driving somewhere more than five kilometers, which is three miles from your home, right? And there's only to go to the store or to say drive to the park to do your exercise, but within the three mile limit, it's a $1,670 fine. I guess better. Are you guys a serious person over there? Wow. Well, what about this? So then from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. There's a curfew. And if you get caught outside during that time, unless you're an emergency worker or doing a night shift in a hospital or something, the fine's $5,400 for being out of your house at night. Wow. You guys got like martial law over there. It sounds like holding that. Yeah. The police are actually patrolling the parks and the streets with soldiers. Wow. You would think that when you weren't wore or something like that. Yeah. I think the most deaths with anyone that's like 20 or 25. And it's probably just from all people that would have died anyway. Let me ask you this question. The Olympia obviously is going to be in December. You're going to actually be able to leave Australia to come to the Olympics. I know you love to do that every year. This is a killer, then, because obviously I do all the backstage interviews in peace and news online. You know, the us media people work together. We have a lot of fun. It's great. It's probably one of the highlights of my year. The problem is, because they've moved it now to December, if I was able to go and right now, we can't leave the country. But let's say they're losing up on there. They've said now until there's a vaccine. If you're on a straight end and you leave and you come back, you have to go into mandatory detention in a hotel at your expense for two weeks in isolated. You know, if the December, the Olympia's on December 16 to 20, you lose the day coming home. So at the best, I get back home December 22nd, which means I've been isolation locked out for Christmas in New Year. So I wouldn't get to see my kids. Wow, my family. Even now I haven't seen my parents for three months. You know, your mum's 80 years old. I can't go visit her. Yeah. I was actually thinking two weeks in a hotel all by myself actually sounds like a vacation to me. You're able to promise you when you do that, you can't leave your room. I know. I know. I mean, you really lofted like a jail cell. You're sitting there just watching Netflix and talking online. That's about it. But Tony, who patrols this? Did I have like government employees watching all these people coming off the airplane in the hotel room? Well, what happened here is that originally they did that and they had they put them into hotels. And this is in our state where they lost control of it. Instead of having like the military or something at the hotel, it's for the international people arriving, they just got the cheapest security guards they could and apparently some of them were taking the girls out for a cigarette. You know, sneak it back into their room for a little interview time and this sort of thing. And this is how it's spread. Then the other thing they did here that they were rotating the staff between the nursing homes or the old people's homes. Oh, wow. So we've had two big problems here. One they fucked up the hotel quarantine by being cheap. Yeah. And then they just passed the blame between the really, really they fucked it up. And then secondly, they let it get into the nursing homes. But what? You know, the solution to this would have been really simple. Because our numbers were really low-day. Like we were getting 20, 30 new cases a day. And they said back then, the best thing they could do instead of putting all these to say, then they banned all the international flights. But they still had like 60 hotels at the government were paying for. So it said, well, why not if you test positive, you got to come with us right now. And we're going to put you into a hotel at our expense for two weeks, we'll feed you. Whatever you want. Right. The problem is when people tested positive, they just say, hey, go home and isolate, don't worry. No one listens. Yeah, a lot of people, particularly on a socio economic lower level, they've got 10 people in their house. And they're sharing one bathroom. You get COVID, they say, they've go home and don't leave the house. You live with 10 people or three other families. And this is then it got into the, the, what do you guys call it? Which one has in commission? Like the, you know, the government housing. Yeah. Yeah. And then we got a pandemic went through that those kind of places. So they've just screwed up everything they could here in this state. Whereas the rest of Australia is almost COVID-free. You know, they're getting like one case at a time. Like it's the other Australia, they've had no new cases in a month. In Perth, Western Australia where our other gym is, their borders completely closed. They don't want anyone in there. Even other Australians. It's just shut. And it got zero cases. Right. So we've got seven states in Australia and pretty much there are locked down to themselves and they don't have a problem. Right. Let me ask you a question. There's no tourism. There's no international tourism. There's no domestic tourism. Just kind of messed up. Yeah, I know it is. You guys go to bankrupt your country over there, even though ours are probably going to be bankrupted. So, do you, do you foresee body building being restored by 2021? Yeah. I think our state borders will be open. International, you know, I've got a conundrumist to what to do with the Arnold in March because at this stage, they're saying there's no way we're going to accept any international visitors for at least a year into Australia. That's right. So that means, yeah, my men's proshow, which is really the big draw card, which as you know, this would be a 20 second consecutive year that we've done. He can't do that with that international athlete. I hate the break of the attorney already lost your streak as over already, but from this year. Unfortunately. Well, yeah, well, that's it. We've burned the straight this year. So it'd be fresh time. It's the new shriek every time. Yeah, everyone do that. It's going to be two consecutive years. You don't hold it now. I mean, would you just hold a, I mean, I guess the amateur shows is probably where you make most of your money anyway. I mean, so as long as you can hold those, I mean, financially at least that would help you, right? Yeah, from a body building point of view, you know, we'll get by. I think body building will be strong and well, we'll do our, we do two big seasons here. One in March, one in October. So what do the March season as usual? We have a qualified NH state. Right. And then they come here normally for the Arnold. They've had my change shape a little bit because as a multi sport festival, you know, there were 50 different sports and people coming from 50, 60 different countries. That's not going to happen there. I mean, Arnold might be able to come, Bob Lorum or I'd be able to come. And when the National Judges Steve won't be able to come, yeah, this is, this is a fact. And then at the end of the year, I might do something bigger than, and we'll have our nationals in October. So from a body building alone point of view, we'll be fine, you know. What I made the decision last week to cancel the nationals. I guess it was 11, 10 or 11 weeks out. Which gave people time to get back off their diet. I mean, you know, a lot of people said they're very grateful because I could left it until the last week. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, you can't, you know, people are paid for coaching and, you know, all their diet, everything else they do. So I think we made a good call date. It just sucks. Yeah. It like we've never been to anything like this. And me, I've got a happy disposition on my, you know, upbeat kind of person. As you know, always find a solution, always find a way forward, like a US day busy. But, you know, the impact of this year is going to have on society in the world. I don't know that we'll ever recover. I think it's it's shit. You couldn't have written a script for this day. You're like, you know, like, when I saw you in March, if we had to say, okay, you go home, cancel the album. Shut your gym down for six months. You were in a lot. No. I know income and not be that a leave your house. I would have kicked the head for a long time. It's like a bad movie. It's like a movie you're watching that you can't believe what's going on. You can watch it if you saw it in a movie, you'd be like this will never happen. You know, it's really important. Right. Right. It's something else. You know, I said, but it looks good where you are in Florida. I saw they moving the knee or even the knee or crow is going to go down. Yeah. Yeah. They don't care and fly. I think the governor's life. They're only worried about Burmese Python's down here. They don't care about COVID or anything. They don't want to shut on the land. God forbid, you know, everything's open here. We got to be a thankful that they're that, you know, liberal and progressive about it. But the bottom line is that we were closed long enough. I'm sure people, the businesses were hurt long enough here. You know, it is people just got fed up. They started suing the government. The government's like, you know what? Screw it. Open up everything. We don't care. Thank God. I know Steve Jim just Steve Jim just opened up the other day up there in New York. Yeah. I said even message because he's been shot for a while. Pretty much five months or something. Yeah. And I'm really happy for him. He's got a very similar clientele on similar clientele. Yeah. Yeah. But we have, you know, where it's, it's people's home away from home. They live for it. You know, and I really feel bad for the members that don't, um, train because they want to train. They train because they're fucking need to train. And they're not cases for the other. Are they going to make it mandatory over there in our strategy? I know it. They're Australian. They tell you guys what to do. You don't. There's not as much freedom as we have here. I think it to make it mandatory to get these vaccine that they're supposedly developing that we know they already have developed. Probably years ago. All right. Well, what they've said is that they're not going to make it mandatory. But if you don't do it, you won't be able to get any social welfare benefits or going anywhere, basically. Or travel. Yeah. Right. So if you want to use your passport, you're going to have to have the vaccine. Wow. That sucks. Yeah. I mean, are you into, uh, do you believe that there's a conspiracy here? Or do you think that it's a legitimate vaccine? Look, I don't know. I think when they rush anything medically, you know, normally, there's things to take years to develop. So you've got to stop and think well, um, they sent you a rush for this one or, you know, was it already there? Was there an agenda? Yeah. Um, you know, so part of me's life. I don't really want to put something in my body that's, you know, not tested properly. Yeah. But the same time sucks not traveling and not having a life. So yeah. Yeah. So it's really not voluntary is what you're saying. In other words, yeah. You don't have to get it if you don't want to. You're just not going to be able to, you're basically just being jail for the rest of your life, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, look, I'm just going to cross that bridge when we come to it. Right. Yeah. If the numbers keep dropping in and the figures are low, I mean, up until this lockdown, Australia was probably handling it the best in the world. And then we, at death rate was really, really low. Like, we couldn't, the total in Australia didn't hit 100 until like July. Yeah. You know what I'd like to know? I'd like to know the statistic on the amount of deaths that have been prevented from pneumonia. Because I have to imagine the lockdown probably also influenced all the other diseases that normally kill people that we don't even talk about, right? Well, a lot of the people that are listed is don'tiscovery. So, you know, already immune deficient, or they had, you know, states three cancer or they're in, you know, an old people's home, you know, living with dementia and prone to pneumonia and all these things. So when they die, they say, what was the COVID? So, you know, I don't know. I mean, you hear all the conspiracy, you stop and think, why? Why would a country effectively bankrupt itself? And why would 100 different countries that fucking hated jail? Right. All shut down and kill their economies. Yeah. You know, so none of it really makes any sense. I think it's, you know, obviously a highly infectious disease that wipes out unhealthy and old people. It was just driving here early this morning in the dark to do the interview with you and I heard of the radio. They said, um, obese people have, you know, four times a risk of getting COVID dying from it. That's because they're obese. They're going to drown that. They're everything. It doesn't take a brain surgery to figure that went out. Right. So, um, I look I understand it, David. I try not to overthink it. In fact, I've made a habit of trying not to watch the news to watch the news to watch the news. You really get, you really get sucked in. I don't watch it. I don't watch it at all. Too negative. You know what? I'm really happy for you guys, you know, I know, you know, talk to Bob Lourner and the gym is your open up there in Columbus. That's often my buddies in Florida and all your gym is your open. You know, it's basically just flexed the other day and he was saying that to, you know, they all just threaten the government. He comes out. If I could just open up as you were and, you know, wish me. I wish we had those kind of powers here. But we're done. Yeah, but then again, you guys don't have any cases of it. So maybe they're maybe the government smart. Let's take it. Let's change gears for a second. Let's talk about the Phil Heats come back to try to win number eight this year at the Olympia. It's you and I like to talk about the Philippine shop at you. Yeah, that's enough of that. Yeah, that's enough negative stuff. What do you think about his chances to win? You know, everyone, you know, everyone hated Phil when he, you know, the last year he was in it when he lost the road and because everyone loves to hate on the champion. Now that he's been gone, people are kind of like rooting from always going to save the Olympia. He's going to come back because the win number eight. Do you think Hill Win 8 when the toll set and done? Do you think when the smoke clears? Do you think he's got it anymore? You think we're just like remembering the Phil Heath from his heyday. I've sincerely believed that if Phil comes in his best shape, you know, he had that operation fixed up he's stumbling problem. What about supposedly, yeah. It's a bit right. So if that's all good, let's say if that's the case and he comes anywhere near his best condition, nobody's going to stay next to him. He's going to be first second answer. Well, you know, he really didn't, he really was in great shape. The year he lost the road and I mean, aside from the fact that he had some distension issues, he was, I mean, he was the best condition guy on stage. I mean, so I mean, you really. From the front, you know, he sees flaws, but you're from the back. He was the winner all day. Yeah, I mean, he's back. He's back by a set shot was better than Rhodes, only when I was in that show. I think that, you know, he was probably probably a little stiff. And obviously he didn't take it too well, getting beaten, you know, when you go for his eight Olympia, why would he? But, you know, I don't know Phil, as well as anyone in fact, every year at the Olympia when I'm backstage after the pre-judging, you'll always come back and say, listen, what do you think where he, where I'm at? Because you know, so I just shoot straight. Yeah. Like those years with crime and I've managed really close. Like he's, he's beating you in some poses or you're a little flat tonight or he didn't pop when you walked down. Yeah. And we've always had a very open thing backstage at the Olympia. We're kind of bending in his corner to a big extent, just with pure honesty. And I still think that there's no one in pro-body building at Phil's level if he comes close to his best shot. Right? Yeah. I think the other interesting thing, and this is no respect to, you know, Brandon and Role and Rami and all these guys, you know, Brandon looked fantastic last year. You know, he bought him proved probably more than shit. Look how much he's improved over the last say three years. Yeah. And I think everybody's terrified of Rami. Well, I'm not sure if he can get into the country, but let's assume he gets into the country. Right. We still haven't seen the best Rami. I mean, he hasn't nailed his condition at the free judging yet period. The year that he won in, we're really Brazil, I don't know, one year. He went pretty close to being, you know, right on it as I've ever seen him. Right. But he just just seems to miss that final little peak. And he goes through the guys, you know, Brandon and his best next to Phil, he's best. I think Phil wins. Yeah. Do you think you think we'll see Rodin on stage? Apparently not, you know, reading between the lines, it doesn't look that way. And you know, that when when Jake took over the Olympia, the initial statement was, yeah, he's good to go, you know, he's innocent until proven guilty. Right. Obviously, I think they're, they're free assessed that, you know, whether it's a pro league headquarters or whether it's at the Olympia office. And so it will maybe that's just a little risky. I mean, it's a serious case in charges that he's facing, Dave. Right. And if he was to be found guilty, I don't know when he's trial is or whatever. I don't know what's taken so long. I've never seen a trial takes so long, have you? Well, I thought it was going to be in July this year, but I know over here, like, a lot of big trials have been postponed up to 12 months because of the COVID thing. And even the courts are shut here. So, you know, part of the real emergency stuff. I don't know. I think that they're probably ering on the side of caution with the whole thing. I mean, it could be a minefield if they get it wrong. And here's a bunch of feel for him. And I like sure. I think that if it was any other major sport, yeah, they probably do the same thing. You think so? If you ran bodybuilding and it was your decision to make, would you let Rodin in? It looked like I'd have to know more about the facts. There's no facts. He's accused of rape. He's going to go to trial. He's innocent of proven guilty. I don't know what the right answer. I'm just asking your opinion. Would you allow him in until he was proven guilty? Probably not. And what would be the reasoning that you would use for that? I'm just wondering, you know, to protect our sport, you know, I just think that this sport doesn't need a black eye like that. Let's say it's 50, 50. Okay, let's say it gets found innocent. I'm saying, well, come back and compete. Your rein stated right now. Right. But if he's found guilty and it's in Utah, right? Yeah. Which is like the Mormon capital of the world. Yeah. If he's found guilty, he might get what? 15, 20 years. Part of it, yeah. So the risk of having your champion guy doing 15 years for rape. I think it's it's it's too great of a risk for our sport. So if I was running the sport, you know, my thing even in the position I'm in in our sport is we don't own the sport of run the sport. We're guardians of the sport. Right. You know, you know, Joe Weeder started all this him and Ben all these years ago and Jim Manning doing fantastic job as our leader. And I think all of us in these positions, you know, even me with the director for Australia or whatever I am, it's our job to be guardians of our sport. Yeah. You know, not to make the rules, not to change the rules, but to protect. You know, what, what all of our previous people have built for us to have the life for you to do what you do and for me to do what I do. And I think you have to protect it, man. So as much as I hate that answer, that that's probably what I would do. It's just it's just it sucks for him in the sense only because because of COVID, he's also taking a financial hit too because, you know, if he was 20 years old, it would be different stories in his life. You mid 40s now, you know, he's missing the two best years of his career. You know, so it's a shame if he's innocent, it's a shame if he's guilty, then obviously he deserves to go to jail. So I mean, that's, that's the bottom one. So just just on that, you know, you know, feel, please, not up on right, right charges of Brandon Curry's not up on right charge. And, you know, I hope the guys in the center had to work. That's right for him. And like you said, and if he's not, then, well, you read what you saw. No, what? Yeah. Let me ask you all my questions. I don't mean to interrupt, but I want to get this in before I forget. I can't remember things anymore. Kai Green, you know Kai pretty well. I mean, you, you know, you've spent a lot of time with Kai. Why do you think Kai is not competing? I don't know. I don't think even Kai knows the answer to that because he gets, well, I think I think when he didn't win those two or three Olympias, where he probably should have won one, yeah. You know, I think he really thought, well, the world's against me and body would never going to let me win. Right. You know, so why bother? And then, you know, 2016 was that he came out here. He won the Arnold in Columbus, he won the Arnold here. Yeah. He won Brazil. He won two or three Arnolds a year. Yeah. And, you know, he looked unbelievable. And then, even last year, you know, when Phil wasn't competing, and you saw pictures of Kai like four weeks before the show, just looking like he always looks, you know, like a fring. Every year in Vegas, you know, a fine Kai will have breakfast or whatever. Yeah. And he'll come into wherever we're staying at six or seven in the morning. And he's absolutely drenched in sweat. And he's already done like a two hour cardio session. Right. And he's eating clean food. And he looks like he's two weeks out of stay, and he's all the time. So as a fan, man, there's nothing more I'd like to see than Kai at his best to have one more shot out of it. But for whatever reason, and I think, you know, previous to Dan taking over, he had some problems with the previous administrative. Yeah. Yeah. There's a whole, you know, you know, the backstory. There's a whole lot of it. Yeah. But now they're gone. That's why he has a perfect opportunity now to start fresh, you know? Right. Well, that's why I thought he might have stepped up last year. And then this year, I'm sure they would extend an invitation to him with that good. And they still may have been starting to sell. And Kai always looks incredible. But I think he's been able to go in different directions, because Kai works, man. I mean, he doesn't stop. He, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, I work both of us to put together. He never misses a session. He never reached crappy food. He's, you know, he's got these projects. Here with these TV appearances and movies and comic books and all the other stuff that he's working on. And then on top of that, he's suffering and company. You know, how hard that is. Yeah. How hard he works. I met. So it's very realized that he can be pretty healthy. Look absolutely insane and make more money. He, the brand, Kai Green, right? Then trying to win this sand out statuously. Yeah. I think he's a priority shift at a little from just being single minded. I have to win the Olympia to accomplish something in my life to say, well, you know what? I'm Kai Green. I don't, I don't need that either. Yeah. So, you know, more power to him. I'd love to see him there. But if that's not for him, I'd support him no matter what. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he really proud of Kai, you know, because he's doing a lot of mainstream stuff for these working with Marvel comics. He's got all this stuff going on in the background that he might, you know, crack to another level. Who knows? Yeah. That's true. That's true. Now, before I forget, the one that I think we need to discuss coming into the Olympia, because it's a wild card, it's flex Lewis. I was going to ask you that next. Right. Now, as we know, and I'm always being close with him and Neil Hill and talk to them extensively, you know, about how much weight he needs to lose to make that 2012. Yeah. And sometimes he's sacrificing, you know, 20 pound in the last two, three weeks just to make that number. For a lot of weight. And to make that weight, right? So let's say, to 12, let's say, 225. He's already in contact with shape. So the sacrificing just muscle and water to get just under that weight just for the weight. So let's say if he doesn't sacrifice that money, that weight and he gets out to, you know, 240 or something before he gets really hard and cranny as he does. Man, he is a serious contender. I mean, you look at him shot for shot with anyone. And, for, rather, he can push, I mean, I'll just say he'll be top five no matter what, but he could squeeze up. Right, fourth, third, second. Yeah. I mean, the only thing hurting him is his height, obviously. But, you know, I think that, you know, because of his grain, and that quality that he brings to the stage, he's definitely a dangerous guy. You know, how do you say it? How do you say it? I see him as dangerous. I see when you see him, when you see a guy like him next to a, you know, a brand and curing next to a rammy, these are guys that have impressive muscle, but they don't have that Dorian grain, you know, dry, you know, freaky muscle that is actually on a nice shape too. So, I think that he, he, he, he, he, he, good will beat guys that I think that a lot of people think he's not capable of beating, because when you see him next to him, you're going to be like, holy, macro. This guy is like from another planet, you know? Yep, yep. Hopefully, I've wanted him to step up. I've been doing a lot of four or five years ago we're having this discussion. And people were saying, if no, no, stay in the two, 12, that's where you're, you're best of a fact that goes for it. It's not really happening. So, I know if you watch this show, thanks. But, yeah, I'm rooting for your man. I think you're the most dangerous guy in the show. He's definitely, he definitely watching it. There's no doubt in my mind. He liked the show. Well, Tony, you know what, it was a pleasure to talk to you as always, you know, I could probably talk you for two hours and not run out of topics to discuss. Obviously, we're praying for you that they're going to open up the gyms again and that they'll, they'll pull your quarantine pretty soon. So you guys can start, you know, making money again and get back to normal and hopefully restore bodybuilding by the end of the year to its former glory over there in Australia to shame that the Arnold is not going to happen. But I think it's a realistic approach at this point, given the fact that, you know, things are still closed. Then we're coming to the end of the year already. But, hey, tough man, keep doing what you're doing and showing, living the passion for bodybuilding because, you know what, it's the guys like you and, you know, that keep the sport alive, you know, and I think a lot of people are in a very negative state and hopefully that watching this interview picked them up and made them say, you know what? I don't have it so bad either. I'm going to, you know, put my best foot forward and I'm going to try to, you know, make it work because that's all we can do, right? Yeah, thanks, Dave. You know, and with the Arnold next year, we're doing something in some fall. You know, we're just going to work at your house. So just hang tight on that one and watch that space everyone. You know, we're not going to quit. We're not going to give up when keeping encouraging people to be the best. And as I say, you know, when you get down about this, just stop and think it's just a pause. It's not the end of the world. It's just a pause that has been in some ways good for us. And enough enough can't wait to get back to normal. But, you know, a little bummed that I won't be able to come to the interview this year. Yeah, that's just a lot of hanging out with him. Hey, you got to be family over the holidays that are the most important and you're making the right decision. And I look, I've had it makes him tough decisions over the last two years, too, with the birth of new children. And I have young kids. And I know eventually I'll be back to going to the show as again at some point in the future. It's not the end of the world to miss a couple of the limpias in a couple of Arnold. So I've seen plenty of him already. And when I go back, when we're all old men, we'll have to find that these shows will toast to the fact that everything's back to normal again. And we'll talk about 2020 that year when the world was almost shut down. Right? That's the one thing we will not discuss. Fuck it. That's tough. No one will believe us. We'll be like, I wasn't that bad. We'll be like, it was that bad. It was that bad. I'm telling you. Listen, I'm taking a dive and saying everything. Thanks for everything you do. If it's the sport, I think I've been coming on, interviewing you for being interviewed by you for about 20 years and boys. But a lot of fun and mutual respect. So much love to you all. Everybody stay safe out there. We'll be back. Absolutely. Thanks Tony. And guys, that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live with Brought to You by Species Nutrition. I'm Dave Palombo for 20 Dardi. We'll see you next time.

Welcome back to Iron Rage, the show, our John Romano-Lee priest and I, event our frustrations with the world. I told Lee to late to come on the show and for actually with the time difference he's training at the gym, but he's a Johnny's very happy that, you know, we kind of hinted that Lee was going to be coming back in 2020 and people are really taking it seriously and I think Lee's taking it seriously now. I think so too and it's good, you know, out of all of these athletes that make their comeback, you know, first of all, Lee's already done it and he won the universe. Okay. So Chuck number one up for Lee and Fred Lee is a freak man. There's no reason why he can't come back and, remember we always talked about seeing Lee in in in in 2012, 2020, 24, whatever it is today, you know, he clean that shit up. So for a guy, his size of always only competed in the open against guys like NASA and the lead and the, the Dorian and the J collar, everybody, he competed with the biggest of the best ever and did pretty damn well. So I'm looking forward to this. So this is really true if he gets all this next stuff straightened out and his good arm ends up looking up as good as his bad arm. I'm all I'm down with Lee, pretty, man, that's good. That's going to be great. Blacken to my mortgages house to like to try to finance, you know, signing Lee one last time. Yeah, I always believed in you. He might get one more contract out of blacken after all, so I'm not. I'm a star adding again, you'll come back. I'll bring you back. I'll have to use his inheritance, but it will be worth it to see. Did the mother ever die, is she still alive? I don't know, you think they probably have more money coming. Maybe when he gets a second inheritance, you know. Yeah, when she goes, there's like another like 3, 400 million to split up. Oh wow, so then he might be able to be back in business. Maybe that's what he's waiting for. I think though, I mean, you know, prudent financial planning that that stuff's probably been. I'm sure Jenny and Jordan, I know they already have their trust funds. They're probably going to get another, you know, distribution, the other kids. Hopefully you guys got to be a little slush fund though, John, for bodybuilding. I'm sure if there's a way for him to divert some money away from a leases. It's like selling alarms to the Iran conference, right? He's always going to trade. It's like how the Mexicans get cash out of Mexico in the United States. It's like if you have a million pesos and you want to convert the dollars in the states, what they do is you give the million dollars to a, a, a narco. Yeah. He, it gives you a, you know, a $50,000 car when you get to America. Oh, is that how it works? Yeah, yeah. Well, today's topic is about something a little different. We had a show in Vancouver last week and there was an amateur part of it and there was women's bodybuilding and the woman who won the women's bodybuilding was very controversial. In the sense that she was born a woman, John, she lintes his a man, transgender man. But obviously they, they make her compete in the women's division because she's actually genetically a woman. Now, I got a lot of emails, not just one or two or three. I got like five emails from people who were either in the show against this woman and didn't, and lost to her or they were watching the show and they're outraged that the IFPB would allow or whoever the Canadian organization is now would allow this woman to compete or this gut man, excuse me, to compete in the women's division. And, and I feel that it was, it was absolutely justified. She's a genetic woman. Does she have a naturally god-made vagina? Yes, she's a, then she's a woman. Right. Well, care where she's living and how she's living and what kind of hair cut she's got. She's a fucking woman. Right. So, you know, it's sour grapes, man. These girls, they look for any excuse whatsoever to justify why they suck. You know, though it's, this is the bottom line. You're a woman. I don't care if you live like a man. What? Because why she lives transgender, so she's taken hormones. What? And you're not? Okay. It's stupid. It's a stupid argument. It's got no merit. And it's, the bottom line is the gender you are is the gender you were born with. Now if she was born a, a dude and hada, you know, a, a, a giantoplasty don or whatever I called and had, had had a vagina made and turned into a woman. Well, all the requisite hormones. Okay, then you got an argument. Or if she really is a dude, you know, living as a woman. Right. And she peed as a woman, but she's really got a penis like then, a ratio. Okay. This is a woman by virtue of female genitalia competing in a women's division fair game If you lost to her, it's because you're not as good as her. You're a story shut up and go train. Right, and you know, especially in B.I. I can understand like when they talk about this stuff like in in high school like when they You know, you have a girl. She wants to be a guy. She's on testosterone and she's trying to play soccer with the girls. She's got an advantage because she's taking testosterone. But in bodybuilding like you said, a women's bodybuilding, they're all taking the same hormones anyway. So there's no advantage that she's getting over the other women who are taking the same hormones. So I think it's a terrible thing that all these people are complaining and making this girl, she would consider herself a man, making this man who is actually genetic female feel inadequate because she was told that she has to do this division and she did it and she won. It should be a time for celebration, not a time for, you know, for making this person feel bad about themselves. There's no argument. There is no argument. She was born a woman. Whatever she's done to herself over the course of her lifetime to assimilate a male role is kind of zero to do with her physiology. So she is no different. Zero difference between her and the girl competing next to her on stage except for maybe their drug protocols a little differently. Look, but who's is it? Okay, so any woman that's complaining about this is got her head up her ass and it's a real shame that they can't see this for what it is. And like I said before, there's all kinds of other gender confusion out there that can foil these contexts if you don't let the right sex compete in the correct category. But that's not what happened here. Absolutely not what's happened. It's a woman born a woman competing in a female division and a story. Her name is a Sioux Fung law, just for people who might say what the woman is name. And she like I said, you can if you look at the results of the Vancouver amateur show, you'll see her up there. Now, John, here's a question for you that I think is a relevant question. It might not have been relevant five years ago, but it's relevant now. You know, we see all these new divisions, you know, when you go to the master's national this over 50 is over 35 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 they got every division in the world. They got masses figure mess to this will there ever be a division for transgender? What did there be a division is what I'm saying? Should there be a transgender division? Is there a need for it? How many transgender body builders and that encompasses all the divisions? How how how how how many transgender body builders are there looking for a place to compete? Maybe there's more than we know. That's the question. Yeah, just for them. No, unless you don't want to set up something in Bob Bonham's back room, you know, we can know, do. Only because it's new jersey. Now I'm going to get it. Now I'm going to get a text message from Bob saying that he wants to fight. I got a jar of fun. Because he's going to come back and go crazy. It's not because it's because it's new jersey. No, no. It's a jersey. It's a win. So women's extravagance and reference more something. I mean, everything else. Look, you could have a transgender division, right? And I guess you need to have two, right? One for men who are men and now are women and one for women who are used to be men. Right? We need a non-binary now too. Because now because there's no such thing as no sex. We have a matter of time. Yeah, but how many of those are there? We got to ask. I don't know. It might be seven. Enough for a line up. As long as you can get a top five out of it, who gives it shit? You know, just think about it. You might have to stumble onto something. Think about the new schmo fans of the transgender. That's a whole new door. It might reignite the whole session. This thing going on. We should stop talking immediately because this is going to be good. Get out from under as too quick. No, you know, so in my take it over and start. We lose the month. We should do it ourselves before someone else does. That's what I'm saying. No, but I'm, but it's an all serious issue. Is there a need? I mean, do you think that that's a legitimate category? Because it seemed like there's a lot more transgender people who are coming out and saying, Hey, look, I'm transgender. I've been hiding in my whole life. And maybe they want to waste the taking and peat. They don't have to feel like, you know, if they don't belong there. Because if I'm a man and now I want to be an, and I'm a woman now. And there's a lot of us out there. Then we should all be able to compete someplace and not be ostracized for it, right? Same thing. If you, I'm a woman. And I want to be a man. I should be able to compete someplace where I don't have to compete with real genetic men. And I can't, you know, I can't beat, you know. Here's what's going to happen. They're going to do it, okay? But they're going to put them with the wheelchair and the amputee and the over 95. They're going to put them in the side showing. And then they're going to complain. Well, we're not after the open and between the bikini girls and the figure girls, you know. So, it's not going to be any satisfying them, but it, but in, in the, in the, in the spirit of competition. Yeah. If there's enough of them and like I said, this is needs to be determined. If there's enough of them, then yes, absolutely. They, they should have their place to go to. And we'll see next logical question, John. Yes. If they do have this division, will there be an Olympia division, the transgender Olympia champion? Are there enough of them? Are they that good? Let's see what happens. I mean, you're, I don't know. I mean, who knows you could? I mean, I can't, I just can't imagine something looking like Jay Kotler would have bikini top. Oh, but, but, but, I mean, if that's not what they'd have to look like a woman now, that would be part of the, you know, the whole, the whole femininity thing. Now, what you're saying is I can't imagine a woman who would look like Jay Kotler, who's actually now a man, right? Well, no, you gotta go the other way, too. You gotta give the other side. I mean, you got, you got men who think to women, women who think to men, women who think to men that look like women, women who look like men that want to be whatever non-binary. I mean, they got to choose. So it's like, what do, see, like you said, you gotta have at least, I think you got to have three divisions. You gotta have, you gotta have female to male, male to female, and a mafro diet. And, and how do, if you can lump those three together and get 30, 40, 50 people who want to compete? Right. I, I would say, go for it. Now, here's, here's another question. These are the things I think about. If they did this, John, and it became successful, would you have people thinking the fact that they're trend, gender, just because they think they can, they can win a show more easily? No, no, no, we have a whole, for our server. Now we have a whole new, schmog job opening. Gender, gender verifier. No, no, let's say it's very sweet. It's a girl woman. I want to compete as a man, but you're really not, a woman, you're really not a man, but you're just pretending to be one because you think you can do better in that division. You know what I mean? You're gonna have to go into this little booth, right? I think you cross over, John. That's the question. And this BDI little schmog with a would a European camera is gonna, it's gonna inspect your genitalia. And he's gonna have to determine the difference between a large, and a penis. But if he can do that legitimately, okay? And verify the gender, then that is, that is germane to the classification of the division. So if you're in there, if you're in there claiming you're a woman, but you're living as a man, you better be in there and not have a penis. Right. Okay. So you're actually, you're actually almost confirming a negative. Oh my God. How can you even do that? About a year ago, John went, when Donald, when people would joke about, John will Trump should be president, and people just said it ridiculously. And then now he's president. 25 years from now, we'll be fucking old men. And people like, didn't remind him and pull on those, say that this might be happening this one day. And you see, black men with rising of the phoenix, it's third coming, he's gonna have to, he's gonna be in charge and all the thing. You know. Oh my God. The things you can speculate, but you know what, it's, it's, it all seriousness. It might be something that actually happens because, you know, it's, it's, you know, you, here's my final question for this, it's shy. We're going too long already on this. But do you believe that there's always been a lot of transgender minded people in society for the last 100 years? Or do you think that something's changed in society? Some evolution has occurred. We're all of a sudden now, people are being born in the wrong bodies. I think, I think there was probably, or they probably had to have been, people back in the day that had questions over to over their sexuality. And maybe they're a born a man, but, you know, like to go shopping at TJ Maxx on Tuesdays. I don't know, it's, this female tendencies that they may have suppressed, not recognized, ignored, whatever. And maybe if they got strong enough, either way, male to female to male, they would act on it in maybe homosexual ways or, or, or whatever. I think what's happened now is that society has made it okay. Right. And, and in fact, glamorized. Now, look at the Caitlin Jenner. I mean, you know, glamorized this sort of, you know, morphology that doesn't follow normal societal trends. I guess in the modern era, whether or not this is, I would say yes, this has been around ages ago, but nobody had the, the, the ability to determine whether they were the only one who ever felt like that. Now, they know they're not alone, right? So they come out of the woodwork and, you know, have a community where they're, you know, accepted by, you know, like minded, like body people. So I think that's the difference. I think the fact that you have such an open means of communication now and sort of, sort of, um, blurring of the, of the wall that people put up, you know, with respect to, you know, what they're going to let out and what they're not going to let out. People seem to be less private about this stuff now and more easily, you know, able to talk about it, um, whereas, you know, 50 years ago, 100 years ago, nobody would even ever even dream talking about. Right. So, so, um, yeah, I think that, I think that we have, I don't know if you want to call it evolution, but I think we have, we have come to a point, you know, in society where people have more balls than, you know, no, I can't say that. People can add some of the instances less, but I mean, in terms of, bravado to, you know, admit that, you know, the girls of boy, the boys of girl, the girl wants to go to the boys room, the boy wants to go to the girls room, you know, they want to dress, they want to be non-binary, they want to do this, they want to do that. I guess it's become, especially in the far progressive side of things, you know, sort of, you know, diversity breeds, you know, and diversity breeds acceptance, they want all kinds of diversity, so they want, they want homosexuals, they want, they want confused, they want, they want, they want, imported, confused, sort of bisexuals, they want them from all, parts of the world, all religions, all deciding whether they want, you know, animals, humans, boys, girls, whatever, they don't care, they just want all this diversity, so because they do, they've opened the door for people even on a minor, on the sort of middle side, just a regular role, girl, it feels like being a boy, well, that's kind of really normal now when you look at all the other crazy shit they got coming in the other end, so yeah, between, between society accepting it, it becoming talked about them realizing they're not alone in the, the, the the pervasiveness of the internet and that information and the, and the communities that they breed, I think it's much more easy now, and in some cases advantageous for people who feel this way to come out. Yeah, and, and you know, I think a lot of people might be just not necessarily feeling the way that these people do, but I think they asked you, think it, like you said, it's being glamorizing that people, I think this people doing it, who really aren't transgender, who just think it's kind of cool to, to, to pretend, you know, so to speak, that you're transgender. Now, what do you think of these, you know, what do you think of these people who are, you know, embodying sort of inanimate objects, like Barbies and Kendall, you know, you know, those people I've met the wilderness, John, let's say, did you see that one dude who's got like every single body part is a prosthetic body? Yeah, every single body's clod's calves, biceps, triceps. Yeah, those people just have mental illness. The people who are transgender, they would just born in the wrong body. The guys, the people who, and guys girls, whatever, who do all the crazy plastic surgery, and then, and the sinful injecting people, you know, who, not even sinful, they're injecting, you know, motor oil into their arms. Yeah, those people have mental illness, you know, and that's a completely different topic we can talk about another time. That's why I brought it up. I don't want any transgender person watching this thinking that we think you're mentally ill. Oh, I don't know. I have a lot of friends in it, you know, that I know. We accept everybody. So that's established. But when you do cross a line and to mental illness, we're going to call you on it because we just have to. But it was an ex-great jokes. But I mean, if you're, if you're in the other, you know, deriding that's, you know, transgender, however you want to call yourself, and you want to place the compete. I think it's incumbent upon somebody in your community to take the reins and be the leader and determine if there really is a need for this. And if there is, bring it to us. We'll get it. We'll run it up to later. We'll get me and you know, look at it. Add another fucking division. The shells will be over in Christmas time, you know. That's all right. Well, that's why I think they got it. If they had any more divisions, they got to make this like a weak law in a vet because this is ridiculous. You go into so many shows. I'm not going to name any names that are promoters. The pisses them off and they have such thin skin and more thinner than any other competitors. So you get there eight o'clock in the morning for pre-judging. It's not over to late o'clock at night. And then you'll write into the finals and they're over four o'clock in the morning. That's why I don't go to show us anymore. It's too long. I don't, I'm too old. I can't handle any of my, I'll give my align my dad's days for the young people to go hang out all day if he shows. But anyway, the topic is will we see a transgender Olympia champion who knows? Stay tuned. I'm Dave Palombo with John Romano for another episode of Iron Rage.

Welcome back to live with Brought to You by Species Detrition. Visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest took him 40 years in the making to get here today. I can actually announce him as a new IFBV pro. The man I'm talking about, Ralph Kocheau. Welcome. Thank you, Dave. Thank you. It's great to finally meet you. I've been listening to your channel forever. You're 61 years old. You won the master's 60 over class at the NPC universe this last weekend. Or two weekends ago, I should say. You got the IFBV pro card. You've been trying since, for 40 years since 1978, you told me the story and I'm going to let you tell. But in 1978, you actually, the show that you first did was won by John Kemper. And a lot of us know John Kemper is the NPC district chairman and Jersey. A great competitor is on right. He's no longer with us, may rest in peace. You've been around the block a few times, Ralph. Yeah, yeah. I started competing at 21. Like I said, I showed up to Ramapoke College from my first contest. And back then, Dave, it wasn't wait. It was height. Sure. This is before wait. So I had got, I'm like, one, six, they have guys over 200 pounds of my class. I told you, Elliott Gilkrist, he was in his 50s at the time, but he had beaten Franco Colombo. And there was some other really big guys. So honestly, when I got back stage, I was so intimidated. I almost left. And then I said, you know what? Nobody knows me. I have nothing to lose. So I went in and I actually took second because I had my conditioning was good. Yeah. Yeah. Now, how did would you say bodybuilding has changed since the 70s into the modern year in 2018 right now? What have you seen as far as the competitors go that has changed dramatically? Yeah, you know, back in the late 70s, 80s, I would go and Mr. New Jersey, you know, local shows here in New Jersey. And we would sell out. We would sell out every contest. It was crazy. There would be people outside that couldn't get in. Really? Yeah. It just seemed bigger back then. And the guy seemed to be more conditioned. You know, nobody thought about, I want to get my pro card in three years or whatever. We just loved the train. We would, I trained at a gateway gym and Bloomfield and all the guys there competed. And we just trained hard and competed. We never really thought about returning pro. And you know, back then Dave, like one guy a year would turn pro because you had a win. You had a win the overall in the nationals. So there was very few guys turning pro. So I never had any expectations of turning pro. I just loved to train and compete. And the funny thing was, even winning the nationals wasn't enough back then. You had to go to the World Amateur Championship after that. When the Mr. Universe contest, you know. Yeah. It was crazy hard back then. And you know, I was in middleweight. So as a middleweight, I'm not, I'm not beating any heavyweight in the overall or anything. So, you know, I would just do the best I could. I just loved doing it. But now today, you know, I guess they're trying to grow the pro rank. So they have a lot of pro cards, right? They got, you know, we got classic. You got physique, you got bikini, you got masters. You got, it's, it's easier to get your pro card today. It is, but there's also a lot more people competing. So I guess they figure proportionally, you're getting, you know, better representation. Now, let me ask you this question. Was there ever a time period over that 40 years where you kind of took a big break? Or was it, were you continuously competing the whole time? Yeah, no, no. I competed for like 20 years, like two, three times a year in the beginning. And then I had kids. And I took 12 years off from competing. Now in the last 40 years, I never stopped training. I never took my foot off the gas. I took off a week the most in the last 40 years. And that's when I partially tore my rotator. So never stopped the eating, never stopped training. But yeah, I took 12 years off for competing one of my kids. We're little. And then went back in like 2010 and started competing again. So you got a lot of, you know, quality, mature muscle on that body. We're looking at pictures of you right now. And the condition was amazing. How many of you have no loose skint at 60 years old? I have loose skint at 50 years old of my body. So what, you know why Dave? I don't gain 40, 50 pounds after a show and then have to lose it. I was always within 10 pounds of my competition weight. Wow. You're a real OCD guy, huh? Yeah. It's never about weight cut with me. It's, I need 12 weeks to get crazy peeled because I don't have the best genetics. And the guys with the better genetics, you know, would kick my ass if I didn't step on stage shredded. You just, you just outlasted everyone, Ralph. That's how you, you want. Basically all the guys you can compete with, they just either died or they just quit. You're exactly right. And you know, way back then, we didn't have these gurus. You know, we didn't have Chad or Right. Or Kisasito or honey. I mean, I think you know the guy back then in the late 80s and even late 70s was Bob Grusky. Sure. Did you work in Bob and all? Bob used to come to my gym all the time. He used to use the nicest guy he would talk to me. But I didn't have the look for Bob. I didn't have the blonde hair, blue eye and superior genetics. He helped guys like Natta Shaq. He helped guys like Casey Kichurka used to train with he turned pro. I, you know, I didn't have the kind of genetics that Bob would waste this time. But Bob was a great guy and very knowledgeable. Yeah, we all learned a lot from Bob. That's for sure. I'll be the guy myself included and he right. He was one of the original guys. What was the like the big title to win back in the 70s and 80s? What was like the title everyone went for Mr. America? Yeah, yeah. You try to win Mr. New Jersey. That was big around here. And then you know, you thought you were ready. So I won Mr. New Jersey in 81. Okay. And then you know, I thought I was somewhat of a big deal until I went in my first national show. It was Mr. USA and Knoxville, Tennessee. I think it was 1983. And boy, I got back stage and looked at those guys. They were the walls and were just genetic freaks. Right. But you really, you really get, you really get an education when you see what you're up against, you know, those guys that are with the superior genetics. Let me ask you this question. You know, a lot of people think they're body-building, you know, obviously. It's kind of health benefits, but it also got it's, it's negatives, you know, we eat a high crazy high protein diet. We, you know, there's drug use and body-building. And everyone always says how bad it is for you. Your obviously a testament to the fact you look like you're 100% healthy to me. How has you maintained your health over the years, you know, of continuously competing? Yeah, you know, that's a great question. So for me, Dave, health always came first. Once I started competing, I started researching, reading, everything I could get my hands on about nutrition, training. So I could be successful on stage. And you know, I've learned it's 75 to 80% nutrition. So even in the offseason, I eat very clean, you know, organic, everything's grass fed. Like, you, you know, grass fed beef, grass fed, bison, no farm race fish, you know, the real fish. And I eat that way all year round. And no processed carbs, no bread, no pasta, no sugar. Keep the carb. Remember when we were in school, they had the food pyramid. Sure. And don't eat any fats because you're going to get heart disease. And then you had protein vegetables and down the bottom, eat a lot of carbs, processed carbs and grains. Really, get spot. Oh, oh, that stuff causes inflammation in the body. And that's the stuff you need to stay away from. You people out there should flip that food pyramid. Eat the good fats. And I've heard you say many times. And that's why I like I take your macadamia nut oil. When I was younger, I did not eat enough fats when I used to do my prep. And your body wants, it'll hold on to fat. It wants homeostasis. So it'll hold on to fat if you're not given it fat. So I've learned over the years to give it a lot of good fats, even when I'm prepping. And it helps your skin. And it helps you get lean. Now, you look, your skin is some of the best skin I've seen on a 60 plus year old guy. I mean, you really have no looseness anywhere. It looks very taught even on your face. I mean, your obviously a testament to the fact that good clean living goes the long way. What are you doing for a living aside from bodybuilding? I'm an accountant. I actually worked for shop right supermarkets. Oh, really? Yeah. I've been working for 38 years for them. Ever since I came out of college, they're a great company. You know, people always have to eat. They hired me in 1980 during a recession. So, you know, that told me that I should stick with them. You're one health and consistent guy. You've been bodybuilding to be 40 years and we're in a shop right for 38 years. No wonder why you have no deviations. I always tell people, look, the most successful bodyvils are the ones that are the most consistent. Because consistency is the most important predictor of success and bodybuilding. Most people have great genetics. They eat, right? They take drugs, but they're not consistent in applying it on a regular basis over and over and over again. And that's what it takes to be a good bodybuilding. And you just proved it. 100%. I'm sick like that. I mean, you think you take a lot of supplements I hear with you. I probably take more. People think I'm crazy. But, you know, it works. You stick with what works. What do you think of the most important supplements for people to take as they get older? I like Omega 3s. I mean, a good Omega 3. You know, back thousands of years ago, our Omega 6 Omega 3 ratio was almost one to one. Right. You know, based on our diet, when we live off the land. Today, with all the bad oils, vegetable oil, all these soybean oil, it's in everything. The average American is like 20 or 30 to one Omega 6 to Omega 3. So we do not get enough Omega 3. So I try to get a lot of Omega 3s. I supplement with Omega 3s. Crayloil, Calamary Oil. You don't really want to fish you all. You don't want an animal that's been around too long and has been able to accumulate toxins and pollutants. So you want a young animal like Crayl or Calamary that haven't had the time to pick up a lot of pollutants. Yeah. We used the anchovies and the small fish in our Omega-wise formula because of that. Yeah, because I don't want to use the big, the big game fish that have like you said the mercury isn't something that. That's wise. What about in terms of you taking a human to co-cute 10 and tell us supplements? Oh, God Dave, in the morning with breakfast, I counted it once like 25 pills. So I take like you, you know, elbow to thigh on all these supposedly that will help anti-aging. Right. I take all those bird-ock root. I mean, the list goes on and on. And then with, you know, with every meal, I'm taking more tug-ca milk to this whole things for my liver. You know, bodybuilders have to be careful with their liver and kidneys. You want to make sure you're detoxing them. How often do you go for blood work? Once a year, once a year, I went in last, last fall and everything was fine. Well, the doctor's amazed when they see you coming there, it's six months of your age. You know, most doctors give me a hard time because I'm honest with them at the way I eat no, because Dave, I eat like 85% raw. And most of them would give me a hard time, but the doctor I'm with now, he's like, you know, my wife eats like that. And she's so healthy. He goes, you just keep doing what you're doing because your blood work is perfect. Do we protein sources raw, too? I do. I do. You know, beef, bison. It's got to be grass fed, honestly, obviously because if you're eating something that's grass fed, it has an alkaline environment. Disease can't live in an alkaline environment. It lives in a acidic environment. So things like E. coli, you know, that stuff people get, that can't survive in an alkaline environment. I eat all grass fed natural. You know, you do eat sushi. I mean, some people have trouble. Yeah, I mean, you know, I like food. I'm just nervous to eat like meat and stuff like that. I know people eat chicken raw. Yeah, I eat chicken, um, uh, hearts chicken livers raw. Wow. Now, how do you prepare that stuff? Is there any special way? Yeah, I just throw it up my mouth. Yeah, really. You don't like put it into kind of brines and any kind of seasonings. No, put a little salt. The Himalayan sea salt on the beef and the bison, but, but that's about it. And I always eat my beef and vegetables first for digestion purposes. I'll eat those first all the way to a couple minutes and then I'll eat my carbs. And my carbs are always out of the ground. You know, whether it's, uh, yams, kingua, uh, oatmeal, but nothing processed never and no sugar. Interesting. Okay. And does anyone else eat this food with you or you look like a lone wolf? No, I've been divorced twice. No, I do it myself. And Dave, I've been doing it for eight years and haven't been sick. That's all right. So this is, this is not a short term thing. Well, boy, he's, you know, he better watch it. He's going to, he's going to get into trouble. Yeah, I've been doing it. I've been doing it for eight years. You slice up to me like in slet and thin slices. How do you make it palatable? I, I, I buy the 92% lean ground beef. Oh, because you even ground beef. Do mix it up into rice and stuff. Oh, how do you do it? Like, just raw. Just put it right in the mouth. Just raw and I'll put like raw asparagus or some kind of vegetable in my mouth with it. So, you know, like hard core, you'll just put it in the top of where and just take it out and start eating raw. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wow. That's all. Yeah, the vegetables in the meat first and then the, and then the carbs, you know, after. Because I saw shop right into buying a grass fed beef here. Oh, they do. Oh, they do. Okay. I get most of my grass fed. That's not right. Yup. They have grass run farms, Clayton's. Wow. Even, even Walmart now is carrying grass fed beef because it's growing. They're not stupid. They want to make money either. Everybody's carrying it. Well, you got a fascinating story. It ended in a terrific note with the I.F.E.B. Pro card. The question now is, what do you do? Do you want to, are you going to keep competing as a pro now? Well, you know, I feel like I should do one pro. So, Dave, there's, there's one September first in Pittsburgh. Yeah. They actually have over 40, over 50, over 60, over 70. Pros. Wow. I feel like I want to do one just to see how I stack up against the. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. What? You might want some prize money after all these years. You never know. Yeah, you know what the prize money is like for anything out of the milk. That's all right. It's the same prize money that when you started in 78th, they were given out to the Olympic guys, a thousand bucks. Exactly. You went full circle. Look at Craig. Craig, Richard, you just won. Yeah. And he, I saw his prize money. You know, it didn't even cover his supplements for sure. Yeah, I'm sure. I'm sure. Well, Craig. Right. I want to congratulate you on the big win. Thank you for filling us in on some of your longevity tips and your eating habits. I always find that stuff fascinating. I know my viewers out there probably do as well. Good luck at the Pittsburgh pro. I guess you could say masters that's going to take place at that North American weekend. And if you win, you got to let us know. I guess that's a great success story. I will. And Dave, I want to take this opportunity to thank you for all your work, all your information. There's so much misinformation. After 40 years, I've learned a lot. There's so much misinformation out there. And you tell it straight. And you're my go-to website. And I want to thank you for, you know, your 30 minute question and answers every week. Very well. You're bustling the morning. All your content is amazing. And I want to thank you. Very welcome. And like I said, I love to hear a good ending or happy ending to a hard work and guy. And you're, I don't think if there's anyone more passionate about bodybuilding out there than you because you've had the tenacity to last almost 40 years in our industry now. And that's, that's got to be some kind of record. Yeah, thank you, Dave. I appreciate that. You've got to go up against Robbie Robinson now. Forget that. That's not, that's not a new Robbie on stage after all this. You started in 78 watching probably pumping iron and seeing Robert that. Now you can actually get up on stage with him. I went to the premiere in Manhattan when it came out. I was at the theater. Yeah. Robbie's in his 70s. He still looks amazing. He does. He does. He's like, he's like, you know, he's, he's into very healthy, natural eating and, you know, he's into the whole Zen relaxing, meditating type thing. And you know, there's a lot to be said for that Dave. And when I was younger, I was all about intellect and physical. But I was lacking in my spirituality. So now I'm trying to bring, I spend most of my time and effort, bring in my spirituality up so that it's, I have balance in my life. And it, it helps so much. You know, I'm, I'm sure you probably meditate. Yeah. It helps with your training. Sure. It helps with your outlook on life. It's, it's for people when I was younger, I'm going to tell the young guys out there, start getting some books and get into some spiritual stuff. It will help you immensely. Ralph, nope, no injuries, no joint problems right now that. You know, I have some knee issues, but never surgery. I have some in this, it's, meniscus issues in my knees. But never a surgery. Thank God. Yeah, you're lucky. You're definitely lucky. You're, you're scary. You probably have good genetics to do. Probably everyone in your family lives to 100, I bet you. My dad's 94. I think you're married. Good genetics, I always say never hurts. It's all about genetics. That's right. All right, Ralph. Keep us updated, good luck in Pittsburgh. And that's going to take us to the end of another episode of Live With Brought to You by Species Nutrition. Visit speciesutrition.com. On the April on Belf, we'll see you next time.

I'm going to be launching the tasty pastry with a low-car hot tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love it as shown. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to the vegetarian food lesson this morning. I'm Dave Bollando and today is Wednesday on this flat. One, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we're back and better than ever with it on our brand new edition of our world famous Recap Wednesday. And by popular demand we're starting off the show with a recap of last weekend's Tampa Pro. In the men's open Ian Valier came in and saw and conquered and now he's heading back to the Olympia stage with a ton of momentum thanks in large part to scoring the biggest win of his career. In the 212 class, just like we said on our Friday pre-show, it came down to Carat's Bash, and on that all the sunny, and when the dust finally settled, it was Carat who ended up with the big win. Germany's Earth, Palacin's ski looked amazing on his way to picking up a hard-bought win in classic. And for the second year in a row, men's physique, Andre Ferguson crews to an easy win. Over on the women's side of things, Mona Porcelay looked great on a way to claiming the top spot in women's bodybuilding. And so did Czech Republic, Lanka, Farron Chukova, as she ended up taking home the Tyland Women's physique. In bikini, former Olympia champ, Esa Pesini secured a big time win after bringing in one of her all-time best looks. In fitness, Florida zone, Orika Tyrell held it down big time on the way to locking up her first win in a year. Lorhana Robinson brought home the top honors in figure, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with the wellness division, where a familiar face in René, Jewett, punched her ticket to the Olympia stage with a big win. Way out there in the scorching desert of Phoenix, Arizona, we also had some prime time action in men's and women's physique at the Europa Games Phoenix. And we're jumping right into our coverage here, starting with women's physique. We have Brooke Walker finally managed to break through into the winner circle for the first time in her career. Thanks to a monster effort here. Rookie Chelsea of Worcester rolled into second and a strong effort from Toma Fafa Amiko, as enough to help her slide, come to lead into the third position. In men's physique, Jason Huna continued to impress by adding to his win total for the second time this season. Nick Koi came out and managed to crack the top two in his season debut, and we're wrapping up our coverage here with third place finisher, and one with her spoon. Our last event of the weekend went down and out in the beautiful shores of San Diego where the muscle contest crew put up another great event at this year's specific USA Probecini. The talent for pound, this top five was probably the most stacked bikini group of the entire weekend, which is part of the reason why getting the win here was so big for Jasmine Gonzalez. The Neo Augusti brought in her best look of the season, which was good enough to land in the runner-up spot. And the red hot Carolina Colazos slid into third by edging out another strong effort from Spain's Ivana Fernandez. The top here was none other than Kaylee Huda-Shell, who seems like she's placed in the top of a show every weekend since for as long as I can remember. And finally, it absolutely breaks my heart to end the show like this today, because this is a sad time for a lot of people after hearing about the tragic passing of John Meadows last Sunday. We honestly thought about putting together a monologue to talk about this, like I have with other people in the past, but I didn't think it was right. There's nothing I can or putting to words in the scribe house special John Meadows was, or how much he'll be missed by his wife and his two boys and all the people that he touched over the years. So instead I'm going to end the show now with these pictures and a moment of silence for one of the truly great men that ever greased the bodybuilding world. Rest in peace, my friend. Thank you.

You know, the probably the most popular white fish that people eat is to lobby it, which is probably the least healthy because it's all farm raised and you know, they feed it stuff, you know, they feed it like corn based, you know, foods which is not which changes all the good fats and the fish. Most of these tolapia live in disgusting, you know, fish tank conditions where they're basically in their basically swimming in their poop. So I don't need to lobby it, even though it tastes good, it tastes like chicken. Why does it taste like chicken? We feed it the same thing we feed the chickens corn. So if I had to pick, you know, a white fish, I would pick the wild, you know, caught ones like, you know, if you live a long island, you can get a flounder and and fluke, that's really good. I really like those. God is really good. Haddock is all right, you know, the wild caught one. If you go to like Sam's club or some of these price clubs, you can buy like frozen, you know, wild caught fishes. That they have usually it's like cod and that I think cod tastes the best of all the white fishes. It's it's tasty. You can get it readily in the wild court form. Watch out for those farm raised fishes. They're just not as good for you health wise. Now, you know, macro nutrient-wise protein fat carbs, it's the same thing. So you can eat to lobby or you're going to lose weight and something that because it's the same thing. But for a mental health standpoint, if you're going to be eating that much fish, you might as well eat stuff that has good stuff in it. Because you can get nowadays, you can get frozen, frozen, wild caught. Just as easily as you can get the frozen, you know, farm raised. Just you got to do some smart chopping. In other words, you got to ask questions, you got to read labels. Some people just blindly grab whatever's there or whatever's cheapest, and that's not always the way to go. For a dollar more, you can get, you know, a wild caught. And I would always choose wild caught if I had the options.

Before I forget because that's super funny story about eating. Eating, we were in Dubai, but this time I was with the Ronnie Coleman, jet jet marsh, Flex Wheeler, Art Cugherley in Hong Kong. 1982, Boloyangian battered there. So of course, Bolodian speaking, there's a time and there was at that time hardly anybody is spoken with that. So when you go there, you try to order food. It would be impossible. But that time, it's just the Bruce Lee movie. It was some boat and you know, like, enter the dragon when they do, you know, this thing that's different foods. OK. So Ronnie and Art Cugherley, that eating something that you can start coming and they're eating like crazy. I can't determine what it is. So it's like, oh, what is it? Oh, chicken. It's great. And Ronnie is eating and then somebody is translating. And let's not eat chicken. What is it? Rack. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Where are they going? Ronnie is eating. This is the, this rat, every tasted man. Milo, this was Boloyang. The one who was eating in the intro of the dragon. He's eating. He's eating. Yeah, I'm not why I knew it was Sunday, but I never seen Milo or Boloy. I've been a scrolls. But yeah, Boloy was in the movie, into the dragon. A lot of people didn't know he was a gold gym regular. Oh, I didn't know that. And he was, yeah, Boloyang was, yeah. You know, he's the big muskler guy. And that's a little bit of a record. How many pounds of rat did Ronnie? I mean, Ronnie was eating like you can't even believe. But I just remember that then because the face that he made, I mean, he was just stopping his face. He never goes, okay, I ordered a chicken salad there. And I'm looking at this. I see everything but chicken. But then it's a chicken skin. The only part of chicken they use for the chicken salad is chicken skin. They eat the fat. It's very fatty in the food in Hong Kong. Very fatty. Yeah, yeah. But the, uh, I'll keep going. And, uh, I mean, the, How chewed probably went the bathroom and threw out the Ronnie probably finished his meal, I'm sure. I said, How chewed probably went the bathroom through the rat up. Ronnie probably finished his meal. Oh, that was like so many different things. Probably. Oh, yeah.

Come on, tricky, get lifted. There you go. Oh, guys, come on up front. All right, Mark. There you go. Oh, guys, come on up front. All right, Mark. There you go. Thanks, guys.

You know, I thought a lot about this tip, because I ate a lot of food back in the day, but you know what? I'm almost of the belief that I don't necessarily know if the drugs and the food ruin their waistline as much as father-time did and genetics, because, you know, in order to get that big, okay, let's, I might use myself as an example, because I wasn't a pro. Let's use Ronnie Coleman as an example. Ronnie was eating an enormous amount of food and training with enormously heavy weights. And his waistline was great, his body looked great, okay. And what people don't realize is that he won his first Olympi, he was in his early 30s, he wasn't young. So by the time he got to the end of his reign, he was already in the 40s, you know, and when you get to that late 30s, 40s, things start that, you know, you lose the elasticity of the fascia around your abdominal area, whether you eat a lot of food or whether you train really heavy or not, okay. Look at Flex Wheeler, he still has a really tiny waist, he always ate a lot of food and trained heavy, he was big, you know, he, for his frame, he was huge, he was like 260 on stage. So to the end of his career, he, any term pro at 218. So, and his waistline didn't look work bad for him to me. So I think what happens is your genetic structure, is your genetic structure, and as you get older, it deteriorates and breaks down a little bit and you lose the elasticity of your skin, and the fascia, sheets that surround the muscles stretch out, and I don't necessarily think it's a drug issue, because I see when guys go off drugs, it kind of reverses. Like, you know, I had a lot of problems with distension, I'm excited, a very short torso in my midsection, and my waist is small now, and my stomach's flat, you know, so I reversed it somehow, and I don't have loose skin on my abdominal area. So I don't, I don't buy in today, I think it's just genetics at a certain level, you know, your body can only handle, you know, I wouldn't say, you know, my body, I don't have the tightness of the skin that I had when I was younger, and I don't have this, the kind of like that fresh looking muscle that you see, I'm like a Nick Walker, but age is what ravages us really, and some guys, age better than others, Dexter did a pretty good job aging, you know, although his midsection also wasn't what it was, Phil Heets wasn't, and I don't think Phil doesn't look at the kind of guy that was abusing a lot of performance enhancing drugs, he wasn't a super heavy trainer, he didn't, he wasn't an overeater, so you know, why would happen to his waist? He just got older, you know, and that's what happens, I think, and so, you know, I think people just, you know, they get carried away with the fact they want to blame something, oh yeah, he was a good champion, but he ruined himself. No, I think, you know, the guy won fucking seven Olympias, Ronnie won eight Olympias, you know, they obviously had a lot of times during that rain that they looked amazing, that's why people don't last forever, you know, body building is a very short live sport, you could only have that peak look to your body with a good quality muscle before you start tearing things and things start, you'll lose elasticity in your skin and things just go wrong, I mean, that's just what happens, especially when you walk around in 300 pounds, you know, all the time, it's a big strain on your body, so I think the question, the answer to the question is that, you know, I don't think that it's the drugs that's necessarily in the overeating and the food that did it as much as it is the person's genetics and old age.

Day polamo here for another RX Muscle Ranch brought to you by RedCon1. Today I want to talk about thyroid hormone. A lot of people don't really understand how thyroid hormone works and to be honest with you, it's a pretty simple hormone. It's a pretty easy system. There's nothing too complicated about it. That's why it's very easy to replace it if people have thyroid insufficiency. Believe it or not, a large population of people out there, not just bodybuilders, but everyone in the general population, tend to have a lot of hypothyroidism, more prevalent and women than in men, believe it or not. Now let's talk about how we talk about how it interacts with other drugs and other scenarios like dieting. First of all, the thyroid gland is located right here around your voice box and it produces a hormone known as thyroid oxen. Or we abbreviate that as T4. It does this in response to a signal received from the pituitary gland and you're brain. That pituitary gland sends a signal known as TSH or thyroid stimulating hormone. That tells the thyroid gland to produce this T4 or thyroid oxen hormone. In school, I remember learning that and I always thought that thyroid oxen was the thyroid hormone that did things in the body. It turns out that that T4 needs to be converted into an activated form. What it's turned into is what we call tri-iodothyrony, also known as T3. T3 is active thyroid hormone and that's what indicates how fast or slow your metabolic rate will be. So T4 really has nothing to do with your metabolism. It's all T3. So when you go for blood work and you check your thyroid status, a lot of times these doctors will just check TSH and they'll say, oh, you're a lot lower high according to what those values are, which is really not accurate because I got to find out what your thyroid hormone status is. Another, a lot of times, doctors will just do TSH and T4 thinking that's adequate. Once again, you can have normal T4 levels, but if you're T3, if the T4 is not converting to T3, you can still be low thyroid. So you need to check TSH, T4 and T3. And the only value that's really relevant in terms of how you look and feel is T3. However, there can be problems with why T3 is normal and the other hormones are off. So the question arises when you take, I guess, drugs like growth hormone. Everyone, I've heard the gamut of people saying things like thyroid suppresses, I mean, a GH suppresses your thyroid, GH stimulates it. No one really knows what anything does. And everyone thinks you need to take thyroid hormone and I've heard people say you need to take T4, you need to take T3 and no one can give you an answer why. Everyone just has heard it from some guy in the gym or has read it on some website. And the bottom line is going back to the science of what I told you earlier, T3 is the important variable here. We need optimal T3 levels so that everything works well on about. When you take growth hormone, okay? A lot of people have reported that, you know, it drops to thyroid gland. And if you look at your only look at your T4 levels on your thyroid, you test, you would say that's correct because T4 seems to go down when you take growth hormone. But T4 is not the active thyroid hormone. When you look at T3 levels when you're on growth hormone however, it goes up. So what's going on? What's going on is growth hormone is telling T4 to convert to T3. It's facilitating at T4 to T3 conversion. It's making it happen more, okay? Which is probably what's contributing to some of the fat loss that the growth hormone, I guess you could say, causes and about. You take GH, we know you burn fat. Why? Well, it's probably too full. One is a direct mobilization of fat from the fat cells. The other is an indirect effect from causing more T4 to convert to T3. Now, when that happens, is that a problem in the body? No, I think it's an advantage of anything because you're going to put yourself in a better fat for any state. It's not, it's certainly not bad for your body to be lower and T4 because T4 is in active. So it's basically just activating what thyroid hormone. Now, sometimes you might see a your TSH levels go down a little bit because when T3 goes up, obviously it tells the pituitary, actually it's the other high-performance. It tells those glands in the brain we don't need to produce as much thyroid hormone. But I haven't seen that. So in other words, even though T3 is elevating and T4 is decreasing, TSH usually is still normal. So where are we at? Where we're at is that growth hormone does increase thyroid output in the sense that it creates more T3 to be available in the body. And the lack of T4 is not a problem. You don't need to supplement with it because why? If you take more in active thyroid, what's going to happen? Nothing. It's not going to convert to active form. We already have a super physiological amount of T3 being produced in the body because of this GH use. If you are a person who is high-po thyroid, in other words, your thyroid stops working for whatever reason. You can blame it on things you did in body building too many stimulants or bad genetics or whatever the case may be, most of the time it's due to an autoimmune issue where your body is immune system will attack the thyroid gland and stop it from working. Let's assume that that's the case because that's the case probably in most of the people who have thyroid insufficiency. So you go for blood work and you find out your TSH is low or your TSH is high because what's happening is your T4 and T3 output is low. Your brain is trying to tell the thyroid produce more thyroid hormone. So it raises TSH and the thyroid gland can't respond for whatever reason. So you'll see on blood work, high TSH, low T4, low T3. When that happens, what did they do? Well, you would think, well, take T3, right? Is that the act of thyroid hormone? Well, that's not the solution because it's very hard to dose how much T3 you really need in your body. Your body knows best how much T3 it needs. So what they do is they replace the T4 component. So most people who are on who have thyroid problems will take sinthroid which is a synthetic form of T4. The great thing about that is if you take a little too much it really doesn't matter because your body only converts what it needs into T3. So your body self regulates how much T3 you're using. Now people have asked me what happens when you take growth hormone when you're on T4 or a place. Well, this plenty of T4 present. Your body will convert more of the T4 just like it does in an atracate into T3 and you'll have higher T3 and your T4 will be a little lower, okay? But that doesn't matter, right? Because the ultimate important factor here is T3 levels. When T3 is elevated, we have a faster metabolic rate. Now to a certain point that's good. If it gets too fast, you know, do you just popping T3 pills which are known as side of melt, that's the brand name? All day long, you would probably give yourself a heart attack because too much thyroid hormone can cause aridmias in the body. Hard aridmias, which can lead to obviously death. We don't want that. I'm once again the dose is just pretty high to get to that point. So what's the answer to the question I'm taking growth hormone? What do I do? Nothing. Don't take anything. Work every so often. Check your levels. If TSH and T4, okay, if TSH is normal and T4 is a little low and T3 is a little high, that's to be expected, okay? If T3, T4 are both very low and your TSH is high and you know you have some kind of thyroid issue unrelated to the growth hormone you're taking but it just could be you have an underlying thyroid issue. A lot of people have thyroid issues, they don't even know about it because they never go for blood work. So you know, someone can go for blood work and find out that they have low thyroid and like, oh man, it probably was from what did I do last week? That's probably because now it could have been from 10 years ago or five years ago and you progressively getting worse. So hopefully you guys have a little better understanding of the dynamics of TSH T4, T3 and how growth hormone can possibly or negatively affect that. Now interestingly, a ketogenic diet, which is a very low carb diet, okay, which has very low insulin output, can negatively affect this T4 to T3 conversion because the body senses that it's in a calorie deprived state. When insulin levels are super low for one period to time, the body knows you're cutting that calorie into specifically carbohydrates. So what does your body do? It can slow the T4 to T3 conversion down. That's why I recommend that people have what I call a cheat meal, some people call it a really feed meal. That seems to be the new millennial term for it. But I like the quote of cheat meal, sounds a little sexy. You know, you use the cheat meal once a week, okay, to stimulate insulin release because you're eating carbs in that meal. Obviously, when you release insulin, T4 to T3 conversion will restore itself to normal levels and it will stop that slowing down of your thyroid that can happen when you're dieting for one period of time on the same type of a low carb diet. Once again, simple solution, but you need to know why you do it. Some people just think I'm getting a Machima because I feel bad for them once a week. I really don't need it. I can say, no, there's a reason for it. That doesn't mean you should eat like it's your last, you know, on earth or you're going to an electric chat of Mara. But you can certainly put in, you know, have a plate of pasta or have, you know, a piece of two of pizza or if you want to have a burger or fries or whatever. Enjoy yourself. Just don't go nuts. That's all because if you go nuts, it's too much and then you set yourself back a whole week. All right, guys, hopefully this helped out a little bit, gave you some more clarification on what thyroid hormone is and how it works in the body and how it interacts with diet and drug and or drugs. Guys, if you like these videos, subscribe to the channel, you know, click, turn your notifications on, hit like and put your comments below. I read them. I try to read them all. Good and bad. I'm the hateful lumbar with another R.X. Muscle rant brought to you by RedCon1.

music It's good WOOOOO Never Thanks!

撃ちぽー撃ちぽー撃 diab

The Yes, yes, yes, yes Can you hear how? Can you hear how? Can we go? Can you hear how? Would they― He is cage diving White I don't know how to take any all our back death But I said, it was all But don't know what to call Get it, get it! Get it, get it! Get it! Get it!

I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsens supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast from maximum results, and the best flavoring systems available. I've put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. Old School Bodybuilding Clothing Company. If you wish your fancy fitness center was a hardcore gym, you are old school. If you just ate chicken and rice and are about to eat chicken and rice, you are old school. OSBBC.com for the hardest training athletes. Great again, partying, meals, and regular contributor to Rx muscle. Meal, first of all, great to have you on a second of all in 30 to 60 seconds. How would you make this country phenomenal? I'm a little bit. As I said, making insulin great again. Shram said yesterday that he's going to make insulin super cheap. I'm not just that because of all the international pharmaceuticals that can be imported for a production of the cost. Let me tell you, I had some viral thing that I was supposed to buy in the pharmacy here, and there was two gram tube. It's not that good. It's not that good. It's not that good. It's $97 for a two gram tube. It's like 30 times as a amount of gold. I say, hold on a second. This is impossible. It's become a friend in India, and he says, in India is 75 cents. One of the greatest things for us, what we believe in community, to make it great, open the borders, please. Let's pharmaceuticals from the international sources coming for the cost, what do you can buy them there? Meal, I'm going to show you this that our next panel is Tom Prince, or Dave, should they ever become president. You certainly will become a debauchable of insulin and secretary of foreign gearing just in America. We now bring in our next panel as you saw in our last week. Actually this week, we recorded in last week that two part interview, glad to have him on, has been a long time coming. Dave is wanted to get him on the show for quite some time. What do you know, we got him on for the second time now in the course of two weeks. In 1997, NPC Nationals, over a winter 2001 Olympian, of course, we are talking about Tom, Prince Tom, welcome back to RX muscle. 30 seconds, how would you make this country phenomenal again? I'm with you. I've died out of meals. This is my second one. That's me the first thing. Second thing, I'm going to piggyback on what meals. I think I'd make all forms sooner, because legal on this country. It looked like Amsterdam, doesn't. That was to let everything be legal. They've got their crime rates ridiculously low because of it. I'd start there. Other than that, I've done nothing else more. That we are good as we now go to our Cape Coral Studios, bringing Dave Palombo, Dave. I texted you last night, because of course the big news from last night was big Ronny's announcement that he's going to be competing at the IAPV European Championships on a total of 11. So exactly two weeks from now, I'm like, Dave, can you give us a quick reaction video and you're like, I'm watching this debate. It's given me a bigger headache than when I record after I've ever had it. So, you're going to last night, 60 seconds, you or your puppy, whatever you want to go with, would you make America phenomenal again? So, Tom stole my, stole his ass and where do I want it to say? Make all drugs legal. Clear out the prisons, get all the drug dealers out of there. Let them go. As long as they're not violent, it crimals. Tax everything to death. You want to do cocaine? Going to a pharmacy and buy it, but you're going to pay through the teeth. You're going to pay through the teeth, but you know it's going to be pharmaceutical great. Just like they do in Amsterdam and you go, you can buy mushrooms in the 7-11 convenience store if you want. Let everyone do whatever they want. Tax it, like you do cigarettes and alcohol. Bring that income into the country so we can offset some of our deficit and stop arresting people for drugs. Once you get, the jails are overcrowded and I know it's a big business in this country, but I think it's a complete waste of time and money. That's what I would do without a doubt, make steroids legal. They get everything legal. Just allow people to go buy it in a store where it's regulated. So the people who have to worry about, you know, hey, I wonder if the guy who made this in his bathroom actually used sterile technique because that's where we're at at this point. So not only is there, we make criminals out of people who are just, you know, want to go to the gym and work out, but we're also, you know, we're putting their health at risk because they got to use, you know, underground stuff. It's crazy. And I think that the drug situation is not, you know, if you look at Amsterdam, they don't have any crime is almost zero there. And even if prostitution is even legal there, why is that? Does obviously a reason because people, there's no criminals when you don't, when all the criminal activity that normally would take place is now legal to do. So I, I think that that would be my platform as well. Now we transition into the bodybuilding portion of the show for those watching, we're going to have some fun with this. Obviously, whether you're on the Republican side of the Democratic side somewhere in the middle, let's have some fun with it. If we're not laughing about last night or about what's going on in the country in general, then what are we doing? Let's talk train. Something that we like to talk about on the show is especially when it comes to different nuances of training, different styles of training, training between the 90s era, which we loved to discuss. And obviously, the glorious bodybuilders that came out of that era, and then of course, today. And the evolving forums of training. So Tom Prince, we're going to go to you first on this one because what we want to get from you and we usually when we bring on high profile guests, we want to get the there style of training, what they prefer, what made them successful during the career, when you look back at your career, what would you define as your style of particular training? I had, you know, pretty, it's a pretty straightforward. It's, I don't want to say simple, but most of those all just basic exercises doing three sets per exercise, four exercises per body part. That was almost true for every single body part. I know that my followers and back might have been five movements for three sets or 15 sets, but everything else was literally 12 sets. Rep range is always in the five to eight range for the most part. If I could go back and edit myself all these years later, I probably would have a few more and now I'll say 25% of my workouts would have been in the 12 to 15 rep range. I didn't, I kept it all heavy. That's why my joints are just all just right now, but as far as building muscle does, I thought that was a great way to do it. Only did four straps on the third set of every, on the third set of every movement. So on sets, whatever you do, in time just press, you only do four straps on the last set. All the other sets were two failure and by two failure I meant until the muscle didn't move. For example, if you're doing like a dumbbell curl, that means you're doing as many reps as you can do with whatever weight. And then if you can only do like 75% of a rep to do 50% of a rep, 25% of a rep, you're moving it three inches to it just one inch until a little bit until the weight doesn't move. That's what two failure means. You know, you never just say I'm going to do 10 reps, do it, stop and then when you've cut it out in another three reps, ever. That's a complete waste of time. Like I said, did your point would do either four straps, you know, or drops at the third set of every final set of never movement that I did? Meals, it's good to be because first one, quick primer just in terms of the prime of your career, what your preferred method was. But more importantly, because right now you are a very sought after coach. We've seen you go, you know, different parts of the row. You see, you go to China. Whenever we try to get you on the show, your calendar is completely booked up. When you train your clients, do you have a particular pattern that you like to go with or is there more of a base of what it is that they can do, what works best for them approach? Well, you know, let's define what is best of them. We all want to define this maximum stimulation, you know, for each master group when you're trained. So I understand Tom was a old school guy. He was just going very heavy, very heavy. Because that was a trend. I mean, a Dorian Yates, you know, I've achieved what your chimney did. He's doing methods, right? So I run the common, go ahead, go home and moving some crazy pounders. We've seen for me, I was maybe fortunate that early in my career. First time I stepped in the gym and I said that to the pitch coach, I'm about to bring a lot of time back in a day. I remember watching two guys, one was benching over 200 kilos, which is 400, 40 pounds, right? And I had literally no chance. And then I had the guy next to him 80 pounds, 80 kilos, 180 pounds, with the chest like that. And you know, so imagine kid coming into the gym and seeing this kind of stuff, the cocaine, right away, little confused because you expect a stronger guy to have a more muscle mass. And then fortunately, this guy was also very good friends with the surgeon, Brake. I was in the brain, being one of my favorite bodybuilders. And if you remember his physique, especially his chest, chest was like, that tool, my bubbling stride, and you know, popped the bottom, he says the surgeon, Brake, even though he could have benched, well over 500 pounds, never, ever, ever bent over 220, 500 kilos in the training. So this is how I started. And I said first, I was introduced to this heavier, it's not necessarily better. And then being from a medical family and my father, my other sister, they were all being a doctors. My father told me from very beginning, like, listen, popped shot because of a young guy, I just want to leave heavier, silky. Your body is not designed for this kind of pounding. And they have to leave it up to here. Your muscles, my handle is a tendency of looking at it and it's going to go. It's not a question if but when. And interestingly, even Tom in this short interview said, yeah, he's joined a trash. You know, look at Ronny Coleman in the Jordanian age, right? The muscle pairs and ligaments and tendons injuries just waiting to happen. And let's touch a subject of a greatest bodybuilder. I think nowadays, that's the Jackson who at the age of 50 is still improving and why he is doing because he's training safely. So to answer your question, we're not having a very, very minute debate. I believe in combining sexual plasma hypertrophy. Sorry, it's kind of pump training with a lighter weight, with a my fiber, heavy weight. When your body is ready for a couple of sets and Tom said, you know, maybe pushing to the limit, go to those four straps, you know, try to go above what is usual. And on that note, I just want to mention, few days ago I've seen a hand to the brother, stating something that is very true. This is almost every workout he does is exactly the same. It's not the fancy, it's not the advanced, he just got progressive overload. Same exercise right to do with the more weight. And of course, look at him. I mean, he's a confinano. So it is not one way to get to Rome, right? There's many different ways. You know, Hunter is still young, okay? Maybe he would tell him to slow down a bit, like my father told me, he best to get to know me to back off from heavy weights because he says when you jump from a hydrized building and you're falling down, he feels great until you hit the floor. Then you know, you did too much. So I would like training smarter rather than harder and heavier. It was going to you quick touch on this one as far as obviously we know your style was heavy low reps. But now when you look at your clients and what you advise them, we'll kind of approach you suggest. You know, I think that one of the aspects of training that we have to take into account is genetics because, you know, we mentioned Serge Newbry, we know he trained for out. He would train five hours, you know, Chris the suitor used to tell me. You know, just a lot, not heavy weights, but he would just train like repetitively. Anyone else did that, they would probably lose all their muscle. You know, Dexter Jackson is a genetic freak. He probably can do anything he does just to stimulate the muscle cause his growth. So you know, meal us as approach is completely scientifically sound and logical, but I know for a lot, I don't think someone with my genetics would have ever put on the amount of muscle, the sheer muscle mass, and probably Tommy, because that don't think we're just big guys by nature. I think it was the progressive overload of heavy free weights that enabled us to get that big, you know, combined with food and drugs obviously. But the point is that you really need, if you look at the guys that train the heaviest, they got that dense, deep muscle. Are you more prone to injuries and possibly later in life? You know, joint problems? Absolutely. I mean, I got double shoulder replacement. I know Tom's going to have to get one pretty soon when they want to acknowledge it or not. It happens, but it was worth the sacrifice for me because that's I wanted to be the best at what I was doing at the time. And so I was willing to push the envelope. Now, if you have the genetics to be able to do anything and not, you know, not injury yourself. And you still hate, I don't think Phil trains particularly heavy, but he grows. So there's no reason to do it yourself at risk and lift the critical, so you have the weight if you can grow the one lighter weights, because that's just logic, right? I think the change in physique's a lot also had to do with nowadays guys love machines. I think back in the 80s and 90s and even obviously in Arnold's day, there was only free weights. Every with different free weights. And I think free weight development gave you a better, more complete round look to your body. I think today, guys are not everyone, but there's a lot of guys out there to just lack to something like missing it. They're big, but they don't really have like a, like a, I don't know, like a well, grainy, developed, deep, grooved body. And I think that's because they don't, people don't want to train free weights anymore. They're, it's easier to train with machines. There's a lot of machines available at every gym. You could put a lot of weight on the machine, but you just don't get the same look. So I still believe in, in heavy free weight movements, especially early in your career when you're building your base of muscle. Once you've got the muscle, you can incorporate more machines. You can incorporate, look, I probably, like I actually did lighten the weights up because I had injuries later in my career. But I think as you get older in your body, going to bring you already packed on the mass, you have, you can start focusing more on squeezing and doing, you know, higher reps because at this point now, you're not looking to put mass of amounts of muscle on. So I think that you have different stages of your career initially free weight, you know, heavy movements are probably the right way to go. And then as you're getting bigger and more in your body is maturing, you don't really need mass of amounts. The muscle, but quality changes, then you can start using machines and targeting type of certain things. I wanted to ask me, this one question though. Meal, we put up a video and I saw a video of you training Arnold Sun, Joe by Joseph by Anna. How is it? What was that like? Was that just like a goof? I do training them on a regular basis. No, no, no, no, no. We were training in the same gym and he was doing squats and then of course he was doing a giant set. So you know, my training part of the cellicule and a joint in and he never did, by cellicule, you know, your father was into giant set. I mean, first time I probably heard about the giant set was Arnold mentioning over some giant set. Okay, so what is that? You know, so I put him through, it was fun. But you know, just to get on your topic here, I absolutely listen, respect both you and calm you guys on the match monsters and you can see you have that heavy weight and muscle, mostly wall training. You know, so it's all of us, you have to respect that. And yet by all means, you know, you don't have to reinvent the wheel. We know basic movements. I agree with you. Three weights, nothing replaces three weights. I mean, if you're just telling me, just the machines or just the free weights, just one another, then I would choose it free weights. Because because there is basic movements, your whole body is involved, stabilizing, not realizing muscle, so that it belongs to the groups. You have to feel the weight, the height, the weight. Right? My machines, like I said when John Brown did the other day, it was John Ray and so he goes to the gym and look at his whistleblowers. They do like, you know, I think that is, you know, I mean, I do agree to the, you know, some my master connection and isolating the muscle. Of course, but you have to fight the weight. It's not like a posing session with whatever you're holding. So, therefore, I'm sure that you guys thumb, you know, all the basics, you know, squats, and leg presses and overhead presses, bench presses, bend over rows, you name it every free weight as a set as you can possibly do, get your base. And then as you guys were growing, you don't have a reason to change, right? So that's become your training style. So, you know, from my side, even I heard Tom said that maybe if he would start it again, maybe he would involve his thumb, other lighter sets, 15 reps because he was going 08 to 08, 5 to 8, which is super, super heavy. So, Dorian himself also, you know, mentioned that he was probably changed by implementing more sets and maybe not go ahead as heavy. So, I just think that combining both, some heavy duty, you pushed the limit, but then after whether you change it to the drop sets, drop sets, you know, changing the tempo, peak contraction. So, just, there is no reason, okay, it's not to be fancy to be different, it's in lacking the language, very active, is the lectant, variety is delightful. So, why would you do the same thing over and over and over? It's like, excuse me, I'm going to again put the sexual connotation to this. If you want to have sex, I don't just submission to the style, you want to change the position. No, no, let's just go with the basic. Well, I'll show you, there's, you know, it's a much more to it, you know, if you want to have a different feeling. So, this is how I approached, but it is not different in exercise for a sake of being innovative, that you actually have a child and thought how good that feels, you know, by substrates it, whatever. So, this is why I like to open minds and put them on like supersets, reset giants, change the tempo, angle, grip, stance, and just, you know, make them stimulate because muscle is adaptive. If I get you out of your zone, for example, now, if I would change with both you and calm back in a day and I know that you got some monsters, okay, I would get you out of the element after you do your heavy and I would put you through my giant sets and insist on that we go to the failure with a lighter weight. And you would get the absolute crazy pump. I don't know if you've seen the video I chained on one by hand, they have to the bag of show and a video chest and in a pretty much his statements, if he's never touched this pump in his life. Well, my idea is every time across the foot in the gym to get out of that, to have an absolute crazy pump where I could possibly achieve. And you're just saying to give it to give the muscle a new stimulus. Yes, it's just another way to stimulate the muscle, find a different way to stimulate it to, hey, you know, there's more than one way to grow a muscle, find a different way to stimulate. You know, so like what you said about when the use machines to, and both of you guys did, you know, you did, did you solve three weights on all the basic stuff, you know, incline about about duct flat, dumbbell presses, you know, dumbbell flies. Usually, when I got to the fourth exercise, it was usually machine, because I thought you got on it, so I'd get a greater range of motion, you know, using the seated pectx, like the work, you know, sitting the other way through a chest and the reverse del machine. You know, you just can't get stretched that far back and nor if you're using a dumbbell, you know, can you push all the way through to your hands or together with tension, like you can on the other way in a rear-dumb machine, you know, so you're, in a zone of way, that's its own stimulus, different than a machine. So you're trying to get the best of both worlds with those. But let's, let's, let's, I want to ask me also question, I said for, why do you think it is a meal us, and it could be, the answer could be genetics, but why is it that some guys, and I've seen top pros do this, where they do partial reps, you know, you see them doing like, they don't even touch their chest with the bar when they're doing bench pressing, and they got these humongous monster packs there, and, you know, most of us, if we ever did that, we would have no development on our chest. You think that's a genetic thing, or do you think it's a, it's a, it's a mind muscle connection that some people just have, they can, they can benefit from, you know, partial, you know, range. Yeah, you see, I did it with you, and I even made those comments, they taught partial movement, partial development. Yeah. And then like you said, you see, Ronnie Coleman does the kill the press, is this thing, or, uh, press for, yeah, yeah, friends, what I mean, max shots, watch him, he was doing like, you know, a few inch movement, and, uh, who am I to jump in, I say, I don't know, you're doing it wrong, right? It's, when he's on, uh, like, 100 times bigger than me, you know, the greatest thing is every time when I put some training video, there is some pencil next, they would always tell me, you're doing it wrong. Just like, would I, would I have a, got to tell to the, uh, rottenly Coleman and say, you're doing it wrongly, he has a three times a month of much for the I did, but yeah, genetic, but his inception, not the rule. Yeah, he's the, the option, not the rule. That's what you're saying. Yeah. No, but yeah, the, the there's question is, do I think it's rubbed genetics, or, uh, maybe freaky ability of those people that even in that, uh, parts of range of movement, they do, they do put the load on a muscle, therefore, the stimulates and therefore, they reach the failure. So, you know, they, they, they, they accomplish the job, read out, needing to go the full range of motion. But now the question is, what would it happen if they do full range of motion? Would they get additional growth? That's the question. You know, yeah, this is what I think would happen, but they're genetically, also, you know, you're writing about, when I look at maybe your bone structure, you know, you're just whole physique. What, you look to me, like you are built genetically for a carry weight, right? Right? And you have like, guys, like, let's say, John Brown or let's say Flex Wheeler, and you see the, the guys with the, you know, thinner joints and small bones and wrists and all that stuff, you would think if I load this guy with a like a 600 pounds quad, he's going to break. You know, so, so it is a lot, you know, about genetics, but one thing because I'm reading a lot of these streets that you're in that is constant in the cabinet, you know, you read such, I don't know, if you're seeing about the hyper trophy that you don't really necessarily have to go to the failure. And, you know, you don't necessarily have to go with the happy load and you create just like, if you're in the volume, it's going to be pretty much the same. And then I remember, when I talked to Bill Pearl back in the day, and Bill Pearl was saying, why fail in anything? I mean, take that word failure out of your vocabulary, why fail? The girl, okay? And then Lee Hanyan is, you know, there was, don't, uh, annihilate, just stimulate. And when you look at him, I mean, Lee Hanyan was the master of a time, right? In 80s, he was my mubgling tool heavy round, you know, the most muscular guy, and he didn't go anything super, particularly heavy. You know, so there is that question, but, so what I'm suggesting is, like you to keep your head is stuck by own means, but experiment with the pump and that sector plasma, uh, high-pensure feed that you just, you know, push the blood, push the blood, and then we're dead, you and I talked about about the insulin and product oxygen, hydremia, the energy heated, you know, and then see what happens. Yeah. But let's get into the cross of the wall we're here to discuss and, you know, all of that on this show and often throughout the course last year, you know, in body-building narratives, right? There's always the comparison between how things are done now back in the day, particularly in the 90s, and, you know, the topic of training often comes up because there is the, you know, debate as far as different training styles, different intensity, volume, whatever you want to call it. Now, Tom, you were on the show with Dave last week and you're talking about the importance of training. You know, we have had this question on ass-dave as well, like the chicken of the egg, right? What comes first? Is it the training? Is it now, I guess, the increase usage of whatever supplements that you're going to use? Obviously, there's this diet aspect of it as well. But Tom, let's talk, the importance of training as he equates to the overall equation of the body-building puzzle in your opinion, where does it fall at? One, two, or three, the routine that somebody has to go through in order to get their physique to the point where they're able to add all three components together to build that kind of a physique. You know, I tested this. I took an egg, I took an egg, it bottle of testosterone and put our plate in the middle of my kitchen table and looked at it and nothing happened. So without being in the gym, nothing happened. Okay, so I'm going to be the way for that. I do that all three things are divided up about equally. I guess in my head, I would say that the gear is the smallest thing. I don't care who you are. Genetically, if you don't have it in genetically, you don't know how to train hard, then I don't care how many millions of dollars, not nothing anybody's doing that. You can throw out whatever money you want at it. It's never going to be there. Genetically, you've got to have some sort of natural genetic kind of action for it. But I think the training is everything. The training and then learning how to learn how to eat right. Those two are equally important. I see those two are about 40, 40 by percent each. You know, the food thing, I like the analogy of building the house. You know, if you're building the house and you're using the the shittiest materials, you know, what's your house going to look like? You know, right, if you want like big concrete bricks, you want, you know, the best wood, the best whatever, everything, travel team tile, whatever you're going to use. You're going to have a better look in house. You know, so the better you can learn how to eat, you know, the better quality protein use, the better the house is going to look. You know, so the training's got to be, you've got to learn how to train and like, show you the right way. That's 45 percent of the food. Is the other 45 percent. And that might be the biggest thing, the hardest thing for people to do with the eating part. You know, I know what training you can be eating the gym for two hours a day, but it's still only two hours a day, even if it's six days a week. You know, for me, it would have been three hours a day, six days a week. Because I turned twice a day, but the food part, those, you know, the six meals a day, you know, that never ends. That's six days that seven days a week for 16 years. You know, that, I understand that's a, that's a big commitment for a lot of people. I'm not that everybody's going to be a pro, but it is a big commitment to, you know, hey, that's a food to be super important or such a long period of time. And that's really, I think we're you know, me, the question that we got specifically on our show asked me a couple of weeks ago was that there are body builders right and again, the original poster it basically laid it out to look. I've been dieting, I've been training, but until I was enhanced, you know, I didn't really realize my full potential. And then he's like, I look back at the period where I was not enhanced. And I think a lot of body builders can speak to this. He felt that it was a quote, waste of time in a sense to that, what do you say? And then in your overall equation, because again, when we think about Milo Sarsev, obviously today, the narrative is that, you know, you're known for your your protocols. So in that light, what would you say as far as the question that you're from equation? Do you see the seven months for a product? I train seven years, uh, a drop free, you know, seven years, uh, a directory and then I agree with Tom, I mean, when you put it, uh, like this, training, uh, nutrition and, uh, from ecology, from ecology comes last. I wouldn't say just 10% would say a little bit more, but uh, uh, something got my attention also. He said he trained twice a day. And we heard about heavy five to eight reps, uh, for different advertisers, you know, so many sets. This is, uh, an answer to all this, the cry babies, overtraining, you know, don't do it. You know, everything that I was training, I was training, uh, 550 times a year in average for 15 years straight. I was training like Tom twice a day, you know, six days a week, you know, pretty much so, uh, and also I would say, uh, because, uh, not people in the beginning, back in the 80s and 90s and nowadays, it's not the same. I do think that guys, like they fall on the, um, Tom Prince, trained hell of a much harder than nowadays. Nowadays is what they're down and like you say, you show up in a gym, many gym don't even have a, uh, in that three weeks. They have a little bit of like well, bench running, client one, this square track and some of that and then shit load of the, you know, machines. So back in a day, you'll go into the hardcore gym, you pick up the barbell, you know, you're laying on the bench and you do, you have to stop. But, uh, okay, now that's a go back to what you're saying, uh, people are saying wasting time without the ball. You get to a certain level. I mean, of course, look, look, I do believe that Ronnie Coleman was a drag tree until like 2005. I have a computer to him, 2001 to the people five and then sticks and I've seen the difference. I do believe that a Kai Green was also a drag tree until that New York show at Billion, 2007. And then you see what was the next step. You know, so let's not bullshit people around. It's impossible to reach a limpio level to physique, be that enhancement. But now, there is a right way to do it and it's a stupid way to do it. I keep saying this, if you do reasonable cycle and if you consider that on the ball, it's a medicaments, not drugs. If, like you said, we can legalize all the pharmaceuticals and you don't have to have a underground labs. You can have a pharmaceutical grade, you know, cream Ebola and a muster on and, you know, the insurer, whatever else from whatever country and you know what you're taking is real and you take a right dosage and you have a doctor's recommendation and, uh, uh, the supervision. You can enhance your help. Let's say, on the ball experience, uh, increase constructive metabolism, not destructive. They have built things, right? They're not breaking down. They're always in every time and they're in the insurer. They say, oh my God, you're promoting this dangerous destructive drugs. They're not the, the word is anabolic to read it, read the induction. What does it mean? Constructing metabolism. The medicaments have given to the patients. Oh, what? The insurer, they have burnt the dying, they are weak. The muscle vacancies is HIV, anything? Protects you to recover replenish. So if you use anabolic wisely, you can enhance the help. And not just that you can counteract that crazy pounding, the dump prints, uh, the diploma of myself who were putting our bodies for 20 years in a gym, you know, picking up heavy weights, you know twice a day for, for all and a half to hours and then, it's, a body is not designed for that. So you can protect it by actually having a clinical, a clinical, a drick-off and hasmin and now. Dave, what's the problem with the, I'm sorry, we're, just it's not the waste of time, I think that everybody should push their body to the limit, naturally. And then, you know, they want to reach the top professional level of world class. They absolutely have to consider it. Get as much out of your base, not to carry out. So if it gives much out of your base as you can, you grow naturally for a number of years. You know, I mean, I don't know if you can do it for 10 years. I can eventually, you will get to a point where the more you make gains, the harder it is to keep making gains. You know, the human body doesn't have an unlimited amount. A muscle is component. But so if you want to push past where your body on your own way, put on, then that's when you might introduce the gear. I think, you know, to me, like, if you're, if you're starting up taking gear within that first year, all you'll do is do what your body would have done naturally. I think that's a complete waste of time. And you never look right. The muscle never has like that hard dense look, it never looks. Like, it's got any kind of maturity to it. You know, basically it just looks like a water balloon blow to the hour. And as soon as you're caught training, you know, they'll go like that too. You know, you'll lose it. And you know, they, the, the end of the one that introduced you because again, you answered this question on ass day, a couple of weeks ago, I want to ask you this person, I'm going to go around the horn and this one. You know, we talk about obviously influence for social media in bodybuilding today. And I'm not saying all this is a blame social media, but what I am saying, there's a lot more information at our fingertips now. And I think now because, you know, the, the bodybuilders of today have so much a flood of information on protocols and, you know, to the point where, again, there is that temptation. Well, even if somebody's not restart genetic potential, naturally, we're just going to take that step anyway. How much, weight do you put on that? And again, if you want to give a primer as far as sort of ranking that equation between training, stop training that mellows just talk about in this last answer and putting it all together to build a an Olympia level or it cools to that bodybuilding physique. Look, I'm, I'm agreeing, I'm really with what these guys are saying. And, and what I've seen in my own body, I've seen a guy green. I've seen the guys, you know, look at, um, Keon Pearson, who was an actual up until a year ago. When you train your body to the level where it can't go any further naturally. And I took my body fell, I trained for like five years naturally. And I couldn't gain any more weight. Like, I couldn't eat any more food. It didn't matter how much food ate, my body just burned it up. I, I couldn't put more muscle on it. I hit my, my genetic limit at about two hundred eighteen pounds. Okay. The second I started doing gear, it was a very weak cycle. Like, pre-mobile and a winch. I just my body exploded because I had very well trained muscle. I had maximized myself naturally and my, and I put on a hundred pounds in five years. I mean, that's a lot of muscle. That's 20, an average of 25 pounds a year. So, it worked. Okay. I've seen it happen with other guys like high green and ramyan. And, and I'm not, not just genetic freaks. Guys that train actually for like a really long time. And then they take gear, even if they don't take a lot, they don't even have to. They just grow. It's like, there's something there that they've created that enables their body to go beyond what the people who just start out taking gear, go with them. Because they seem like they hit a plateau and then they don't go beyond that. I see a lot of guys that haven't taken gear their whole life. And they grew when they were younger and then they just never ever put anymore muscle on. Now, I don't, I don't know what the exact mechanism of why that is. But it's just, it's just a known fact that steroids work better on unwell-trained muscle. I don't know why. I, you know, I'm the science that I like to quantify. I'm not really sure. So, I can't even answer to that question. But I do know it just empirically, what I see. So, the best, my best suggestion would be, train naturally. Learn how to eat first. Tom made a very, very good point that a lot of people do not understand. If you don't consume enough protein and you don't consume enough of the other stuff, essential fats and enough carbs to fuel your workouts so that you, the protein and fat will get used for building muscle in energy. If you don't do that every single day, day in, day out, if you can't perfect the eating part of it and you're like, oh, I was just wasn't hungry or I missed a few meals. I had to go to a meeting. If you can't figure out a way to never miss a meal, you'll never make the, but you'll never make the gains that you see people reporting like, oh, like they plumber game 30 times a muscle one year. You can't do that unless you're perfect, okay? And the, body building is a sport of, of, perfectionism, it's a sport of OCD, anal-retentive, mental focus that is every single day of your life. It's not like, you don't have seasons, you don't have like on and offs. It's always being on your game. And so you have to not only like the sport, you have to love the lifestyle. If you're not that kind of mindset that where you can do things on such an OCD, you know, focused basis like that, then you're gonna, you're not gonna be the best body builder. You're gonna fail. Now, you could might have great genetics. We see this all the time. How many great genetic guys out there that we always say, hey, this guy can go all the way and then he never does. Because they didn't have the mindset that, that, that, that work ethic to go along with the Ronnie Dorian. I'll use Ronnie better, because Ronnie had the genetics, you know, to do whatever he wanted. But he also had that crazy mindset. That's why he became the best ever. Had he not had that mindset, he might have been great, but he might not have been the greatest ever. You know, so it's a combined effort. You know, the drugs definitely will facilitate you getting to that next Olympia level and they're important, of course. But the food and the training are probably the two pillars that if you don't perfect those first, you'll never, the drugs won't do it. The drugs are not gonna get you to that next level. You got to have two solid foundations first. Can I, can I, can I, can I think about just one small thing? Yeah, just I'm just, I mean, I don't think I'm saying anything different than David, but the, the, one of my favorite things I used to use is seminars was in bodybuilding. If you want to be a good competitive bodybuilder, good great Olympia level, whatever, bodybuilding doesn't just happen. Okay, not any different than if you say, you know, like I don't want to, you know, I don't want to go jogger on the block a couple of times and end up in the Olympics. No, right, you're not, that doesn't happen. You're not going to go out for a couple of blocks on your neighbor and from my own here and there, and never, would be in a great runner. You know, David used to be a runner, I'm sure you're trying to tell you this. You know, but you, right, you want to be great at anything, you're going to devote an unbelievable amount of time, physically mentally, you know, and in your kitchen, you know, being a great bodybuilder. Doesn't matter what it is that you want to be great at. You're going to have to, you know, you got to be slightly neurotic about her. You're going to be slightly obsessed, slightly focused about her. But you loved it, Tom, didn't you? You loved all that obsessiveness about it, right? I loved it. I attracted you. Yeah, yeah, I loved it. If you don't love doing that, then you're not going to be successful at it because you have to be, you have to love it, otherwise you'd never be insane enough to do that. Hey, if you listen to Howard Stern talking his radio show, he talks about what he went through to make it to where he finally got to be an upper level guy. And he went to all the small, you know, BS smaller cities, going to Hartford, going to Cleveland, going to, you know, doing like these little rickety radio shows until he finally started to make it. You know, well, by the time other people see you start to make it, 10 years has gone by. Hey, yeah. You know, what's the same? He's trained for seven, 10 years on his own, trained in natural. Nobody sees that stuff. Right. You know, they only, you know, when they see me, the first time he's in America, they see my god, this guy's an overnight sensation. But I think I'm going to be in the physical arts. Well, yeah, but you missed the first, you missed the first decade that he killed himself in the gym. Right. You know, that, that part bugs me about a lot of people taking, I can just drug my way or gear my way, you know, to a great physique. Well, I mean, I was the, the reason I want to refocus this on one particular area of this, but we know today, we had this discussion as well. Today's bodybuilders train hard. They train discipline. We get all of that. But, you know, again, someone like you look similar to Dave, you both come from a medical background. You coming from a family of doctors. So, again, your understanding of protocols and someone to the discussion about protocols and today's bodybuilding. And again, I go back to, you know, the information that are now at the fingertips of bodybuilders. Nobody's saying they don't train as hard. Nobody's saying they don't train as long. But there is much more of that discussion of what peptides are available, what protocols are available to stoster on those who just are available now to you. Back in the day, in the 90s, maybe in the 80s, when that kind of information was not as readily available. Do you feel as if there was maybe a touch less of an emphasis on the protocols as there might be today? Yeah, absolutely. And we talked about this. There was too much information now. Yeah, so, again, I bring up our show at stake. You look at about 35 to 40% of the questions that we get asked are hardcore, hardcore drugs, drug related questions. That PD question. I mean, again, that's something that, again, people see Dave as an expert in that. So, they want to ask those questions, not saying that, but sometimes even lead police or poke fun at some of the comments in that thread saying that like, all right, you have some who maybe have touched a wait for a year or so, and now they want the hard work. If one more person asked me about cruising, I don't know if Tom knows what that is. Everyone's cruising. No one goes on. I can put you through. I just put you on two together. They cruise. They cruise and I just don't know what you're off for. No, but we're off. Everyone cruises now, man. Yeah, that's okay. Yeah, to ask if it's a deep. Absolutely positive. Medium percent, right now, all these emphasis on new songs and peptides and those edges never get off cruise and cruising levels are much higher than Dave Tom. My self-free pre-sumension did it for a limp or national preparations. Dave, you talked to the audience. I remember talking to the audience back in a day and I'm a hundred percent sure that his genuine is not lying, because he told me his cycle several times. There was always, you know, very accurate. And it was like, let's say, three parable and a week, the 76 milligrams at the time, right? That would be the highest, those, I mean, if you, right now, you mentioned that the upper cycle of the five years of not training and all the training and not doing anything, then you did the set three-mobile on and something else and you just said it's loaded. Those edges were quite minimal. I'm sure that Tom did that as well. I remember 2006, you know, all these forums like, I think that's a kind of button that comes, they're talking dealers would make up the stories that whatever provided build it is doing, you know, 10,000 milligrams of this or that. You know, so if you want to be like him, you should do it like that. Therefore, they can sell more drugs. If I tell you, take 150 milligrams of something a week or 15 hundred milligrams, I just made a 10 times a sale, right? So this is where you came about and I do remember, still there in 2006, I went on the get big that kind of selling it. Listen guys, please don't listen to this idiots. Here is one Olympia cycle and I posted Olympia cycle at 12 weeks, many cycles, changing for one thing and other. And about 75% of the people are starting to feel fucking liya bullshit, you know, get lost, you know, because they don't want to hear this. So I mentioned in the 10 minutes ago that anabolic series, if you used wisely, can contribute an enhanced care health, definitely contribute to your physical and the scalability. But if there is certain point of why push it, which does because it's expected, I don't have in the preparation for the contest. I don't use everything that is on the list. You know, now there's, you expect if you're in the contest, you need to take carried and feed three people and computer all the course and maybe you can be. And then, you know, add this, add that, this type of that type of an average, you don't need to. You design a cycle and then according to, okay, you need to bring up a little bit more benefit, maybe we include this one or that one, adjust the calories, you know, increase the cardio, but pharmacologically, there's a small little contributions to what I see now because then like you, I have a lot of clients that maybe change the coaches and then they came to me and then they gave me the previous cycle. It's like, oh my god, there's not one thing that is not done that list, you know, because, yeah, I guess they should post the takin. I did disagree with that. So, so that information overload and then comes as a missing information. Yes, there's so much missing information on the internet, people posting, you know, because let's say, if right now, I would design some new peptide, I'm going to have a good marketing team and we're going to have some doctors, some valid athletes, stuff like that, just crazy about it. I'm from Europe. So, in Europe, when the check to set something Americans have a secret and this is that and then you come to America, oh, Russians are these three Europeans, they have a secret and then you solve this, there's no secret, you know, there is a hard training like we talk about it, there's a meticulous nutrition, you know, probably overfeeding. I mean, even Dave said that he couldn't anymore, right? You kept that. I was forced feeding myself, you know, basically forced feeding myself. But again, even though the many people are putting label on me, that I'm next from to die, because they look so unhealthy at age of 56, you know, they were just expecting to drop that, I think to not come to good, I looked healthier than most of my generation, I feel, you know, how much better than them, because most of them, you know, never exercise and they just go on to go life. So, if he used anabolic series wisely, I promise he can enhance your health. I don't know, Dave, I'm going to put you on a spot because he probably, right now, you're not even on a TRF, right? No, nothing. Is this any particular reason for it? My testosterone level is a 550, I feel good. Oh, oh, so you have no reason? I mean, I'm not on the high normal, but I feel good. The sex drive is good. I feel good. My blood pressures normal control. So I think, you know, why, why mess with the perfection? I'm not trying to get any bigger. If I didn't feel good, me alone, if I didn't have like a lot of energy, and I thought like it wasn't recovering, I would absolutely be on HR too. But, you know what, I don't even sleep a lot because I think I got three young kids. If I was sleeping eight hours a night, I probably would even be better, you know, you know. So once in a while I got a drink a little cup of coffee, you know, like to get through a day of taping here at the studio, because it's just something that's sleeping enough. But I, on a regular basis, feel really good. So I don't see a reason to do it. You know? Yeah. That's just a question. That's perfectly. Plus, you know, and I've talked about this. I have an aortic aneurysm too. Like I have an in large a order. So I mean right now it's being watched. So I think, you know, why why even, you know, put any strain on anything and any organ system at this point? Because I don't want to have to get surgery and get a fix up. I'm, I'm like stabilized now. So I'm three, you know what? Why push the envelope doing anything? Because I know what'll happen. If I go on HRT, I'll gain 15 pounds of muscle, you know, from that. Just from just from that happening. You know, it's it. There is a pharmacological effect from HRT from hormone replacement therapy dosages. If you're on nothing and you take 200 milligrams a week, you know this, you did your first cycle probably 200 milligrams a week. You grow. You definitely grow even though your levels might be high normal. You still put muscle on. There's a pharmacological effect from exogenous testosterone, just like you point out that there's a pharmacological effect from exogenous insulin. Even if you just restore normal sugar balance, you body. That's a, yeah. A time. Yeah. Oh, I, I, I, you're on the, the, I think. Oh, Todd, there's even a good in the gym. All right, exactly. I'm doing push ups. I'm doing push ups and synops and home. That's all I'm doing. You probably grow a ton. You, you're like a freak that you, if you went to the gym, you'd probably put 20 pounds of muscle on, you know, even with the dialysis you're doing, you know you would. You know, when a couple years ago, like I stopped training a couple years ago, but a, a through like when I was 45, 46, 47, like I, I used to have a my own little personal mantra, which was if you can't be huge, you gotta be lean. Right. So it's gotta be one of the two. It's either big or four percent body fat. Then the, the small fat shit. Yeah. That's out. Yeah. You know, so, so what I do was keep myself at about 195, 200 pounds and super super lean. Right. We want to eat it like that, like two years ago. Right. When I got back to Italy, it would from Italy, I had no reason to keep training. So I just said, it's correct.

that unknown island. Movie strive

so this is it it did what Give that a refreshing channelно�

Apholumbo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind. To provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition products. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. We also have beef cuts. If you want to introduce one of 25 cm long, try to take out out your all-time box. When you're asleep there just help you start John, D's Polygon, Astorows. Welcome back guys, to After Hour, I'm Dave Polymbo and I'm joined as always by my partner in Crime, John Romano. And we had a very busy weekend in the body building world, because we actually had body building shows, believe it or not, which is a rarity in 2020. Was there an actual audience this time? I think there was, yeah, surprisingly, the New York Pro, which was not held in New York, but was held in Tampa. It took place, Ian Valier, won that, of course. And then of course we had the North American championships in Pittsburgh under a tent outside an parking lot. Gary, you did somehow made it happen, pulled it up. I think it was the biggest show of all time, John, like the most competitors ever, like, I think it was like over 1,500 people in the show. Oh my god. Yeah, that's the most. Oh, and joining us is my good friend and client Phil Bordelone. I was going to give you a big introduction, but I guess you don't really need to introduce yourself big anyway, right? Not that way alone. I'm not that popular. I've known Phil for a very long time. I've worked with him over the years. He's a good guy. He's a bodybuilder's bodybuilder. He loves the sport. He always seems to come back to it. He competed this past week. He looked really, really good. He didn't get the pro card, but we got another, we got another set of shows. We get the master's and the master's and the master's coming up in four weeks. But I really want to get Phil on just because number one because I want to give him some credit for all the hard work to do. But you don't know what this guy's been through, John. If you remember last week, there was a crazy hurricane in Louisiana. Right. Phil had it die through it and he works in, in, like, the epicenter of where he hit. Tell us the, Phil, tell us what you went through last week. It was crazy. I don't, I don't even know where to begin, but all the obstacles we had to overcome in this trip. Right before prayer, got laid off. You know, things are slow and gas and all feelin' everything right now in the plants. Just in general, and then on top of that, you got the COVID. That's slowing things down, then we had the hurricane. That's slowing things down. So I got laid off right before prayer. And that's why I didn't compete in 16, 17 and 18. Because every time it was be right time for me to get ready for prayer, I get laid off. You know, there's no job security in this industry. What I do when the job gets slow, people get cut. So fortunately this time when I got laid off, they're same day, I got laid off. I picked up another job that is same day. Because normally when I get laid off, it takes two, three months to find another job. So that was one hurdle we had to, not to mention you have a family to support. It's not just you. I got, I got three girls and we're actually trying to build a house. I'm moving back home to be with my family, if I can find a real home to be with my family, if I can find a real home. Oh, I got a stop here for a second. John, he actually lives in, he has like an R&D that he parks by his job site there. He has to let, because it's such a long commute every day that he has to stay in there. So it's like a rock climb around, it's horrible. Yeah, but imagine this, the hurricanes coming. You've got this, this R&B with a, with a generator, basically. And, and you have all your body building food. Everything's going good. And now they tell you, we guess what you've got to evacuate because our can come. Yeah, I stayed in the camper when I worked. I only come home on my days off. The last five or six years. I worked six to seven days a week, 12 hours a day. Wow. And then on top of that, I have to go to the gym. So it's, it's extra hard for me to compete in my line of work. Because in the amount of hours I'm putting in the work, my job's not that hard physically, but just mentally. And, you know, being away from home, that much and working in the long hours, we do that having to go to the gym. It's tough, especially where I'm at now because I'm going to shift work. When we give our days when we keep work nights. And so it's kind of hard. That was another option we had to overcome this prep. You know, I'm used to eating at the same time every day waking up every to the same time on the bed at the same time. But this, this time it was all over the place because when we come on days, when we come on days, when we come on nights. But yeah, I stay in a camper down there. My wife's called out of vacation. If I, if I was staying in a camper, where the work started. Yeah, I've made a decision to move the camper. I know we were working in hard. That, this last week or two, you know, suffer and try to sub down. And get the last little bit of fat off the boots. So I was really depleted tired doing a lot of cardio. You know, restrict the calories. I did not feel like missing a bit of camper. So, well, that's the last minute of the decision I call my buddy. And I said, man, do you have somewhere that I can put this camper or warehouse or anything? And he said, yes. So I looked it up, poured it over there and they got it because every camper at the RV place got flipped and rolled. I mean, it looks like a bomb went off and laid your arms. Every, every building and every house, the roofs ripped off. Every telephone, my power lines down, every fence is down. Every billboard is not down. Farmer equipment flipped over, trailers, flip overs, 18 wheelers, flip over, trackers, flip over. Think about the force of a storm John to cannot over a tractor. That's you. We've seen that in Florida. They're not really aerodynamic where it's like, it's going to, like, a sale is going to pick the model. And you have to have such a brute wind force to actually lift and tip over a trail. I like a, like a, a tractor rather. You see, you see, you know, wheelers tip over on the side of 95 during hurricane. If you've ever seen drove past a plant and you see those, that those big flames coming up out of the plant of the flames coming out of the plant. That's the big flares where they burn off excess gas. Right. Crack it down. I should sit, Dave, a picture of our flare. It looks like somebody took the cocaine and crushed it in their hand. Yeah, it's like this big chimney, John. It's like, it's literally like the hand a God came down and crushed it. But the thing is like the size of a building that it crushed. How that wind, this speed can crush metal like that is, is, is, is unbelievable. It's unfathomable, actually. Isn't that cold day cracking tower? Yeah. Yeah. They have, they have, when they have tractor units. Yeah. You've been a big, you've been turned off the excess stuff. Yeah. You can't be refined out of the crude oil. Yeah. Those are cool. I want, I want, I want, yeah. Oh, yeah. You're just got crushed down. Yeah. It looks like somebody took the cocaine and just smashed it in like that. Do you have that on your Instagram, that picture that thing? No. I didn't post it. I don't know if they would want to be postin' that. You know, they got, they funny about taking pictures in the plant. I can, I get posted there. But I, you know, yeah. So, so the last week of prep, I had to go back to work. That was another obstacle. I had to go back to work. Well, I ended up having to commute an hour and a half drive there. Hour and a half drive back after working and then still going to the gym because I couldn't stay down there because there's no electricity. I was like, oh, well, I'll just bring my generator. Well, I thought I brought my generator. I've got stole in a hard beat. Plus, there was no, no, no, no gyms are open. There's nowhere to get food. All the stores were closed. So I had to drive back and forth every day on top of working and trying to get ready for the show. Then the last week I caught on a massive ear rate. I mean, I see it, they have the picture of my ear end up ruptured and I had a pulse pour out on my ear for like three days. So smooth and then like the last two weeks is like the world can't crash. Thank you. I told the stop, the stops. He kept telling me this is the easiest prep I ever did with you. I can't believe how easy it's been. I'm like, stop, stop saying that. Stop saying, you're like, jinxing yourself to the right off the bat. Because he's, he's one of these guys that has all these weird things always happened but the last minute he loses his job. You know, something he cares a muscle. Something terrible always happens and I, at all, is perhaps and I always feel bad and he's always, but he always comes back. You know, he always, he doesn't let it get him down. And he kept saying, oh, this is everything's going so smoothly. I'm not really suffering that. So, like, stop, stop. It was one of the best food. Man, I had no cravings. It didn't have no breakdown. You know, man, why am I doing this? I want to quit, you know. And I mean, we had cheap meals. I was doing less cardio than I normally do. I mean, everything was just going good and then just bail. Like, you know, the last two weeks, I'm like, Jesus, whatever it was going to go wrong, you know. But everything worked out. We was able to make it to the show. But, you know, talking about injuries. When I got back from the North America's last year, I had texted Dave. My shoulders both of them out of the blue just started hurting. And I thought I was going to have to go have shoulder surgery. I mean, I was in so much pain. I couldn't, I couldn't bench a hundred pounds. I was in that much pain. And I never went, got to MRI or anything. Because I currently don't have any insurance. It's too high through my company where I work. So, I don't carry insurance. I was going to go pay for her MRIs out of pocket. But I tried a couple things and my shoulders ended up getting better. I showed Dave this pillow system. I got it today. I'm $300 pillow for shoulder pain. And I bought that. And that actually, when I sleep on my side, it's built or made for side sleepers. So it takes the pressure off of your shoulder. So with that, and I got some cream. It's a BMSO. I've rubbed on. I was able to get the information out. Once I got the information out of the pain and the, you know, my mobility and range of motion started to come back. I'm nowhere near, you know, a hundred percent. You know, I used to play around with 500 on the pitch. You know, I would rip 315 for 30 reps. You know, now I may get 315 for 5 or 6 reps. Child, is it a terrible job that like, you know, like a guy who works full time has a family can't get a affordable health care in this country? Yeah, you know, that was, you know, big promise that was made to us, you know, back with the during the last administration. Yeah, but even if he gets an MRI, what does, I mean, Oh, it's Mr. G. Hey, what's up? George, you can't afford you. I never rise a thousand bucks. Think about it. But hey, hey, what did that? That's the right. What's the country? What does the, unless you don't think it's surgery that, that was the main reason I said, if I could go get the MRI, they take them out and be surged. I said, I can't pay for the surgery anyway. You know what? The sixth thing is I have the best coverage you can buy. It's a very expensive coverage. And you know what, if I go for an MRI, I got to pay the same thousand bucks because I got a deductible. So you know, I had, you know, I didn't even saving anything. I wanted to get an MRI and my shoulder and they said, well, that, that, that'll, before I'm going in, no one said it was going to cost anything. Yeah, get in there and, and, and, and, and I'm doing the paperwork and then, the, the, the, the, the, the clipboard and then the lady looks back at me. She goes, that'll be six, seventy five today. That's cheap. Six dollars and seventy five. And she, she, she, she, she, she, you know, it's a copay. Yeah, I can let it get, you know, like a copay bucks paper clips, you know. So, so, um, six hundred seventy five. I got six hundred seventy five out. No one told me it was going to six hundred seventy five dollars for a freaking containment. How much you charging for today? It just make, it, they just make them up by me. They have, they get stoned. They sold them out of the crowd. It's moving, it's moving, it's moving, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, for like 30 seconds out. And then why it's $1,500 for that? That are for all the money. Interesting. Fantastic. I, I, I work in medical good thing for rehab for old body builders swimming. You know what, I swim, George. He's right. I'm really going to point there swimming. Because I've been surfing and swimming the whole time. And I, and I have, I've never had any type of injury. And I lived super heavy. And then it goes to the point, you know, so I guess at some point you get to decide, are you going to keep looking heavy all the time? Oh, I mean, well, fill is so competing. So he's got it. But you know, your right, Mr. G, I'll tell you what, when I swim in my pool, like regularly, I do a couple laps. And I'm not even talking a lot. I'm talking like I'll do 10 or 15 laps. You know, and I take breast in between. I feel like my body is looser, like more limb-right. I don't feel as creamy. It's like being weightless. So it's like being weightless. That's why when someone has an injury or something, you take him in the water. And then you take it actually, you know, where they couldn't bend any of them on land. They get bend into water. So everybody was really, you know, a race horses. They got a hole like a moat that goes around. That's right. You're right. Go through the things. I swim laps every day into pools. And then I go underwater, what one, and then I come back with a backstroke. I think, I think, I think we're officially old men now. We're, we've been, we've been a sport. We've been a sport. We've been a sport before 11 because this isn't over to head. Yeah. Never do you ever rise up. We've got to get skin care on the wall. I will never get an MRI. Mr. G has been for the doctor for about 40 years. I don't think he's ever gotten to the doctor. There was an article about a year ago, his kid, he got killed in MRI. I mean, she never get in one of those fucking things. They put him in the tunnel, right? You know, I'm MRI's giant magnet, right? Yeah. It's like a car room in the room. They got an oxygen tank. This is what that's made. Oh, it blew up. They fucking turned out, no, they turned it on. It got sucked in into fucking tube and it crushed the kids. Oh, wow. Holy, macro. You're going MRI. You're going to check. No fucking metal in there, man. Look, an orthopedic surgeon makes money. Bro, what? Doing it. Doing it. It's building the insurance. You're going to surgery. Doing surgery. I am going to people I've had and I'd surface this stuff to say, that we're recommended, you know, I'd say, listen, thought way training. Oh, your muscles are bad for fingers. You're going to have to do it at any point. If you got surgery, you did what's the protocol doing that. So I'm going to have 100 to guys start a way training. And now as a result, if surgery came free. Yeah. No, you're going to do it. Wait training. There's the answer. And John, you talking about going to the doctor and then charge you 675 for the MRI. When I went to the doctor, the urchin care from my ear because I did it. Dude, I was just so much pain. It was ridiculous. He wasn't going to go. I said, you need to, you need to add about out of it. I said, you ready to go? Yeah. Yeah. They give me antibodies and some ear drops. So I go to turn my prescription in and the lady comes out. The bottle of ear drops. I'm telling you is like this. I mean, you can barely pull it with two fingers. So small. She says, that those are the big 350 for the year drop. What? My job. As if prep isn't expensive enough. I'm about to leave. And you want to charge me $400 for some year drops. Yeah. $300 to $50, but $350. Yes. Unbelievable. Yeah. This is probably the highest cost as far as maybe training that that then actually has to lay out on their own. It's not much money to support. You know, pay the guys. So I mean. Tell you camera down Mr. J. What? Tell you camera a little bit. It's your head is like almost off the camera. There you go. I was going to do the background. But I was in the middle of prepping. Go on. So I think it was like. Yeah. You know, you're an athlete. You're going to be playing with history. That's the bottom line of my knowledge for it is. You know, so I mean, it's. You know, as far as like drop, two way you couldn't find out like how that's in those drops. You know, like you can put it in. You know what the truth is? Those ear drops is probably the same ear drops they give the dogs when they get like, you know, infections in the ear. And probably if you buy it in your bed, it's probably 10 bucks, you know. Here's a good example for you. I bought a 200 grams of siallus powder for 400 bucks. Right. Okay. 200 grams. Do the math. You get you pay 20 bucks for a 20 milligrams pill. Wow. How many 20 milligrams pills do I have in 200 grams of of pound? But you have, but you also have 10 grams of COVID in their toe, probably. I'm. So, so big deal. I got 90. 90. It's a flu to cold. Same thing. Okay. You know, I want to put up a video. I want you guys to comment on. I don't know if you've seen. I let John see before. The mellow source of his, uh, had a video on his YouTube channel of him training, uh, Arnold's other son Joseph Byanna. You know, the one he had with the, um, with the maid. The maid. This kid looks so much like Arnold. His facial expressions are so much like Arnold. It's, it's uncanny. But, oh, put, put you the clip. I don't know if you get, you probably guys probably can't see it, but John's sort of. No, you never see any clips you put up. I could act like a little bit of the, I'm unbelievable. This kid is like, mellows puts him through one of his crazy giant sets. He does 20 reps with like the hacks flat first and like, you know, the kid thinks, all right, that was the top set. I'm done. Now, Neil has brings him up to an extra machine. And he does that like before machines in a row. I thought the kid was going to drop dead, you know. Probably does what my hell. I can't see him. He does exactly what my. It does. The exact same. Well, he learned and he, he must have learned and you learned from Steve. No, but you know, this he doesn't do as many as many. Like, Mahalic would do the giant sets. But he would do like a hundred giant sets. That's what I did. I was the guy. But Neil has went through a hundred drives. He might do like like five or six of them, you know, so it's still intense, but you're not in the gym for like three hours doing, you know. Mr. G, how long was the typical Mahalic work at seven eight hours? Well, two, two and a half hours, don't stop. And then we had, we had actually thanks. It's according to him. If I couldn't breathe, and I couldn't put it next set. So I would, I would have do up to the bank set up. We could be the set. And then when we were at the land when they, when they hired us to do the Jack Delane, you know, into the valleys, right? Our friend was surprised, President. We wrote both the whole downstairs with like about 50 piece of equipment because we got the order all the stuff we wanted. And everyone would like watch, you know, I was Steve. And then Steve maybe could have said I was trying to like, okay, so man, like, I'm like, can you tell you what happened? What happened? Mahalic had sold his gym at that point? Steve sold his gym to any local dirty. Right. And also, by the way, all Steve's equipment was, was, was, was, was hand made by him. He made all the stuff. Why did he sell the gym? I guess he wasn't making, I mean, making any money. Okay. But by then, and then Ken's no less Ken's no less of the course street. I think Ken, I don't know, I heard that they were, they were at all, as with each other. So Ken, at one point, he's the only one in the all up. And he opened the next one and he gave him the credit course Steve. Oh, really? I'm surprised Mahalic can you feed him up or something like that? No, see, I mean, that's when they had TK store equipment was. I remember it. I've interviewed Ted. Ted, Ted, Ted, Ted, Ted, yeah. Yeah, he had up in burning up in burning up in New York. The warehouse we play was great stuff. I know I, I, I interviewed Ted TK store, which is, uh, Tom Kenny. And that's when both gym was, I think, those gym, they went to a little gym and uh, franchise with extra energy grand. I think it's that point. So you can get a goal of gym friends. I don't know, why burger had, they had the goal gym there for a while until they switched out to the charge of too much money, but um, yeah, he was originally. No, no, no, no, no, they're been friends for a while. I mean, they don't even know. No, they're still powerhouse. They're still powerhouse. The one thing about one burger and any system with his gym is his. He's a business guy first, a bodybuilder second. He's not a bodybuilder business. So treats as a business no matter who you are and then he keeps the place super neat clean and keeps getting old brand new stuff. Yeah, always. You know, you got it. You got it. Where do you train Phil over there in Louisiana? Well, I moved here in 05 and I train at Reds, uh, I put in TL 2015 when I got laid off here at Lafayette. So when I started working in Lake Charles, um, I joined an old school gym. They got in Whitz Lake called Genesis. Okay. So when I met work, uh, in West Lake, I was trying to train at General Lake Charles, I train in Genesis or any time. I'm feeling when I come home. I saw a, like a documentary on Reds. Isn't he like the first guy to have a gym? I mean, it's a great story. If anyone's ever seen that. Reds was the first, um, Mr. America. I believe he was the first crown Mr. America. Was he? So he owned some title like that. He was the first. Yeah, something. And his gym is top 10. It's top 10 either in the US or in the world. It's crazy. I don't know if maybe Tyler could find that gym, Reds gym. It's on YouTube. It's unbelievable. He built like, it's like a city there. He built, right? Yeah. It's like on the size of a mall. You'll get lost in the public out there for like, 15 years and I've never been in all the regions. He kept adding onto it, right? Like adding on and adding on and adding on. I remember, and the documentary is great. If you guys watch on YouTube, it would be good to find it. Yeah. Yeah. Where is he? He's going to laugh at it. Yeah. Lafayette Louisiana. Yeah. And he's still there every morning. Forkloc and aboard. How old are you? The Fred Hoon. Man, Brad's got to be man. I was saying his 80's. Right? Yeah. The American title was the it was with the, you own that title. I enjoyed it. I said something I expected you to have. Like I have your own gym at this point in people which is becoming until you like 90 years old. Yeah. Yeah. Where did you go? What did you do? What did you do? What did you do? Yeah. That's right. You need to have like your own gym. You can have a, you can have like a bakery on the back. Will you make you your cookies? Right. If anyone else wants to invest, contact Mr. G. I think you guys got to find a gym, Joe, and you put a kitchen on the back. You can cook your food. And I'll cook all your cookies and stuff like that and make all these stuff. It would be great. That's right. Right. I agree. I would encourage you. He almost had it going on when he had the Tiki hut. Jim. Now he needs a big gym like where you can walk around with the mayor. And when Jimmy came in and he said like, there's no equipment here. Yeah. I've heard of club four fitness. No. You all have any way away. Wait. Wait. Wait. Back up. Excuse me. There's a significance to what Mr. G. You. What is dringling it's like 10 grand a month to drain him in their Money? Hey, because what? Can he get in? Being a automate. Oh hi, Joe. I saw Mr. G do a sale once. I was in the gym with him in his office. Yeah, that's only I was in office. And he sat this person sat that. This person thought they were going to just come and see the gym. He sold them so they spent so much money in that gym. you signing up with him. And it was really what it was. It was like a mental thing. It had nothing to do with training whatsoever. Yeah, I had people coming in that were lost. They were out of shape, they lies were out of shape. And as we saw, I got them back into believing in themselves and giving them hope and believing void, you know. And that's a scary. So during that time, during that time, I get a call from some show, John Stossle was a 2020, I got a call from 2020, John Stossle once the interview me about steroids. And he's just can you bring somebody to the gym or like work out behind you, right? So I go Mr. G is like the logical choice, all right? So we went ahead and we made a Ferrari's bakery. We had a couple of canolies and a soy of them and we started walking. We get to the gym on a rhodson river. We climb up there and here's Mr. G. They're interviewing me, Mr. G's in a background. All you say is some total of his of his of his of his speech. Okay, so the guy in a background, okay, the can't be out to the story has gotten nothing to do with it. But I'll tell that one later. Anyway, we go through this whole thing the interview me we leave. That was Mr. G's full on that was to interview to the interview. Okay, two weeks later, he said, he's done. Remember I had Stossle doing pull-ups off the raft. He did. That wasn't that wasn't on kick. We did. We had a lot of things I said. There's a caveat to this. I'll get to it. Okay, but in terms of on film, okay. So when you're watching the when you're watching 2020 on TV, you see two and a half seconds of Mr. G gone. And then that's it. That's all you get. Two weeks later, he's got this van wrapped with his big red rarer and his van. Mr. G always had called Mr. G's fitness 80% of his life. Mr. G spelled me YD at BODYS. That's how he spelled bodies. Right. And then in big letters, I'm going back on the side of that both sides, right? Let's try. As seen on 2020. He was on that John. He, Mr. G is a master at never wasting a model of closure. That was brilliant. I've seen on 2020. It was a total truth. You really should have put a seat on the house. You really were on the house. You really were on the house. It's a church house. In particular, she came. Right. Wasn't he? So wait. So the caveat to this, Mr. G's got stosled and won on pull ups and all of this shit and everything. And then we come to find out that the camera man's retirement is his last day on the job. Mr. G organizes the whole crew. OK, Jim members and people in a standing around the choir. And he's got in his leaving them in the spawn happy bird or what was he saying in terms of old ang's sign or something. I didn't have to hurt that. The whole trip. That was at the Chelsea pit. He's worked with John Stosle. He's worked up with all his stuff and then went and the whole time. He was with us. He was like, oh my god, I remember that. He was before. He was John Stosle. He was John. He didn't know that was his last name. And he was Mr. Nelson. And he was John Thosle. The funniest thing was that all this footage that he orchestrated that they had no interest in filming, they actually used for the guys retirement party. Yes, they did. They should have hired Mr. G to come perform at the party. That's the time. That was one of the best days in New York. That was so much fun. And I just had to go with the flow. God. And then they had a big party. That stopped to begin the volleyball. That was really funny. That's a big piece of shit. You should have, that was a classic. But just to G, you know he said that. He was on how it's turned to remember. I don't want to go through the whole story. I think that was how it's turned. And then Rose Yudano was saved here. 1996 I was going to launch by a big health club with a beauty spa where people would come and get out of the saws. His hand cut. You know the whole mind, I had like the time and package. He was like 10 grand. He was like, let me see how much I could actually charge people and shock them. And I probably will get it. And you know what? It's a good business model. If you would have charged people like 20 grand a year, they would have paid it because they would have said, we got it. We got to sign up for this. I want the best, you know. I mean, think about it. If anyone's crazy enough to charge out much money, it must be amazing, right? You got to have so much fun. You know what? So it's like, you're right. If you're looking at the remote, it comes to the place. They get to work out and then they get them up in the saws. And they all is done. Then the remote guy would take him out and they'd have like three grand or shopping anywhere they want. Yeah. And then all the guy had to do is just wait at home as he came home. Because he was definitely going to get lost. Missorgia is not afraid to throw around them now. But get to my investor was. Ho. Gonna be in that. Ho. It was one of the guys from the Wall Street. Oh, the left of Wall Street guys. The Wall Street? Yeah. Yeah. His wife. Great. And if not, he goes, he goes, he goes, yeah. So part of the million dollars million dollars to me to get my wife by the way, by the way, you know. No, I don't, I don't want another door in it. Right. So then when it came down to do the whole deal, I put everything together, right? They were going to put it in a 200 grand. And I said, well, someone has to run the company. So I said, if you see, yo. And she goes, what do you mean I go, I, I got to run the company. You haven't done anything. I put the whole thing together. The whole business plan found that. No, we're going to go and everything. So the next thing it all is the guy I heard. Well, I don't want to say the guy gets on on the phone. But what are you talking about? Because it's your chest. It's a whole lot. I'm like, listen, don't give me that move. Both shit. No, I'm not doing the deal. It don't feel good. I hung up. What are you going to rest in right after that? Yes, what happened? They all after that. That's when they all got busted in the old one. These jail. Wow. Those guys. Yeah. You're skating. Yeah. Because that place would have been hard. Yeah. Yeah, definitely would have taken it from you without a doubt. Look, you're getting, you're getting, you're getting, you're getting, you're getting a mask. I was the on the phone. It's the on the. Let Jimmy rant and Jimmy, but he's always kind of turned it. Why do we got to tell him the same thing every show? Let me turn it. You see it if cemetery again? Oh, that's great. Oh, sorry. Look, Greg. Hey, guys, what are you doing? Greg, this is a Phil board alone, a good client of mine. And he was just competed in North American. So we got a mind. He's talking about the crazy hurricane down in Louisiana and everything like that. Oh, okay. You know who he's the president. I just figured it out. He looks like Rocco. Yeah, LeBrosha. Yeah. I can't see him. I mean, I only see Georgie and you. And where is the Illinois? The room is through G said when he met Rocco, he goes, yeah, you look at this guy. That's his name, Rocco. Oh, yeah. He does look like Rocco LeBrosha. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He took a little Rocco. He just liked him. Yeah. You're right. I didn't even think about that. And I know Rocco really well, too. You're right. You know, Dave, you keep sending that the link. You send it to my, you keep me getting, I got a flip phone. You got to send it to my email. I'm trying to get on here. Oh, well, I thought you were just copying it and sending it to your, uh, to send it to you thing anyway. I don't, I keep forgetting. I can't. I'm flip phone. I keep trying to get. Greg, can't get you. Yeah. You know, can't you share that press on share to you. He said what I did. But no, but I got a flip. You could probably go to this. I know you don't want to, but you could probably go to the, uh, this the, like the 18th Easter I get a free iPhone now. They'll probably give it to you for free, Greg. Yeah. No, I got an iPhone here. I just don't, I don't want to do it. I'm going to get it. I'm going to get it. I'm going to get it. I love it. Here's what we got to do right now because the technology being the way it is and we know that Jimmy the bull's got issues. We just should let him do ramp down because we're going to lose him. You're right. Is he on the line? No, we already lost him. I was too late. Uh, no, well. No, I, without, when I visited him at, at his house a couple weeks ago, I was talking about doing it. He has a guy that's going to do his website stuff. And I was trying to get Jimmy to go to, you can, you can just small laptop, you know, just a small little laptop so we can go on and do stuff by going because we can on that people going to go on your site and going to ask questions and stuff going, you can answer them back. Go. And the guy said, there he is. He's back. No more right. I don't see him. He's down. I don't need right there. So he's, oh, Jimmy. Jimmy, go. Greg, come on, baby. Come on, man. What's pissing you off of me? He's a fan of waiting for it, man. I had, we're going to save this souls with the red. He might not have the audio down. He's fall fucked up. Jimmy. Jimmy. Jimmy. Jimmy. What is he listening to? I, I wouldn't you love to know what he's listening to? Jimmy. Jimmy. Jimmy. I think that's, the spring scene. Yeah. It's the spring. All right. So now we're losing value. Yeah. Right, but no. Jimmy. Yeah. Yeah. No. Let's go. I'm going to go back to Greg for a second. So Greg, Phil actually lived through the, he had a finish his last week of prep during that hurricane. He actually works in St. Charles, Louisiana, which is where that epicenter of that hurricane hit. Oh, shit. You saw the devastation. It was there. And you know what I always say that, you know, guys, and you know the script, because you've talked about this. Guys are always bictionary complainin' on. It's too hard to die and I don't feel good. I can't do this much cardio. Absolutely. This guy had a drive an hour and a half back and forth through his house because to work from work through his house he worked the last week that he was actually doing the show and sucked it up. And when I hit people complain, he's a warrior. That's the kind of mentality that he's a little bit very bodybuilding. He's, he's walking his gym's open. I'm in New York, many gyms, he have to gyms are open, have to gyms on. And they're open now, near in a hurricane. Yeah. They're always, he's going to win the, he's going to win the North American become a pro. Too late already. Just doing that. He's doing masters. We four weeks. Yeah, we shooting for next month. Yeah. Oh, there he is. This was soon. I was shooting for the B. My life show. Right. The North America is was supposed to be my life show. I promised the wife and the family. I was going to hang it up. I've been competing since so five and I told him I was going to hang it up. But uh, man, me and they just did that show lift a bad taste on our mouth. And we're trying to be so good to make it. And go to Orlando and get it done. We feel like we can do a lot better. And we got a few more weeks to improve. We only died for like 14 weeks. Yeah. So this actually may be a blessing because we have a few more weeks to improve. I think we'll be able to get harder. I've been eating good the last three or four days. I'm going to eat good today. Today's the last day. I'm going to eat good. I feel out a lot. Only actually you put on about nine pounds of water. But I could feel it smolting you talking about oxygen. I needed that. I couldn't catch my breath. But uh, I stayed on my cardio and training. I'm not trying to blow up like a water buffalo. But I am going to enjoy my food. So, and I said, Dave, a picture of my mom could you talking about being hard to compete. Living in the weeks and in the order compete because we have the best food in the world. I agree. I think Louisiana does have the best food in the world. I love that food. You can't get it up here. There's no place that that makes that kind of food. Yeah. Have you eaten? Have you guys all eaten in the French quarter before? No, I'm me. I've eaten a few French women. And I've eaten for a few times. But um, let me ask you a question. How to fuck do you do that with all that shit going on down there? Like at a grocery store is open just to get to float in the train. Well, I work in Lake Charles, but I live in Lafayette, which is an hour, about an hour 15 minutes. I want to have the final traffic. So, uh, I stay there when I'm working in the camper. I come home on my days off, which isn't very often. So, when the hurricane hit, like you said, all the gyms are closed. There's no electric clothes. There's no electricity there. Uh, stores just started opening back up to where they have food and everything. There was no food. So I had to make an hour and a half trip there and I would have trip back. Uh, I couldn't stay down there. I don't know, man. That's just crazy. Let me ask you a question. Are you training where the mask gets shit on like they want us to do here in the room? No, no, no, no, we don't have to wear masks. Uh, and if we did, I wouldn't because you can't breathe in that thing, man. Yeah, there's just some tell me about you can't breathe without the mask. What the hell? You're in the south. We don't believe in masks. Yeah, yeah, you're even walking to the store. Bro, you fucking, this is the democratic state brought in. Yeah, we got a mask. If you're trying not wearing a mask, the Toyota store to say, get out. Really? Yeah, the opticol cops, too. Well, people, if you got rats, you got people that are right here. Really people. I don't. Oh, yeah, you people tell you right to your face. You know, you're a mask on. Yeah, it's bad. I think if you're not going to use a mask, police, excuse me, you're the mask, police, but don't tell me what to do. I'll do what I want my first experience. And that they elevated, I throw the mask kind of like, oh, yeah, the Nazis do. Yeah, when the COVID first hit, uh, all the gym's here were clung with, with their people in the audience should know, right? There's no people in the audience should know what it is, a lot of people in the audience. No one is in the audience allowed. No audience? Not at the minute. Not the North American. There wasn't no. There was outdoors in the tent. Did they do it to be? Do it to baseball players, do it to fucking they pipe in fake crowd like this. But you know, a giant, ironically, it seems like Florida doesn't care. That must be weird, don't fucking standing here. There's no audience. Was you like, was your wife allowed to go in there? No, no one's Greg. No, what? Yeah, I watched the livestream from the hotel. No, they wouldn't even let them, yeah, they couldn't even come to the team. No one, the judges must freaking love that. No one's no one can, you can, no one can say shit because you're right. You know, the funny thing is, Greg's acting all like surprise. He was in a hospital and they wouldn't let anyone come into the hospital. So I mean, why doesn't surprise you that you can't have anyone backstage with you at the body knowing what? That's because you're just, you know, he could get away with a mask you can't do that. No Pittsburgh, you know, Greg Pittsburgh was bad too. That governor there was, was, Gary thought he was fine holding it in a tent and a parking lot. The last minute they told, sorry, I know we said originally it's 250 people allowed outside. Now it's only 20. So that's why they couldn't have any crowd there or anyone there. What? Yeah. Yeah. It's based on what, what science is this? I have no idea. Gary, you know, Gary was really very mellow about it. I got to be honest, I said, Gary, you know what, I take my head off to you that you made this happen because man, they made me jump through every who possible. You took it to my Gary, you did it? Yeah. Yeah. God, that sucks man. That's ridiculous. But there's no need to do this like that. We're baseball for falling in the end. Well, that's why they moved the masters, Greg, they have the masters in four weeks in Orlando. You think Jim Manning and Gary wanted to move it to Orlando, they love having Pittsburgh, but they can do anything in Pittsburgh. So they held the whole of the in Orlando. They can do anything you want to work. That's why you got to get fucking Trump back in a guarantees goddamn Democrats, man. You're all they love. They love that shit, dude. It's unfucking believable. They love that shit. I was telling him last week, I have two friends that were online. Okay, to get ill to want to get the COVID test. And it will wait for hours to like fuck this, I'm not going in. And in a couple days later, to get a fucking ticket in a mail, you tested positive. Did he even take the test? I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. It's bad. Bro, they had a guy decapping. Well, Greg, it's like, you know, if you don't show up, you fail the test, right? You're proof of guilty until you prove your innocent. You have COVID, and pull you prove you don't have it. That's the new law, basically. But they had the guy that was decapeted. They listed them as COVID. You know what I mean? I was in a COVID unit, and I didn't have COVID, you know, it's such bullshit. They want this. They democrat fucking, they democrat mayors and governors want this shit. You know what I mean? And we're fucked. If you, if Biden ever gets in fucking holy shit, me and John, we're moving to fucking, I don't know. I don't even know Mexico anymore. We're all just kidding in. Have you seen one person walking around with a Biden? No. According to the media, they are, but no. No, wait a minute, no. Wait a minute, no, don't fucking cheat their way. They already said that there's no way they could succeed and it's fucking if, if Trump, if Trump wins, they're going to keep doing these. That's what it makes. That's what it makes. That's what it wants to do to mail it, balance. You want to hear something about, you know what's so frustrating about that? John, you tell me. Wait, listen, we have we have a mail-in system. It's called absentee voting. What do you know is, register voter. You send away for a mailing ballot. They send it to you. You fill it out and you send it in. If you go actually on voting day and go to the polls to try to vote, they won't let you vote because you already voted. They have it. Because they sent you a ballot. We have that system. The Democrats just want to mail ballots out. That's all they wanted. And there's 80 million of them that they want to mail. And they're going to mail the houses where people have four different sets of. Now the statute has already been proven that it's, that it's, it's right all over the place. It's already been proven this one lady on a 50,000 ballots. They got the mail in throwing the mail away. They got all this, they're the only way that they're going to try to pull a Biden-victory out of this is by manipulating those 80 million mail invoices. The only chance he's got because the guy is fucking, he's like, we can't get Bernie's every time he stand up. It's like two people holding them up. It's by the party fucking dead. You don't know where he is. You don't know what he's saying. It was his wife. You don't know anything. All he knows is Orange Man Bad. That's the question. It comes winter. It comes winter. It comes winter. It comes on election night. Three weeks later, they're going to fucking change. You're saying, uh, more ballots are coming in. It's just you're going to do. That's exactly what they're going to do. It's what he knows. He said it. They already talking about the rush of being a jail that he loses. Oh, fucking that shit already. He's a hell of a reason. What rush. That's who he's in rush. That is the stupidest fuck. Anybody who believes that shit is unbelievable. Biden's son Biden's son that died paid from the from the chain. It's documented. The game of billion dollars, the Chinese government is now going to back gave him his son Hunter of billion dollars never. How did this turn into a political, until a political discussion. I don't know. I'm going to talk about Phil competing in the event. Everything is about politics. Yeah, like even in this sport. You know what? It's old guys love to talk about politics. You haven't noticed that? It's like five. Yeah. The stock market. Yeah. Golf. Yeah. Young girl. Hey, you're. Let's talk about your motorcycle. John, that was way more interesting. Young latinas. What do you think about this guy? I got to tell you, what do you think about this guy? You're a Tyler couple of the picture. I'm going to be interviewing him later. Nick Walker, who won the North Americans, the overall open man. Oh, he looks free. What a free disguise, right? Oh, shit. I couldn't believe what that guy looked. He's like a throwback guy from like the 90s. Don't you think? Yeah. Where'd you get to find him? I didn't find him. You know, he found us. He competed. He's making beating since he's like 17, but he keeps improving every year. You know, now you're Corey? No, he's not. Now I just put it up. I said, it's a great picture of him, you know, but oh, God, I looked like freak from the right. Like, said the 90s looking incredible. He looked like like, like, like, how we wanted to see tree brewer luck. He reminded me. Yeah, right? Yes. Yes. Yes. Like when tray was coming up, everything else is going to be the next coming. He is like the the he is the next coming of tray brewer, basically. How did tray brewer just disappear? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what. I see still he's coaching people and stuff. But he just, I think he just mentally lost it. I mean, look at a size of this guy. I was pulling at the time the most promising rising star. It was, everybody was looking forward to it. I know. But Nick walking, he's for real this kid. I mean, he's a freak. I love it. You know, and he was talking about his training. He trains just like, you know, like, I used to train low volume, high weight, you know, not a lot of sets of the Dorian, you know, and it works. Look at the size of his physique, you know. You know, that's called dropped a rep. She increased the dosage. No, it means, let's have your weights heavy weights build muscle, right? I'm just fucking on. You know, I'm just fucking on, you know, you got to get muscle a reason to grow. He's huge man. But I'm more impressed with honey, the broader than me man. 100, 100, 100, 100, the next, I think in the next two years, he'll be the mix there. Let me. He's pretty sick, man. He's got a shape like his dad, but it's even like six people. Oh, he's not think they're about the same height. But he's, well, he's a lot tall than his father. Lee had to be like five. No, I'd say, 10. Lee had to be five four, at least. But he's been a big building. He's big. Much bigger, the least. Lee never weighed more than 185 pounds on stage. Yeah, but he's killing physique. Yeah, oh, no, he was a great fan of great. He's a 30, if you didn't. It's a second, a couple times. Yeah, a lot of people, you know, one year, a couple years they tested for drugs, you know, the drug testing. She's a conco. And yeah, and that's when Lee, the broader probably should have won when Haney was did not look like the old Haney, you know. I don't, I think it was before an 91, I think it was the 91, the 90, a limpier. The Haney came in 20 years, 20 pounds lighter, though. Yeah, it was a big, Lee really looked much better than I thought, but that's because Haney was probably really natural. He was fucking with a 20 pounds lighter. Probably probably was. He probably think, well, I got to, I got to fall the rules, you know. I love, I love, I love, both of the least, a good guy. First, both of them were here with my house. I got to put your, you got the post, you got the post, and we're the great interview with him on Fitness Famin Fortune. He should check it out with Lee LaBron. Yeah, that was good. I got you to hear part of it. Oh, LaBron, you took it about a Haney. Both, we did them both. We had them both. Yeah, I had both here in my house. Is it dead? Yeah, but Haney hates spaghetti and meatballs. I know, I love that picture. Yeah, when you're mumbling. He's kept on my mother's sausage. I love it. He's he had great things like last said best said. That's as easy as junk butter soup. That's like, that's like the Ronnie Colvin. That's just junk butter soup with the fucking snot. That's what it's like, nothing butter peanuts. That's Ronnie Colvin. You know, say, yeah, Jimmy, like, Cody Niley. That's Emily, but the way we think it's stimulant, Dylan, now like it's right. It's Southern Wizz. I'm sorry. He tells a really funny story about what him and Gritchie Spari were training for the Olympia at at the Golds in Rassita that despite it was a fucking hot head. He was a typical Jersey short like, you know, question guy is really good. Yeah, he's a Jersey short. We don't hot head, all right. And he's kicking people off the machines and telling them, you know, how many more such you got? You're done. Get the fuck out of it. We're training at a focus focus. And he's one night. There was this gang of guys outside the gym and they're like, all talking and Haney gets there early. And he goes, hey, fellas, what's up? You know what's happening? We're going to get you trained a partner. We're going to fuck that mother fucker. We're on it. We're sick of that shit. That guy comes in and kicking every boss and everybody around. And Haney's going, whoa, whoa, you can't kick him. Kick his ass. So yeah, I need him. I'm a fan of free. He's trying to be real empty. Let me talk to him. Let me talk to him. Let me talk to him. He's just a kid. He's doing it. I thought he died. I thought he died in the car. He he fell asleep and he went into my car, right? And when he sleeps, we've heard the story for a long time, Greg. Yeah. All right. He when he felt when he sleeps his eyes, it is eyes don't close all the way. You know what I mean? So it looked like I was, I kept looking at him like I'm like holy fuck, you see that? I thought he was at that body. I have a knee step does that what she sleeps. You know, if you walk in the room, it's like she's staring at you, but she's asleep, you know? And I don't even know if he knows that. I mean, I told the story because they in times, you know, so now you're getting a people. I don't think he's talking about that. Well, it just fell. So you know, we need to sleep in the eyes. Well, I think we hated used to take maps between sets. Did he? He said he would take 20 second maps. No, that's runny. Yeah, that's runny. Brian Dapsion tells the best fucking story about Ronnie Coleman. That's fucking one time they went fishing and they quote like a 25 fish. I forgot what kind of fish they were. And they breded them and then they cooked them on a fucking grill. And then they said get a, because your blind doctor's got a grill down here, right? So he said he got a, he put him out on a, on a platter, you know, where to, you know, by the front desk at a gym and Ronnie was doing chess. You know, so he said I got a phone call. He goes in the back. He makes a focus on a phone for like a half hour. It comes out and there's two fish left. And one shell like a bite mark in it, you know, and he's like, holy shit. And he looks over Coleman. And Coleman was out cold sleeping on the bench and he said his gut was sticking out like this. And he woke him up. He said, Ronnie, did you eat all those fish? He said, I left too. You know, I mean, you know, because you know, Ronnie is a deficient. And so you know, and Brian Dapsion, I thought that was a great fucking story. That was a good story. That's a classic story. I can't Ronnie eat like 20 fucking 23 24 fish and fucking left to him. I think the Kai Green has the record for the most fish in one day. No, I don't think I don't think Ronnie could touch Kai Green when it comes to eating fish. I think like 10 pounds of fish in that. That's like that's like literally like what like probably, I don't know, like a thousand grams of protein, right? I don't know, but it's a score of fish. It's like a hundred grams of protein per pound. Because Ronnie always throws them farts, bro. Can you imagine if fucking when it happens? You know, you have speaking to the fish market. You know, Kenny Jones, right? Greg? Yeah. Of course. Kenny Jones is to go to the full fish market at like five in the morning. Like when the like I like a Monday morning, I think whenever this whenever the boats would come in and he would buy direct for you used to try and he wanted to get me to go with him one day and I I just couldn't get up that early. That's when I used to go to bed really late and wake up really early. I would really late in the afternoon. He would go there and he would buy all his fish fresh and he would drive those guys crazy. You know, he'd get the best pieces. He'd get good deals on it. And you know, they probably found them amusing as hell because he was out of his mind, you know. So, but he would go there and he would he would eat all fish every single meal too. He said it would come out of his pores. You'd smell the fish coming out of him because if you eat them, it's like home and was fucking fishing that shit with a bucket. You know what I mean? Like you know, catch a fish and a drone and then the bucket. It brand. I got another one. You know what I mean? Like you know, I'm pushing off a bridge and something on the side of the, you know, like get a fuck. I don't know what kind of fish it was. It was a catfish or something. I'd be deranged. It was the tell me that he would drive what Ronnie and he said that he would stop like every fucking 20 minutes of shit. He'd want to get like food, you know, it was crazy. And he would be like, well, you know, a lot of McDonald's and burgers and shit. I love him. Kenny Jones is a name associated with some shenanigans. He's a unique individual. What's your name? It's a little bit. Besides that being redundant, it's very true. I'm going to great story about Kenny Jones and Fort Lauderdale. There's a bar called the elbow room on the corner of Lasso, Las Boulevard and the beach. The famous locations in the Scott two, two floors. Scott of balcony and a bar at the bottom is right on the wall. It's on the street, but the water is across the street. So I'm walking down in the bar's famous for fights. So I'm down there and walking around and quite, I'm on a bicycle actually. I'm going to, and I look up, I'm across the street and I look up and there's his fight going on. It's all this commotion, right? And the next thing you know, I'm standing there by the red light, three guys go flying off the balcony onto the deck below. And then you see this guy, Kenny Jones, doing a flying front kick down the stairs and it picks out two guys down the stairs and it's flying front kick. Then he gets to the bottom and he's like, he's people these guys are like dropping like flies. Not in the eyes at one time and it's Kenny Jones. He's like a four feet. Ha ha, you know, he's a black belt in karate. He took out. He took out the whole barn. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't know that. There was like Bruce Lee. What a funny thing. The flying, the flying kick down the stairs. I'll never forget that as long as I live. You see that foot out in front of him and he's in the air and he's parallel to the bandester flying through and he knocks one guy with the kick and another guy with an elbow and he lands at the bottom and he's like, who's next? He was ready to kill everyone. He was probably like this. This will be your last date. You know, you're a perfectionist. You know, the mouth that the one that's a perfectionist. But man, he took these guys out in like one second. He was like boom, boom, one guy goes flying off the rail and the other guy goes flying off the railing. Another guy goes flying off and he's flying down the stairs two more guys and then he's wants more and and and what's the floor? What's the floor? What's the floor? Waterdale, right? You still hearing New York don't I haven't seen him and he was living in Florida for a while. Did he buy the emperor and disappear? I don't know where he is now. But he bought a camp. He's back in New York though, I think. But he was definitely in Fort Lauderdale for a while. I remember that. Yeah. But then he had to sew this kind of lackey, water camp, or he was going to disappear. Yeah. We should find them and get him on his show. This guy is a stereotypical. Mr. G. She going to business with Kenny Jones or anything? Oh my god. Water fantastic idea that is right. Miss Jay. And they should hire Steve Selver and two probably to work. You know, I just saw him. He was on the boardwalk. I just saw him on the boardwalk and see side heights. What were you doing there? Oh, dropping your knees off? I just went for like two nights, you know, bang the girlfriend shit, you know, you didn't call Mr. G. Up? No. Hey Greg, tell me when you come up. Take your ass surfing. Yeah. Remember I told you, yeah, I'm going to do that. I'm going to come, I'm coming back. But let me, I'm going to go surf from Brown, afraid. But uh, my I'll get you up first. I'm going to remember that's right. I met that guy at the, at the quick mark that says, oh, I want you guys on it. Oh, I know. And it, and he was asking about George. George went so hard. Hi. This is the one that's on the guy. I've got a look at the cook. Yeah, you sent me that picture. I broke the cook kid and he has no show. Yeah, yeah, called muscle central. That sounds, sounds familiar to me. But that's, he used to compete. Yeah, I'm going to ask the Harry goes, goes to his plate, goes into that place too. Goes where? To the, to the gas station, he works at a rich, yeah, because I was in Tom's river right where you are right up to street. But you know, it was with the girlfriend and I didn't have really have time to get a holdy, but you know, I definitely want to get, we'll hook up. Did you see the size of the owner? How big the owner is it? Where? At that, at that, at that, at that, at that, at that, at that, oh, you made a quick start? No, I didn't see him. Get away, it's like five or six hundred pounds. Why didn't you get him to do a transformation with you? I was going to get him to the other cook you hired. I, that's crazy. I saw a silverman down there though. I saw him. He was there. He's cutting hair now. He's cutting hair. He's, he's a barber. You know. Yeah, told me he was doing it. It was doing, you know, we was doing some barber work. He actually looks like a young Greg Valentino, doesn't he? A little bit. Yeah. He's better looking in me. You look like you can be his dad. Listen, when you go to a barber dirty, expecting him, when I go to a barber, I don't want to grow. I expect to, you know, guy, you know, cut my hair, you're with the month. Yes, we're all screw. Yeah, and do your, in Jersey, it's women. I went to barber shop, it's all women. I'm like, I'm like, I don't know, this is a barber shop. Not a hair slum. That's going on. He played. Dave, do you know who he looks like? I'm going to hit you with this. You're going to be like, oh, shit. You don't really look like to me. I'm a young friend, Holtby. Yeah, he does. He's got that same stocky build. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It looks like, but even in the face, a little bit like friend Volpi. When I first saw him, I'm like, hopefully shit is that Volpi, but you know, Volpi's not jacked anymore. No. And then, you know, it was, it was the Ram. The Ram. Yeah. I like him. He's a good kid. Now I had him on the show a couple months ago. He sees his balance. Yeah, I was on the show. That's right. You are, yeah, he's hysterical. He's very, very funny. He's a good guy like him. He's had some problems, you know, drugs that he admitted that, you know, he went to jail for a little while, but now he's, you know, hopefully he's on the straight now or now. But he's, yeah, he's cutting him. Mr. G, you should look him up. I think he's right in your area there. You could probably go get your haircut by him. I definitely will because just, no, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's Barbara chicks. That's what he does. He's a barber. You can go right there. Yeah. I want to, and I want to put my one foot hot cream on. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, he's a, that's what I want to. That's what I want to. That's what I want to. That's what I want to. I'm not going to make, I give you a size, all in my brother, my brother with. Yeah. My brother, no, my beard. He charged. When, when Blackman came for us. Yeah. Black with her. We were still, I said, brother, you can't put massages on the, on the, on the, And the, the,�뜕. B.G. B.G. Next week. Sunday. High, that gray head hot cheap eggs. Six, the, th,t. Stock gang in the chicken eggs has hot cheap eggs on it. A little. Wool is not going to save, it's just something that lives as fine collapsed. Genie, you got to bring Bobby under a show, for a little bit. I'm gonna, you will never get off. You will never get off the air, Jonathan, if he comes out. Oh, and you and I can take a break. Yeah, I'm gonna show you when I Skype with my brother So I Skype with my brother he thinks he's talking Talking on the speaker ball he talks like this This is what he does like dagger up Probably that I speak about Well, you a brother watch text me no shit 20 something times in less than five minutes and I got a flip-punch I'm like what the fuck I thought it was just broke it Great so he's by the text with his with his plan I Without gonna do it this year wait till next year and we're gonna have a whole thing We were gonna get I told you can't do it this year Yeah, you have to do it this year. There's no next well we were gonna get a bull you don't want those both my cows a bulls Yeah, I'm a cat a cow couple We're gonna get a wrestle ring with veggie wrestle magic. You know, we're gonna have Shack dance contest We were gonna get I was ordering check 25 inch Those shoes that's that's so I shoot really a fair and it's She had a weather shoes How funny would that been? I would have been a star Well, I wanted to just wrap before you wrapped it up. I wanted to say a fill. You know, I'm really proud of you What you went through to get get to that North American championships You're gonna be even better in four weeks from now at the master's national's which is gonna be held by the way guys for you Who weren't listening earlier gonna be in Orlando Florida so Gary you didn't team moved it to the show to Orlando and fill will be down there for that show competing for being 35 and over in the open category there oh actually master so it's 35 and over that's it But it's gonna be another great show. I'm really happy that guys like Gary you did a making these shows happen because You know what this a lot of guys are missing out on pro card opportunities because these shows are being canceled left and right And it's nice to see that body building has has restarted again, so to speak and so I want to just wish fill of course We talk every day, but I want to wish you the best the luck in your preparations and you want to thank anyone You know before we go Yeah Of course you you know I've been with you. I think this is our fourth maybe fifth time working together. Yeah Like I said I couldn't ask for a better prayer Things went so well, so thank you. Thank you all my supporters Especially Going into this master's I had to find a couple sponsors that help make this possible my buddy great right My buddy Don Hard Broder My buddy Benny sport shack helps me with all my supplements Trying to think there's anybody out here For a film set because I have no money to compete, but I'm gonna try to find a sponsor 30 seconds later He's like all right I got 500 bucks about 90 seconds out there. He's like all right I got a thousand bucks. I can do it Yeah, my wife she helps me with my food and prep my food but as far as mental support No, as soon as she found out that I told you know I'd like to tell you my I'm gonna tell you wife I'm against I'm on her side Yeah, I was done and that's somebody said well, why don't you do my sisters nation? I said well, if I can come up with the money then I'll do it So my wife's like oh yeah, that's okay. What people start sending money? She's like you're gonna take that I don't need your shit, you know I can't wait to my mom sees this because nobody else knows I'm a competing So now I'm gonna hear it from my mom and my sister and everybody I'm gonna go out So yeah, let me ask you quite what what you said you gotta go to work if you like where else do you work? Like what do you do? I just I work in the plants and late trolls. That's it oil fields oil plant Yeah, it's a chemical plant. I respect that a guy that works that is you know Well, I'm a personal trainer you know, I mean I wish I if I could feel the client's ill I'll help them love to do that But I can't I can't get the client to have a Step three kids. It's great. He's got to support the kids, you know No, I know you got to do so drunk I'm just kidding. It's just Jimmy. Jimmy's calling me Well, I love to tell us no red. Yeah, yeah Of course, he's got technical difficulties. What? I made it so easy John. I basically said here's a link clicked on the zoom link I can't make it any easier to call the call the shower Strangers call it to the show. It's so easy and Jimmy can't get on the easier. You click the link right. He can't throw it Jimmy Jimmy quick you're on the show that the Show When you got to go through this the jeez following you know you're in You put my speaker George at least George put him on speaker You can't you guys can't hear You can't hear I see your phone He's in Huntington he said that he's trying he's got a person sounds like he's yelling from Huntington Oh, you can hear Why don't you put it on speaker I thought I heard Huntington I Got other people to interview today Real people interview film man best a lot. Thank you for joining us today You know hopefully all your fans enjoy your little Episode he had to I want to get Phil a chance to talk about the What he went through Thought is important and you're welcome back anytime when you win we'll get you back again, of course All right, I'm gonna wrap this thing up Greg love you man George These were out of cookies and John Pilts congratulations Congrats all right That's it. I'm Dave Palombo of course with the entire whack pack John Romano Mr. G Greg Valentino Jimmy the ball and Philip border loan joining us today. We'll see you next week

Day Palombo here with an RX muscle, news update, the Texas Pro has let out and in the men's open division, in Valier has won. Yes he has won. This is two big wins for him, back to back Tampa Pro, Texas Pro. He had a come from behind or at least it looked like he had a come from behind because having a lot of people had Steve Cuclough winning that pre-judging. But according to the judges, that was not the case. The judges had it quite differently. The judges had Ian just narrowly winning the pre-judging and then they had him pretty convincingly winning. The night show now we're looking right here at Xavier Wells, my good friend. That's top body, that's a good footage. I was just playing that. You can see Steve Cuclough in the middle here. Steve was really, I thought dominated the pre-judging. I think he did enough to win. I think Ian came back tighter. I knew it was close. We said in my wrap up of the pre-judging, I knew it was going to be re-judged at night here between these three guys. Ian just came back better. He's got a lot of wow to his physique. I think Cuclough, I thought he did enough for pre-judging and yet he still wasn't in the lead. What does that tell you? That tells you that the judges really liked Ian's look. They liked him in Tampa. They liked him here. They gave him the nod, although by one point in pre-judging, and then it seemed like at night when he came back for the finals when he tightened up a little bit, they said, you know, this guy has got all the bells and whistles we want, and then they gave him straight firsts that looks like. But it was a very close battle. I mean, Cuclough, hard, was very, very close to Cuclough at the end of the day. I don't know why Cuclough seemed to have dropped down so much after the pre-judging. I thought he looked really good. I wasn't there, obviously. So, you know, it's sometimes it's hard to see the little nuances. Both him, I think, all three of these guys looked incredible. You know, you really can't almost, there's nothing you can really say about the fact that the way the judge's decision went. And we were just looking at Hassan Mustafa who we'll talk about in a minute. But I think that, you know, when you evaluate at the end of the day, you know, who is the better person when it's that close, you know, it's personal preference. And so, even if each judge thought that, you know, Ian was just a little better at the end of the day, he's going to get the win, you know. And so, that's what I'm going to matter. I'm a little upset that Steve didn't win only because I wanted to see him get the qualification in the end or he had the qualification. But the judge's job is the judge's the best man. And they felt that Ian Dahlia did enough to win this show. He gets two wins. He gets 10 grand. And so, he made it, he definitely made it worth his wild to be there. And, you know, he's got to come in from Canada. He's got to do crazy quarantine on the way back and then, you know, so for him, he didn't to show us, you know, coming into the US is probably worth it. Now he can take the 10,000, take a little bit of vacation, although that really, because we're going to see him at the Arnold class next month. So, congratulations on the big win. You know, like I said, I'm really, really excited for the fact that we are seeing top-top quality guys in the, you know, division now that are doing so well. And it's exciting. It's like it's not a foreground conclusion. We didn't know who was going to win this show. I mean, if you think about it, right? I mean, it could have gone to anyone. Look at Phil Clohar. I mean, who finishes third year. You know, he's arguably as good as he can be, you know. And I said this after the pre-judging rap, obviously, he's going to have a lot of difficulty winning here because he doesn't have the structure of a cooclow or a valier. And yet he's still almost snuck in there. So I think my hat off him. He did tremendous. I mean, we go back to the back poses on here, which I really believe, you know, what won it for valieria in the end, although I thought cooclow after pre-judging really had it. But valieria has a lot of, you know, loud to his physique too. This had to be a tough battle for these judges when it was all set and done. I personally, I really like both cooclow and valieria physique. I think that cooclow will make it to the Olympia somehow. I don't know how. I think, you know, obviously doing the oral classic, you know, I don't, you know, he'd have to get a win there, which seems unlikely. But, you know, at the end of the day, I, you know, once again, I feel bad for him because he really showed up at his best at this show. And, and what else can he do? He absolutely belongs on that Olympia stage. I mean, we talk about special invites. I mean, I don't know if maybe by he'll collect enough points, but he only this is only show of the year. So I have a feeling that's not going to happen. And we probably won't see cooclow unless they do extend the special invite to him. That's what happens to me when you wait for the last minute, sometimes, still in you bank all your, you know, put all your cards into one show. If I would cooclow the cotton on an airplane and flew to Spain to do the tomorrow night is this show in Spain. So maybe you could have gotten into that show and won that at the last minute. I don't know, but, you know, I don't even know if that was being a possibility. But I certainly would be trying because he looked so good, you know, I really, I really, really, I feel like one. I think a lot of fans want to see him on stage, too, at this point. And, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's disheartening because, you know, they these guys work so hard, you know, and he's in his home state here. I, I, just, I have to imagine that, you know, he's, he's probably sitting home right now and he's really disappointed, you know, and that's, uh, unfortunate because, you know, he, he put so much effort into it. Let's talk about some of these other competitors though because he wasn't a three man show. There were other guys in the show. A sudden, a stop, I thought, looked really, really good. I thought that, you know, at the end of the day, you know, we know that he's having problems getting his, you know, conditioning downpatt. I thought he looked pretty good here. I think he just, I think his body is not responding anymore as what's happening. And, and when your body stops responding, there's really nothing you can do. You can die, die, die, die, die. You can continue to push your body and it's just, it's not going to make any difference. You know, and I think that a lot of people have figured this out the hard way. I remember one year when I did the, um, I think it's the USA, the North American and the nationals all one year. I said to myself, you know what, I'm always in a shape. I can do these shows. I can peek over and over. And unfortunately, you know, my body just looked tired by the third show. And even though I was hard, it was hard. I actually think he looked good here. I think that when you, when you go and you get to line up against, you know, top Olympia guys. I mean, with huge structures. I mean, at the end of the year, I mean, I think he was just out there. He was just going to be a gun here. And I don't even know how he been in the best shape of his life. How he been able to, would he? I don't know if he would have beaten Cuclowe or Ian. And I don't even know if he would have beaten Phil Claw, to be honest with you because they were that good. And we haven't seen Huston Mustafa for his best. But, you know, he has a slightly narrow structure. And because he has a narrow structure, it can sometimes, you know, in a line, a lot of money looks great. But when you put him in the line up with other guys, you know, he doesn't look so great. You know, I think a guy that we have to really take a look at, though, however, in this line up would be Martin Fitzwater. I mean, here's a guy who I don't think anyone, even even was on anyone's radar. I don't think anyone picked this guy for top five. And he was able to come into this line up against a really good feel of people and show that, you know what, I belong up here. And he's from Colorado. I really didn't know much about him prior to this. And I think he's going to surprise a lot of people in the future. He's got a really nice structure, small ways, big legs, good arms. Can he be a little tighter? Yeah, I think he's got to tighten up a little bit. And I'd like to see him even so out that frame a little more. And I think if he does, we're going to see some really nice things from him in the future. It's nice when you see Newtown in there and a new guy sneaking into this lineup. To beat a guy like a Sond Mustafa. I mean, right there, that tells you that, you know, you did something special. And he didn't. Hasan had a settle for fifth place here. And, you know, he's got to be frustrated because Hasan has all this muscle. He's got these huge quads, big huge legs. He really has no weak body parts whatsoever. He just can't dial in the conditioning enough to show aesthetically his physique at its best. And that's really what it amounts to because when he's a little off and he doesn't have all that detail in his lower back, who's hamstrings, he looks, he could be a little blocky looking. You know, and I know that that will disappear when he gets in shape at a hundred percent. You're going to see lines that never existed. And that happened, I think with Rami also, when Rami would come in at, you know, 90%. He was huge and he was amazing, you know, but he didn't show enough separation in the areas where we look when we think about conditioning, which is glue hamstrings lower back. And when he finally dialed that in last year at the Olympia, all of a sudden we saw something that we hadn't seen. And I still think Rami could come and type. So at the end of the day, you know, this show, we're going to evaluate it five years from now. We're going to say, you know what, Ian Valley, you are established himself as a competitor that should be taken very seriously. And when I say it very seriously, I mean that he's going to be a top six Olympia guy. Obviously, the judges feel that that's probably the case. He got two huge wins. He was not afraid to compete against the best of the best. We're going to see him again at the Arnold Classic where he could give everyone a run for their money. You never know. He can walk out of there as the winner of that show. Don't be surprised. He's got a lot of momentum. I think he's getting a lot of stage experience from this. He's feeling more confident up there. I'd like to see him smile a little more in a lot of people. So, well, that's just as, look, I want to see him smile. He should be having fun up there. You got to project that to the audience. At the end of the day, however Steve Kukos got to be super disappointed. This was a big disappointment for him. I know it. I can feel it. I'd like to get him on my TV show and talk to him about it. But hopefully there's going to be a way we can get this guy to the Olympia. He belongs there. Phil, you know what? You should get a pat on your back man. You really delivered. I worked with him before in the past. He's a good guy. I know he's a super hard worker. Congratulations on this third place here. You went up against some dease these past two weeks. And you're hung in there. And you know, a lot of people thought you could have gotten a nod in Tampa. But you're going to come back next year bigger. And better. I know you will. That's going to do it for today. I hope you enjoyed today's little wrap up. If you want to see more Chris Ascito on heavy muscle radio, we'll be doing a complete wrap up with me of the entire show. All the classes on Monday, live. Probably around noon. You can tune it to that for now. I'm Dave Palembo with an RX muscle. It was up to it.

Welcome back to live with brought to you by Species Nutrition Visit Speciesnutrition.com. I'm Dave Palombo and today's guest is a good friend of mine and to the show and he's backed by popular demand, he's the world's strongest bodybuilder, stand-efforting. What's up, big Dave? How you doing? Good. That title is a great title for you, you know, because it's really apropos in the sense that you really are the world's strongest bodybuilder. And I still think to this day, even given some of the lifts I've seen by the late Dallas Macarver and a key Williams, I still think that, you know, in the three lift max, you know, the bench press, the deadlift, the squat, you still got the, you still got the undeniable record. Well, I did it on the platform, that's the main difference, but I have to put a qualifier in there now that the world's strongest pro bodybuilder, because that freak, Larry Williams has been doing some crazy stuff, Larry wheels. Larry wheels, yeah, what are you, what are you thinking about? I'm going to ask you about that. Yeah, he's ridiculous, you know, and so I have to put that other little qualifier in there. The world's strongest pro bodybuilder over 50, I love that. What do you think wheels is potential is in terms of powerlifting and bodybuilding in your estimate? I think it's limitless. Your mind's moving young Ronnie Cole, and obviously he has to volumeize that tall body. He's 61. Yeah. And so he's going to have to, you know, get more sweep to the quads and hamstrings, but he's a, he's just a really big muscular guy, but you know, more importantly than the bodybuilding aspect is just that he's a real athlete. He's a physical specimen. So, and he's so young. He's 24. So, yeah. He'll feel that, he'll feel that body out. You know, and I've learned that lesson a long time ago that the heavier I lifted at some point, it kind of impairs hypertrophy, and you have to set that aside for months at a time, at least twice a year to try and build more volume. It's interesting because sometimes powerlifting right, you know, is because of the way you guys lift to get the strength aspect of it. You sometimes neglect some of the hypertrophy aspect of it. To me, we all look like he's just a, he's a natural lifter. I don't even think this, does he even think plan that far in advance? Is he even think like you would in that sense or does he just go and lift? I don't know. He loves to lift, but he's going to make a life out of this. He loves to, you know, to compete. I think the big thing is with powerlifting is that you end up using a lot of muscle groups and leverages and tendons, joints, and that, you know, to use to specifically use, you know, say a quadricep muscle, you just have to get a greater range of motion. You can't be loading onto your glutes and onto your spine directors and using your hip flexors. And that's the big challenge because we're so focused on how much weight we lift is supposed to whether or not the quad is doing the work is compared to all those other muscle groups. Yeah, you know, you're right, but I mean, when I look at wheels lift, it's like, it's not like watching another paddle lift. When I see a paddle thing on their bar, it's such a mental focus and then, and it almost looks nervous like, and you don't know if they could be, this guy gets under the bar like he's at the beach, he's up like that, and reminds me of a game William's so, and it's just looks so easy for them. He doesn't look like he's straining. He looks like he's just, he's very supposed to be. Does that make sense here? Makes sense. Yeah, he's a feet on. I had some throughout my career. I had some times at which it seemed like everything I touched was light and I understand the feeling. It's been for it. It's not that way anymore, of course. You have a very interesting story that I've stamped because you spent many years working on a company. I don't want you to explain what you did, and you sold the company for a lot of money, and then you said, you know what, now I'm going to live the body going dream that I wanted to dream, which is, you did it in the right order. Some guys try to do the dream first, but explain to us how you got into this business and what it was all about. Well, I wanted to be a pro bodybuilder from the time I was 17 years old. I used to, when I was in college at the University of Oregon, I used to get my car and drive down the gold's Venice, take a long road trip, and sit and watch those guys train. Right. What's interesting is the side note is that the same things that they did way back then in the late 80s are proving to be the most beneficial to the day with all the science that has come out and all the studies and the research and the great information that we have accessible. A lot of them are saying the bros were right. And every single one of those guys, as you recall, was training twice a day. They were eating six to eight times a day. They were sleeping eight nine hours a night plus a nap. And it was almost every single day. They didn't just pound it away at it for months and months and years and years. And those are the things that stick in my mind as being the pervasive, I think, consistent things that you have to do to be successful. But I wasn't, you know, I wasn't gifted in that regard. I was 135 pound guy in college. And so I did everything I could to chase my dream as far as I could. I thought that lifting the heavier weights would make me bigger. And at some point I learned my lesson that is because you're stronger doesn't necessarily mean you're, you're look better for bodybuilding. Right. So, you know, I changed gears at about 1997 or so. I competed solid for over 10 years. And then I started a business. I realized that power lifting a bodybuilding is never going to be a career. At the time, we didn't have social media. You couldn't monetize that. Right. I asked you winning and in the magazines and getting sponsorships. There was no way to create your own value. Very different picture today. So I spent 10 years building a business. I didn't compete. There were times there where I didn't even train for a year or two. Wow. And it wasn't until about 2006 that I came back and decided that I was going to compete again. But by then, like you said, I had created a couple of successful businesses. I built a telephone company into a $25 million year business. And I had built and converted and sold nearly $60 million in real estate during that time. And still. You get into that, though, stand. How did you learn about all that stuff? Was that just something that you kind of fell into? Or was it something you were interested in before that? You know, you're making it seem like it was so easy. But how did you do such that something so elaborate, I should say? Well, I was important that you asked that question because I had the intellectual property. I had experience in that all throughout the time that I was in college and after college, I was managing large apartment communities and helped to develop or build 150 units, you know, $15 million in community. So I learned a lot of that. And then we had our own telephone and cable access. And so I learned all about that. And then I worked for a billion dollar reed, running a hundred million dollar property. It was 1,200 units with almost 3,000 people living in it. And so I had the experience. I did it already for someone else. And that's important because I knew a lot about it. And so when I started my own very small phone company, I already had, you know, as Vice President of the telecommunications company for three years. So I knew about it. And I always encourage people to do things that are in their real house that they have experience, you know, knowledge. So they, you know, flounder for many, many years. Fortunately, I was able to be mentored by a good real estate developer. So, you know, first the phone company and with the revenue from the phone company, I was able to invest in real estate. And of course, at the time, you only needed 3% down. All right. You know, you could buy land and build properties and buy condo conversions and the bank with finance, the lion's share of the conversion. So we did really well. I bought and sold multiple department communities either in pole or part of the mountains into condos and built subdivisions and single family homes and bot commercial real estate and remodeled it and sold it. More of you like a service rack stand doing this. I mean, because you have to, you must have had huge loans you've taken out from the bank, you know, mortgages and stuff like that. That had to be very stressful. Yeah, absolutely. No, of course, at the time, the real estate market was booming. And that's kind of when I started getting back into bodybuilding. And I had a lot of free time. I had a lot of money. I had a good staff working for me. Right. And I was able to pop on a plane and fly down to train with Flex Wheeler for a couple months and then fly over and train with Mark Bell for a couple of months. And, you know, I've said before, I did a rant called, you know, I think I said, why I'm a hypocrite because I was able to pay Flex Wheeler. You know, that's not cheap. It's trading me twice a day for two months straight. Wow. You know, that's 15,000, 20,000 dollars. Wow. And that's black. So I'll try to keep it on your neck. And that's reasonable. That was a discount. That's a hundred bucks of session. That's right. Sessions a day is 200 bucks a day for two months. You're looking at, you know, 12 plus grand. And then even worse than that, just trying to stay in a hotel with a kitchen. Right. That's another hundred and fifty bucks a day. So I kind of started doing the math. And it might have cost me $40,000 just to win my bro card. You know, at least you got it now, right? You know, at least I got it. And I learned a lot in the process. There's no question. But that was an interesting time. I was able to go down and train with Charles Glass at the time. I was able to go out and train with Mark Bell. I spent two months there. I go out and train with Eddie Cohn. Right. You know, I was able to work with some of the greatest coaches in the industry. You know, I work with you on an offseason program back at the year of 2010. I absolutely took my guru course, too. Yeah. And I took your guru course. Matter of fact, I got the book right here. I didn't keep that. Kept that. And I thought I was sleeping just because I was day after that gum surgery. But I actually took notes. Wow. Look at that. You know, stay. But you're like a prodigy. You must have a photographic memory. I'm convinced of it. I don't know. I just all read something ten times or I'll watch a video over and over again with a note pad. And if I watch a really good video, I'm pissed because I have to watch it again with a note pad and write everything down that I wanted to remember. And so that's, and I try to put all this into my bucket, you know, my tool kit to work with over the years. And I apply it to myself. And you know, I did the blood tests every month for 12 years. Now I've done blood tests. And all kinds of different things to try and garner whatever information I can. Right. And I'm going to apply it to myself and then to others. But you're not to get. I watch your YouTube channels. I'm not to interrupt. But I didn't watch your YouTube channel. And I actually almost believe that you're reading off a script, which I know you're not because you're driving your car. I don't know how you do it. It's like you have some, you, it's a organized, you thought it's very well in your head. And you can, you know, and I, and I consider myself pretty good at articulating my thoughts. But you're like, like, almost like a computer reciting this stuff. I don't know how you're doing. It's a may. Yeah, you know, I get so tired of watching an hour video and getting 10 minutes or five minutes worth of information out. Right. That's my time's too valuable. So I didn't want to do that to people who watched me. And so I spent a lot of time all research and right and, and, for her, and record all of my stuff that I do. So I didn't do that. I didn't know that. That's interesting. Yeah. That's why I don't do them very often because it takes me three days to go one together. I feel better now because I thought you would just a prodigy, you know? Yeah, no, not at all. I watched your stuff and I've always amazed how you come up with this just right off the top of your Yeah, but you can do it for so long. Yeah. And I, you know, I just wanted to make sure that if somebody's going to tune in to me that they get, you know, all of their value in their time and the takeaways. I don't want to just sit and rant about nothing. I want to make sure that they can actually implement something from my videos to improve their performance. Or their health. When you were on Shark Tank, how many how how many times did you rehearse that script that you owe it to? It's gone. Yeah, I had my family sit in the living room holding up pictures of the sharks. I printed them out. Big pictures of the sharks. So I could feel like I was actually talking to them. I did a rant about it behind the scenes of the shark tank. So people knew that I practiced that dozens and dozens of times. It was good. It was great. I was like very entertained. I've watched it about ten times. You know, it's interesting though because, you know, you're a guy who's been a lot of money. You obviously are set for life. You don't need to make any more money. And yet you still are out there creating new businesses for yourself. You know, what's, is that just because you're a creative being that you need to constantly be doing something or is this something that you're really passionate about? You know, I'm just type A. I've got to dive into something. I don't know what I would do if I wasn't. I'll tell you this and a lot of people don't know this. I've talked about it a few times. When the real estate market collapsed, I lost $20 million over night. Oh, did you? Wow. Yeah. I went to bed on a Friday worth $20 million. And woke up Monday and the banks were calling me asking me to pay down these loans. It's kind of why I mentioned that you could put 3% down on a property. I owned a couple of apartment communities. I had 20 homes. I had just finished it hadn't been sold. I had a commercial building. We're $3 million. Right. I had a $2.5 million home. And the banks were lining up trying to get me to pay down my loans on depreciated properties. So let's say for instance, I paid $4 million for 100 unit apartment property. And I only had to put 3% down. So they asked me for 120,000 to holders. To buy that property. Wow. Well, when the market collapsed, all of a sudden the property was worth about $2 million. Right. And they wanted an 80% debt to equity ratio. So they wanted me to pay it down to 1.6. And I only had $120,000 down on the property. So they were chasing it for millions of millions of dollars. And of course, I personally guaranteed that. And then I had all my assets lined up against it. I had multiple homes. Condos, my home, my own doubt, right. Everything I owned other than my investments. I owned that right. And so it was a really, really difficult time. Kind of reminds me of Donald Trump's story in the 80s when the market collapsed. And he had to go to the banks at 4 a.m. in the morning. And I was in a similar situation. I had to negotiate. I had to postpone payments and get the afforded the opportunity to sell properties. And wow. That took a long time. And during that time, I obviously got out of the real estate market because that was horrendous. Sure. And started an engineering firm, started some medical marijuana businesses that we still have going and recreational businesses. And just kept, just kept fortune away. So I'm not as risk-tolerant as I used to be. Right. And certainly not as, let me say, comfortable as I used to be. So I'm a little more conservative now. I got out of it without being completely destroyed. I didn't jump in front of a train. Like most people did during the time. Yeah. You can remember many folks were, it was a bad time. But you know, that's just to me, I always looked out like monopoly. I didn't grow up with money. I was a very conservative home. I would say modest. My dad worked for the government. My mom was a homemaker. And so I never really looked at it. Is anything more than an adventure. And so I didn't take it too personally. To me, it's monopoly. And when I take out a credit card or I take out a loan on a home that the people that I do business with, they're investing as well. They're getting a return on their money. And they have to take some risk. So if I've got credit card companies calling me, I don't really care. It doesn't phase me. You guys took a risk, sucker. Yeah. You know, nobody's bailing me out. So I just reinvested my time and energies into something that I thought would provide a return. And fortunately, you know, I was able to build a couple more multi-millionaire companies in the meantime. So I'm certainly quite comfortable, but I'm not a fat cat like I used to be. Sorry. I'm behind Donald Trump at the UFC fight. So the second row. You know, it's a little bit old days. Stay at what explained the vertical diet. There's a lot of people. I kind of know what it is. But a lot of people have been asking me about, you know, what I think about it. Just explained to give us a brief synopsis of how you came up with this and what exactly, you know, under the ten and seven. You know, I created the diet mostly for performance. And I wanted to start with a solid foundation of highly bio-available micro nutrients, which means I wanted to eat the foods that were the most easily digested and provided the most vitamins and minerals. I don't look at a nutrition program in terms of macros, necessarily. I like to look at it in terms of bio-neutramps. I also designed it because, you know, if it fits your macros or macros, as it were, doesn't address gut health. And one of the big things I've always struggled with is that a lot of foods would wreak havoc on my gut. That's the bull oils and of course, when you're trying to bulk think just things like breads and pastas and pizzas and pancakes and, you know, all the carbs that we tend to forage on to gain scale weight. Don't necessarily sit on us very well. It causes insulin resistance and interferes with digestion and people are popping thumbs like crazy because they're getting gastrogrief lugs. That's very, very common in the industry. And this includes women who are dieting and they're just eating very nutrient-poor foods and egg white broccoli and they end up with deficiencies. Iron deficiencies, B12 deficiencies. So I wanted to create a diet that wouldn't cause bloating and gas. I focused on digestion first and make sure that I didn't have any problems with nutrient deficiencies. And you're huge on that as well. You're one of the few people that's really focused on vitamins and minerals and understands how important they are. We see all this metabolic adaptation. A lot of it is a result of micronutrient deficiencies. And so we make sure and get people adequate calcium, adequate magnesium, adequate sodium, adequate potassium. All those things are really essential for stimulating metabolism. And I added a few other items in there from my experience and from the literature that also seemed to help people with performance. And another thing that doesn't address is the immune system. Something like a macros diet doesn't address whether or not your digestion is adequate. It might be creating autoimmune deficiencies. Getting indigested proteins are indigested carbs into the smallest intestine and creating gas. Maybe turn the ability. That starts to lead to a lot of havoc. And ultimately, the big thing about the program is not just the vertical diet. It's the vertical diet and peak performance. And it takes into account sleep as a huge component that can't be separated from nutrition and digestion. It takes into account hydration, which is another huge component. It takes into account how all of these things affect hormones. We take a lot of abuse in this industry, Dave, you and I both. Because the industry is very commonly, a lot of people use performance enhancing drugs. And for a while, they can compensate for these deficiencies. Maybe they're experiencing metabolic adaptation because of these egg white and broccoli diets. But they toss in some thyroid or clumbuteral and they get a temporary fix for that problem. But taking thyroid doesn't fix an iodine deficiency. It doesn't fix an immune system problem. It doesn't address the source of the problem, the micronutrient deficiency. So ultimately, athletes end up rebounding. They end up with these deficiencies. And they come back all of a sudden progress stops. So it's a stop gap. It's a temporary thing. And so I wanted to get in front of it and make sure that my athletes didn't have nutrient deficiencies or hormone in balances that were caused by a lack of sleep because we're getting athletes up before in the morning to do an hour of cardio. When they've only gotten five hours of sleep, which suppresses testosterone, suppresses thyroid, you know, increases hunger, increases, you know, decreases metabolism. And we compensate for that by taking medications. And that's not a long-term plan. And so I wanted to create a diet that addressed all of that. And a lot of it, one of the big things with the diet is that when people are dieting, they tend to lose stamina and endurance and energy and just feel like shit. Because of metabolic adaptation, because their body temperature lowers, all of that happens. And so I put foods in there that help stimulate metabolism and help make them give them more energy. Sodium is obviously a huge piece to that. Wearing a CPAP, if they're sleeping, that's part of my program, if they aren't getting out of sleep and they snore. I am poor then to get CPAPs. And oddly enough, a great athlete like Hawthor, Ryan Shaw, 400 plus pound guys didn't have CPAPs and they snore. And I'll talk to their wives, and I'll talk to their girlfriends and I'll ask those questions. And remedy that problem because it's critical to their performance. The diet, stay eye-to-gay anyone over 250 pounds, probably, need CPAPs, because... Oh, 100% agreed. And I don't care how hard you train and how well you die it. If you're holding your breath at night, it's a done deal. Your performance is going to suffer. Yeah. And there's so many more things in there. I encourage the blood test because I want to find out what people are deficient in or if they have insulin resistance, they have low vitamin D. And so I try and encourage them to address all of those deficiency issues. And I put in a host of different foods. I make sure they salt their meals. I ask them to get in iodine because about 50% of athletes that sweat a lot. We have a iodine deficiency. And that's directly related to thyroid, which of course is metabolism and body temperature, which is critical for people who are trying to perform. How many people do you know stand nowadays to take in like Himalayan sea salt? You know, thinking or it's good for them. Himalayan, thanks to all the use of sea salt. They have no iodine. The regular stupid cheap store bought iodine salt is probably the best thing for you to use because of the iodine in there, which obviously, like you said, helps thyroid. You know, when I created the species of line of products through address, a lot of these things you're talking about because I knew people wouldn't get what they need from their foods. I see what people eat there completely devoid of minerals and vitamin. And I'm also, you know, I'm a big advocate of salting everything. People think I'm crazy with the amount of salt that I consume and tell people to use with soy sauce. My wife, cringes when she sees me pour the soy sauce bottle on my food. But you need electrolytes, especially when you work out. I mean, it's just you're right. People a lot of them. And it infects metabolism for weight loss and it affects performance. It affects digestion, sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid. So it's absolutely essential. Probably the number one thing is when I did my salt rant that people reach out to me from all over the world is about how their performance improved and how much better they feel and how their digestion is improved. Salt is probably one of the biggest things. Another thing that athletes tend to do is they tend to restrict foods for no particular reason. One of them is fruit, especially women that are dieting. And because they associate it with fruit toasts, which then, you know, high fruit toast corn syrup becomes their train of thought. But fruit is hugely important for metabolism and stimulating the liver, which is enormous. Too much, of course, you can get into fatty liver disease with fruit toast certainly. But a little bit, you know, taking periodically throughout the day raises the body temperature. Increases metabolism. And it's just very effective. I've also noticed that it helped bring down AST and ALT liver enzymes, which is huge for athletes that are using performance and has drugs in particular because the liver starts to get taxed as a result. The orals in particular. And that will snap. Appetite and that will prevent fat loss. And so the fruit really helps with that. And I've seen that in my blood tests and those from many athletes that I've trained. It's critical. I've also noticed that with those three or four things with the iodine and the salt and the fruit and calcium. And I'll talk a little bit more about it in a second. Those four are potent stimulators of metabolism. And I've had women who have been on thyroid who would wake up in the morning and test their body temperature. But a thermometer under their armpit for about 10 minutes. And they would try and see whether body temperature was because as we know, that's indicative of your BMR. How many calories are going to burn that day? It's going to be based on your body temperature. And that's the bulk of the calories that you burn at rest is from body temperature primarily. And we think 98.6, particularly that runs 97.8 to 98.2. But if it's below 97.8, you're going to have a hell of a time burning calories. You may already be experiencing that of all of that uptation. And your metabolism is going to slow and you're just not going to burn as many calories. When I get them to consume those four things, all of a sudden, their body temperature starts to go up. 98.4 in the mornings. And they can decrease or eliminate their thyroid medication, which isn't always advisable, but oftentimes it could be a benefit. So that's a huge thing. And of course, to increase calcium, you want to take vitamin D3 because that increases calcium uptake by about 24. And then you'll need K2, which I try and get from egg yolks and grass-fed butters and the like. So I can help keep the arteries decalsified. As you know, and hate to bring up bad news. But if Dallas and Carver had gone in and had a cardiac angiography, he would have seen the calcification in his arteries. And whether or not that would have changed his path, you know, I always recommend that people try and find out if they have preexisting conditions. Hence the blood tests, hence something as simple as a cardiac angiography. There are only like $300 now to get an MRI with contrast dye to see exactly what the calcification looks like in your arteries. I've had it done twice. I've had it five years ago and I have it done this. I believe it's a cardiac CT. I think they do it to CT scan. I don't know if it's an MRI but that's a chronic CT. Yeah, they use contrast dye and they can see exactly what the calcification looks like in your arteries and which ones. And whether or not you have it. And that can potentially be a cause of high blood pressure. But I found in the vast majority of cases and I deal with a lot of big athletes and I've had blood pressure problems here and there throughout my career when I've been too heavy and haven't paid attention to my nutrition. I found that the vast majority of high blood pressure can be addressed through nutrition. It's kind of why I did a high blood pressure quick fix kit recently where I talked about sleep apnea. I talked about low thyroid. And why it's important to keep adequate thyroid because people think that sodium causes high blood pressure. But the difference in the systolic measurement is maybe two to five points. Not the same. And with thyroid it can be up to 20 points. And that's human studies showing a hypo thyroid individual may have elevated systolic pressure 20 points above somebody who has normal thyroid. And calcium as well. Of course we know that that relaxes the blood vessels and magnesium. So and potassium's the huge one. I get all my athletes to consume 4700 milligrams of potassium a day. And whether that means that they eat a potato or spinach or fruit or salmon or yogurt or a combination of all of them in an act with those. That seems to be one of the key components that in the thyroid obviously and the sleep apnea being addressed with a CPAP. That almost within 72 hours they can bring blood pressure from 160 to 190 down to 120. Very very very quickly simply by mostly with potassium and magnesium. What you're suggesting is that a lot of people's medical problems could be related to the fact that they have mineral and vitamin deficiencies is really what you say. Of course we know that that's not a stretch. We know that vas majority of people we're taking medication be it statins blood pressure medication. Proton pump inhibitors you know and acid medication. The vast majority of them it's a lifestyle issue. It's not a clinical medical issue. That's why I've gone on rants and that's why I say to people all the time. The three most important supplements that you should take that most people don't take. In other words these are not the luxury item in supplements. These are the imperative ones is a good multi vitamin multi mineral with real dosages and absorbable micronutrients. And I'm not trying to plug my own line but that's why I designed species around that the mineralize. The essential fatty acid supplement okay you know omega lies and a fiber supplement for your colon you know. If you would take those three things you probably would be 50% more healthy right off the bat doing nothing else. I agree 100% I put foods in there first because I want to see somebody you know. But it's saying you know people are lazy that's the problem. You're diet is probably awesome for someone who has the time to sit down and plan out and follow all the things. But most people are completely lazy they don't they don't even cook their own food they hire certain purposes they drink a lot of shakes. So for most people you have to find a way to overcome the ideal situation would be to get it from your foods. But just people can't do it you know and that's that that I think is a huge problem in our society because everyone's in such a rush all day long you know. You're absolutely right here's one thing I'll say to that. If you're taking a supplement then you're probably not as likely to be as diligent about what you're eating. You might eat a little bit of everything trying to the whole if it fits your macros or the 8020 rule. My biggest challenge with that is what does that 20% do to you how does it affect your digestive health how does it affect your immune system how does it affect your hormones. You cannot compensate for. In taking in poor food by taking in. You're right you're right but you know it's it's a good it's a good insurance policy like you know and that's what the physician study said about multivitans anyhow this and it didn't increase all course mortality but it's a hell of an insurance policy for for those outliers that may be adversely affected by it. Having nutrient deficiencies. The problem is that a lot of people that take multivitans take you know a central one a day which does nothing you know has no no absorbable nutrients in there there's no real. A dosage is an anything of any relevance in there and they think it's a panacea in their mind oh I took a multivitamolum good so you know. It goes back to the old you know marketing you know employees that these companies use you're watching TV and you see oh take this you don't have to worry about anything else you can do whatever you want. And obviously that's just not the case and that's what you're trying to address you know I'm a big believer also in eating foods. You know first and supplementing as an insurance policy but it's really the food you eat you are what you eat. Let's face it the old's trite saying is really true. Yeah and more than that you're not you're more than what you eat or what you absorb or but that's why. I'm cautious to use the kinds of foods that are highly viable that's why I use red meat because the heme iron is highly available and a lot of women in particular who issue red meat. Our subject to you know anemia and that's a huge problem B12 is another enormous one and that doesn't just impact energy impacts digestion and also with those multivitamons a lot of them there's most of them are synthetic they don't have the proper co factors. They're not in the doses in relation to each other that is necessary to be off them all if you're going to take vitamin D that you need to have some vitamin A and you need to have some vitamin K. You can avoid some of either the deficiencies or the surplus. Start popping a whole bunch of vitamin A you might end up with too much but eating vitamin A foods whether it be you know in retinol form or. Cratenoids you're less likely to have a vitamin A surplus. So it comes down to me one of the big things I focus on with the athletes in getting in the foods that I get them. Is gut health and that they're digesting it properly. I'll have people that have been on prescription and I an acids for years. Right and within a week I've gotten completely off because I understand that the that the bird and an acid reflux is not caused by too much acid. It's caused by too little yeah and that impairs digestion significantly and now you're not absorbing those nutrients the B vitamins in particular or the calcium or anything. You have to have good stomach acid enough of it and the proper pH to absorb all of these these minerals and then they make they have a huge impact. I've watched it myself and on my athletes when you start taking in all these nutrients and you're digesting incorrectly again the blood pressure being a huge one and you've said before. I've used that this years ago steroids won't kill you high blood pressure will. Yeah and that's important to people understand that that's not the thing that you look at that you overlook and I think it's very easy to fix in the vast majority of people. They're deficient in potassium because 4700 milligrams potassium is hard to consume you have to deliver it to about it and most people aren't. It's interesting you know you mentioned earlier that not having enough you know digesting ability you know when I was 300 pounds and I was eating you know 12 times a day and guzzling shakes all day. I got a lot of acid in digestion and I noticed that another guy is that I work with it or that are bulking something that there is a lot more in digestion because you're eating so much food I think your body just can't necessarily break it all. But I would notice that when I would be really really really hungry like maybe I just didn't eat for some reason for five hours something like that because I was just crazy busy stuck in motor vehicles whatever the case. You know and then I ate it didn't matter what I ate after that I could eat the greasyest most disgusting meal. It's like I absorbed it no problem and you can get any acid refuture. I mean normally that would destroy my stomach it was like my body was primed for anything I gave it and I'm not suggesting to eat junk food but what I'm saying is I think that you know sometimes you know. And dare I say because this is body going much we too much food you know. Yeah that happens as well and that was what's going on with both half four and Shaw. They were eating too much food. We remember the video that Shaw posted about a year ago. It's got millions hits or more about his 10,000 calorie day. But it was what I called horizontal eating that was pancakes you know I hop for breakfast and burritos for lunch and pizza dinner. And that was causing a massive amount of distress and he's probably used to me calling him out like this now because I've mentioned it so many times. One of the first things he said to me after starting my diet is when I saw him he leaned in and kind of quietly said, stand. I'm regular. And I understand that because I've done that to myself for nearly 30 years trying to bulk up and I know what it's like to have to run to the toilet after every meal. And I didn't think that that needed to be that way and I've had been times as a bodybuilder when you're eating cleaner, which you realize that you're not wreaking that havoc on your body and you're more regular. Especially when you're eating really quality food. I was eating a lot of top-sourm-line steak. And so that was very efficiently used by me and my the stool was quality and normal and regular. And so I tried to employ some of those same techniques with Hof Thorne Shaw. They just said they reached a point at which they were just gaining fat. They weren't getting any stronger. They were just getting fat. And so we've performed the blood test to find out they were invited in D3 deficient found out that they were insulin resistant, find out that they obviously didn't have a CPAP. And so we went about trying to correct those issues. We dropped a little bit of body fat and noticed Shaw this year lost about 15 pounds of body fat and got pretty lean. And then we just drove, like with the vertical diet, I created a kind of a foundation of these highly bio-available micronutrients and foods and they eat those first. And then an athlete that requires more calories, just based on their mass and their workload, I can't fuel that to them in oatmeal or pasta or pancakes because it will completely wreck their digestion. And so at that's where I start pushing a lot of white rice and I start increasing their red meat intake. Even then I'm not trying to get their protein above the gram for pound because when they consume that much that much carbohydrates, they're very protein-sparing. And so it's been very effective for their digestion. Their body composition of chains, their strength obviously, you know, Hof Thorne just had a whirlwind of a year. I went from pulling, say, I think, 940 at the Arnold to a thousand 40 at the world strongest man, which is just ridiculous. And it's not just, it's on both ends. I work with 120 pound IFBB Pro Piccini girls too with the same theory that I don't let them over restrict. I encourage them to eat fruit. I encourage them to have a calcium source daily, which is usually dairy. And if they can't handle milk, then we go to a Greek yogurt and if they can't handle that, and we use a slice of cheddar cheese. But they don't appreciate how important calcium is for their metabolism as well. And these women quickly shut their metabolism down with their caloric restriction and their high workload. And so I have to keep fueling that with some fruit, and miss some salt, and miss dairy with some iodine for their thyroid. I had to combat that. He's a constant battle. And in doing so, they don't rebound after the show. Their body doesn't, it's not, it hasn't been depleted of anything. And so it doesn't, they don't get the the edema and the fat, the outrageous fat gain back and all of that. Well, you got it. Great channel on YouTube there. You're getting tremendous amount of traffic and hits. I see it. You know, I watch some of the videos myself and I have time although I have very little time these days. You know how that goes when you have kids. I do. Yeah. But if people want to get in touch with you, Stan, what's the best way? You know, Stan Epertig is always good. My Instagram stand up for me. My YouTube stand up for me. My website, stanfraiting.com. And then of course now I have the vertical diet, which is the vertical diet.com. And at the vertical diets on Instagram. And I should before we close out, I should say that because of my big push into Whole Foods and nutrition, I recently partnered with one of the largest. Meal prep companies in the country and they do 4 million meals a year. They've been in business for 20 years and they have an extraordinary track record. They also have millions invested in meal prep equipment. They have ovens that are moisture controlled. They have a modified atmosphere pressure machine to then wrap the food after it's cooked. Which takes the oxygen out of it and so it stays pressure longer. And then they have these rapid freezing equipment. We call flash freezing. So that the there's no moisture develops on the food and you don't get ice crystals and cause the freezer burn. So these guys and that those are millions of dollars worth of equipment they've invested in. And they ship all over the country all 48 states and I went up and I partnered with them and I sat down and we were there's chef and they're nutritionist and we ordered the we sourced the grass bed bison and the line caught salmon. We're rendering our own beef tattle because you know I won't cook anything vegetable oil. And we're boiling our own bone broth because I don't want to make sure that it's just boil bones and doesn't have a bunch of chicken flavor and vegetable oil and things that might wreak havoc on the stomach. And we put together delicious menu and so now I own meal prep company the vertical diet calm serving monster mash is all over the country we're about five weeks in and we've served over 30,000 meals now on the first five weeks. That's a lot. Yeah. You got to send me some meals stand so I could sample them for the. I'm going to tell you. I'm telling you these are there to the list which is you know I get people sending me free meals all the time as a lot of people do in this industry because they're trying to market their products. But I won't eat them for more than a week because they taste like garbage. Yeah, and that was the one big thing that I wanted to do different here was make sure the meals tasted good and so we we went the extra mile the source the better quality ingredients. And you know to make these things with beef, talo and bone broth so they would be moist and delicious. I'm like I said I always like to see healthy foods out there does not that much available. You're making it easy for people to get shipped to the house. I mean that's that's a great service you're offering. What do you see yourself going now? Like where what's the next step and what you're trying to do because I know you always got a plan ahead. You know I'm getting the vertical diet. You know David it went absolutely viral. I thought people. You look at this show this program is that is that you're ultimate goal because you like to do these big these big projects and then sell them on. Yeah, I took the same I took the same diet that I've been using with Hofhor for two years and it's very detailed and it's the same one I gave to Brian Shaw. Even you know across fit. This week commiel a block Ben Smith, Becca Voich. They're all athletes that use the vertical diet. They're all former cross fit national champions. Tyne Rebe is the picture from the San Francisco Giants. Of course Larry wheels and Dan Green used it. Stephanie Sanzo from Steph Fitt mom from Alaska or from Australia and even Bradley Martin when I went down and worked with him. He was having trouble with his diet. So we got him on the vertical diet. So I've used it with a lot of people. It's very comprehensive. So I put it out about four months ago for people to buy exactly the same program. I provide for all these high profile athletes that I work with directly and it just went viral. I've sold thousands almost 10,000 of them. Wow, but it's been downloaded 50 or 60,000 times because I can track with downloads. And so and this is all over the world like it messages from every country. What are you actually selling though, Dan? Stan, what actually a people buying? A customized diet for themselves or is it what is it? I include everything in there from the sleep protocol to the hydration protocol to the diet. I list exactly what foods to eat. I put sample macros for different goals. I have sample diets for different goals. Of course there's a BMR calculator to adjust your starting point. And I also have hypertrophy training and the strength training program in there. So it's supposed to be something that you can customize. I'll have husband and wife at the same house, one powerlifter, one bikini for a competitor using the same diet. But just adjusting for calories, using the same nutrient-dense foods that help them with their health and their performance and their energy levels, et cetera. It's exploded and so now what I'm doing is I'm working on getting finalized to do. So I should say this, I've already put out vertical diet 2.0 where I added more information about all the people who bought the 1.0 got it for free. I'm working on the 3.0 and everybody who purchased the 1 or the 2 is going to get the 3.0 for free. So as I continue to develop the program and work with athletes and get feedback and incorporate hacks and tricks and diets and all that stuff, I'll keep providing it for people. But now I'm going to launch a book next month and then put it out on Kindle and Amazon. And that's kind of the next phase of this and then start doing vertical diet certifications because I have an app being developed. And I want trainers at any gym in the country to be able to download the app for free and set themselves up as a trainer. And then have their clients download the app and set their clients up as their clients so they can see all of their clients underneath their heading as they're going to be. They're heading as the as the trainer. Right. As the admin and now they can they can follow their diets. They're going to be able to take pictures of their food every day and you can see exactly what they eat or be time and date stamp to be able to submit photos on a weekly basis. They'll have a checklist and the train will be able to see how many hours they slept, whether or not they train what they ate all the different checklist items. They're not they took their vitamin D what they wait in the morning if they have a record wait. So they can use it as a as a method for compliance which for me as you've heard me harp on the number one thing you can do is I always say that that what's the best diet the one you'll follow. And what's the best exercise the one you'll do. And this app is a compliance app that allows trainers to have more information more often about their clients so they can quickly intervene where necessary and provide them the information they need to be successful. Well, that's great. Stand congratulations on building this whole program and you'll keep us updated. You'll send me some meals. We'll we'll I'll do a little review on them and I always love talking to you. We always have great conversation. All right. Thanks Dave. All right. That's going to take us to the end of another episode of the live with brought you by species nutrition visit species nutrition dot com. I'm Dave Palembo and we'll see you next time.

Day for Lumbar within our Ex muscle news update. This just in Antoine Vallions has won the Count pro and will be going to the Olympia in December. Congratulations. What a great comeback story. This is Antoine. What a promising young career he had when he first started out as a teen. People were talking about this guy as the next Mr. Olympia, the next coming of a great body builder. He had classic lines and tremendous size. It's such a young age. At some point he got sidetracked by his own admission. He got involved with drugs and he actually became homeless and had no money. He really hit rock bottom in a sense. He talked about that on one of the interviews. I did with him and he's done a lot of interviews. He's talked about how he went about as long as you can go. He was as high as he can go and he went as low as he can go. He decided that's it. I had enough to clean that. Made the comeback two years ago. Successfully, I think a lot of people said, hey, this was a great comeback. Last year was supposed to be his year to really make his mark. He tore his bicep a couple weeks out from one of the shows he was preparing for. Big set back for Antoine, but he seemed mentally strong. He got through it. This year, obviously, was the comeback at the New York pro last weekend. Some people thought it was a great comeback. Some people thought it was not a great comeback. I thought I saw flash of brilliance and Antoine. To me, it looked like he was very flat at the show. I think that he just maybe overdid it. You know, you look so good. We saw the pictures on his Instagram reading up that I showed he was looking tremendous. Sometimes it's too much. You just overdid it. I've done it before all of us have done it. You deplete too much. You don't carb up enough or you overdid it. Whatever the case may be, he finished seventh in New York. Comes back here to the cow, which actually took place in Las Vegas this weekend. Obviously, California is a nightmare with the whole COVID restrictions. They still had a wear mask on stage as you see. Which is kind of like really kind of, it takes away your personality a little bit. But it is what it is. The show did go off. The muscle contest guys made it happen and that's the most important thing. Regulations. So those guys and I get friends over there. But Antoine did not walk through the show easily. Max Charles, who another body, both of the lot of people may have written off, seems like his conditioning was never showing up the way he needed to be. He just wasn't bringing the mask Charles we had seen in the past. He had joined forces with Milo Sarsav this year and they brought a terrific look into New York. Milo's story should have won. I didn't think it was that good. But I thought that it was one of the better Max Charles we've ever seen. He was full. He was lean and even as legs look pretty good for Max. And they kind of matched his upper body a lot more than they had in the past. I said, you know, this is a Max Charles on the comeback trail here. So Max and Antoine went head to head at this show and it was no easy battle. But you know what Antoine's presentation is so good. He knows how to hit the shot, hit the right angles. He has some kind of a stage sadting that I think, you know, just smells of and gives off the order of on the winner. And that's important and that's an intangible that you really can't, you know, quantify on paper. But it is important. And it is ironic that actually Antoine was working with one of the greatest poses of all time, Flex Wheeler, who's eating up to this show. There's some pictures on his Instagram or him and Flex were joining forces. And Flex of course, going through his own, you know, trials and tribulations with having to have his foot amputated on the comeback trail. And he can see he's got the white beer now. He's in like that beast, you know, attack mode, you know, looking in great shape, maybe some of the best shape of his life right now. And really motivating a lot of people out there who were handicapped and who maybe think that, hey, you know what, I have this terrible thing happening. I can't overcome it. Flex is a beacon of light actually for these people. And I think that that's great. What he's doing and it was great that he got to join forces of Antoine. I heard he put him through a brutal two hour posing session. Was that the, the little extra Antoine needed to beat Max, it might have been. It might have been. And that's what makes it exciting. So good to see Flex Wheeler in action over there and helping out Antoine. And, you know, every little bit helps, I always say. And sometimes when it's really close, it's the details that go in really make the difference. But you know, I think it's, it's a victory for Max and for Antoine here because Max is his best ever. I think Max will definitely get to the Olympia on points. And that's all that really matters. Another great dark horse in this show is on win. On win always does the Cal pro ever year. Usually when it's in California, that was the biggest. But on is always a top five finisher. I think this might be the best on win we've seen. His presentation is great. He's got great flow to his body. His conditioning is, is good here. You know, on, not against him is just not as big as some of these other guys. But you know what, if you place the size game, he always does terrible because he loses that conditioning and that, those are the lines in his body. He played it right here. Third place tremendous, you know, finish for him here. I think you got to be thrilled. Patrick Moore, what could we say about him finishing fourth year? Alone he's the win. It's got the best of conditioning. He's got the best lines. He's got muscle bellies. He's, you know, the next coming, but he's just not big enough. And when you put him next to these other guys in the lineup, you see his flaws in the sense that he just can't stand with them size wise. And after all, bodybuilding is about building muscle. I think it was a mistake from not to take the year off and really work on growing. But you know, he did really did he placed all of these shows. He can't really, not come for, you know, people want to see him win shows. And I think he's going to start winning shows when he adds another 10 pounds of muscle to his body. And I know he can do it. He's still fresh. He's growing. We're going to see a great, great Patrick Moore next year. I can smell it. I think he should just take his time. What the size on and then come back to the stage is no rush at this point. So congratulations to Patrick Moore both in New York and now obviously in the Cal Pro here. And finishing in fifth was Eddie Breckermontes who could be the biggest guy in the stage. You know what? With the conditioning he brought in the size he brought, I don't think anyone would complain if he had finished third here to be honest with you. If this is a great look for him, no one expected anything. I, in my preview, I did highlight him because I know Eddie is always dangerous because he brings ridiculous conditioning to the stage. And he is one of the biggest guys up there. So congratulations to the him. But the real pat on the back and the real, I guess we got a hold them up. Little him, raise his sword up in the air as he answered one volume up because he did it. He delivered. He shot up all the naysayers. You know, Chris Asito was very, you know, critical of him in the New York Pro. Obviously came back here and proved them wrong. And you know, that's great. We do a little fun video on it. That's cool. You know, hey, you know what? The press got to be called out when they're wrong. But Antoine congratulations on a big win here and a huge comeback to you. We'll see you at the Olympian December and you should be very proud of yourself. For now, they're on day polimbo with an Rx muscle news update.

Hi, welcome to the PX. Hey, welcome to my new home. Come on up and show your around. Hi, I'm here with the owner of the PX, the Jack O'Wack. I remember you, I think it was maybe 15 years ago. You came to the Arnold Classic and you had this little blue bottle with a little plastic syringe, syran wrapped around it. And you said to me, look at my new product. This is going to be the greatest new product of all time. Do you remember what the product that was? Yes, it was Paradaka. And where did that idea come from? Is that how VPIX originally started? First of all, I remember when I saw you because I kind of freaked out, this guy had long workout pants on. And I guess it's for moral artery or whatever it is. Running down his leg, you could see it through his long pants. I guess that's how it is. This guy has a true freak. And he was walking around and it was the Arnold and you were bigger than most of the competitors. And I was wondering why is it in his freak on stage. And we started talking and you were very knowledgeable about science. So, you know, my big exciting thing was I didn't know that many people in the industry but to show this to you and also to show it to Dan to Shane who had just gotten out of jail. Right, Dan was there and I remember you guys took that famous picture of him. Dan holding up the bottle of the Paradaka. Yeah, and I have that picture so you'll be able to view that later. But one of the things Dan was just getting out of jail and kind of I think muscle media Bill Phillips pushed him to the side. They wanted to go more mainstream and he wanted to get some publicity. So I said, do you mind if I use this picture? I didn't know back then you needed to sign a release in all this. He said, yes, he was a man of his word and Flex Magazine actually rejected it because it had Dan to Shane. So I was I read, I said, why can't this be in there? And they go one of the dubias, quote unquote, meaning I think it was Eric Weedor, rejected the ad. I guess he didn't like Dan to Shane or whatever. So I couldn't put the ad in there but nobody knew anything about viral marketing because I think I had a syringe on it and everything like that. It's not really a syringe. You were in jail with your idea, right? No, no one ever did that. Right, right. But you couldn't, it's actually not a syringe. It's like the bottom piece of the syringe. It's actually patented because you can't put a needle on it. It was happening. It's not to top of your bottle, didn't it? No, you put a little special bottle top on where you can draw it out. And it kind of had the same feel as using steroids. It was a pro steroid. We created the delivery system to kind of almost like an injection. It was a polylipid delivery system which is long chain polymers and fats. So that if you could imagine active ingredients in case within that, they go into your bloodstream and they release slowly into the bloodstream. And no one was doing this in an issue. Where did you innovatively come up with this idea? I used to teach chemistry and your intestines are lipophilip. You feel like they're fat. You taught chemistry to high school kids? I, well, mostly discipline a little bit of chemistry. You work on three discipline kids and you teach maybe five to ten. But you always were interested in chemistry. You were at my nature. Well, for nine years, I taught six different science disciplines. And I got, to fired every year, nine years, I was in eight different schools. Why was that? I'm kind of a leader. It's why I run this company. So I was always at odds with administration. Something, if something was broke, I'd fix it. And we, you know, I didn't understand it. You're not allowed to tell the prince what to do. You liked it. Marks to your own drama. Well, I'm not necessarily doubt, but I'm a leader. And so if you see bad leadership and you tend to take over a situation, you're going to get in a confrontation. So that's kind of what happened throughout the whole. What happened just started VPX? Because this is an interesting story. Because a lot of people don't know the story behind this. What was the first product you ever produced? Was it the power deck? And how did you actually even get the idea to call it VPX? What I wanted to do, it's a good question because you, you just saw down Stairs. We went through everything. And most of the people you see down there are formally from Pharmaceutical companies. Like when I've asked move, we hired their top chemical engineer. He specialized in liquids and semi solids. But before all that you had no money to do this, didn't you? I mean, we had the money company. You must have had an idea to start at the whole process. Well, I was teaching school and I was doing a bunch of people's diets. But instead of just doing the diet and training, I was using supplements. But I was using other people's supplements. What happened early on is two incidents. One is there was a product called egg pro. And as a scientist, I was getting a loss of about 46% body fat a month on just regular individuals with training diet and supplementation. Using a fat burner, proteins, different things like that. And one of the months went by and nobody lost anybody fat. And so as a scientist, it's real simple. And you're in a science. You go, okay, what variable did I change? Why went from, you know, back then it was egg protein. I went from Beverly egg protein, which is, to me, a high quality brand to this egg pro. And because they were out of the Beverly and put my clients on that. No one lost weight. So I sent it out to be tested because, you know, taught nine different science disciplines. I knew you could have these stuff tested even way back then. And this product was 90% carbohydrate and 10% ash. There was no egg protein in it. And it said 100% egg white-out-beam and on the label. You're frustrated with the fact that these companies were lying about what they were putting in it. Right. And then another instance, one was called egg pro and pro egg. I don't know which was which. But one was by a company called MedSport out of Florida here. My friend was a pro basketball player. So I recommend, again, back then, you know, egg protein was the thing. You know, I'm allergic to milk. He goes, recommend me and I protein. So I gave him the, yeah, pro egg by MedSport. So he has 68's and always chokes to death in the shower. He has the pound on the glass. Wife has to take him to the hospital. And I wrote about both of these incidents, Incidences, and Debbie Bakery's natural muscle. And people were, I rate and I developed a huge following because people were pissed. And I started testing all the supplements. And that was teaching school. And I could barely pay my bills. And there was really no teaching. Schools all discipline. It's just made your deal with all society's ill. They're babies. Right. I, I, I, I tested these products. I wrote about it following become, came bigger and bigger. And then Debbie's phone start ringing off the hook. And these people wanted to know, look, you need to develop a product. And I go, wow, this is easy because how you really have to do is Put what's in the product on the label. I don't want to stop there. I mean, you know, I'm a scientist and just taking things further and further. I wanted to create great products. But I remember something clicked in my mind. And I go, this industry's right for the taken over every, you know, none of the, nobody's ethical. Everybody's ripping everybody off. And I started creating my own supplement and to answer your question. The first product I came out with, I was too complicated. Always am kind of like you. But it's, um, ATP recent the sizeer. And it was a great, and type product. And it's sold like crazy. I mean, it was, it was a, it was a good little mix. And, uh, you, you were, you were really grassroots at the time. You were just selling to your base of listeners and followers. Right. So what I did at that time about the same time is that, um, I realized the school teaching thing was not, when I happened and formed me, I could barely pay my bills. But I had a, you know, a son, he was two years old and, and I was, I owed money to end of every month. So I was going to, um, vitamin whole sale. There's buying about seven to seven hundred to a thousand product, uh, dollars worth of product a week. So I go, I guess you were reselling it to your clients. So I started, um, it was interesting because, um, my dad and I went and the store, the rent was 600 bucks. And my dad's old school. There was a lot of vacancies. And this thing was, and the back of a winddix, see where all the dumpsters were. There were rats everywhere. And my dad's offering the guy three hundred when it's six hundred. He's not offering him five hundred three. We're sitting there in a battle in the parking lot in the guy. I've been a bad guy still. I was, but I learned a lot from my dad about business about sticking to your point. But my dad kept sticking to three hundred. This guy kept coming down. My dad would never counter with three fifty. He would counter with three hundred. And my dad kept going, look, it's three hundred more than you have today. None of these places are running. So what transpired was I felt bad for the guy who's about the cry. So I go, okay, three fifty. And he was relieved. And he took the deal. We got it. Store rent for three hundred fifty dollars a month. Three hundred fifty. And that's still cheap. You know, bad at them because the average rent in the era was about 800 to a thousand bucks. So now coincidentally in the back of the store, there was a carer practor. And he had set up a place where he can get a shower and stuff so that he wouldn't have to go home. And he can run his, you know, business. But it was only 700 square feet. And I called it Vita House. Nobody knew why, but it was vitamins in the front house in the back. Are you living there? Yes. Wow. Sleeping on an air mattress. And all my friends were making fun of me. The hurricane came and he waged a big tree in front of my door because I wouldn't go out party with him. But it was fun and it developed a huge cult following because people go, oh yeah, going this, this guy's a freak and he doesn't wear a shirt. What I would do is I didn't know anything about business man. The first person knocked on the door. I just get up and he answered, you know, on my shorts. I'd be all ripped. Like eating protein all day. And it developed a huge cult following and soon outside the store. It was really cool because there'd be all these Ferraris vets. I go, all these guys aren't working during the day. Of course, this was during the Scarface days and people had money. So we come to your store to buy supplements. Yeah, but then they started hanging out there and they're all beach chairs out in front of people mix and protein shakes. It was like a little community. It was like a little like hostile almost. Yeah. Yeah. So wait before viral marketing, this thing created a huge viral thing because. People would get to know really. Yeah. People would go, go to this guy's like a freak. He knows everything about nutrition. And I didn't. Like if you wanted, you know, back then it was all champion heavyweight gain or nine hundred or ten hundred or the table all the way. Whatever. Here's a box cutter. Go find it. You'd have to open the cardboard box yourself. So it was creating this huge viral thing and I didn't even know. But it was so busy that I had no time to stock the shelves. I used to try. I gave it. Okay. What point when you're in this store did you actually want your own product? Um, probably about almost immediately after a year, I launched a creatin product. And then I remember way protein isolate and read about it and understanding it and. I was a. I was a different name back then. But they had the first cross flow, micro filtration way isolate and I knew that the ion exchange process. What happened was you blow the thing the protein up in a big tube and it sticks to the resin. Once positively charged one's negatively charged, but what happens is it leaves out all the low molecular weight. Uh, yeah, excuse me, the high molecular weight. Uh, excuse me, low molecular, you want in there like the IGF1, the bovine serum, abulant, all those. And so I realized it was a bad process, but this cross flow, micro filtration yielded all those IGF1, IGF2, bovine serum, abulant, CCK, glycromacropeptides. So I go, wow, this is, uh, so we were, we were first with a way isolate because there was. It was called CFM. Right. And then, um, and then what happened was we got so popular. So all the big companies, um, this was great on Debbie's magazine. I had, uh, my Oplex champion, all these products. And I go, these products contain way concentrate and it was Dorita. No one used, because no one used the isolates back then. You were the first, first people that I remember. Yeah. And we were the first with a hundred percent way isolate. People would sprinkle it in there, but nobody really, you know, okay. So what I did though is I got all the top sewn product by champion, uh, my Oplex, all the big players twin your buddy is a twin lab. And I put these, and I sprinkled Doritos all over with a big Doritos back. Cause Doritos contains way concentrate. So I go, these products contain way protein concentrate. And the bottom half of the ad, because Debbie had a real big magazine. I go, this product is way out protein isolated. I was your product. So they all called her, but her magazine became super popular because, Isn't that it? Yeah. Well, because of that ad, because of the articles calling all the supplement companies out, I didn't know back then, and Debbie would be so elated because her phone was literally ringing off the hook. And she would call me later crying. They're all going to assume me. I go, well, you have no money. And I go, and I got retained samples for everything that I tested. So I go, don't worry about getting sued. That your first big product, they really put you on the map, so to speak, as far as making money goes. Um, it all contributed. You know, so and other people supplements. And people liked our supplements the best because I'd always go that extra mile. I didn't, just like nowadays, I should care more about profitability. I, I, I make the product first and it's look, here's what's in it. Here's what's got to be in it. If you want to pay the price fine, but if you, if you know that, that's what it cost to make. And you saw it. You're going to buy it. You're going to buy it.

Let's flash forward now, 15, 20 years almost, probably 15 years. You have one of the most high tech pieces of equipment anywhere in the industry. I don't think anyone has it. Each machine is like you said, $1 million. You have two of these machines, only back in the equipment. You came up with an idea to create capsules. They contain not only liquid in them, but micro capsules. You're playing that. This comes to you when you have an epiphany like while you're on the toilet or something like that. I'm here. Great because it's good. With the two super freaks in the industry, John L'Amano and Dave Palombo, Dave. We've got all kind of cameras here. We're going to go in and see redline ultra-hardcore. It's really cool. It's a liquid. And two microtabs of black and blue microtap inside of one pill. Then it pills banded around the seam so that it doesn't leak. Really cool concept because there's micronized particles in the liquid that get the system super fast. Somebody takes a fat bar and they want to turn the light on. And then when something to happen, the black and blue microtabs bypass the acidic environment of the stomach. That prevents a lot of degradation of the great raw material ingredients in there. And then it's kind of cool. And then it released over three or four hours. And then each individual ingredient also has a different form of coconutac value. In other words, a different ton of duration of action. It's called. So absorption of action. That's pharmacokinetics. Excreation is too, but we'll leave that up to you. But what I wanted to do is have something that had a three-stage delivery system that we take you up to a super high level and sustain you there, like red line ultra-harcour, for about nine to 12 hours. People get an effect from one to two. What did manufacturers tell you when you were asking for that? Do that for you? Do they think you were crazy? Usually they always think I'm crazy. And like with the bar they rejected us and said never come back again because our standards were too stringent. But this company Bosch, well known for making high tech pharmaceutical machinery. If you're going to pay them to do it and spend one million on the machine and another million on back and front end equipment and buy two of them, they're not going to pass up six million dollars, especially in the economy. You have to pay for the development of the machine as well. They were pretty good with us. But as long as we paid 50% up front, they were willing to take on the project. You were willing to gamble. You believed in this product so much so that you gambled on that by giving them the upfront money. And the other thing we wanted to do too is create that wild factor of a liquid. I don't know if you saw a high speed shear system in the first building you were in. But it takes particle weight down the less than a micron. And so in all of our liquids particle weights less than a micron. So the absorption is through the roof. I mean it's super fast. Is there an advantage to having these microbeads mixed in with the oils? And what is the advantage of having that in the... Well that's the advantage. It's a three stage delivery system. By different coding techniques and having different things to the microtabs, you can control the rate of delivery. The first absorption would be the obviously oil. Right. And what's in the oil? We would tell you but then John Romander would have to. Music failure. Well it's interesting you act but I asked because you can only put a little bit in the oil. Otherwise it gets cloudy and you lose the wild factor. So there's a lot that went into this because whatever we're trying to do here is marry science and marketing. And so if you put too much in the oil it's going to be cloudy. So we put the most potent actives that require the least amount. I'll tell you one for sure would be your hand because you only need a little bit. So that it gets right away but we also wanted some of the pills. Excuse me the little black and blue microtabs. So when you turn the lights which on you take the pill so to speak. People want the lights to go on. They don't want to turn the switch on it. So the liquid hits your right away because it's micronized particles within the liquid. And then the black and blue capsules and they release over a period of three to four hours. And you see you get a second result. Right. So we show that by dissolution but the thing is the full payload is released over three or four hours. And then the each act of again like the phenolethylamines, metrophylylamin, the triohinbe complex. They all release at their own rate too. So that's why this thing works up to nine to twelve hours. So they do last that long. Yes. Do you think that NBIUS because I know you're pretty honest. Is this the most highly technically advanced product on the market right now of any company? Yeah. It's even more advanced than any pharmaceutical company. These are the microtabs. As you can see, the liquid is in front of this little compartment here. And I see them being punched out and you're fitting into the fields. See the capsules that have been written in the right here. This is a little careful. And let's just walk around this machine. The caps is already out of the liquid in them. So then the deposit in the microtabs. And as you can see, now you can see there's some blanks that come out with just liquid. It's just set this up to the real quick. So you can see in here there's a liquid. And there's a black and blue microtab. And around the mirror there's a black scene. I see you can look at inside the mic and the fill. So what we do the drying in the capsules. We check for leakers. As you can see, like here's a leaker right there. You can look at that oil. And then the inspector would pull that caps away. Everybody, of course, would be wearing gloves. These capsules we are going to use. Then these are drying tables. And so they'll take a day or two to dry them. And every one of our pills, drinks, liquids. There's always a preservative system. We test the preservative system by taking these capsules. Putting them in an accelerator oven. It advances the aging, retreat, and vibration. And then we can tell in a year by putting these on stability. It's called for about, let's say, a month or two months. We could tell what they're going to look like in six months on the shelf. We could test for micro. It's micro bacterial. We'll microbiological in a scene whether or not they're safe. And a lot of times they'll fail inspection. In the beginning, we need to develop an product. It's very difficult. That's why I don't trust many products in the industry. Because I know what we go through to get a super clean product. It's free of microbial contamination. It's not an easy process. And a lot of people don't want to wait till it gets done. Like I was telling you in there, a machine cost of million dollars. There's two of them in there. But the catch is the funn and the back end equipment also cost a million dollars. So you're looking quite a bit. With all these machines, the sales guys always, Yep, a million. But no, you're going to get in the funn and it works yet. You're going to get in the back end. Moving into the future. What do you do to one up that? We'll go back a little bit. People always go, if you knew on the front end that was going to take you over four years. What would you really do it? Probably not. That's why we're kind of glad we didn't know it would take that long. But then the closer you get, it's kind of like addictive. To one up that, I don't know. What do you see as the future of the supplement industry, at this point in terms of technology? What right now, what we're trying to do, believe it or not, is with a product like coconut fit. Which I happen to really like a lot actually. I like the whole philosophy of this. It's non-stim drink, taste goods, no sugar in it. And you got your polyphenolics in here. And you're, through next tracks, great tasting too. Yeah, thank you. So you have your right. Hi, Antioxidant fruits in here. It's very low. Coconut water generally, the size will be 22 grams of sugar. We filtered it down to six. We water soluble-ized the mega three fatty acids. Invite them in D3, super healthy. You were just talking about earlier that vitamin, everyone's vitamin D deficient. Right. And so if you're, you're sipping on something. Your choice when you go to a restaurant is either, like, you know, a sugary soft drink or an aspertame soft drink. And both which are health-wobbing. And so this is health-promoting. And that's what everybody wants. You get enough coconuts to make all these things. We have a contract. Fortunately, our protein manufacturers are six billion. Jack actually has a coconut grove in the back. We've harvested something coconut. I do have 26 coconuts, trees in my heart. Yeah. But, so the company is, it's a six billion dollar protein company that we do our protein with. And so they are, they have an alliance with Taiwanese coconut tree growers. Now the Taiwanese coconut trees, unlike the four to ones, they're shorter and stouter. But one of them could have like 500 coconuts. So they're pretty amazing. I didn't have any crack those things. I've had a lot of trouble getting no bite. I'm going to tell them that I've had supermarket. And the islands, they all use the shadows. And they do a very careful amount of meat. See John Ramana. He's very good at opening things. He's in crack and not.

Any good supplement company has their own gym, so this is our working progress, training facility, the floor is not in yet that's common as well as some more equipment and some mirrors and whatnot, but all VPX, red line employees are encouraged to come in and work out and we're allowed to do that on our lunch hour, after work before work it's pretty much open for everybody. This is a 2000 square feet, big, big rectangular room, lots of weights more common, so when you guys come down and visit, come in and catch a workout with us. This is my favorite line in the entire building here where we make our bars, our bars are pressed or not cooked, there are some of the best in the world and this flavor right here, pumpkin is the bomb and you're in luck because they're making it right here, we're going to get the eat one right off the line. So I think that down there holds what we call the dough. It gets dumped in up there and gets mushed into the extruding machine here and they come out, into a pre-measured slice and our chopped off and as you can see the circumcene is very dangerous, they can chop your hand off. But these are fresh, extruded bars right off the line and they come down here and you just grab them. These are the freshest, best bar you'll ever eat in your life. Here you go, have one. Yeah, pumpkin. Wow, it's a little hot from there. It's the labeling machine. We'll make a little back. It's incredible. So this machine folds the wrapper and the perfect little cylinder. The bars right underneath it wraps it around it and it comes through here. Eat, seal, top the other end. This right here is a metal detector. Every bar that we use the machine to make it is actually made or the detector to make sure it's any metal in it. If you don't bite into a piece of metal. Bar that is marked as seen. Right, they're right here, they're boxed. But five thousand a day of each flavor. When you buy a bar from VPX is guaranteed to be less than 48 hours old. When you go right into the boxes, seal it up, pack some cases. Composition of these bars at all natural, uncooked, pressed ingredients. We use peanut butter, honey, oats, various flavorings all natural. 30 grams of protein per bar. Zero impact bars. Zero impact bars means no impact is insulin. In fact, we had a doctor test these bars with a diabetic and this was the only bar he could eat that did not make his insulin move at all. This is where we make our two inch power rush shots. You see, I'm a little shots we have to make over here. This is basically a miniature version of what you saw in the other facility. The bottles come in, they're screwed up, they come down. They get labelled. Here we fill in first and label them later. Whereas the other place that we're labeled first is the fill later. This is power rush. You're going to hear the tops get screwed on. They come through here. Into the labeler. Once again, all our labels we make in-house is our own graphics. Heat shrink. Come around outside of here, all around the corner. And over to they gather it up over here so they can be packaged. And these little packages, little boxes. And we ship 20, 12 to a box. And that's all done by hand. This is a piece of meat. This is peach mango. Seven hour. There's two servings in each container. Two more competitions. One, so you get two for one for the same price. You guys want to increase your IGF1. This is where we keep the hemagex. Check this out. This is where we're procurated. Quapar here. Yeah, that's Marka's rules daily supply right there. Check, let's talk about, we talked about you sleeping on the floor. Let's move forward now in time. You're at this new facility. I came, and not only is it a new facility. It's facilities because I had to go to three different locations. Explain to me the enormity of the empire that you have right now. First of all, I hope you got your cardio in today. Come on through those places. I did quite a bit. Well, the really cool thing was, and it's definitely a blessing from God. A lot of people go, Jack, you should be proud of yourself. And I got to put this on tape of who's Jack doing it. Jack was sleeping on an air mattress in the White House. And so it's a God thing. It's beyond your water, it's the imagination. It's something like this can happen. So we went from a 700 square foot store. And we moved almost every year because of the rapid growth. Until the point we are now where the buildings you just toured once 90, 2000 square feet, once 95,000 square feet and the first one was 17,000. So roughly about 210,000 square feet. I mean, that's big enough to have two football games. What gave you the goal, the gumption, to say, you know what? Not only do I want to make my own drinks, but I'm going to make, I'm going to make them here myself and my own facility. That had taken a lot of balls at some point because I'm sure it was a very expensive decision to make. Well, it was kind of an easy decision in the sense that and it's a much slower road to the top. And you do it yourself instead of sourcing it out. But here it is. If you study around the turtles like I do, an active ingredients, three to four hours a night, maybe three or four days a week for 15 years. You have all these special raw ingredients. You develop a formula. And if you go to an outside manufacturer, the El Sine and NDA, they'll promise not to knock you off. But I've had at least a hundred people come to me and go, Jack, will you make me a drink? I go, what do you want? All we just want red line with a different label. I go, I go, we're not going to knock ourselves off. I go, you've got to think of your own. So the same thing would happen to an outside menu. You actually did that. We were going to steal your formula. Yeah. And that's what we weren't willing to give that up. And so we took that slower road. And you know how the supplement industry as soon as somebody comes out with it. Everybody's just waiting like they're reactive. And so we're proactive. We try to stay five, ten years ahead of everybody else. And then in the process, try to at least create a gap between people knocking our products. How many drinks do you produce a year? Many bottles of red line. Well, this year, probably about, bottles of red line probably about 40 million. 40 million bottles of red line. Yeah, so you know the enormity of that number. Mine, Bob Lee. I mean, this is your like probably one of the main, the most used, the most consumed energy drinks on the market. In our world, we are, we're number one in GMC, vitamin shop, Bally's 24-hour fitness, which is the biggest gym chains and bigus health food store chains in the world. But now and mainstream beverage, all of a sudden, you go from being the top dog to maybe number five or six is the position we're fighting for. Which we want is that elite top three, where there's red bull monster and rockstar. And in some areas, like there's an exon mobile down here, it's really cool because we have 12 facing red line. And between monster and red bull, which are the top two brands, both three billion dollar companies, we have more facing than they do combined. That's not obviously in all stores, but that's how we wanted to be, to compete with the top dogs. It's kind of fun. But you also have the most innovative formula, most of these other energy drinks, who just caffeine and water. Right, but these guys are powerful marketers and monster does a great job of marketing, so does red bull. And that's kind of what you're fighting against. Is that how you decide to maybe get into, I know you have an indie car now. Is that what made you start getting into a little bit more mainstream America as opposed to just the bodybuilding world? Yeah, you break out, like indie car has 300 million viewers worldwide. About 200,000 go to the race, 2.5 million come to the city that weekend. So, yeah, in order to go mainstream. And then, that gives us the money to do crazy stuff like this, where we can hire more scientists, and we can hire a freaks like John Romano, and probably bring you on board soon. You know, that's an interesting thing you bring up because a lot of people, a lot of companies, they earn money, and they take the money and they buy big huge houses and crazy cars. How much would you say if you're profit that you put back into the company? 100%. You don't think anything out of it? I take my salary, which a lot of times in the company for the first 10 years, there was somebody making more money than I was, because I had to have a key individual in. No matter what all the stuff you've seen, you can't ever mistake the fact that your employees, or your number one resource. They're bigger than red line, they're better than red line, they're bigger than VPX. Jack Welch from GE said, if you don't have the bright people on the bus, you can't go to the Super Bowl. This is my nephew Anthony. He was studying to be an MD, just like Dave Palombo here it was, and then he decided to get a life. So you could see what are you doing here? I see E. coli, call forms, and L.A. We're sending these out to the micro lab. We were just talking about micro, and it's a really big thing here, and a lot of supplement companies don't do their due diligence, and people get sick on supplements, because of that. It costs a lot of money to do it right, put it that way. We're at an nitrogen-extend this shelf life and keep these moisture. The big thing we're always trying to do is extend shelf life for the bar. Very hard to do because it's almost like a bake-good, but you're taking a bake-good, and you're making a shelf stable. So we're always experimenting, shooting nitrogen into the home container. So you could see that's this puffed up, and what that is, that's nitrogen gas in there, and it'll greatly extend shelf life. Let's talk about the HPLC. So we have one here, we have one here. We have another one at the thing these guys keep wanting me to buy more more HPLC machines, high performance liquid chromatography. We use them for several different reasons, tell them why quantitative and qualitative analysis. It's usually used for the essay, for the purity testing, whatever ingredients are on what you'll be at. We have to check it in the right amount, their present, they don't digrates, we check the impurities, and everything in them. All your products are verified by lab and else. Right, and one of the big things we've been working on is an eight-wea stable creatinine, a very difficult thing. And so we created a covalently bonded peptide, we have a 60-page patent on it, but our patent is not a patent just written like a lot of people do. We do the research, we document what we do, so it's a valid patent in the patent and trademark offices, getting strict or in strictor, not only in America, but the European patent trademark and all over the world. So you have to actually have a real valid patent now, they're rejecting a lot of them. Thank goodness, because there's a lot of garbage out there, especially from people in our industry. So this is qualitative analysis, and let's go over to the quantitative with this diamond tip machine here. Explain what this is, T-pop. That's the FTIL, what is known as a Fourier transform in Fred Spectroscopy, what it does is, any of our raw materials, every raw material has a chemical structure having chemical groups and everything attached to it. So what these instruments does, they are less which groups and which atoms are attached to each other. So the end these tell us if there is any impurities of anything present in them. This is just an identification test thing. Your double test. Yes, right. All of you know what that has to go through qualitative and quantitative analysis. You need all this to validate. There's a lot of fraud going on in our industry. We had a guy sell us $500,000 worth of fake courier. We had a very successful product called diatex, a vitamin shot by 85,000 bottles when they saw the thing on Leslie's stall on 60 minutes. Because we were telling them about it. They didn't believe us. They saw that. They were going to go, how many bottles do you have? We said 85,000. They go, we wanted all of those GNC can't get it. And what happened was, then we got $500,000 worth of fake courier. The product no longer worked. If you would drink this drink or take the pills, you literally couldn't eat for a day. Serotonin was up. You could start swinging punches at my face and I just stare at you because it's like you're on prosack. It's cool stuff. It's kind of strange how that all works for dieting and keeping your head straight and everything like that. But ruined that product diatex because people go, oh, you got your money back. But big deal, we got our 500 gram back. We had to pull all that product off the market. We didn't have to, but we're very ethical. And we weren't going to let people that were used to getting a great product, you know, before by this. So it costs us a lot of money, set us back another million and a half. But that's life in the big city and the supper world. Okay, we have a bunch of different scales in this place from scales that weigh entire pallets. And so in other words, let's say there's 500 bottles of meltdown on a pallet. We weigh it. We know down to the things. So if the shipper steals a few UPS shippers or FedEx, let's say they take a few bottles of meltdown. We know that when that was shipped out, the weight and how many, if a weighed 500 pounds, let's say, we know that there's exactly, let's say, 1700 bottles of meltdown in there because each one has a specific weight. So those are the huge scales out in the warehouse. But then you come into here and you have super sensitive scales like this one. That you even have to block the AC from coming in because if you get some wind here, let's see. You can see the scale moving just from my hand wave and putting wind on it. And so then you put it in, close it, and then you get your true weight. You see how it's zeroed back out. And then coming around here, we're continuously tasting samples all day every day. We have a rule at VPX, no matter who's here, a billion dollar company can be here like GNC, a quick trip, a vitamin shop, vitamin world, Walmart, it doesn't matter. Research and development never stops. They are allowed to come into the meeting. Anybody from this lab and tell people to taste samples, test samples or whatever. And be careful. They've, or we'll try to draw your blood. So what is this, Nora? Do you mention Stivia earlier? This is a T were developing sweeteners with Stivia. It has vitamin D, which is fat soluble and omega-3s, which are fat soluble. We water solubleized them. Really cool stuff. This stability of it. Let's see if I can open it. So you'll see there's always stuff. What's stability of it? They're all around here. They accelerate aging. So that you know whatever liquids in there will look like, let's say, in a few years on the shelf. And here are two years shelf stability. Let's see. Got that? This is a mini V blender. Now, V blenders are the only blenders that should be used in the industry for mixing. Why see the V shape? Because it mixes all the powder. What happens with a ribbon blender? You have a big rectangular box and you have this ribbon. And they're used in baking. So the stuff that gets stuck in the corner doesn't get mixed well. And so you have inferior products. You have spikes in product like if you have stimulants in there, then it's like a kilz- Somebody. See the V blenders are the way to go. We use huge ones that are, you know, 1000 pounds capacity but this is the one we use in the lab to get effective mixing. I got a pilot batched model of the water cycle vitamin for the multi-batitamin pack. And this is five kilos and just in the water. Why is it orange? Right, both latent. You follow a gas. No, no. Yeah. Just going to make sure that. Jacket made it. Drink some of that. So show me what you're doing over here. I'm just making sure that the fill weight that I have on paper goes into the capsule. Right. And it's always good to see two because if it's in the capsule because if the water activities too high, I think over 4%, it would actually degrade that capsule in the, it would melt and leak all over the place. This is one of my favorite machines because this validates a lot of this stuff. What these little glass bubbles you see here, there's some of them. They represent the digestive juices in the stomach, the hydrochloric acid, everything like that. So when we put, we'll take a product, let's say some pills or whatever, we'll put it in here, we'll attach this, we'll hook it up to here and we'll dunk it in there and we'll know when this breaks down in your stomach, how long it takes. We tested the number one selling vitamin on the market. It had from zero to 4% absorption. In fact, some of the pills that were in the dissolution baskets after four days, they didn't even break down. Now, what's happening is they're trying to put too much into too little. So when you take a bunch of minerals and you compress them with high heat, basically you're creating a rock. And they pass right through your system. So zero to 4% absorption. So then we took our liquid vitamins and minerals that Lindsey just showed you over there and they have 87 to 94% absorption, which is, you know, unheard of. But we want to actually make it to the truly works. And what we usually do here, and I'm real passionate about this is when there's nothing good on the market. And I go, I got to make something that's actually healthy for us that works and make it to a super high standard. And then, of course, everybody likes it. It costs a little more, but trust me, it's worth it because I think those other vitamins, most of them on the market, actually, make you sick. It costs a lot of acid in your system, if you notice if you ever take them. And to me, it's not about the money. It's about winning and beating out some of these billion dollar companies. We're in a lawsuit with Red Bull, we're in a lawsuit with monster. They tried to slow us down. They do it legally. And it's a good thing that they're showing to people, oh, you should be working. We're not worried because if we didn't matter, they wouldn't pay us mind. But they know, and they try to block us everywhere we go. For example, in Alaska, it's kind of clear. There's a distributor, there's a lot of sell revenues, a lot of sell monster. But both monster and Red Bull, their car drives for the vet, and from selling Redmond. So they're very threatened clients, which is cool. We're sending right now, we're looking to realize the jack and police successful in the back of the vet. Thank you, thanks for coming down, it's great. Thanks for coming to the vet, so be out of great time.

We're in the bottling plant now, VPX Redline. We're going to go in to production facility. With the end of the line here, so we're going to start off in the beginning this way. Over there, you'll see both material. It comes in from our other facility at 1600. We'll be going there in a minute. All that material comes in in bulk. It's received out our other facility at 1600, where every bit of it is sampled for quality, control, purity, and potency, and everything on this side. It's tested when it comes back with one of these green stickers, it means this released. It goes from there. In bulk, it's broken down on this side into single packages. It goes on its way to bulk wing, which is over here. So from here, we go into pre-way, which is in this room here, where each component of the formula is weighed on these super high-tech scales. Little buckets containing all of the basic ingredients of all of our products. From that room, you get these containers of components to the liquid mix, which go into this room, into these big mixing vats, where they're combined and mixed, and then put into these big, big, tote containers, we're about 300 gallons. This thing's way about 1500 pounds, so close to a ton of piece. There, samples are taken, of that liquid, back to the lab, tested to make sure they agree with the label on the bottle, and they're brought over here to this staging area, where the complete liquid product is held until it gets one of these green stickers that says it's released. In this case, we are making Triple Berry RTD, which is our red line, red line RTD, Triple Berry Drink, released ready for bottling. Now pretty soon, because we're growing so much, these 300 gallon totes are going to be replaced by these 1600 gallon tanks, and pipe directly into the bottling facility. Looks like a, like an oil tank, you're almost there. They came from another facility that was making, I don't know, some kind of drink that. Green tea, right? Green tea. How many gallons are those? 1600. So we're going to go from 300 gallon totes to 1600 gallon tanks. Now what do we do with this stuff once? Once it's in the liquid and it's released, it's ready for bottling, and it goes this way. Boxes of our empty plastic bottles are all proprietary molded plastic bottles come in here. They're dumped into this big bat, go up on a conveyor, and they go into here to our bottling facility. The bottle comes down in here, it's a flipped over by that machine. It comes down here, and this thing stands up, whether they're facing this way or facing that way, this little machine will come up and stand them up for the every bottle is standing up on the comes in and all of it. All along the way, it seems a little infrared eye to keep track of everything. So there's our operators know what's going on all of them, and every step of the way. So from there, the bottles come into here, it's going into our labeling, they get labeled first. All of these labels, we've produced in-house in our own graphics department. They're designed, they can strive, and approve right here on law. It's our facility, there's our own labels, they go into this labeling machine up over there, down here, somewhere along the line, there's a whole thing that had a cut to label properly. There's an infrared eye, and every step of the way that tells the machine exactly where the label is in the line, cuts it off, sticks it on the bottle, and it goes down here, presses down and keeps it pressed down, and it goes into the heat-tricking machine. Bottles come out of the heat-tricking machine, and they're all shrunk on the right station tights in the bottle, step over here. Down, go up, and we're just where our watt number, and all of these are important information so we can track the bottles, and sprint it on the label, come through here. This is one of those big 300 gallons of total you saw in the other room, from here, it's pipes directly into the bottle and machine. So we go into the bottle, go into here, and they go into this bottle into the facility where they're actually filled with the product coming out of that 300 gallons of soap. The nitrogen they cap off, they pump a little bit of nitrogen into the air space and the top of the bottle, nitrogen doesn't compress like air, so when the bottles are in racks or in refrigerators, it keeps the integrity of the bottle and the fact that it doesn't collapse. This machine screws the cap on, and then comes through here in their check. That's a lot of bottles, have any bottles that are pretty cherry-day? We've got 3,000 bottles in our, which translates to about 2 million cases a year. Running two shifts. Now we sell the RRTDs come forward to a fact, so they come into this side and this machine is where they're boxed up into our floor facts. The label comes in, the box comes in on this side, we'll suck you up, hold it down, the machine actually folds it, right around the bottle, crimps it together and glues it at the bottom. They come right out here, forward to a pack, nice and secure, ready to shift, they're going to come into here and get, get put into a case, six, six of the pack, six boxes through a case, and then they're shrink wrapped, you can see that machine from through, wrapped the plastic around the top, then it comes in here where they're heat sealed, and they come out all nice and heat shrink. This machine turns them around, orient them, the right direction so the packers can grab them, they're labeled with their tracking number and bar code, the track right here, and right here these guys are actually building a pallet, and they have to be constructed in a certain way so they get the right number of cases on a pallet while retaining the integrity of the cube, because once the pallet is done, it has to end up looking like this, so it fits right on the truck. So you'll see there's spaces in the middle because the number of boxes of cases, the number of boxes in the case, you're not even the equal, the right size of the cube, so we have to construct it so it looks just like that. 13,000 bottles per day, 13,000 bottles an hour, 13,000 bottles an hour, two million cases a year. 13,000 bottles per day. 13,000 bottles per day. 13,000 bottles per day. 14,000 bottles per day.

Alright, I'm over here at the Versa Gripber booth and I stop by your purpose. I'm here with Willah, what's your official title here? I'm one of the owners here. You're the owners. So you're the owners sent me my little gift package, a Versa Gripber booth. Yes, I did, actually. I'm so glad that you loved them. I do love them because you know, it's mostly a lazy factor. I don't like to use those straps that you hooked onto, you have to wrap around the bar and they're always coming off. Yeah, they break in the middle of the heavy set. Alright. How many times have you done heavy deadless and those old straps would break? Well, in the old days, it would happen all the time, but I'm actually very familiar with this one. Well, you also use, well, I live in Maine and they're manufactured in Maine. So I've used these for over, when I was training, I mean, these go back like 25 years. They have a history, right? Yeah, how did the company get started? We started in 98 and actually, it's a family owned business, my dad owned a gym, and people were complaining about lifting straps. And so he said, look to that, he goes, you know, I can make these better. Actually, and he's an inventor, he holds seven patents. He got his name was in Versa, wasn't it? No, he's name is Michael Parker, yes. He actually pated these in an inventor? Yes, he's right there, actually, that's that's it. That's it, that's it, that's it, come over here, that'll be a little bit dead. I didn't know, he was playing coy, I thought he was the clean up guy here, I didn't know. I didn't know the inventor, I'm on, and thanks the camera here. I'm the inventor, he's getting horse and janitor. When you were bodybuilder, or a lifter back in the day? I used to lift him. And so you saw the frustration bodybuilders had with the straight old straps. People, people would come into the gym, which is at a small gym, frustrating, because they hated straps. And I said, you know, I hate straps too. I said, so I went back and back two days later, I came back to him with early prototype. I've got four or five other patents. And so I came back at them and they were like, yeah, this is the right angle. So then a number of part of the types later, we've got what we've got. Anything was invented out of Maine, I really didn't, but I'm happy to know that you guys have some production. Yes, we actually manufacture them right in the United States, right in Maine as well. So it's very exciting. Of course, I actually liked them, but I don't think that I use them right, because sometimes they don't fit right. Can you show me how to put these on? Because I noticed you guys have a little barbell set up here, and I know the viewers that they like to see me do stupid things like lift and punch bags like I did before. So I could actually, my shoulders actually function in the deadlift, so maybe you could put them on my wrist. Well, there is a right in the box, and how do you know which is the right? I tell because there's actually a little place for your thumb. So, yes. I never knew that Chris, I've been using these for 15 years. Well, imagine that you may be using them wrong and they're working great. So imagine if you're doing right. And it's a patented product because it stands up in front of your hand. So it's a self-supporting breakfastist. Yes. So I put this on this way. Yeah. So we're going to have a big hand. So you have a switch, switch hands into my collar. Alright. So they're ergonomically designed to be funnelshape, so that they rest at the base of your hand. Very comfortable, by the way. So it's not going to restrict any of your blood circulation. It doesn't leave those stupid talisons on your hand because it's got padding in there. Exactly. And actually there's a built-in arch support. So it prevents carpal tunnel. I don't even know I had an arch in my hand. It's to prevent. Yes. Just like a feather. It has been not. Exactly. So it stands up in front of your hand. So you time you go to a pulling exercise. You're going to take it and simply wrap it around the bar. And the bar goes down. That way, no. To get the other one on my hand. And then I'm going to try to do some deadlifts with that here and see how it feels. I think I need a new pair. I might have worn my old ones out. And this is a new camouflage that just came out this week. Oh, I like this. I hope support the military. I know that no one's going to be jealous because she's military. Look at that military. Kamo. There are also available in pink for women. You want paint Chris? No, I don't want paint, but what I do want microphone. I want them to come out for the next pro's versus pros. And maybe they can become a sponsor for the deadlifts competition. You'll be amazed. You'll be amazed at what people live. I'm a little creaky. I'm a little creaky because I have a no. I'll handle the narration. Here's Dave trying to do this. These actually look like small plates. But we have 800 on the bar. 800 rounds everybody. Okay. I should not be taking my speakers off. It's better. They like the thing. You want to just sum up. You want to do a sum of styles? Sum of style or regular style. Yeah, because I like to bring my glue to the whole fellow split my shorts. Because I've done that before. Don't get a buy set. We don't want two buy set here. So one week. That's right. Jay Cutl is enough for one. Here we go. And he's up. One. Two. Two. Your middle two fingers. So your grip is locked on. Look at that. Look at that. He's not even. You're not even. So you think that's very comfortable. Very comfortable. Yeah. You know what you should hold the cuteness. Who can hold the bar the longest like this? Yeah. I would go for Eli Blue Hood. He's in the audience over there. Our grip is our weakest link. So in order to max out our larger muscles. Right. We need the assistance with our grip because that is. We're going to get our first. We owe that. Even Ronnie told and uses grips. And I think I've seen him use a couple of these first grip. I'm so. I love these first grip as well. I think it's a great invention to get that. He should be putting the body building whole faith for this. Exactly. It helps you train better. Look at people by these things. Are you combined with versey grips dot com. You can also find us on Facebook. You come a fan. So it's versey grips. Train better. Versey grips dot com. The best gripers in the business. I don't endorse just anything. And Chris doesn't just endorse anything. These are great. I hope you guys come on board. Roseverse, pros. If we get everyone wearing these, I bet you they do an extra five reps. Absolutely. Thank you so much. All right. We got more to do. Day polumba with Chris Isido. Our axmuscle dot com. Thanks for watching.

RXMuscle.com! Now you have a place to turn when you want the truth. On bodybuilding diet exercise, up to the minute news and more, is at theRXMuscle.com forum, featuring celebrity Juneais, with IFBB Professional Athletes top amateurs, and the brightest minds in the industry, was into our weekly radio shows, including heavy muscle radio, muscle growths, and cast-throwers, and more. Contest coverage videos, even our own social networking site, RXMuscle plays. Visit RXMuscle.com! Every muscle real. Okay, my next guest is the 1992 Arnold Classic Champ, five times master Olympia champ. He's got 23 pro wins in a very long career. Six of those wins came in 1991. He's one of the most upstanding guys in our industry. Like to welcome back to the show, Vince Taylor. Hey, Dave, thanks again. Pleasure to be here. Pleasure to see you this last week, I guess, in Down and Florida there. You made an appearance at the Master's Pro World Championships down there? Yeah, it was in my backyard, so I had to get out of the Mingle again, see what the bodybuilding world looks like. Now, I got to be honest with you. I really expected to see up on stage. How can they couldn't get Vince to get back up there? You know, it's been a long road for recovery, I would say. You know, as you know, the effort my back in 2007, preparing for the miscellaneous Olympia, and it was a lower dis-problem. And it just lingered on until 2008, he shut me totally down until almost four, I would say three months ago. I hadn't been in the gym, so I was contemplating, trying to get ready for that show when I heard about it early in the year. And I kind of laid it out to myself if I could start training and really make some improvements, then I would give it a shot just to get, you know, just to try it out there and not, I would guess, pull something like that and knees up a two-word possible because of a Zeechus, was it showing the quality I would need to be back on stage at what Amy Reevey? No, it's interesting to you say that because, you know, looking at this well, return to the legend show, I was less than impressed. And in this essence, I was almost a little depressed at some of the guys I saw because they just didn't have the looked at, you know, we were used to seeing when they were back in their heyday. And I guess, you know, we want to see them back on stage, but we really want to see them back on stage with good physics. Is that what in the reason you decide, you know what, I'm not going to show up at this show because I can't be at my best? Yeah, seriously, you know, I'm a bodybuilder at the heart, you know, and the main reason why I was doing the game in the first place was to make some significant changes to my busy. That people will stand up and recognize, taking notice to go, wow, I want to do that, know, whatever it would happen to be. And as you knew that, look, to me, you take the personally, that takes my way, the way it takes me away from the idea of gold, is trying to have something different, and people will recognize and also, you know, it'll give you credit for. And it just wasn't happening with me. And I saw the possibility of not be never to get back to status, but well, then seeing some of the guys on stage, I was like, yeah, tell her, could it result? Then you would split it out there. You know, I know you like to make money just like the rest of us. And you know, they were giving away at least, the minimum you could have made was 5,000, and I'm sure, you know, you would have had a of an appearance fee of some sorts. And then they gave away 5,000 dollars for the best poser awards. I'm sure, in the back of your head, that had to be really bothering you because, to me, I wasn't that impressed with the routines that night. Yeah, after we agreed, you know, the little I did see, and that was from the mountains around the lobby, because I actually I stood out there, I don't tie our time for the pre-judging and the night show. I didn't particularly pay any attention to anything. It was going on. Some of the people came by and said, this guy's doing your routine out there on the stage, but tricky jacks. Yeah. So I kind of laughed, but you're right. I mean, I thought that one thing in this part, you know, my whole interest in bodybuilding has kind of diminished the worst from the entertainment factor. And if you're not going to get them, then people just go happy, halfway, do what they want to do. And posing is a dropway way off the map. You think this is a good show, because a good idea for a show, because back in the 92, obviously, you won the Arnold, you won a nice paycheck there. But really, most of these pro shows, they're not giving away a lot of money. This show gave away not only a lot of money, but they give away a lot of money for like best poseer, best comeback award. I mean, did you like what you saw? Is this something that maybe you would like to see continue every year? I definitely would. I think it has its place. It's a fantastic idea. But I think in principle, it's great, but in practice, it's a lot to be desired. The named legends, that's me, was a significant draw to say, wow, the legends represents what caliber of bodybuilder that sets them right here, you're here, then the status of the comeback. What does that mean to come back? Have you been out the game for actually money years? Or have you just been out for a few months now? You just come in back. So there was a lot of things that entitled this show to happen. I love the fact that they boarded out of me. A lot of people are happy. But I just think they really need to do it. Next time I think Jocca will, is to settle down and put some ABCs on each one of the levels that they're going to be suggesting to the audience that we're going to be awarding. So to make it fair to the guys, even competing, and participating in the event. To some people, look to me, on my Facebook page, I have people like, well, you're trying to diminish texture jacks as wind because he'd be to mold the guys. It's not what I was saying. You know, age groups 40, 50, 60, keeping competitive. That's me was a bit of better way to go about the net and one pot of all players. And when I heard that day, when I was first suggested, I do the event. My first question is, Jocca was, are you having a division of classes? She said no. And we're right away, I knew I wasn't going to be part of it. Interesting. That's an interesting point you bring up because there was a lot. There was 240,000,000 prize money to give in money. When you're saying, if you want to have a real legends return, you got to put it on an even playing field because you're in your 50s, you can't compete with some of these guys that just turn 40. I mean, good as you are back, you know, that you still have injuries to deal with and your bodies getting older. I mean, if you would have had the deal with the 50, the over and then this guys that were 16 over, they could have split up the prize money is what you're saying. You would have got a bigger draw probably. A much bigger draw. And the guys would have felt more competitive. And I think the whistling winds of your day have gone by is when, and personally, myself in 19 and 2007, you know, stand on stage in a rather city at the math side. Or at my back, but I went to the event anyway. And when you're standing on stage on 50, okay, 51, and now in the guys that 40 will participate in the show, even though my back was hurt, I knew I had enough artillery to fight some guys off, but it couldn't bring it to the show. So I'd 50 out of been very competitive. For being 50 and injured and not bringing my foot, you're standing out there on the winds. My car the hallway winds blowing through the auditorium, and there's seven guys in the middle going through comparisons. And the wake of call for me was, wow, you know, your day has come now. You know, you got one fan out there in the yard, he's going, hey, keep your go on, Vince. So you know, it's like, okay, the right moment is time to get off at that stage. And that's what happens, you know, it's so hard. A lot of the fans that we've been through a day, and they know you, they know me. I was doing a lot of damage at 40, 45. You weren't? I mean, come on at 50, I'm top 11 in Olympia. I'm beating some of the very guys on the math station, at top seven, okay. But now, for me, he's ready, after even after an injury, had 55 and toppled someone on 42s and 43s and the free men's and dexterists. I don't have enough artillery equipment. And do you, um, do you find depressing some tests? I always wonder how people each bodybuild the deals with, as they get older in the injuries. The ability, you know, the limitations that sometimes are imposed on you, do you get depressed when you look back or do you say these stuff? You know what, I had one of the most successful bodybuilding careers of anyone. And I got, and I got nothing to prove anymore. Well, I, I both, you know, I get depressed for the, the mere fact that I wanted to do our with back-offs. You know, I, when I met out with back in the days, he was 50 plus and he was dangerous on stage, until I told myself, then, pastor, deaf to guy, you got a follow-up longevity. And as I was going through the sport, and I was doing quite well. And then I failed to get the recognition that I always thought I deserved. So I was like, you stay out there alone and nothing can write your own story. So by doing the masters, you know, that recognition still didn't come. So when I injured myself, what the five years off, and I, I wasn't finished day, that's what brought me back. It was like, you know what, you can do this. Try it again. And at 50, you know, I made a follow-up after the Olympia and top 11. So 207 is like, hey, I'm for real. I'm a two-distro. Right. I heard my back and I was like, well, now when I stand back and look at it and go, man, I wish I could do that. Hey, now that's four and a half years later, my back is like, yes, 65, 70%. You know, I'm going back out there, but on the different rules, you know, 2012, the Benstale is going up in Stale, it'll just be good to me posing tour. You know, starting in Europe, I got a chance to go back to Berlin's Germany. May the fifth, 28 years later, after one my very first show, around that stage, you've been that posing fall. So that's my tour of team. Just be good to me. I'm launching it in Berlin. Excited about that. I'm now in the gym training for that. And I'm just thinking I got a chance to recreate the Benstale acquire storm wind. So that takes off. That's going to be good. Is there a competition on the scenario in the long run? I don't think so. And they're done that. Really? Okay. Well, I thought you were going to be the George Formans. You're going to come back and win one more. And then we would see a grill or something like that. And we did it. It would be fantastic. But that's for the fact I'm going to play it by ear. But when I'm going to cry, I think when the clouds blow over and the sky is clear, up, you know, when you're standing there, if the physique does not look like an output beckled at 60, almost 11, you know, then there's no way that it doesn't look like mine, even to its improvements could match some of the talent, quality, young lions today. You know, I could shock a few rope and still. But you know, there would just be rope and made it back. You know, maybe 10, for 11. But what about if they made the divisions? Like you said, like they did a 50 and over. They gave 10 grand out plus a 5000 best pose or a word. Would that be something that would entice you back? If my, if I knew the back would stand out, it would be on right, Flint or part 3 of Instaille of Story. Let me dig it. You do all good story. Even though, you know, people, some of the people who listen to the show know everything about you, you know, and then this is the people who don't know that much about you. Obviously, when I was first starting out, that's when you were winning the alarm classic. So to, I mean, I know everything about you. What was, what was the most memorable win for you? Was it the masses Olympia wins, the Arnold win? Which one stands out in your mind as the best? Um, that is a real good question. So right in the book right now, in any way called, it's tail of a quiet storm, my life story, and body building it out flat, body building. That was things will be in that book as well. But if I tried to recan on any one given show, because there was so many victories, one was just a sweetest the other. But um, I kind of want to just, I don't really, I got to say um, wow, the IAPB Mr. Berlin show, you know, the first thing I want. You did that. That was a turning point. Remember that then. Oh my gosh, he was such an exciting day to get to the event with two car wrecks and five minutes time sitting in the front row of the audience, just watching the show go on. Hey, my class will stay. He looks sitting in the front row of watching. Well, the most interested in the class. I had, I got up on one backstage and I asked the guys and we got with Harwin Pinstanoff, and he said, where are you? Right here. He said, look, that means D&E's able to listen. You can go home now. Your class is already on stage. I'm like, what? He said, or you can compete with the heavyweight, which my friend and good friend of mine to this very day. He was in the heavyweight division and he was helping me learn bodybuilding. Most is the end. Don't worry, Johnson, he's up there in Orlando area. And we're taking it. You know, I got in his class, you know, and I won. I have his new one. I want to have his. Wow. So that was the start of. You know, you're in the right, in the right, it's one at that point. Right. I thought so. In 1991, he had six pro wins, which might be a record. I don't know if they were ones. Six shows in one year. What were you thinking doing all those shows? Was that just the way people did it back then? I mean, because nowadays, to get guys to do two shows, you think that you were pulling, you were pulling, nothing else out of their hands. And what if it's so true? Because I always knew my placing. And back in 1991, when I saw how that, you know, the lineup was going on, who was dominant in the game, the game, your course. And there as well, it was one of those games to where on the tour. And if somebody didn't show up, or if you continue to compete, there's money to be made. So when we got the Olympia, when I got top three, again, it was like, wow. So going on the tour, I'm the guy to beat. Right. And then I started looking at 10 grand each show. So I'm thinking, hey, how much they ain't shaping? We go to country, the country, the country. I don't need the bankwits. I don't need none of the food. Well, I need to do it. Get them out. I don't tell a room. Put them a little early on. Go take a run, hit the slana, and be ready for the next show. And I was consistent doing that, and just knocked them down. Like, golf. But you know what, like, every two days weren't they? The shows are every two or three days. Every two or three days. We will be in one country to the next. We'll compete in Spain, next thing you know, you're in Russia, then you won the Germany. I mean, we're all all the place. But it was beautiful.

you won the Pittsburgh pro. You did the Olympia you took third. Oh, actually, did the Iron Man before the Arnold you're fifth there. You did the third of the Arnold at the new one, the Pittsburgh. You with third at the Olympia and then you went on and you did one, two, three, four, five, six, six European Grand Prix tours. You came in the second in England. What happened there? Let me tell you what happened there was really good story. A lot of people put the nose up in there and went to here, but I'm going to tell you because I have to take one over the other one. How did you know that one? I came into Dorian's front yard and Albert Beckles to this day. We just laughed because I was knocking these shoulders off and I was really happy. So at the end, I blamed him to Wayne Demolius as to me. When you go on an England now, you know, we're going to Dorian's, when he put it, we want to Dorian Country. So I looked at Albert, and Albert looked at me and said, I said, Dorian, we're going to Dorian's Country said no, Vince, you're going to Dorian's living room. Because just for a point of interest, Dorian wasn't Mr. Olympia yet. He had just lived in the New York. But 92, he won the first one and, and, uh, St. Kiddany. Well, I was in the best of my eye. He definitely won that one. But in 93, he was definitely the winner. He was sitting back where you put the company. No, he was second at the Olympia that year. That was the last Haney victory. Okay, but good then. That was another wrap. Should have won that thought I did win that. A lot of people thought I won that. I got another stand-in-golfation behind the posing. When I was able to look at the scores at the end, of course, my whole conception of bodybuilding was three rounds, muscularity, there's a shape round, of course, as a posing. Well, Dorian got the muscle, like, I got a more shape, and I know Dan really can't beat me poses from up to the one, but it didn't ever come. I like that. I never want to pose you round and bodybuilding. Yes, that, you know, I always asked that to, because I always wondered how somebody's really good poses lose the posing round. I meant I found that they don't really pose score the routine. They just can take another validation of scoring. That was, I think that's why they got rid of it, because they never really had a good method of scoring, and people just couldn't understand that the best poses were placing number one, number two, and I went through it, I kind of think. That was disappointing, because that was my game plan. You got to sit down with every show that I went on, I used that thing formula. Whenever guy had mashed up with, and it didn't seem to matter unless it was the guy that was above you. If it was anybody below you, those same determination I had, one, two, three, round, that's the way it came out. It's just never, you never want to beat the guy who was posing, who was the head of you. I mean, do you got perfect scores and posing? Come on. Right, I mean, it's kind of wacky. Actually, it was really wacky. It was in 92. You won the Iron Man, the Arnold, the Pittsburgh pro, and then you was six at the Olympic. That one I never understood either. What happened that year? My Olympia is, we're all, I gotta tell you, my Olympia became personal. Every time I went to Olympia, something was not going to be right, and I don't know what it was, you know, I always looked away with two different looks at times in the Olympic came around, but you know, something always came up to this very day. I don't know, you know, did I deserve it properly? What happened to your head of the iPad, John? What the heck, thank you for asking me. A lot of people have asked me that, and I forgot the story. I don't even know the story. Let me, let me beat a person. I think goodness that you were, you bring that up to you, because a lot of people don't understand it, and sometimes when you're flipping online and you see somebody's fit the comments and different blogs about this person, this person, oh yeah, have been sending the iPad, you know, this figure, and this is that what actually happened was, my wife and I, when we got on the plane headed to help think he, as you know, we just had the hurricane down here, hurricane Andrews down in Florida, just put a new home, so training and concentration was all screwed up. But when we got on that plane and we headed over to help think he, as soon as we made it to the airport, we landed and I stood up and opened over head, and the pick-out take my luggage down, and I always cared a plaque, a long-strap, a sports bag, like most did, and the strap that goes over your shoulder, that little patch area. It was, when the top of the bag, when I flipped up the cabin, I was opening it up, that flap tumbled out. It just swung down and it swung back and smacked me straight in the eye. And for a minute, there it was like, wow, such a strap right down in my seat at home, my eye, and it was like, whoa, so my wife, of course, he has so much longer said it's strap, you know, hit me in the eye. And by the time we got off the plane, my eye was just burning like crazy, you know, I couldn't blink it, we got a luggage, we were on our way back to the hotel, and I was telling my wife, is there something in my eye? She kept looking, she says, no, absolutely not. I said, it's got to be something in my eye, because when my eye lets come together, it burns like crazy. So it just got worse and worse, hour to hour. By midnight that evening, I was sitting up in a cheer, a little decline. I couldn't blink my eye, I had set there with both the two fingers, my thumb and my next finger, hold in the eyelets open for they would not close on that one area, because it was just too squishy and pain. We wound it up going through the emergency roll late that night, about two, three o'clock in the morning, the doctor gave me some kind of drops, I could put in my eyes, it's got like gasoline, you said, listen, I think you have a slight tear when you're cornering. Oh boy, okay, and what I think you need to do is be very careful, take these drops and we'll see what happens in the morning when you come back. So we rotted my way back to the hotel, and I mind you, we're in Helsinki, Finland. My wife is going around the city trying to find some birth aid. Not a single member of the IAPB came to the room to check on me except with Jim Manjut after, maybe that next morning, the whole entire day after, which I'm sitting in a house. I had a physician on staff for something like that. I was saying that's the same area when my mum or Beno's easing went down to. Oh, really? The following show. So speaking of having some sort of overzeal, going on in this game didn't happen. And we said, and I said my life and I said, you set with me in that room, and I'm tying it for two days. I didn't even sleep. And then when I finally had another physician come to my room, which was mid part through the second day, he gave me some ice drops. And he told me I can use him twice a day. Don't need twice a day. It's going to numb the eye, which was fantastic. He put him in my eye, David. It was beautiful. Man, I could close my eyes. Oh my gosh, sort of first thing I did, you're here for the Mr. Olympia. You need to go do something because these guys get ready, carbon, not doing whatever they need to do the last three days. And you just spent one and a half days fitting in the chair, holding the eyeball. So you weren't eating nothing? I wouldn't do anything. The thing I had me nailed to it here. I made myself, I got those drops in and worked instantly. I was so happy. I eat them as it elapsed about 30 minutes. I didn't really pay attention to that. So I just told my wife, come on, let's go put on my routine mind, put my baggies on, we got on on the little train of shot straight to the gym. Did the bicycle about 20 minutes? And somewhere about 20, 25 minutes that I started to slightly irritate it. Oh well. And man, let me tell you, we walked out of that gym and that thing hit me because of those drops of water 30 minutes in about 10 seconds. And it was like it happened all over again. I literally walking down the street, buckle my knees, my wife, grandma, and the doctor had placed a patched over my eye. A big old white girl with some tape. Oh man, yeah, we just know what's happening. So I go back to the hotel and I'm talking to Wayne and I'm trying to win for me for Wayne. And I'm like, I can't go on stage, just patch on my eye. So can I wear sunglasses? Wayne looks at me and says no, because they're props. It's right. Oh my god. So what did I do? We went to the pharmacy. We found an eye patch, but the patch is self-induced. The rubber elastic around the patch with her elbow to patch so closely to my eye that my eyebrows were present to the eyeball. And that would just create this sensation of painting again. So I had a pack and gloves around my eye patch. And stuck it on my eye just to keep the distance, so I can literally see. I don't want eye. And that's what I was doing. I had one eye vision for those two to the last two days, even on stage trying to compete under those conditions. That's the direction to stress in the cortisol levels that we brought me through the roof because of all this. It was ridiculous. You saw my physique. It wasn't what I wanted to bring to health thinking the first place because it was stress. And it certainly wasn't anything I could correct when I was there and having that injury to my eye. What's the later after we finished the contest, the doctor told me, I think you need to go back to where you came from, which is a US because your eye could be infected or get more infected. And you could lose an eye. So we jumped on the train and went back to Berlin. Got some attention in Berlin. That was in that story, but I hated to this moment when I see people write some garbage about weapons. We're faking and looking at him. I'm thinking, oh, but you never suppose to take serious what you're eating. I don't know what a fierce competitor you are. First of all, you were never a guy who showed up at a shape. You were never a guy who felt like fake and or pull like what Flex Wheel it did with the ninja but it's done. You and that wasn't you. They don't know that you were serious when you competed. You never exactly. But if you know how much you mentioned, that was exactly one of the captures I won get big and I was from top clips through which I can't stand up. Yeah, it's amazing. It was garbage. It means the starter off is being an inlet to a body but like wow, they got to hijack by some. I will leave it at that but it's something that I don't even consider. I didn't go negative. But they said the same thing. Vince Taylor's eye patch, Flex Wheel is ninjas. What else is a bodybuilder? I'm going like a fine this guy. I didn't know what happened. So you know I'm glad that you told us the story because I knew I've seen you compete. You're very, very serious when you're at shows and you take it seriously. It's never flipping to you or anything like that. That's why you know, it is and we could call like it is because when you see some of these masters guys on stage remind me of watching a Van Der Halley feels who's still trying to fight at what I was 50 years old. You're like man this guy was a warrior. He beat him as something the best back to the whole time Mike Tyson and Riddick Bow and Lennox loose and then you see you know him losing to like these journeymen. It's almost like it's kind of pathetic in a sense. And that's the wind blowing food or a toy about to it you're about when you're standing on stage or somebody's going get a strong wind. You're about to know who's going to die and say it out there. But you know what I mean? I would like to see maybe she should hold a return of the legends but don't don't judge it on how you look maybe judge it on your posing routine. See who can come over the most creative posing routine of some of the best poses of the whole time you know. I think that will be a good initiative. And at the same time bring back your look. Okay, how close can you resumble to look that you had making some sort of goal to reach. Just don't compare it to somebody 15 years your younger and put your on stage and say, okay guys go at it. Right. Well you know, they had this best comeback award which I thought was a good idea when I first heard about it they would he should give at $20,000 for the best comeback award. I mean that's way more than most persons first place versus and shows. And I was led to the belief that there was going to be voted on by the legends like the guys like yourself and Dorian and Ronnie and all the all the top guys were supposed to vote on this. From what I understand that's not the way it worked out. And I was a little myth. I don't know if you were by the fact that they gave it to a guy Bill Wilmore who was a real nice guy but he he was a guy who placed third last year in a pro show in Qual5D Olympia. I didn't really know what the comeback was all about. Did you? Well let me answer that because I had gotten an interesting message on Facebook from a friend of mine who happened to be well we're not sure like from Germany. Okay, and Roland was in the show and he was very upset that he didn't win the best comeback award and he fired me at email and he said to me, Vince I don't know if you guys got you by both ears or what but for these guys to vote this guy for the best comeback when I gave my all and he went to the oldest there and he was going and I'm thinking okay why you tell him this and he says to me how could you justify voting for him? I'm thinking what are you talking about? I didn't go for anybody so he came back to me so yes you did I have a letter here from Sean Raidus said that all the legends including Vince Taylor voted for Bill Wilmore. Well let me let me free this for you right away okay before you say something that you don't understand number one I had nothing to do with the event I said in the lobby I didn't ever I watched five minutes of the pre-judging and left did not see any of the evening show I would stay about 30 minutes and left for somebody to say I judged a show totally lying so now he was apologize to me I think he fired a letter back to Sean he's all up that could be new he should have won I'm not a D I don't know but I certainly didn't appreciate my name being in the negative that was shading I both told you I don't have to do it we asked a couple other the legends there and and no one that I know have actually voted for anyone so I don't know where they came up with Bill Wilmore like I said once again those are nice guy and everything but I actually probably would have voted for Roll and Joe luck because the guy missed 11 years in the gym he didn't train for a lot of years and then he in one year he came back I guess she had the jarca had contacted him one year prior to the train for one year and I thought you know he didn't look like he didn't back when he competed but he certainly probably the you know the best condition guy on stage and he gave an effort you know and that's how the most of your men's do you know they go a whole blast and he was really upset but I'll think that's come back as about it's about someone who is out of the game and Kate made a comeback I mean you could have technically won that too if you had come back and look right you know my thing is this what happened I believe by name jaca had a fantastic idea but I believe by association to the health that she was getting I would like to say that she probably got led down that roll to have this particular event and this is how we're going to do it I don't believe she put those criteria forward and that person who put those criteria forward will actually probably move this show right along it took ready for a lot of the shows pro pro progress I believe you can point a thing of that way but she rules me next year like I told you he called the legends promoted by jaca and then's Taylor okay I'll be there to polls and we can make sure we got the rules and regulations right you can say Sean Ray had some some playing this uh real good time to post a guy

He has a microphone, has a TV, not a TV, but the video can be behind. He's got a lot of credentials pushing him. So I believe a lot of influence I'm shown on the how to be very influential for a Jocca to take on. Nothing too downrated about that. So all the efforts that were made may have been slightly more extended and a Jocca was probably running to do. And then I have a total contrary of what she was going to do. I could be wrong, I don't even know. But you know, this little bit of Sean's been a prince on there somewhere. He helped him up. You know, I'm on this no opportunity like that. Definitely not. So when there was money involved on his part, you know, I, because when I originally heard about the best comeback award, the best pose award, I said to my, the first person's name. I'm not saying this because I have you on the show. The first person's name who came to my head was Vince Tell. I'm like Vince could actually leave this place with 30 grand in this pocket and come in last place because the title you went anyway because I knew you. The best comeback was definitely had your name written on it. The best pose had your name written on it. And you're going to get five grand anyway for just appearing. So I was surprised. And I knew that there had to be a reason. That's why I wanted to get in the show. Find out what happened because you could have gone home with a nice little, a nice checking your hand. It would have been appreciated. I mean, Tom, I'm a pretty tough. So, um, then again, you know, you know, we're not really looking for that. Quality anymore. The size of my boy, I love it. You know, and I'm just going to be doing this. And never own talk on a radio show one day, right? And they were covering the fact that, uh, never own beats me out with all most professional wins in body building. And I'm wrong. What? I said none of my Kevin was always heard. Okay. He was second and then he went to third. The Ronnie Coleman, you know, lead frog me. You haven't never heard of him. He was a little bit like a little bit like a little bit like a little bit like a little bit. You haven't never tied me and went never ahead of me. So when I brought that to Sean's attention and he passed it on the cap and Kev came back to me and said, well, yeah, Vince, when I come, when I'm counting the master wins, we just count the old and clap wins. What? Yeah, I'm going to like you want to try anything to get a place in history. I said, the record book says, the Guinness Book of War record book says, Vince, teller the winning touch of body building. It's both wins. Okay. Didn't say, Master's versus this is the professional wins. So I tried to, I tried to play to come up and listen. When the master's come and when texture wins, tell texture that win don't count on his record. Okay. Well, but just try to tell me. You're right because you know what, the the master's win is impressive is the as the regular win because of the fact that you're still competing at that age. You know, I think I've been a Sean. You know, we just have to record straight on that when my brother, my soul machine from Maryland like myself homeboy, you're still number three. That's right. And he's at an age where you were still competing and winning shows. So I mean, if you were to get back up there and then they, you know, start. That's what I tell him. You know, if you win, yeah, you know, Flex, we're going to put it to me very lovely one day. You said, Vince, man, I just turned 40 when he did. He said, I can't believe that you were kicking our butts at 40. And I can barely get to the gym now. Okay. So I was under statement that I said, that needed highlight because somebody didn't put on realized that, but, you know, I don't get credit for it. Why don't you come back and get old when you when you won the Arnold class. I can't even come back and get old when you won the Arnold class again, 92. Um, 40. Oh my gosh. No, it's 30. Hi, 30. You almost 40 years old. Yeah, I really did. 30, not almost 40. Crazy. Crazy. Crazy. I'm crazy. I did it 27 years old and bodybuild. I started a little later. Yes, you did. I had two shows. I had the Berlin stuff. And then I had the nationals. And then I went pro. Okay. You actually competing so far back, Mr. Miracle. I knew I knew I think you were in the class. I think 86, but my very first introductory to bodybuilding. I wanted to be Mr. America. And I did the AAU, Mr. America. And I won. You know, then from that point on, it was, what are the national? Right. And then I went to compete in the national. You won the 88, passels. Yeah. So fourth in the, and I had to go my Bicep in 86. So it was like, 85. I'm sorry. And I was like, wow guys, I've been out for a whole year. I've been here at the national. Getting four place. Well, next year when I can train the whole year, you're loving me. And I came back and won the whole world championship. Yeah. That was pretty amazing when you did that. Well, you're always a class. Now, what's, let's go through what's going on. Because I know you got a lot of stuff going. You got, you're doing the tour starting one in Europe. We're going to be kicking that bad boy. Hopefully I'm going to put some bookies before the feeble, which is going to be April 19 this year. So, I think I have given myself enough time to get back on the bandwagon. So we're booking everything from April until May. And right now, we just have Berlin. I just put it out there and Berlin jumped on it right away. So we're trying to fill the dates. So before the feeble, I wish really after. I think that we should also put it out there because there might be a lot of United States, you know, promoters that are looking still for guest poses. And I'm sure of you and me in shape. You wouldn't mind guest posing the United States. Would you? A little bit of an exact thing. I'll play it on the beginning. This is my second one. I'm going to go to the stage right now at 55 years old at the league that people go like, wow, he's in shape. He looks good. He's old school and he's back. You know, so that's my gift back to my game. I'm going to make one recommend. The first of all, I'm going to say that anyone who hasn't seen Vince Taylor in person posed, you got to do it. You got to go check him out. Especially if you're going to do something the United States. Secondly, my recommendation to you is, is to come up with something new as far as the posing routine and updated. And something's going to knock these guy socks off to show them that you don't have to go back to the stuff you used to do. I want to see a new routine because I know you're very creative and you got to skill set to do stuff that's going to wow people. Because when you did that terminator routine, everyone copied it after that. You got to do that later with that one. And 12 years strong. I mean, and it's still going to today. And to me, you know, honestly, that was like a one-hit wonder. You know, it was like, how do you top that? You know, you got to hit record. How do you top that? I have some things up. I'm asleep. Don't give me wrong. Like, oh, we owe promotions. But it might cost a little money to put it on that each event. So you haven't seen nothing yet. All right. And what else is going on? Do you have any products you're selling? And you supplement companies you're up to selling? Anything other than that? Right now, I have a great friend of mine. I'll make an a big push to break. Creative, instale a line. We're going to break it out and Brazil. Okay. Next year. So that's the best. Really heavy on the list right now. You know, I'm on entrepreneur. And I still got my exercise band. So I got some companies interested on and off on and off. So I'm still trying to do that. And that's some of the things that I have already been on the table with me. I'm doing my book, as I said, the quiet storm. I'm writing it. What's trying to do? Right. You called the quiet storm. Why do you call yourself that? It was two things. I associated myself with one of the best boxes in the world that I adjusted my and I met a couple of times in Washington, fight as well, which is Roy Jones. Roy Jones, Jr. History is song. He put out at the same time. I did the masters. He was just a main for the story. I thought mine. He got screwed up in Seoul career. Would it go in metal in Olympia? It's not going to screw up on a lot of gold. Mellows myself. He was knocking blank blank blank in the dirt. But the same time, I'm knocking down a lot of contests and titles as well. But it couldn't get to respect for it. So when he said in that song, he put, y'all must have forgotten. I put him up. I'm gonna say he's looking at the last week. We'll put it back on tomorrow. Y'all must have forgotten. There he says, I'm like that quiet storm. I just keep on waiting. And I keep on coming. And I'm like, you know what? That's me. Because every time I look around and a contest, it comes up, I don't make a lot of noise. But when it's time to compete, that quiet storm is rolling in. And I'm going to keep on coming. I'm going to keep on raining. And you still dangerous. They're still dangerous. They're still dangerous. Quiet storm. Vince always applies to the talk to you. Thank you. Thanks for giving us some insight. And catch Vince tell this spring. He's going to be up on stage. Guess, Poison? Hopefully in an area close to you. Then you go. I'll be back. All right. Thanks, Vince. See ya. Love you. Thank you, buddy. If you muscle radio is a presentation of rxmuscle.com, the truth in bodybuilding. To the next week at the same time, for another round with Dave Pullabbo, only on heavy muscle. Really.

Wake up everyone, it's Monday morning here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Day Palombo and today is Monday July 2nd, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. One of the hardest things to do in sports and business is trying to climb your way back up to the top after you've already been there. And come next weekend, we'll all get a chance to see if Autumn Swanson is ready to climb back up to the top when she makes her season debut at the Chicago Pro. Remember it was only two years ago that we saw her come in to this very same arena and come out with a win after putting together what might have been the best look of her career. Even if it's better while since we've seen her hit that peak at the end of the day, Autumn Swanson is one of the only few women ever to call herself a fitness international champion. And when you've got that sort of round sitting in your chamber, you're never really more than one show away from putting it out again and reclaiming what's rightfully yours. You can look like a boss, you can talk like a boss, but if you end it a day, if you are now there putting in the work, then you really can't call yourself a boss. Just in case you aren't sure, let me make this abundantly clear for you. Jessica Reyes Padilla is most certainly a boss. Over the weekend, the figure star released a clip from one of her latest shoulder training sessions, where she gives her fans a sneak peek at what kind of boss moves she's been pulling behind the scenes in this latest Olympia prep. All intense and purposes, JRP is in the midst of having one of the best seasons of her entire career. And if she stays in this groove, she has a legitimate shot to be one of the real surprises of the Olympia weekend when it's all set and done. Saturday night, somebody tried to convince me to watch the new 4 movie on Netflix, but because I have no time to even time I choose, I figured it was probably a better idea to just whip out my phone and stalk Patrick Moore's Instagram feed instead. The former USA Super Heavyweight champ has been absolutely killing it in the gym over the last month or so, which tells me he's doing his due diligence to get his improvement season off to a good start, even though we didn't quite get the placing he wanted in his debut with the New York pro back in May. You can see that this guy has a ton of raw talent to work with already. And as long as he's willing to keep working on his craft, it'll pay dividends a few years from now when we see him seriously starting to compete for some major titles. Kevin Sports betting is legal, it's important to remember one thing for all you want to be degenerate gamblers out there. You never win money betting on the favorites. And if I was in the market for a value bet at this Olympia weekend, I might think about putting down a friendly wager on women's physique superstar Danny Castillo. A few weeks after her huge win at the Toronto pro, which she was completely dominant from wired to wire, one of the most underappreciated stars in the division, does it look like she's missed a date? When she's firing on all cylinders, Danny Castillo can be an absolute force of nature. So if she can get herself in the right group, she's more than capable of making it to the first call out where all of a sudden she becomes a whole lot more dangerous. Listen, take it from someone who's better bride's made more times than I can remember. When you're up there on that bodybuilding stage, there's no more bitter sweet feeling in the world than the moment you hear your name announced in second place. But when you're literally only a few points away from winning, one of the biggest shows on the calendar, in back to back seasons, I can only begin to imagine how figure icon Wendy 14 oh must be feeling right now. A little more than a week away from trying to shake her second place curse on the Chicago pro stage, 14 oh in our team, seem like they're heading into the weekend, pretty damn confident about what they're bringing to the table this year. To a credit 14 oh's proven on more than one occasion that she's about as tough as they come in the division. So if this finally ends up being her year, I can all but guarantee you that you'll look back on this win as being the sweetest one in her entire career. And that does it the yet another edition of Muscle in the Morning on day polimbo reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.

Welcome back to R-AX Muscles. I rode to the Olympia 2018. I'm Dave Palombo and it's brought to you by RedCon1. Today's guest, Classic Physique, Pro Champion, Inchecago, and now going to his first Olympia at the Young Young Age of 25 years, Wesley Visitor's welcome back to the show. Thank you very much. I'll just have to be here for the second time. Yeah, that's pretty good. I don't get many people back for a second interview so quickly. But you seem to be a topic of a lot of hot debate out there. A lot of people really very high on you. I mean, the last time we talked to you, I just turned pro. Now you're going to the Olympia. You won your first pro show. There's people that hate you for doing that. There's people that love you and think the physique is great for the sport. How are you taking all this in? Well, I've always been quite confident in my ability to win shows, but this has gone even quicker than I thought myself. Because at the beginning of this year, I was nothing and never even competed at the NPC. And now I'm going to the Olympia standing at the best in the world. So to even accomplish that is just absolutely amazing to me. And to be able to stand there is just, it doesn't matter what anyone says. I'm just very happy to be there and to prove myself up there. Well, everyone always says I just interviewed Sergio O'Leave a junior and everyone gave him that his same advice. For the first Olympia, enjoy the journey, enjoy being there. I just have fun with it like you're in Disney land because after that, it's a lot of work. Because then you go in a win after that, you know? Oh, yeah, for sure. Then I know exactly what I need to work on. Yeah. Now, you know, like I said, I think a lot of people get excited about your physique. Because you have that Arnold like appearance. You emulate a lot of his poses on stage. People see the resemblance obviously to your physique. But a lot of people don't like almost like, you know, mad that you're doing so well. So, you know, so quickly, does the negative, because you know what happens is once you start achieving things, you get a lot of negative people to come out in addition to the people who are positive. Does that affect you at all? Does it, do you read all the comments and get upset when people don't, you know, give you praise or they might put you down? No, I don't really get upset because I still am kind of, I'm not sure why, but every time the top five of the Olympia of the classic G.C. is mentioned, I'm usually in the top five by any video that I watch. So to be in that top five just feels, you know, it feels unique to be there already, even though I've never been on that stage, not once, ever even been there. But I noticed that after I won the loyal Roman London pro in March, there was no negativity at all, because I just turned pro. But when I want to pro show actually competing against pros, then I did get more negativity. And I think it's because then there were a lot of people who were already trying several times to actually get a pro win. And then I come all of a sudden and win the show. Well, some people think I did in the survey because I lack some parts for the class in deraping and about in my opinion, the judges put me first for a reason. So I do think that judges do want to see that shape. Right. Well, I thought when I looked at the pictures, I wasn't there, obviously, but I looked at pictures for pre judging you, you were very, your tan wasn't good. But forget the pre judging for a minute and forget the tan. When we saw you come back at night, you had a good polish tan on. When I look at the top five line up, all I see is you. It's like my eyes go right to your physique, as you stick out so much from these other guys. These other guys look like bodybuilders and you just look like something else. You look like Arnold standing up there to me. And I think that that's, that makes a huge impact on the judges when you have a physique that just stands out like that. Yeah, that's true. It's not really something you can go in a gym and train is something that you either have or you don't. So when you have it on stage, you really should do your best to present it. I'm, I'm a very fortunate to even look slightly like Arnold. So using posters like his with a statuette that I have really brings an advantage to the stage. For sure. Do you work on those poses a lot like in study, you know, how Arnold hits him in stuff? Yeah, I do. I really what how he does his poses in pumping iron and even in the 1980 documentary. How he trains the posing and actually performing those poses myself. I notice how difficult they are. That's why I almost no one does them because it's very difficult to hit them just right. Right. Thanks a lot of practice, but if you do hit them right, they look awesome. You might. Who has worked with you on, on helping to perfect how you execute these poses? Well, mostly the Arnold poses I do myself just by studying, just watching the video, putting it on slow motion because YouTube does have that function, putting it on like 0.25 slow motion to, I can really see them moving that Arnold does in the videos. But there's also the owner of the gym that I train at, it's a very good pose for himself. So I make the routines together with him. His name is Peter von Drünen. And he trained a lot. I'm actually doing posing lessons from him. And it's going to be an awesome routine for sure because this time it's going to be three minutes. So it's going to be awesome. Now, when you watch the, look, I've seen pumping iron so many times. I could act out all the scenes myself. Now, you're studying it for actually how to actually execute the poses. Do you actually, like, can you, if you had your friends around, would you like do like the Arnold impersonation who's explaining to the guy how to hit the pose and that, you know, don't hide away when you're a big guy up to open up. Can you do all that? Can you do the impression? Well, yeah, not in the same way as him. But I do understand what he means behind it. Like you really have to open up in certain poses. And a lot of people don't do it. They hide themselves because I don't feel confident enough. They don't feel big enough. But you always have to think yourself as bigger than you are. Right. I love that scene. It's like, this is a little guy's, they hide away. You know, they tell you like, this I tell you, you've got to open up like that. Yeah. So. Have you ever been to Vegas before? No, never. She's not your first time. That's got to be exciting in and of itself. Yeah, it is. That's why we're staying quite long, actually, because we will be there a couple of days after the Olympics. So we can enjoy the venue, sure. So I'm going to enjoy it. Look, it's always exciting when you're a guy from another country, you know, is getting to come to Las Vegas to vibe, competing the biggest bodybuilding event in the world. And you're going to be standing on the stage with some of the best athletes in the world. And you're going to really get a true test of where your physique stacks up. You know, for some people, that's a lot of stress on them. How do you handle that? How do you at your age be able to, you know, kind of cope with what's happening to you in the bodybuilding world? Well, before there was classic physique, I used to have worries like that, because I was always afraid that someone could come in. I loved bigger than me, because there was no restrictions on the weight. But now that our restrictions and I'm quite tall, I do feel quite confident that even though I'm not as seasoned as those guys on stage, even when I'm setting next to them, I do stand my own. And I'm confident in my presentation on stage as well. And I'm just very, I just, the one thing that I really want to just stand next to the top guys just to see how I stack up against them. Because I do have, I never met them never seen them in my life. So I have no idea. So I just want to see that. This will be the first time you're going to be standing against some guys that are as tall as you to or close to at least. I mean, you got you Chris Bumstedt up there, you know, who's going to, you're going to stack up really well next to and a couple other guys that are really tall in that class. So it should be, I'm more excited to see the classic guys on stage to be honest than the open guys. So I know all the open guys. They've seen them all next to each other already. But we really haven't seen this whole new crop of classic physique guys that have crept up over this past year. We haven't seen them all together yet. I think the top then is going to change entirely compared to last year. So it's going to be very amazing because the thing about classic physique, but major exciting that you cannot predict what's going to happen this year. There's so much so many different good athletes this time. And with the openness always a little easier to predict the top six, but the 40 classic physique, I would have no idea who is going to be at the top this time. Absolutely. Now you're wearing one of your t-shirts from one of your vintage clothing line that you have. Tell us a little bit about that. I was on your website and I'm like, what this clothing is pretty cool. I actually kind of like it. It's different than anything else out there. Was it hard to find a manufacturer to make these type of shirts since it's not a standard type shirt? Yeah. I appreciate you seeing it by the way. I started the vintage genetics company a couple of years back because I noticed that when your YouTube followers start to increase, they kind of want to have something from you to represent you to support you. So I started the clothing brand, the vintage genetics. It wasn't in the Netherlands. It wasn't that difficult to find good manufacturers for the clothing because there's a lot of, it's a small country so you can drive for three hours and you see the entire country. You kind of find factory right away if there's a good one and there was a good one. Without one, we made a lot of good contact with them. There are so many different clothings that for example, this one I had just scroll through the clothing and I see this one, I immediately say, hey, that's a good one to buy. That's like not so bad for design so I pick that one and then see how it rolls on the side and it goes well, I buy a lot more. That's basically how I do it every time. It can use the ones and see how they do. The great thing about a vintage clothing line is that back in the 60s, 70s, 80s, whatever, there really wasn't a lot of fancy fonts and fancy t-shirts. Everything was pretty much just standard, and it was just the way it looked. You don't really have to act, you're actually it's easier to make your clothing line now because the font is nothing special, it just has to look authentic. Old school is basic and I don't think basic of old school ever die out. It will always stay relevant so the clothing line proved it because it's going pretty well. A lot of people are supporting me thankfully. I really appreciate that, but I love the classic style as well. Yeah, no, I think it's a great idea. Everyone's going to carve out their own niche and I think I don't think anyone's done what you're doing really, which is smart. Going back, hey, if I'm going to be a classic physique competitor with a classic Arnold look, let me get a clothing line and it kind of mimics that. Everyone kind of goes for the most modern stuff out there. You're taking a retro approach which I think might work to your favorite because no one else is doing it. That's true. It's basic in the designs, but also basic in the pricing because the more modern you want to be, the more expensive the materials have. Have you been working with mine? So the clothing that I produce isn't that expensive to purchase as well. So that's an event fit in the zone. If you want, you know, I always say you want to make money. You've got to have good margins, right? And that doesn't have to play. A lot of people try to produce, I'm a dummy. I try to produce the best quality supplements and then I try to sell it and I realize holy shit, my price, your little more expensive than other people's because it costs a lot to make them. But you know, you got the best of both worlds because you got a unique niche and you got good margins. So you'll be successful. Yeah. What's the one piece of advice you give to guys who might be watching this who are kind of trying to emulate you there. They're maybe training for the first class physique show and they want to like, you know, eventually be pros. You know, what's the best advice that you can give that you've learned over the course of your short career? Well, what I'm always to give advice to people who want to compete, look the show up of the last year. For example, you want to compete this year, look it up, last year, see what the winner looked like and compare yourself to the winner. If you doubt that you can beat the winner, then don't do the show, then build upon yourself. Because if you can't beat the winner of last year, what's to say that someone like that doesn't show up again. Right. So you really have the only, you should only do a show if you believe you can absolutely win. Because otherwise you could still go in and out season and train more, build more muscle, especially in the classic physique. You kind of have to hit your weight limit first, because why compete if you can still, you know, build 20 more pounds on your frame. You should really go for a good off season and build some quality muscle, work an opposing in the meantime and when you compete for the first time, blow everyone away right away. Are you a big believer in not getting on stage unless you're at your best? Basically. Yeah. I do believe so. Okay. That's some unique advice and I think people can take that to heart and obviously it works for you. Very successful in the competitive career. Is there anyone out there that you want to maybe just plug or give credit to for helping you get to where you are now? Because I know bodybuilding is not necessarily a loan sport. There's a lot of support systems that we have in place. Oh yeah. Well without the support system that I have around me, I would not have made it this far for sure. First of all, my parents who support me very much. My mom and dad have been with me since the very first show supporting me every single show. It's been there with every single show. My dad has been with me backstage, tending me, pumping me up, oiling me every single time without him. I wouldn't be able to do it. Are they going to be a limpia? Is going with me to the Olympia actually. The entire family will go. Wow. Friends will grow so it's going to be very busy. We actually have an entire row reserved for just us. Oh really? Wow. Yeah, that's going to be amazing. Sometimes that's stressful because it's like you feel like you have to entertain these people. But luckily Vegas has got a lot to do there. Luckily that's the location for many people as that. But next to my parents, also my girlfriend who is every time I've done a show since she's my girlfriend, she's been with me as well to the shows. I'm preparing my meals every time she could helping me tan as well, being backstage with me, just an awesome support system. And of course my coach, Feri Robines. And I'm going to be funny because he and Chris Asito, they do know each other from back in America. They used to go to the same class university I believe. Oh, really? That's funny. Yeah, that's going to be a funny meeting. Springfield. Springfield. Yeah, I think you went to. Springfield College. Yeah. They did the same study I believe. So that's going to be pretty interesting. Oh, yeah. I got to bring up the crew. It was an awesome chat to your limpia now. So I got a big head of it. And Chris, obviously, has got a lot of top competitors in class as well. Yes. And that's funny. Yeah. Let me ask you this question. Obviously since you become like a social media kind of star overnight, you know, I'm sure you got a lot of, you know, girls contact you all the time. Does that create stress with the girlfriend because you have all these people who just want, you know, to be associated with you? And that really, because she is luckily a very confident girlfriend. She actually, I am my account, my Instagram account is also on her phone because I couldn't upload for a while. So she actually does get my notifications as well, but she doesn't mind at all because she's a lot of the hearts and stuff. But there's so many messages that I cannot even respond to them. So I, I'll immediately just have to swipe them away because I'm a, most of them are, just, you know, nonsense basically. Right. I'm sure you get more of like, you know, gay guys also hit 90. Oh, there's more gay guys in girls. That's what I always said. I always had more guys after me. I'm like, how can I, I get no women who are interested in me. It's all guys that wanted, you know, talk to the, you know, so that's the straight fight with body. Well, Wesley, you know, best to lock up on that stage. We wanted to just get you here, get a little update since you won the, the Chicago Pro and see where your heads at. It seems like you're very confident. It seems like you got everything together. And I think all the little amateur mistakes you worked out on that Chicago pro stage will not be made on the Olympia stage. And I'm, I'm looking forward to seeing that battle up there in that first call out. Thanks. I'm looking forward to it as well. The first call would be, that would be my dream come true for sure. Looking forward to it. Thank you, Dave. All right. No, best of luck. And we'll see you in Vegas for now. There were at a time. I'm, Dave Palombo with another episode of RX muscles iron road to the Olympia 2018. Brought to you by RedCon 1. We'll see you next time.

After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery with inferior sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. The rush begins once pre-workout vape. I'm Dave Polumbau, founder of Spices Nutrition. I created Spices Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide bodybuilders and serious athletes with no nonsensoplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest bodybuilding days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in this Spices Nutrition line of products. We use only top of the line formulations, toast for maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Spices Nutrition products. If you want to be in your apps, you'll best join the evolution. We're going to be in the next video. Our ex-tellvision on rxmuscle.com. This is as Dave better known as hashtag as Dave. Your third even question and answer show with Dave Polumbau course. All your questions, diet, training, supplementation. I have to be pros, competitions, whatever is on your mind. It is all on the tables and now bring in Dave Polumbau. Of course, Hunter LeBraut, winning the 2020 Tampa Pro, impressing a lot of people and obviously sparking all sorts of conversation about his potential and what we might see out of hunter over the course of the next two to three years on that Olympia stage. But Dave, you just had an opportunity to interview Hunter if you want to give the fans a little primer. By the time this episode goes up, that interview should be live on the channel. Hunter was really cool and I've interviewed him before. I wanted to get a perspective of how what is mindset was now that he won the show and he got that first pro win in his back at trick. He never lost a show as an amateur. He's undefeated and obviously undefeated as a pro now. That's going to be a supreme confidence boost to him. And it is, obviously, I also asked him what he thought about guys like Flex Wheeler and Lee Prees saying that he thought that he could possibly be a potential Mr. Olympia. And I'm a step in that felt good to him as well. The guy only had four months really off season training. He's a really put size on this year because he had that major shoulder clean out and by some relocation surgery. His bicep was hanging by thread like we had in torn. So he really can't tell much from it. But he, you know, so this year I think we're going to see after the Olympia. He's going to make some serious improvements. And I think when we see him in 2021, I think that's when he's going to be as most dangerous. So a lot of excitement, a lot of excitement this past weekend and just in general, obviously all the conversation about when bodybuilding would restart. Whether or not we would even have a 2020 bodybuilding season will of course, that was put to rest his past weekend. Very exciting showing with hundreds of the broader maybe a peak into the future of the top tier of bodybuilding. And then of course the always dangerous invalier and then Dwayne Walker, which you finished third place, but had many fans, buzzing many fans. He may have even placed higher. So very impressive action from the, I guess, quote unquote restart from the 2020 bodybuilding scene. And hopefully a sign of things to come as we get into the question. The first two questions. I want to explain, I want to explain. I want to explain. I actually asked Hunter about Dwayne because I, you know, I would be doing my job. And he was very complimentary to him. You know, he thought he looked really good, but I think him and I both agreed and I, you know, of course, you know, he's going to agree that you beat him, but I bring that he beat him. So I just don't think Dwayne is big enough to beat Hunter yet and his legs are not completed enough. But I think down the road, if he adds to the 1015 counselors body, what got for this guy is guy dangerous. A lot of people are talking about just that frame that muscle that he packs on the level of conditioning. So Dwayne Walker certainly, a very, very exciting talent to be look for going forward. And of course, Dave, your guy, Phil Clark, very impressive showing coming in for it. Let's get to the question. The first two questions. Of course, and Dave, let's go. I'm going to experience half the first question. Dave, do you maintain muscle on less protein that it takes to build a muscle mass? Absolutely. There's no doubt about that. And I've said this before. It's you don't have to eat crazy amounts of food to maintain. We have that effect. And you try to lose the muscle. It's pretty hard if you've had it for a while when I, you know, decide I was going to start bringing my weight down slowly. I was, you know, I was walking around 280 and you know, I've seen my head in a lot of food. When I just cut back my food to like normal amounts, you know, five feelings a day, maybe, but just normal amounts not like stuff in myself like I would have to do before. I was maintaining 255 to 6. Yeah, I couldn't lose any more weight. I had to like then bring it down the four meals and then I got down to like 240s. And I had a really reduced protein to get it lower than that. So yeah, I mean, it's what you have the muscle it's easy now. Let's say you just gain the muscle and then you stop eating. Yeah, you can lose a pretty fast. But when you've had it for like three, four or five years. To maintain what you have, it's super easy. You could take an HRT dose of testosterone and you can eat probably five, you know, moderate protein meals a day. And you probably won't lose a single pound of muscle. So you're trained, obviously. Second question again for the deep, a lot of all experience have deep, I compete in the master's division. Can't train like it did 20 years ago, should I do more volume due to the lack of intensity? Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that. You know, a lot of people think, you know, because I'm a big advocate of high intensity training and heavy training. If you can't do it because you're injured, okay? Then do what you can do. If you can do high repetitions, you know, and lighter weights, you're going to stimulate the muscle. You're not going to lose. I had the opposite problem. I had my shoulders were hurting me so badly that because of joint pain that, you know, the doctor, one of the doctors had gone to a game. He had a good analogy. He said, you know, he's shoulder joint is like an old rusty hinge on a door. If the door is real old, then you keep opening, closing, opening, closing, opening, closing, all day long, it's going to break quicker. You know, it's going to fall off the hinges. But if you only open it a couple times a day, it's not going to be so bad. When he gave me that analogy, I don't think he really meant this towards training. He was just talking about it in general. I said, well, what if I train heavy with fewer, you know, fewer exercises, fewer sets, you know, I could still, the heaviness will help maintain the muscle mass, but I won't be over using the joint. And so that's what I used for the last 18, 19 years that I was training through, and I was competing five of those years and doing well. You know, so I was able to maintain my muscle mass, while not necessarily doing the volume or the kinds of training I wanted to do more machine work. I couldn't do it like more free weights, but it didn't matter. I've already had a ton of muscle. I just had a stimulate. So you got to find what works you if higher reps, you know, lighter weight works well and it doesn't hurt you, then do it. If you can do heavier weight less, you know, sets and maintain it, then that's what you do. You have to find that what works for you. Let's go to our Instagram questions. I get it. We've already following us. It's official underscore our ex muscle. If you're watching us, for the first time on YouTube, hit the subscribe button below, hit the notification bell. You're not going to miss any of our upcoming videos or segments. If you like what you're watching, hit the like button. Obviously that helps us comment, that helps us even more as always. We appreciate your on going support. Let's go first to Philip Roe, depending on you how to answer this one, this might spark another one of those back and forth around YouTube videos. Thoughts on grant do sense claim that 300 to 500 cows surplus is enough to gain muscle even for professional bodybuilders. Well, I mean, that's a very open ended statement because 500 calories of what? Protein, carbs, fat, combination. You know, whenever you make a blanket statement like that, you're always leading yourself open to like being proven raw. Because not everyone's body works like that. In my body in extra 500 calories would have been like, well, it'd been like, you know, me walking up a flight of steps and that would have been there's the extra 500 calories out there that the window. You know, so it doesn't apply to everyone. Some people you eat in extra 500 calories get fat from it. Don't you put muscle and you get fat, you turn to a fat load. They don't need that. So you have to qualify number one what the 500 calories. So that's why I hate the word calories. When I use it sometimes by accident because I'm so brainwashed by the word, I get mad at myself because 500 calories tells you nothing. Well, how much protein is that? How much fat? How much carbs? Now, if you said if you ate an additional 30 grams of protein per day and 20 grams of fat and you know, that'll cause muscle growth, that would have been a better statement. I think from then saying an extra 500 calories surplus. So not a good, not a good term to use because most people if you just added 500 calories of carbs, they're just going to get either fat or they're going to burn up the carbs. Carbets don't build muscle. So it's not going to do anything. So I don't necessarily like the statement. I think it's too old or non-type statement and it's not true because of that. And so I think it needs to be qualified a little better. I think it's going to be an organic 74. What's the deal with pharmacist telling me that an NML vial of my test for TRT expires 28 days after the first use? That's called marketing on the pharmacist part. He wants to sell you what this does. Throw it out. You know, the greatest scam of all time was back in the, I think it was late 90s. Probably no early 2000s when they were selling the serum, Serrano is selling serum, and a growth hormone kits, the eightspatians. They were selling them a bot a botch with seven vials. And each file contained 189 use of GH. Now for most people, that could last anywhere from like six, five or six, seven eight days even. That's one vinyl. So that would be time seven vials on a box. You can, that could be like two months worth, you know, even if taking a nice dosage. They were recommending that you use that in a week. Okay, one vial per day. And if you didn't use, you know, let's say, are you going to have to use 189 use, but you have to throw out whatever you don't use that one day because it's no good after that, which we all know is bowl. They wanted to sell more. So they was selling these eightspatians for boxes per month. Now the eightspatians were in paying Medicaid was paying for it was costing $1,500 per box. So do the math at $6,000 Medicaid was covering on per patient per month. Think about how much money out there out of our taxes was being put towards this therapy and they were overdosed in these people. They weren't. And most of them weren't even using it. They were selling the boxes to the bodybuilders. So it was, it's a scam. You know, it's like, all the drug companies stuff to the skin. You really think that new trick. You think by protein goes bad after like whatever the expiration date I think we're using. We, I think we have two and a half years now on there doesn't go bad. The funny thing is that I'll use the expired protein because you know, sometimes we have some a couple of jugs that don't sell on the weird flavors. I've used protein that was like five years old that I found in like my garage from my old house and I'm like, oh, this has been there for like that. It's perfectly like. Now that doesn't mean that you can't lose some potency, but you're not untestosterone oil based animal steroids last forever. So to say after 28 days it's going to go bad as ludicrous. Well, it's good. A Patrick staff or 50. It's a topic that you have touched on. I know with Chris Cito a few different times. Do you think that the Mr. Olympia will go ahead, even if qualifying competitors from other countries can't travel to the US and it's funny day before he answer the question. There was the Olympia qualified list that was released a thing yesterday and I think including fill heat. There may have been four competitors US based that I guess were part of that list. And everybody else depending on the traveler's traditions, who knows may or may not be able to make it come December. You're taking that and then I guess in the event that it cannot happen to these international competitors cannot come over. What is your solution to that. Well, look at that word Tampa. You didn't see any international people in the Tampa line up and they still held Tampa. So I mean that's the Olympia. Sox for everyone has looked. Remember when the Olympics had some boycott years where we were like re-boycott in in I think it was 1980 was it. Yeah, we didn't go to Russia. And the Russians I think boycott in 84 or was the 86. 86 I think they boycotted. So we were missing you know big countries and who legitimately would have won a lot of metals in both the those Olympics. And so the Olympics still happened. There's the sole record to still in the book and it is what it was 1980 was Russia in 70 and 84 was the American man. I don't think that that's Russia didn't show up and we didn't show up. So the Olympia will go on whether this five or 10 guys on stage or or not they don't care you know whether the competition is not as deep as it was last year. They don't care is going to be an Olympia champ round this year. That's the bottom line and whoever is able to show up and is qualified. Has a good shot at winning. So I mean this is a good year for people who maybe maybe never had a chance at making top six. They might make it this year because of the fact that there's just not going to be the depth of competitors. Now if I was a European competitor and I knew I had a chance at winning the Olympia. I would be working like getting to the US now. I'd be living here. I moved I'd get over here in the next month and stay right through the end of December. I don't know how I would do it, but I would find someone to stay with and train with and something like that because that's my livelihood. So you know they have plenty of time to prepare. So I like to spring it on these people the last minute. I'm William Bonaak or really Winkler. I'm getting my butt over to the US now and settling in Las Vegas and starting to train people whatever I got to do. You know live there until the Olympia is over and you go back because you can't afford to miss the Super Bowl body. It's just not. It's not on the table. If you're a real competitor, you're going to find a way to get here. Well, they've let me just quickly jump in. I'll read off. I'll zip through the list right now. Brandon Curry obviously the US. Bonaak and other lanes. How do you chew upon Iran. That's your Jackson USA really Winkler. Chris out. Feel heath. Well, they're not heath. We'll not. Please set your million. Nathan Deasha the United Kingdom one morale. If I slow is who's qualified. I'm classified as USA obviously living in Florida as long as he's been in a hunter, LeBraata. So they let me actually add another rinkler to this question. Assuming that there aren't going to be, and I know you've discussed this before as well, but assuming that you're looking at a field of maybe five or six heading in December. What do you think the protocol for special invites potentially would be? Well, you know, who in the US is not qualified that really, you know, we want in the show. I guess that's the question. Yeah, obviously there's always an invite out there for Kai Green and Phil. He's of course in short. I would. I don't know. It's Sean Rodin's case going to be settled by then or not. I don't know what the trial date is. He would he could save the Olympia, obviously, if he would a panel has whatever's going on with his case and get cleared. And he shows up and him and Curry go battle it, you know, one on one on that stage. I think that brings a lot of attention to the Olympia. I think the excitement is there. If no one shows up to kind of like really challenge Brandon Curry except for like say flex Lewis, it'll still be exciting. We want to see flex Lewis on that stage. But it's not going to be as exciting, obviously. It'll also give decks to Jackson a chance to possibly win another Olympia. Thank you. So deck. I always say the decks are always in the right place at the right time. He's one of these guys that throughout his entire career is always right there waiting for that knockout punch. And this is the perfect environment. Things are a mess up in this country. You know, people can't travel. People can't get to the show. The superstars are not in the line of Sean's dealing with a case. Phil doesn't want to compete. Kai's in, you know, Lala land, you know, doing making movies and variety shows. Dexter could step in there if Brandon Curry's often win this thing, you know, or even like a flex Lewis. I don't know, you know, I'd love to see flex battle with that with Dexter and Brandon. I think that would be an enrolative course. But I don't even know if we're leaking it over here. So it's interesting. Like if you're an odds maker, this might be the hardest Olympia to handicap because we the hell knows is going to be in it. I'll just give you the quick, uh, the in-contention, a qualify from the US and Canada, reading Grimes 8 points, Steve Cookello 8 points, Valier 8 points, Sergio Leavad Jr and Dwayne Walker with seven points each. Let's go. Couple of classic physique related questions. The first one from Neil's Luzki. What top IFB be pro in the open class? Do you think would have the best chance had they competed in classic physique? Oh, I can the history of this work. Well, no, let's go. Let's go. Let's stick to the current. I'll tell you what's about power. That power has been a great classic physique. I've currently, I don't know. I mean, well, Henry Pierre now wasn't open guy who switched the classic and he did really well. So I mean, there's there's a good example right there of a guy who kind of was able to cross over. So to speak. Sean Rodin would have been a great class the guy. You know, before he put on as much muscle as he did. When he first came out, he probably couldn't make classic physique. He wasn't. He wasn't he was he a light heavyweighter. I'm trying to think. I don't even remember. But he would have easily, you know, fit into that classic with that structure and beautiful flow to his body. Even Dennis Wolf when he first started, you know, was, you know, because of his height, he probably could have made classic physique. And the early early early part of his career. So I don't know. I guess Rodin would be the guy who comes to mind in my mind. Well, what about a son of like a Rafael Brandeo, was so much debate after his last oral classic appearance? I don't know. I think he's pretty heavy though. I think he's got a decent amount of muscle on his body. I think if he's too small, he's not he doesn't have the lines of like a rodent or something like that. You know what I mean? If he would have made classic, I think he would have been too small. You know, he's he's got a lot of density, but and he's not the biggest pro, but he's also not. I don't think he's close to the classic physique. I don't know if anybody knows what that was something else debated. 2018 or so. You remember you had to make the response video, but you got all the Brazilian fans who are angry that people are saying that he should go classic, but so another classic or the classic because he got really a question similar to what you just brought up. With the spike in classic physique, I mean he goes on to even mention men's physique in the 2012. Do you think will ever get to see super freaks on stage again that the likes of Grecovax, Nasser, Marcus Rules on a silver. Yeah, I think so. I mean we still have them. I mean we have Rulean we have Rame and I you know whether they can over here to compete with those quarantine is another story. We have super freaks in production, so to speak. You know, it's not like we're devoid of that. We have a lot of big guys in the lineups. I mean I think Flex Lewis is a freak, even though he's not tall. He's a for his high. He's a freak. So they're there. You know, and Mustafa, what is it from? Hassan Hassan. Hassan. Hassan, Hassan. Hassan, Hassan, is a freak over there in the middle east. So I mean we have a lot of huge guys that potentially, you know, if they come and in shape and if we could ever get them over here into the US, they can do very well. And so I think the future body building is good. And especially when I see like a huntal abroad coming up and he's a guy who could it's going to be a big player. I think in the next two, three years in the sport. There's there's there's new talent always coming up. We just don't know it yet and we haven't seen it yet, but it's on the way. And I think that as the older guys start to you know see this new talent coming up and they can't beat these guys and build retired. I think the reason why we're seeing guys sticking around a lot longer now into their 40s and even 50 now with Dexter is that no one's beaten them. So why would she doxilev? I don't believe he's going to convert tire after this year. I think he's going to stick around. I think he's going to build what I almost won the Olympia. You know, why would I retire at this point? So but once we get guys like LeBron coming in and that whole crew and they start knocking off some of these guys, they're going to leave. I would. I mean, but for now, stick around as long as you can make money. Let's go to Sabino Lewis went on TRT. What should be the test to estrogen ratio? You know, I always go by the ratios on board work. So on TRT, I like to be in the high normal range, which is around 8 to 7 800. If I'm trying to at least maximize the way I look, and estrogen should be in normal range. But you don't want it. You don't want it lower than normal range because if your estrogen's too low, you lose your sex drive number one. But that's not important to muscle. It's important to your height. You look good. But estrogen also sensitizes and resepters to muscle growth. So you don't want your estrogen to too low because that's going to inhibit you from growing. And obviously having sex drive and gain pump too. It's having a good solid pump in the gym. But you don't want it too high. Are you getting side effects like gynacomascia and fluid retention and all kinds of stuff like that. So I like to keep it in the middle to low normal range. Do I remember what it is I have no I don't remember. When I look at blood work, all the ranges are on there already. I can't remember exactly with the normal range would be for estrogen. But that's what we wanted in normal normal low to middle range. We don't want it in the high range. Let's go to be winery 20 during the show prep. Would you recommend doing fast cardio first, then lifting and having a shake or have a shake or eat lift and then do cardio I get it before 30 in the morning and that's the only time I have to go to the gym. Yeah, what if you're going to go early in the morning have a shake go work out with weights. Do you cardio come back and then eat. I mean that's that's the smart way to do it. I always tell the rule of thumb is you never weigh train on an empty stomach. Okay, and cardio you want it either being at the pleaded state or an empty stomach. So if you're going to get up first thing in the morning to cardio you obviously you're on an empty stomach. If you wake up in the morning you want to weigh train you have to eat something so have a shake and then after you do cardio you're depleted so then you can do I mean after you do you wait to your depleted so then you can do your cardio. That's that's that's the right I guess you can say order of the way you do things. I know we talked about candidates before but I don't know about necessarily using this context is from boost god 97. Is it a good idea to use cannabis to increase appetite to put on muscle? I know a lot of big pot smokers you know people who like to engage in that on a daily basis and when I when I find is the guys that the doom that smoke marijuana or whatever they've ate but whatever they do with it on a regular basis they lose that that month she that hunger. I don't know if you don't do if you never do marijuana and you do you do you know smoke a joint or whatever you do you're going to be really really hungry. But when you do it regularly it's like you become desensitized to that effect and you it doesn't really affect you like that anymore. Some people say it does but a lot I know a lot of guys that they smoke and they don't even want to eat and I need the leaders. So you know if you want to use it once in a blue moon to do that I mean this better way to enhance appetite I would rather use personally if I was competing G.H.R.P.6 which is at least going to cost him G.H. release and it's going to make me hungry. You know where is it worth a lot of marijuana you know it's you know you're kind of it's a hallucinogenic you know it's hard to really focus and train real hard when you're on that although some people I know they like the smoke and go to the gym so. Everyone has their own cup of tea to me if you could avoid doing recreational drugs I never did direct ghost drugs when I was you know doing my I shouldn't say that. I did do new game but I didn't do like like you know party type drugs or anything that like slowed me down. While I was in that those peak years of like putting muscle on I really just focused on everything body deleted because I don't want to I didn't want to risk anything I don't want to risk not having you know focus or not having you know drive. And food eating food was never a problem for me so you know but you know if you want to rationalize hey I like to give high and it makes me hungry I'll eat more I guess once in a while it's not bad but if you're doing it on a regular basis it's it's not for the increase your appetite. Let's go to Ron like on me to seven can you get hard dense muscle with an only test cycle and proper preparation. I think that you can you can probably do that I think that testosterone is obviously the most powerful at a ball gap there so you can get great results just on testosterone but for some reason. We've talked about this before when you stack two compounds you take to it the same time they synergize each other they make each other work better so testosterone plus something else. Leeds to more gains exponential gains not just one plus one equals two it's like one plus one equals five so. I always like to stack testosterone with another anabolic agent when I'm when I'm trying to grow or even die it. That matter because you get way better results with two of them even if you double your testosterone usage for some reason testosterone with another with something else works better. That makes sense. Let's go to demand it shot is cardio on the bike more beneficial for leg growth development. I I they asking you think the question that. That biking will help you build muscle on your legs I don't know if that's that's what it sounds like the question is. Cardi is not going to build muscle on your legs look at it look at runners. I'm talking about long distance runners to that people who do endurance type like training don't get the muscles don't high-pertsuiting a bigger they just become more oxygen efficient. So you're not going to build muscle from biking or doing the Peloton my wife's at the Peloton spin bike or you know doing starmaster or step nil you're not you're just going to break down muscle tissue okay. And that sense so now if the question is which cardio is best so that you don't lose muscle in your legs then I would say yeah I would see like no tension spinning bike like a bike that just spins like the no tension on it. Or walking on a treadmill with no incline even like a little bit of elliptical because it's pretty low low impact with no tension those are the things that are going to help burn fat without burning away the muscle of your legs because there's no tension on them you don't you're not trying to give you legs a workout. When you're doing cardio you're just trying to get your heart moving and your blood pumping and you're you know you're sweating a little bit so when you start doing cardio to intensely you're just overworking your legs. Let's go to S.S. Danzy would it be a good idea to take a free workout in episodes with just a zip water when pumping up before you step on state for show I'm trying to be more a vascular. I would not do that not that's like one of the things I talk about don't do cookie crazy things before you know the last week of the show people. Why would you take that stuff you don't don't take anything backstage. If you're in shape and you're carved up and you're dry you should look amazing backstage with all your coloring and your your oil on you shouldn't have to do once you stop popping things okay that's when trouble begins because then. What if you because most of those pre work I'd dilate the vessels they open up the blood vessels that they did the pump. You know we used to take nious impills backstage and and people were passed and out and drop and that left and right and turning red because they were they were vaso dilating all the veins. And that was dropping blood pressure and guys already have low blood pressure because they're on dioratics that's what dioratics do they lower your blood pressure so. No don't take anything crazy backstage just show up in shape and do you think. Rans Von 752 how would you progress if you want to answer the most general sense how would you approach to contest one week apart in terms of car loading and depleting. You do the same thing I back the back and since it's so easy it's let's you know if I car bump on Thursday Friday and Saturday's the show. Sunday I have a cheap enough to show Sunday I start my depletion again low carb Sunday Monday Tuesday sometimes like half the day on Wednesday I'll put some carbs in Thursday Friday recarb up again and and. And you know. Thursing Friday and Saturday is the show so. You just basically repeat the same exact thing. But the toughest thing to do is I usually used to do when I would do back the next shows. You have to go to the gym the next day and do legs that this broo legs that the day after a bodybuilding show in stage where you're flexing and everything sore and you're still a little dehydrated. You don't go crazy obviously but yeah you gotta train those legs if you're going to compete the next week because you like work out you haven't done a well work out for over a week now so. I usually go in the next day I'll do legs on Sunday do little cardio and then Monday Tuesday Wednesday do the other three workouts I have for the week and Thursday Friday I rest again and back on stage on Saturday. It's pretty simple. Couple of more questions one from Jay Hubbard your go to recommended supplements for heart health. You know the best stuff that's probably take for your heart number one is you want to take your central fatty acids which are going to help cholesterol you know profiles lower LDLs. That's your own mega lives you know three pills twice a day that's simple. Five or supplement lower LDL cholesterol okay fiber lies twice a day we've talked about that before. To make your heart pump more efficiently. CoQ 10 you'd beckon all form of it is really good 100 to 200 milligrams a day that's going to help cart function okay. And obviously along with the fatty acids that's going to be something that's going to be very a cardio protective if you have coronary artery disease type of stuff really bad or you may even have blockages now you can take a product called omega via omega v is the company that makes it it's pure EPA oil. And the EPA oil has been shown at dosages of 2,000 milligrams per day to actually reduce plaque formation in the arteries of the coronary vessels in the heart. If there's a lot of good research on that Amazon dot com sells omega via pure EPA oil. And like I said it comes in capsules you're going to have to take a 2,000 milligrams a day that's the dosage of that if you want to get a nice a nice effect from that so. There are things you can do to improve you know heart health likewise also a lot of everyone takes vitamin D 3 nowadays because we know we're all D 3 deficient. If you're taking 5,000 7,000 units a day you might want you probably want to take some vitamin K 2 with it. K 2 will keep the calcium away from the blood vessels especially the coronary arteries because a lot of times when you're absorbing more calcium because you're taking the vitamin D because vitamin D increases calcium absorption which is good. You just don't want all the calcium going into your blood vessels and making them you know fibrodic and and creating blockages. K 2 seems to direct the the calcium away from the vessels and into the bones where they should be going. But life extension makes a brand of which is what I use a 5,000 units of vitamin D 3 and the K 2 with the two iso forms of K in in there. So it's one pill you take and it's a it's a small teeny pill makes a lot easier to swallow it actually a gel cap believe or not so you guys can try that and that and that's really good for your heart as well. I was going to do for this episode of as Dave reminder right now on our ismuscle.com and of course the our ismuscle youtube channel. Dave's sit down interview with hunter lebrata who took the first place of course this past weekend at the 2020 Tampa Crow. We have a load of content right now on our ismuscle.com and the youtube channel if you haven't already done so subscribe below hit the notification bell. If you have any of our upcoming shows segment or preview content for Dave plumbo I'm city for you will see next time.

Wake up Bodybuilding Fansets Monday morning here at Muscle in the Morning and I'm Dave Palombo and today is Monday, August 13, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of Bodybuilding and Fitness. Sometimes as a fan, what you can do is sit back and stare at some of the stuff you see while your head swings back and forth with one of those WTF nods. And by now everyone who's seen the latest Rully Winkler update goes exactly what I'm talking about. Late last week, BetaBaddae and the camera crew dropped the surprise Rully Winkler update that almost broke the internet. The level of density and fullness and straight up crazy alien-looking muscle that this guy has is completely mind-blowing. I don't think I'm in the minority when I say that I can fully expect this to be the best Olympia ever for Rully because of this guy's head is best. He might honestly be good enough to challenge for a top three spot. While Doria Nights may have been the greatest bodybuilder to ever come out of the UK, Nathan the Escher is personally trying to reset the bar for the UK athletes when he steps on stage for his second straight Mr. Olympia. Since his big win at the New York Crow, all the Escher's done over the last three months his turn himself into a bona fide top threat one workout at a time. When you look at his latest updates, the Escher's team have shown a quality of detail that right now completely blows away anything we saw back in New York. Which shows you how hard this guy is out there beating on his craft right now. For pound this kid is his talent, has anyone in the business. But with the margin of error at the top being so slim this year, if you really want one of those coveted top six spots, he's going to have to push himself harder than he's ever done down these last five weeks. Both of the time when I hear guys talking about their numbers on the scale, my eyes start to uncontrollably roll back into my head because they know they're about to tell me a big S-Li. But I can promise you that when it comes to 212 Superstar, Sean Clarita, those numbers don't even come close to telling the whole truth. Last week the 212 Giant Killer dropped a new update on his fans where he gave them an up-post and personal look at 175 pounds of fury. True to form, Clarita's been like a quiet assassin so far this prep. And as far as I'm concerned, he's probably at his best ever right now. When good guys like Clarita are out there crushing it in silence every day, you can't help and find yourself starting to root for them once the action finally starts to get rolling. Spoiler alert, I watched the movie How It Hands On Netflix the other night and it was so bad that I seriously almost got up and punched the hole right through my TV screen. But thankfully for me I managed to catch a little bit of Sean Roan's latest back day to help keep my anger from getting to happy Gilmore levels. Once again, I watched the drone has been holed up at Golge and Venice for this year's road to the Olympia where all reports seem to indicate that he's in a good place physically and mentally. One of the things I've always loved about Sean Roan is how he's basically been one of the most underappreciated superstars of his generation. The spite the fact that this guy has been great for almost a decade now. And for this year's sake, I hope he brings his best to the Olympia stage. Do that's the only way he's ever going to get. The love that he deserves as someone who's a true generational talent. I absolutely love what classic physique, Ali and superstar, stand the stand of the Olympia is doing right now. Last at a month away from his first Olympia, stand of the Olympia is been absolutely crushing it out of the Mecca, gold Venice. To the point where I've heard his name starting to be mentioned as a potential top five classic physique contender. The pound for pound, the Olympia is probably one of the most colorful characters in the division. And having a guy like him leading the charge with his next generation of athlete, sure wouldn't be a bad thing if the bodybuilding world wants to keep expanding their market into the future. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the morning. On day below reminding you to always be true to your passions. And they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

This is Dave Palombo with another RX Muscle rant brought to you by RedConOne. Today's topic testosterone. That seems to be the hottest topic of the day in the body building and in general. Everyone seems to want testosterone. Hey, I got to take testosterone. I need TRT. I need HRT. There's a million different names for it. Everyone's needs to replace that testosterone. They want to take testosterone to get big and huge. They want to take testosterone to feel better and sleep better at night and have better sex. And all of a sudden that's the rage. You know, 10, 15, 20 years ago it was like very hot shot under the cover that everyone's so much as a starter. The problem is no one really knows anything about testosterone. And I was just as ignorant when I first started to be honest with you. This was back in the early 90s. I remember reading the on the ball reference guy and I was studying testosterone trying to figure out which was the right type to take. Because let's face it. There's many different forms. I'm not talking about different brands. I'm assuming right off the bat, let's talk about real testosterone. Let's talk about testosterone. Test out to them comes from a pharmacy. So assuming your testosterone is real, what? Version or what? Astor. And what we really mean is how fast are the releases of these testosterone that you're taking? They're slow release testosterone. And that, in fact, there's such slow release testosterone out of it. They actually will give shots of something called nebito, which is testosterone on the canoate, which is actually will last weeks and weeks and weeks inside your system. And slowly, slowly release. Doctors are using this for hormone replacement now. But for body-gilling purposes, that's really not something that we're too interested in using. Then they're super, really fast acting, where they actually take testosterone powder, pure powder, and just put it in water. Steril water, I assume. And they make something called testosterone suspension. They probably see these. They build these bottles. Usually they're bigger bottles. They're kind of like milky looking. You kind of shake them up and it goes into what's called suspension. The powder suspens and the water. And you've dried up and you inject it. And you guys, that was pretty big back in the 80s and 90s guys like testosterone suspension. It hurt really bad because these particles that you're injecting kind of just irritate the tissues wherever you inject them. And it works really fast, but it also, it stops working really fast. So you take a shot. Guys were taking every other day and wasn't even enough because we were only less maybe eight hours in the system. And that's not really what we want, but it hit you really quickly. But guys got really water-retentant from this. They're testin' a shrunk really quickly. Why do you have the stuff got into your system so fast? The problem is a lot of guys broke, I used to break out terribly from that using it because your testosterone is up here at one minute. It's down here in the next minute. It's up here. It's down here. So a lot of people found that if they were going to use suspension, they really needed to take it with another longer acting compound to kind of level off the effect of the testosterone suspension. So after all was said, in practicality speaking, test suspension was just not something that people use on a regular basis. Probably more so because it hurts than the fact that it's too fast, I think. But once again, people don't want to have to take shots really twice a day or once a day. It's just, and they don't want to weld up everywhere they put the shots. Especially if you're going to get on stage, right? Within days after taking these shots or maybe the next day, if you have a big wealth on your muscles, it's not going to really look good on stage. So really what it amounts to is most people who take testosterone take the esters. There's different types. There's testosterone propinate, which is one of the fastest acting esters, meaning that the testosterone releases really quickly. Then you have your slowest acting esters known as testosterone probably an antheid. Now we said the undecanoway is slow as but for people who inject on a regular basis and use it for bodybuilding purposes, an the antheid is usually the slowest ester that we use. Now back in the day, they told us only use the fast acting esters before a show because less of it converts to testosterone to estrogen. In other words, less of it can eromeothize. All testosterone can turn into other compounds. And the compounds that can turn into one being estrogen, which is known as the aromatization of process because the aromatase enzyme converts the testosterone to estrogen. And the other thing testosterone can convert into is DHT or dihydrotestosterone. And that's a five alpha reductase enzyme to convert those into DHT. DHT can cause obviously hair loss, acne, it can cause a prostate irritation and enlargement. Estrogenogen, because kind of comastia, which is male breast, you know, development, can cause fluid retention, a lot of water retention from steroids, especially from testosterone comes mostly from the estrogen that it produces. So, you know, everyone was trying to strategize on what the best testosterone is where people always say, well, the long acting ones were good for off season because you grow better and the short acting ones are better pre-contest. Unfortunately, the testosterone propaneid ester really hurts. And for most people, a lot of people, they're allergic to it. I couldn't even take it. It would be like I'd be debilitated from using this stuff. Wherever I put it, it would be like someone slamming with a jackhammer in that area. So, the question still remains, is one better than the other. And the truth of the matter is that most people today have realized, and I think I'm probably one of the people who really educated people out to this was that the best pattern of use of these esters is to take it every other day. Whether you're using a short acting or a long acting, because the long acting has peaks and valleys too. So, if you took, let's say you were using Test and Anthe, which is the slowest acting, and you took it once a week, and you took a thousand milligrams once a week. You'd probably have a really nice peak for a few days, but then by the time the week is over, you're starting to come down already, even though it lasts a long time, it produces its best result in the first three to, you know, I say two to five days. So, if you take it every other day, you kind of have an even high peak, as opposed to getting super highs and super lows and super highs and super lows. Now, if you're taking off the Test Provin8, it needs to be consumed, taking every other day to every day, because that only lasts a couple days in the system, 48 hours, maybe. So, when all was said, no, I started to realize, you know what? All Test Ostrone is the same, it's the same hormone, right? If Test Ostrone's sipping aid is in your system or an antheid for a long period of time, and it aromatizes more theoretically, because it's in your system all the time, then, you know, obviously, that's one issue. But then again, if you take, if Test Provin8 is only in your system, sure, a pretty time, but you're always taking it, you're still going to aromatize it. So, there's really no escape from the side effects of Test Ostrone other than to take aromatase inhibitors and DHC blockers, okay? Whether you take Finaster Eye, which is an extreme DHC blocker, or you take the product of my Test Ostrone, or you test the Lies, okay, from species nutrition, which is like a Test Ostrone is like a DHC blunter, kind of blunts DHC production. It doesn't get rid of it totally, because that's face it. We don't want to get rid of all the estrogen, and we don't want to get rid of all the DHT, because then our angiogen receptors don't work right. We can lose sex drive, we can lose angiogen receptivity, sometimes you don't store glycogen as well. So, their side effects, so what I found after this big long story that I give you on the history of Test Ostrone, was that the long acting esters like Sipy Nade and Nante, which have no pain upon injection, and have the best, I guess you could say distribution pattern, they last the longest, tend to be the best drugs to build muscle, okay? It's just the case, but you need to take them on and every other day. It basically gets this nice, you know, even distribution line, I guess you could say, of release of this hormone. So you're going to get, and I take the first week or two to get a nice build up, but once you're up here and you're taking it every day, your value is going to stay like this. Whereas if you're taking short acting esters, they peak really quickly, so yeah, it'll hit you in a couple days, but then they drop real quick, and then they go up real quick, and then they go drop down real quick. So I like the long acting esters, I'm a little more patient, I don't mind waiting two to and a half weeks for the stuff that really kick in. Once it does, you have a nice high baseline testosterone, and that's how your body responds best. Your body likes regularity when it comes to these steroids. It doesn't want to have these peaks and valleys, it doesn't respond well. It makes you break out, it makes you moody and grouching, okay? We don't want more model fluctuation levels in the body. We want a steady state of a certain high peak level of testosterone, and that's what an antate and sipping nature. Now there is another compound known as Sostenon, also on the drain it's called, there's a million different brand names for these things in different countries, but what they see is it to blend the four testosterone, short acting, medium acting, another medium acting, and then a long acting one. The theoretically saying, well if you take this, it's going to sustain Sostenon, sustain the testosterone levels over, you know, a two week period, and it was basically made initially for hormonal placement. Once again, you gotta take it every other day. It's one of these things that you gotta take it every other day to get a real steady distribution, even though theoretically on paper, it should have a better distribution, but it doesn't. And that's the bottom line. So you can take your Sostenon every other day, you can take your test, propinate every other day, you can take Scipi-Date and antate every other day, and you're going to get pretty much the same results. So find out what works well for you, what you respond to. And I think most people will find that the Scipi-Date and antate a tandem seems to be good, maybe, you know, use one of the other. I like the antate asserts, the longest acting, I get the least side effects. I always base my side effects, based on acting. When I would take steroids, if I actually broke out a lot, then I knew my levels were not being, they were not being held steady. They would be variable, or I should say they weren't being, I guess you could say, skewed over the theory that I'm taking. I'm so little about getting this Scipi-Date because one day I would have clear skin, then actually I would be breaking out, one day I'd be a little moody, one day I felt good. And it was only right after the shot that I felt good. So I said, you know, I think I got it. I said it doing this twice a week, I got to do this every other day. And when I did that, a lot of my problems were solved. So test-ostron guys is testosterone. Find the extra that you like that works well for you. I promise you the long acting ones, if you just have patients for two weeks when you first start taking them, let them get into your system. We'll ultimately be the best bank for your buck, and you're going to get the best amount of muscle for your buck as well. So test check it out, test Scipi-Date and Anthei. I would say away from suspension, I tend to hate propping A2 because most people are allergic to it if you're not, and you're not sensitive to it, that's great. But I'm telling you, Scipi-Date and Anthei are way to go. I'm going to be a part of the heart, and you get a nice ease of distribution, and guess what? They build muscle. I'm Dave Olenvo with another red cond one, our X muscle ran.

All right, tell a vision on rxmuscle.com. This is ass-day evabedernone as hashtag. Askday brought to you by species nutrition visit speciesnutrition.com. I'm your host of the Barookey Fisk. Is your 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Lumball? All your questions on diet, training, supplementation, IVV, pros, competitions, life, and all of this. As Dave will have a rant on later tonight on rxmuscle.com, blood work. That rant available right now at rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle YouTube channel. We're now bringing Dave, Pallumbo, Dave, a special sale right now at speciesnutrition.com. Caramel, Machiaro, Isleys, 22 servings on sale now. All right, guys. I know you guys, I get people now who text me an email me, I'm asking me what's going to be the sale of the month. And sometimes we have some of them, so you don't. We have some product that's going to be expiring at the end of the next month. So we're going to really discount the hell out of it. Once again, it's a limited amount. I think we blew through, I think we said a record. Last month when we did that sale on cookies and cream, I think we sold that was it's cooking to cream, I think we sold out in like five hours or something like that. So if you want it, 22 servings, 1999, that is more than 50% off the normal. Well, price, once again, a terrific flavor. Last time we previewed, actually, well, that's how we did a sale on Caramel Machiaro. We increased sales like tremendous things. I think a lot of people hadn't tried it and it really is how good it was. So here's your chance if you haven't tried it, I realized yet. And maybe you didn't do it because you didn't want to spend the money. Here's a chance to get a tremendous discounted price. If I were you guys, I would buy case amounts of them because this stuff will last forever pretty much. I don't know about after the expiration date, but we can't legally sell it after that. So guys, here's your opportunity to get rock bottom pricing on Icedalize. I promise you, you'll love this and don't come crying to me when you find out later tonight, it's sold out. So head over to speciesindustrial.com and get it now. Again at speciesnutrition.com, let's get you your questions. The first two questions from the day plumbo experience at the first one. Save them on TRT.200 a week test at point 2mg or in the next two times a week. 30mg dha per day. My hematicrit is very high. 56 is a too high for me to donate. What do you suggest I do? Here's the thing with donate blood donation. A lot of times these blood banks won't take your blood if you're hematicrit's too high because they think there's something wrong with you. They don't realize that you're just taking out a blockstep. And you're just producing a lot of red blood cells, which is actually good because they're actually getting more blood for their blood bank for their blood bank for the bodybuilders. Some blood banks are a little more strict than others. I never had problems donating blood when I did donate it. But my hematicrit was never through the roof. The problem is that if your hematicrit is super high and they won't take you, I don't know yet they go get bloodlet, which is a pain in the ass and they charge it for the disposal of the blood. I don't know what the real solution is. I think just keep trying blood banks because they're all not consistent. A lot of times they just take your blood. Once again, the key is when you go to these blood banks, don't tell them like, if you had surgery like a month ago, don't tell them that they won't take your blood. There's a million different rules. Obviously, if you have a disease, you've got to disclose that. But once again, if you just have high hematicrit or red blood cell count because you're on anabolic or even HRT, just go in there and tell them you're perfectly helping you get blood. Once again, I don't even like giving blood unless it's really, really high and it's negatively affecting you. Sometimes I think once again, if you give too much blood, what can happen is your body overproduces blood. But once again, everyone's individualistic. If you have high blood pressure or you're not feeling so good, maybe get headaches, maybe a blood you might have, your blood might be too thick. In that case, it's probably a good idea to go give a pint of blood. I think their lower is, or the rule is you can only give blood every 58 days. That's at least when I was going to the blood bank there with that. I was convinced I had iron overload disease, so I was starting blood every 58 days. I don't think I really had it. But whatever the case may be, it did lower my iron amount than my blood. So once again, if you want to do it, there's no imperative however. Second question from the Dave Lomo experience at Dave I'm following your clinical diet, a cyclical diet rather, if I trained first in the morning, do I just have the ice-lines with peanut butter, pre-training, and then the ice-alize and 20 grams carbolized post on card days or is there a better option since I trained about an hour after I wake up? When you train in the morning, you need to get some nutrition in. Otherwise, in very little what you're going to do is you're going to burn some muscle. Your body's going to take breakdown some muscle tissue. It's going to turn those amino acids into glucose and use that as a fuel source. So you never want to wait trained on an empty stomach. Unless you're looking to lose some muscle, which is what I've been doing for less than a few years. But the truth is, if you eat a meal and then you go right to the gym, that meal is just going to be laying in your stomach. You're not getting anything from that. So I like to do shakes in the morning prior to wait training because that will get in fast. That's a, for instance, you're doing like isolize and carbolize. Maybe what a tablespoon of macadamia, not a oil in there. That's going to be absorbed relatively quickly because there's really no digestion necessary. It's all in digestive form already. So by the time you get to the gym and you're training a half hour after you have the shake, it's kind of in your bloodstream already. You can use that for fuel and you can use the amino acids, obviously, for repairing and dealing with the muscle tissue. And you shouldn't really have to worry about cannibalizing your muscle. Once again, if you have your five hole eggs and a bowl oatmeal and you go to the gym in 15, 20 minutes later, you're working out. More than likely, that meal is just laying in your stomach and you're probably having absorbed already much of it. You might have gotten some in there, but it's not serving a purpose. So shakes before you wait training, especially when you're doing it early in the morning, is usually a better way to go. We got this question last months ago, but again, when we have new audiences, we like to, I guess, we're in back these kind of questions from Bill Doom Miller, how do all the competitors travel to shows, gas appearances, exposures, etc. With your gear and everything else, and how do they get it through security? I can only give you my personal experience, and when I travel, it wasn't as crazy as it is now, but whatever you check into your check luggage that goes under the plane, they're really not looking for drugs in that. They're looking for, you know, bombs, you know, explosive devices. That's what they're scanning for, you know. So they don't really care what else you got in there. Now, if you're doing a carry on onto the plane, you're going to go through that little detector and they're going to actually stop and they're going to see everything in there. So they could ask questions. They may not care, but they could ask questions. So my suggestion is if you're traveling within the continent of the United States, in other words, not out of the countries. When you go out of the country, you get to go through customs and other countries. You don't want to bring gear with you. When you're traveling within the continent of the United States, just check the bag that's where you put your gear. You know, just put it, you know, put it inside a sock or whatever. Once again, they're not looking for that kind of stuff. I've had bag search because they put the bag, they always put a note in there when they search your bag. And I've had a lot of the steroids in the bag, you know, that I've taken with me for different appearances and then I'm like, oh, this bag got such nothing was touched. They didn't care. Because they're not looking for that. That's not what they're looking for. Once again, if you're going overseas or you're going to Canada, you're going to Mexico, and Mexico probably doesn't carry the, but if you're going to other countries, you know, they could look through your bags and they will, you know, especially Australia. I've never been searched more thoroughly than when I went to Australia. And I was worried about that. And it's funny for the funny thing is when they were searching me when I, in customs, I was definitely two hours. I went with Aaron, singerman, and PJ Braun. So Australia, and the both of them brought their hormone replacement that they were on with the prescription that they had, figuring it would be fine. Why they needed to bring it with them for, we were there for a week. I don't know. But they got to take it away from them. And they're like complaining. And meanwhile, the, the, the customs people, like, look, you're lucky. We're letting you guys go. This prescription doesn't mean anything here. And Australia, the prescription needs to be on the actual bottle itself. They don't really have prescription pads and something that's not how they work with it. So, but they went through my stuff. They went, it was like, they went through my stuff. They would ask me to be questions these guys about steroids. And I'm like, I don't have anything in here. I don't, I don't know if, you know, I don't know what you want me to tell you. They're like, well, you know, we read your column whenever and you thought you'd be. So, you know, while they were looking for something to arrest me, they were asking me questions about the stuff they were asking me to rescue about. But, you know, it's a pain in the ass because sometimes you forget. Wait, do I have something I have in my bag? I shouldn't have. So, whenever you go into an Ashley, you never know what can happen. Don't forget with you domestically, put it in the check luggage. Nate's lift, Dave, I'm a police officer. My activity level is low when I'm on duty. I work graveyard 12 hour shifts a night. I'm currently 250 pounds. I work out five days a week. I'm down at consuming 1500 calories a day. Currently on keto diet. And still can't wait. I mean, decent shape could there be something else going on? A call is going to hold on to wait or should I just keep dropping calories a month ago? I was consuming 2500 calories a day, but it was way more active before I went night shift. I started lowering calories, stay in shape. I feel like I'm starving myself. Any advice will be appreciated. Well, you probably are starting. So, that's pretty low to go for a man. You might be putting your body into like a metabolic shutdown type mode. So, you probably want to boost your calories back up a little bit. Just because you're not moving around as much doesn't mean you're body doesn't have an increased caloric requirement. The fact that you're working overnight, however, would imply to me that you're probably sleeping really erratically. And when you sleep erratically, your body doesn't function that well. Your body likes regularity. If you're not getting enough sleep, but you're not going to get the maximum performance out of your body. Having said that, you know, also you've got to be careful of what you're putting on your food. I did a video last week about, you know, the hidden, you know, dangers of right? I don't really know what we call it. The hidden secrets and food or whatever. The mistakes people make in other words, all the different condiments they use that have all hidden calories and sugars and carbs and facts in there. And it's funny because I put this video on it. I was very popular. I got a lot of hits. And today I got a question from a new client of mine and the life guy, I think it's fiancee was at it, or his wife was asking me, hey, is it our right if he eats? If he continues to have ketchup on his meals, I'm like ketchup. I'm like the worst thing you're putting on. Not only does it have carbs from the action tomatoes, but it actually has added sugar. So a lot of people, the usual thing people ask me is, hey, can I use sugar free ketchup, which is sugar free, but it still has carbs from the ketchup from the tomatoes that are in there. So that's still not good. So you've got to watch out for hidden calories. So you might be eating a low calorie, but you actually might not be as low as you. You think you are, because you might be adding sauces and stuff to your food, that you think is okay, but it might not be all right. So you've got to really look into that. I would boost the calories up a little bit and try to get more sleep if you can. Cobra Mustang does marijuana lower testosterone levels. I've heard doctors claim it, but does from my experience, I never had any issues. Dr. Drew is claiming you can get guy know from smoking, which I find hard to believe. I think alcohol would have a much greater testosterone, lowing effect. Look, they say that, and I don't know what the actual science is. So I'm putting it on the record. It's just I've heard and anecdotally I've seen when I was in college. A lot of guys who were big, big pot smokers had gynecromascia, and these guys didn't work out. They didn't take steroids. That's for sure. So with at least they think, as they think, if the marijuana can cause more aromatization of the testosterone. In other words, it will convert more of your testosterone into estrogen. Is that true? I don't know. So when I don't know something, I tell you that, but anecdotally I've seen it. I've seen people with bad guy know who were big pot smokers. So it could be that it does aromatize drugs more. We do know one thing. It certainly softens up to the extent. Guys who have big pot heads, they have trouble getting really dry and hard. And as soon as they stop the marijuana or get off of it, they were a couple of probiotics those that out there that you guys might know who did that, they do seem to have a completely different look to their body. So taking forward it is. If I was, you know, when I was bodybuilding at my peak and I was worried about every little thing I put my, I certainly wouldn't, I certainly wouldn't drink alcohol and I certainly wouldn't smoke pot. Let's go to TJ the jet. I drink a whole gallon of milk every day. Have a hard time eating as much food as I'm supposed to because of my job as, and my stomach problems that I have, what else would I, what else would I, if I can handle the lactose, is it a good source of calories and protein? Okay, with the fat, my hard gainers, so I don't put on extra fat, believe they're not. I didn't really get what you were saying, but he didn't mention something about he has stomach problems. Yeah. Terrors and of is a soft biggest two years ago, have them been able to eat like he used to. Oh, yes, Terrors is a, I mean, most people can't, even if you can drink milk, most people can't drink a gallon of the day. That's a lot of lactose to have to break down. And invariably, you're probably not and you're probably, you're gut bacteria, you're probably fermenting it. And when that happens, there's a lot of malabsorption of the protein. So you might not be getting it extracting as much protein as you think from all that milk. My suggestion would be to cut the milk consumption back quite a bit. You know, move to more of a way of isolate. Use that in place of it of the milk. I don't know how you drink it, but it'll give you just gulping it down. But if that's what you're doing, just gulped down way of isolate. You know, I used to make isolate shakes. Literally, I put like three scoops, you know, and they're almost 75 grams or more than 75 grams of protein, I would just gulped it down. Because it went down so easy. So I understand it's hard to eat sometimes. You want to get that protein down. But do it with a good quality way of isolate. Milk is not a really good source or it's not really a good extractable source of protein. I'm going to ask two questions that fairly related one from prime time. Why does it take a long time to feel a pump in my legs versus any other body part I train? The other question from CT nutrition, any advice on getting rid of the lower back pump when doing legs? You know, pump doesn't mean that you're getting building any muscle or doing anything. It just means you're pumping a lot of blood into the muscle. So, I mean, if you got under a squat bar with lightweight and did a hundred reps, you'd feel a pump in your legs, it believed me. But if you squat, you know, 405, 500 pounds for four clean reps, you're probably not going to get much of a pump in your legs, but they will feel fatigue. And that fatigue is what's building muscle. That's the breakdown of the fibers. It's a good dull, numbness you get. That's important. That's a growth stimulus feel to your body. Just getting pumped out of your mind doesn't mean anything. You're just pumping blood into the muscle. Pumping blood into the muscle is not the same as damaging the muscle fibers. I don't think it's the blood we've done. Mass on the damage. Damaging the muscle fibers, you know, so that they can grow back bigger. Let's go to you can talk something, something something. You did a video recently, Dave, on overcoming depression and suicide. He wants to know how to overcome depression when life seems to always be kicking your ass. Look, in the videos out there, but if you want to maybe give a little primer as we can refer him and others to view that video was about a couple of weeks ago, it's available on our SNLS about the YouTube channel. John Romano and I did a little iron rage about suicide and how it's become more and more prevalent and why do people do it? Some of the solutions to get around doing that and the way to change your thinking and then we did a little fun Steve Blackman make fun of at the end just to kind of add a little lightness to it. But depression is a real problem in our society nowadays. There's a lot of people walking around that are chronically depressed and I could tell you all day a lot, look at the positive, change the way you think, change the way you look at things, things you look at change. I give you every little saying, I give you personal experience, how when I'm down and I've changed the way I've done things and looked at things and I've gotten myself involved with other projects that I find that I'm passionate about. I can tell you that all day long and it's not going to change probably the fact that you don't feel good or that you're feeling depressed and I understand that and so it's hard but I promise you that if you can find something that you love to do and you can immerse yourself in and it doesn't have to be body-mode, it can be something else. I collect snakes, I'm like crazy nuts about that now so all you was thinking about it, I'm preoccupied all day because I'm not graded yet, I'm getting very good at it but I'm not going to say to me that's a challenge to step up my game. So that's something that I enjoy doing away from body-mode. So body-mode is my number one thing I love to report on and give information and educate people about but sometimes it gets overwhelming and you just need to break from it and that I go there and I clean my clean snakes' gloves or I go play it my kids. My new passion, my children, my family, is also there but sometimes you need to break from that too. My son can drive me nuts, you know and I gotta have something that can get me away or you get depressed. Some people have nothing, they don't have a family, they can't get it, hold a relationship down, they lost their job, they hurt, they tore their quiet, nothing's going right for them in their life. That's when you have to take inventory of what's going on in your life and say, you say, okay stop. What is good in my life? There's gotta be something good, there's always something good, it could be the stupidest thing, your plants in a tomato plant, your backyard and you got a great yield from it. Or you found a hundred-all bill on the ground or something, find something that actually gives you a smile on your face. No, I watch an RX mostly YouTube video, I laugh and ask them, okay that's good, I'm laughing, that means this humor in my life. Embrace what is good about what's going on, not don't preoccupy and obsess about what's not good and what you feel bad about. Because when you do that, you get more bad. It sounds hard because you know how can I obsess on a tomato plant producing a tomato? When you do that and you make yourself feel good and you find out that, hey, this is something I did well and I enjoy it. Now all of a sudden you're inviting more joy, more good, more prosperity into your life. It's not an instantaneous thing, so you have to practice looking for the good stuff that's going on in your life every day. In one day all of a sudden a lot of good stuff will come to you. But if you're always worried about what's not right in your life and what you don't have, you're going to get more of that, okay? And that's not what you want and that's why people fall through these funks and it mushrooms on top of itself and then before you know it, you feel like blowing your brains out with a gun and that's not an acceptable solution, okay? That's not, firstly, you're not getting out of anything, okay? You're going to have to come back and redo it again. So you might as well get it right the first time, okay? You've got a lot, there's always a new opportunity around the corner and the next day when you wake up there's always a new day and you get to start over again, okay? People sometimes think that they don't have that option, it's not available to them but I promise you it is. And once again, it's one of these things you have to have faith and believe and you cannot just say, well, day, where's the evidence? There is none. Except experience. And the people who have succeeded have experienced it, people who don't, you know, haven't succeeded. You have to have faith that this will work when I'm telling you, try it, I promise you you'll make things. Amen, brother. Peter, I'll all back, is back in me on that one. That was very, very deep insightful response to that. I don't know sure a lot of people will benefit from it. Rob, team, Fisher, David, your opinion, I'd rather than what's your opinion about trip to RELIN in PCT. Trip to RELIN is an interesting drug because it does two different things and it does two completely opposite things. If you take one shot of it, it actually stimulates your hypothermists and pituitary lip to start producing testosterone stimulating peptides, okay? Signals, LHFSH, it kind of turns your system back on. If you continue to take it however, which is when a lot of people do, it completely does the opposite. It shuts you down and blocks angiogen production in the body. So I don't really like the drug, okay? Because most people don't know how to use it. It's a one shot deal. That's all you can use it. Once again, trip to RELIN is usually used for angiogen inhibition, especially during people who have prostate cancer that's dependent upon angiogen production. So it basically cashtrates a man. It makes you produce no angiogen. So it's not something you're going to use continuously. I personally think that HCG, Kloomid, some of the antiaschogens out there, products, even like my test of life products, are things that are going to be infinitely easier to use and more effective and predictably always doing the right thing. Tripped around, little tricky. I wouldn't mess with it. Mike, you diesel, fake. Can you please clear up these broad science facts about white rice, jazz-minnerbuss-manteed, and then you're going to be able to find out the same thing as cream of rice purely. No added nutritional value when you do this right. I mean, rice is rice. What's face? What is it? It's a fuel source. It's carbohydrates. That's all it is. It's going to give your body fuel. It's like gasoline in your car. The gasoline in your car, and then how much you add to your car, is not going to make the engine bigger. It's not going to make the horsepower more. It's not going to make the car perform better. It's just fuel. Now, there are different types of fuel that you can put into your race car body if you want to call it. You can put like rice, and pasta, and you can use a cane, and oil. There's different carbs that have different release times and how quickly they're absorbed. I guess that would be analogous to the different types of gasoline, whether it's the 92, 94, 87, 89, you know, octane. There's different octanes out there. To me, pretty much all white rice type things, white rice jasmine, fast glycemic carb rice does the same thing, essentially. The brown rice, because it has the husk on it, and the fiber component, slows the absorption of it down quite a bit, and lowers its glycemic index, which means it gets absorbed slower, which means you produce less insulin over the long run. So, off season, why is I like my guys using the brown rice, is things that have lower glycemic indexes, you know, pre-census when I'm trying to car people up, I like the high glycemic carbs because they get into the muscle faster. Stolen, duck, they, what will be your advice to Aaron Clark, recently competed in both open and to 12 classes, finished after last place? I don't know what's going on in Aaron's life, so it's hard for me to give the right advice. He's got a good physique. The question is, should he go back down to 12 and compete, which I think he did suck down for one of the shows, or should he stay in the open and just continue to grow and make improvements? That's up to Aaron, Aaron has to decide where he feels that he fits. I think at this point, once you start gaining enough muscle and go up and wait to try to open it, go into that open because it's hard to go back again. But once again, if he diets down to his best and he's in his best shape and he's close to 12, it, it, it, it, it, it belongs to the probably dropped down and be the biggest guy in the 2012, is supposed to be the smallest guy in the open. I, once again, I don't know where his heads at, I don't know what kind of diet he's following, but he obviously was, we've seen him before at his best. This was not his best. Ronnie Walker, I hate this show, so in a support, your take on the importance of maintaining a pH balance or slightly alkaline body when I began making a series effort to do so, I felt much better and really got sick. Yeah, well, you know, an alkaline environment is what our body, you know, craves. When you're in an alkaline state, you know, your body is working, you know, optimally, you're processing foods and you're building muscle and you're burning fat, optimally, your body is, your immune system is working perfectly, like a wild, well-oiled machine. However, as acidic waste builds up in the body from ingesting tons of protein, stressing your body out, just living life in general, being stressed in general, will raise the acids in the body. Your body's ability to buffer these acids and create an alkaline environment becomes compromised. When that happens, now your body's first priority is no longer to build muscle burn fat. First priority is to fix the pH of the body, okay? Because the immune system will not function well in an acidic state, and that's where the danger occurs. If you test anyone's saliva pH, okay, when they have cancer or anything like that, you're going to find that they're very acidic. And that's because cancer is really a disease of immune system suppression. The immune system can function to eat cancer cells up like they normally do. Cancer cells grow on a baby, and now you have full lung, you know, the test-assizing cancer. So once again, you want to keep your body in an alkaline state and I've done videos on how to do that. You know, obviously a couple of the best things to do is a very high quality, key-laden calcium supplement, something like you would find in the mineralized works really well. You want to give your body outland water during the day. I've sell a product called Santa V. And water filter, it's like a burner filter. You pour your water in there for the tap and it filters the water and alkalineize. Drink three to five less than that of that of day in between meals or while you're training. You'll feel better because it helps flush toxins out. You're body uses the alkalinity in these products to neutralize the acidity that's in your body. And these are things that you just, you don't really realize are in there, but they definitely, it's helpful to helping your body to work at its optimal best. I wish when I was competing, I knew about acidity and alkalinity. And all that, I guarantee I would have been about about a better bodybuilder. As state brought to you by species nutrition, again, right now, speciesnutrition.com. Maramel Machiato isolized 22 serving is only 1999, while supplies last time for a couple of more questions. David Irons, when using a diuretic pre-contest, why do most bodybuilders opt for ATC-TZ, instead of a potassium-souring-dionate diuretic? I just didn't even potassium-sparing diuretic. Yeah, I know it's very missed all this sparing. You know, the diaside, which is a combination of hydrochlorophyside with the triumtheroine, is potassium-sparing. So it has the hydrochlorophyside action of a flushing sodium potassium out, but then the triumtheroine component actually makes your retain potassium. So the combined combination of the two is you just lose sodium and water. You don't lose potassium. And that's what I like to use. And I've talked about this repetitively already, but that's the best diuretic. The other ones out there have floors, lay six, Demid X, which are two common ones, flush a lot of sodium and water out, but they also flush potassium out. So if you cramp, you don't really know if you're potassium-sodium deficient, that's a problem. Aldactone inhibits the absorption of sodium via a hormone known as aldosterone. The problem with that is if you block aldosterone's action and you cramp and you want to reabsorbs and you want to eat some salt to help balance your lexylides, you can't absorb the sodium because you've stifled or you've de-sensitized or neutralized, your aldactone, excuse me, your aldosterone production. So that doesn't work well. And if you just take the hydrochlorothized component of the dieside, what you can do is you're going to lose both the potassium and sodium, just like you do with leicics. And so that's also not acceptable. So the dieside drug also known as moderetic in Europe is, and there's, I think, di-tide is another name of it. These di-tide work rate because that you know, the only thing you're losing is sodium. Time for a one final question, a bit of a left turn here from the top roller. Why do you think NASA died so early? Did he ignore blood pressure or was he particularly known for abuse? I believe that a doryniate did poison me because he was worried that I was coming for his title. And I think I was poisoned at the 97 Olympia where I should have brought home the first place. Trophy, many people in the tens, you, you, you, you, Dave, a jumbo, polomba, you, you told me that yourself, that yes, yes, that I should have won. But I think that I think the doryniate has poisoned me. Yes. NASA, you know, why would dory import poison you? He won the show. Yes, that, that, that, that's very involved. I, I cannot go into it right now, but I believe that to be true. Now, you know what, this is the deal. I'm going to, we're going to be doing a rant today on, with Lee Priest and John Ramano about the death of four and four pound body bottles because another guy just died a wrestler out there who just, well, I don't know if the time has got the little video. What? Oh, you know, an invader which is died, but big band-bader. And those, these guys are too big, you know, they're too big. They don't control their blood pressure and the blood pressure destroys their kidneys. They get heart disease from it. They get all kinds of different side effects going on. Their blood sugars get out of control. And it's like, you know, while you're young, you can handle it. And then you get to 50 years old and all of a sudden, everything falls apart. And it's, it's sad because, you know, NASA was a smart guy and I'm sure he could have avoided that. But I think what happens is we become obsessed with this, you know, thing called body building, being the biggest, strongest guys out there, always being heavy, always being huge, always eating too much food, never worrying about, you know, blood work and blood pressure. Because, you know what, these things that we don't want to know about it. Because if you don't know about it, then we can't hurt you, right? Well, it could hurt you later in life. And unfortunately, the list goes on from the Trevor Smiths, the Greg Colvax, the the NASA's, to the big band, the Vader, who just died, to many, many of the, the power of the Zothia, Ode Wilson. The list goes on. 400 pound people don't live a very long time. John Romano said it before. We've talked about this on Iron Age before. It just doesn't happen. And unfortunately, I believe that NASA became a victim of the same issue, you know, being over 300 pounds for a very long period of time, not necessarily addressing some of his health issues that he had going on. And he just didn't value his life as much as, as maybe some other people out there. I wanted, you know, I wanted to be the biggest guy out there, but I also want to live a long time, which which could be conflicting, conflicting desires, so to speak. So at some point I had to say, okay, I did one. Let's not push the envelope. Now I want to accomplish the second thing which is a little long time. So I had to switch gears and change the way I look how I ate and what I did. And, you know, luckily, you know, for me, I escaped, you know, from the clutches of possibly, you know, having an early death, you know, and I'm grateful to that. But, you know, a lot of people, that's why I educate people as to how to, you know, maintain your health and what health markets to be checking on a regular basis. Because bodybuilding can be done in a smart, intelligent, healthy way. It can be done in an unintelligent, ignorant, you know, death-defying way also if you're not smart. So once again, makes smart decisions, understand that this body, has got to last your entire life. And if you put too much straps on it, it will say FU and you will be dead at an early age, I hate to say. That is going to do for this episode of As Dave again brought to you by species nutrition. Once again, right now, speciesutrition.com, Caramel Machiazo isalyzed 22 servings available for 1999. For Dave Plumbo and Tyler, sure I'm Siddhi Furuki, we will see you next week.

Dave Palombo here, where the NRAX muscle ran. Ian Valier on his Instagram did a little post about why he's doing the Texas Pro this coming weekend. Especially on the light of the fact that he won't tamper pro, he qualified to the Olympia. A lot of people are being critical of him that he's taking away placings from people that maybe he, you know, why he's doing the show if he doesn't win, he'll lose momentum. And he basically, you know, laid it out pretty clearly. Hey, look guys, I'm doing the show number one because this is what I do for a living. I compete. I chose body building as my profession. This is what I do. I'm in shape. I'm going to do the show. I'm not worried about pretty much, you know, losing to anyone. I'm going there confident that, hey, I just want to show. I'm going to win this show too. I'm going to get number one more stage experience. I'm going to, you know, learn a couple more tricks about my body and how it responds to different, you know, car bumps and depletions, smart movie and brilliant move. The matter of fact, he's in the driver seat right here. He's the guy who who's who just, you know, came home with the victory. Everyone else is behind him. He beat everyone and he wasn't even at his very best. I say it comes to the Texas. So he killed me even better. I guarantee he comes in harder, drier and just as full. And I think we're going to see and even better in the value and that's going to give him more experience so that when he goes to the normal class, when he goes to the Olympia, he's going to start knowing how his body works now because he's not just competing once or twice a year anymore. This is a great move on his part. Not to mention why not grab the prize money while you're at it. I mean, it's his to lose really at this point. There's no one in that lineup really. I mean, with the exception of Steve Cuclough, who he hasn't really battled this year, that he can't beat. And I think that at his best, he can beat Steve Cuclough if he comes in the way he looked or even a little better than we saw in Chicago. This is a good move for him. Plus he's like basically staying stating to, hey, this is what I do. I can't be here. I'm not afraid of anyone. I'm going to compete again. Anyone who who shows up. If Rammy wants to come to Texas, that's great. I'll go against Rammy. That'll give me even more stage experience against this guy. And that's a great attitude. And you can't put this guy down because you know what? Look at Ashley Cautwasser. She's one 10 pro shows this year. And she's done probably another five that she, you know, placed in the top three at. And she's still going. And she's going to do them all. And you know what? If she can peek herself that many times and get on stage, so be it. Beater. If you can't beater, you're coming second and you accumulate points. And that's how it works. Okay? Flex Wheel or back in the day used to do all kinds of shows. He didn't just do the Arnold and the Olympia. He was doing, you know, the South Beach show. He was going up to Canada and doing shows up there because he wanted to collect money. I mean, that's what he does. He's a professional bodybuild. He wins money. Same thing with race car drivers. They go and do multiple races because they want to collect money. And they want to win. And they want to get sponsorships. Very smart move on the end part. I think once again, if it was huge gaps of time between these shows, maybe it wouldn't be such a smart move. These shows are right back to back. You got the Arnold coming up in a couple of weeks after that. Then he got the Olympia. So then he can shut it down only once and he can rest and relax and do whatever he needs to do. This is a very good move on his part. And I think it's going to turn out to be something that's going to be a game changer in the terms of how his career moves from this point of thought. Because he's a guy who was not comfortable on stage. He loves the gym. He likes the whole process. He wasn't comfortable on stage. You know what? The more you spend time on stage, the more comfortable you get. I wasn't comfortable when I used to compete initially. But I started doing a lot of guest closings. This is back when the guy's guest post back in the late 90s or early 2000s. And I was doing 20 to 30 a year. I got very comfortable on stage. And I got very comfortable in my body and body awareness and knowing where the crowd was and where the judges were. And that helped me tremendously when I competed. And that's why I toured the end of my career. Even though I wasn't maybe as good a bodybuilder as I was a little earlier. And I did better. I was placing him higher. And that's because I had better stage savvy and better body awareness and presentation. And that's all he needs to work on. So congratulations. Do what you feel you should do in your heart. Don't let anyone else affect how you think. And I'm not just saying this to Ian. I'm saying this to anyone out there. Look at Max Charles. Look at Muhammad L.A.M. This guy has done almost every show also this year. You know, he's writing the point running to accumulate enough points to go to the Olympia. And I guarantee he probably will because he's not stopping. He's still going. So I take my head off to the guys that are not afraid to get up on that stage and compete. Now, if you want to work to do on your physique and improve misome, I don't have any problem with people shutting it down for the following year. But when you're at the peak of your game and you're trying to get to that elite top six Olympia level, you've got to be if you can't be afraid to put it out there. Who knows to Ian Valier? I'm Dave Palumbo with an RX Muscle rant.

Welcome back to Muscle in the morning on Dave Palamo and today is Thursday August 9th, 2018. And let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Not to get too intellectually deep to start the week, but there is a philosophical principle called the butterfly effect, which basically says that the things you do here and now have major wide reaching implications down the road. Considering that his road to the Olympia stage runs out of real estate, in less than two months now, I'm sure that four time at Men's Physic Olympia champ, but Jeremy Wain Diaz is paying real close attention to the things he's doing right now. Everyone I've talked to tells me that the champ is coming into this year's contest with an underdog mentality, which is probably exactly what he needs considering the fact that he's still on the rebound from surgery earlier this year. But if he adds a fifth consecutive title to his resume this year, sooner or later it's going to be time for us to open the discussion about where he ranks all time in the pantheon of bodybuilding's greatest champions regardless of division. Another thing about wounded animals is that the smell of blood always attracts predators, and right now in Men's Physic, I think they see a wolf lurking out there in the distance that goes by the name of Jeremy Poppin, the two-time top five Olympian has essentially been a forgotten man in this year's Men's Physic mix, thanks to sitting out the entire first half of the season, but this week some new progress photos began to trickle out, and I'm sure I made a whole lot of people stop and do a double take. We've seen him have it all working in the past, this guy's physique is on par with the most elite talents in the division, so now that he's had an almost entire year of work on reloading the arsenal, let's see if he can come back and be a serious title contender. Now with the San Antonio spurs, finally sent Kawi Leonard packing, there's a huge sports superstar hole left to fill down there in the great state of Texas, and on the offhand chance that spurs GM RC Buford is watching this, let me be the first guy to say, give Steve Kouklo a contract, that man can sell some tickets. Need deep in the heart of his Olympia prep, the biggest thing to hit Texas since Hurricane Maria doesn't appear to be showing any signs of slowing down, even though it's been a relatively low key middle of the season for him, let's not forget how incredible this guy was throughout the whole first half of the schedule, because that version of Steve Kouklo is a beast in every sense of the word, and that beast shows up hungry and ready to eat in Las Vegas eight weeks from now, there are going to be a whole lot of people out there running in ducking for cover. The good news on the IFB counter heading into last weekend's monster event that went down in Tampa was where two 12 fans had a chance to see veteran rixio topia make stop number two when it's 2018 campaign. Over the weekend we got some new video from our sources inside the topia camp, who gave us a sneak peek at how he's managing his rebound strategy after putting on one of the best performance of his pro career. According to Topia and his team, the goal heading down the mid-summer stretch is to do whatever it takes to make it back to the Olympia stage in 2019. A place they haven't been since the start of the Flex Lewis era back in 2011, so if they can show up with his conditioning spot on and be ready to make the judges work, I don't see why he can't find a way to find his old impressive Olivia Form. I have a new fan of stand-up comedy for a long time now, and I tell you first-hand there's nothing quite like being in a room when a comeback is on stage completely crushing it. But the new updates I saw from William Bonack over the weekend are pretty close. One of the scariest men in bodybuilding is looking more and more dangerous by the day now, which tells me how bad he wants to be the man to interrupt King Phil's date with Destiny this year. At this point, I think we can all pretty much agree that outside of it really winkler, there hasn't been anyone in men's open who has been as good as this guy over the last 12 months. So Phil slips up and leaves that door open even a crack. It could be all a guy like Bonack needs to come blasting through and what would be one of the biggest upsets of all time. And that's the end of another edition of Muscle in the Morning. On day, Phil Lamo reminding you to always be true to your passion, and they sort of follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

You want to save care to your health, maximize your immune system, grow muscle and lose that faster? Over immune is not urgent spices. It's not a proprietary one. It's patented. It's a one-of-a-time product. It's backed by science from the University of Wisconsin Man's. Over is approaching adbion. It's different. It's real science. It gets real results. Check us out at Provid.com. Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X-Bot, our 30-year-in-a-row. And what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching a tasty pastry with a low-car caulk tart. We've got three and four grams of neck carbs and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. I'm Dave Palombo, founder of Species Nutrition. I created Species Nutrition with one mission in mind to provide body builders and serious athletes with no nonsense supplements that work and are backed by science. From my earliest body-building days, I believe in only putting the best in my body and that lives on in the Species Nutrition line of products. We use only top-of-the-line formulations, toast from maximum results and the best flavoring systems available. I put my name and reputation on every bottle of Species Nutrition product. If you want to be your absolute best, join the evolution. After working hard at the gym, you need a mattress that works as hard as you do. Spinaline has engineered the perfect mattress for you and your active lifestyle. Don't compromise your recovery within fear or sleep or to your spinaline mattress today. All right, I still have vision on rxmuscle.com. This has been a great video. As hashtag, as Dave, you're 30 minute question and answer show with Dave Plumbo. I'm your host, Steve Furuki. This is your forum. Task anything in everything, diet training, nutrition, news inside and of course outside the body building world. That's been out bringing Dave Plumbo. You just wrapped up a one-hour interview with Ian Valier. Now, this is someone we've been meeting to get on for quite some time. We wanted to get a mum before the tempo probe. He was very, very wrapped up in his prep. You wanted to get him on to talk about what happened in the tempo probe. Or it's finishing runner up to Hunter LeBrata. If you want to get the audience a little primer before you put it up on the channel. Yeah, you know, I had watched he had done an interview with a foot obvious, and he talked about the fact that the stress and the pressure of the show got him, and I could relate to that in terms of like, you know, sometimes people, you know, crumble. Not many people are like Jay Kotler that they have that mindset that's so absolutely powerful and doing something like that. I wanted to get into that and wanted to get into with him what bodybuilding meant him was it how important was it that he really enjoy competing or not He was very very it was a very honest interview He gave and I think people are gonna really enjoy it because I think people gonna be able to relate to it because I think one of the things that that came out Was the guys like Luke Sandow while they loved the bodybuilding they really enjoy the competition aspect of it as much because it was a lot of pressure for them And you know if you can't deal with pressure or if it doesn't become fun anymore You know sometimes you have to go with different direction, you know, and so that was one of the topic big topics We talked about in the interview and I think you guys will enjoy it and then take a look at it and You know because not everyone get everyone thinks wow if you're at the top level you know if you game You know you should love it. It should be great. I mean what it's not that easy when you get to that level People respond differently to stress Look at the actors some actors are Rock solid their whole entire career other actors they become super famous they make a ton of money And then they before you know it they're like arrested or something crazy happens to them or they die young So you got it you know everyone because everyone's a different type of individual and they we all respond to the stresses of life differently And that was it's a very important interview I think for all of us out there who bodybuild should watch because I think it's applicable to all of us Well as everybody knows and as anyone has seen Ian on our channel on other channels Really one of the more insightful minds and all of bodybuilding Bodybuilder himself but also a coach Best known coach to Chris Bonsett his brother-in-law But it is a very very very insightful look into his psyche so something that you know fans of bodybuilding and of course those who you know saw the the tempo approach transpired a couple of weeks ago wanted to see what was going through his mind then and after So much was made you know between pre-judging and finals and how I guess apparently he had deleted his Instagram So he talks about everything and it's a really really really In-depth interviews you're not gonna want to miss or win a put up on the channel tomorrow Thursday afternoon on rxmuscle.com and the rxmuscle youtube channel if you're watching us on youtube for the first time Hit the subscribe button below hit the notification bell So you don't miss any of our new content of our new uploads of course as soon as that interview goes up with Ian You're gonna see that as well if you like what you're watching hit the thumbs up button Comment below obviously it helps us a lot and as always we thank you for all of your support Let's go to the questions first two questions from at the day below my experience after first question Dave something you talk about quite often and the value of fat Well the question is why is fat essential for building muscle? You know that's a good it's a good question I've talked about it before but you know it's worth remanitioning here and revisiting and I think a lot of people feeling can think it's not relevant now I think a lot of people originally thought and myself included when I first started that That was just the fuel source essentially and that we really didn't need very much of it for bodybuilding purposes There was all about protein but when you think about all the hormonal aspects The steroidal hormones all the fat side hormones are made from fat in the body all of the cholesterol carriers HL LDLs made from fats Every membrane that surrounds every cell in the body also known as the cell membrane is made up of essential fatty acids and some saturated fatty acids So when you break down muscle tissue or and or you your body replenishes any any tissues that it breaks down whether the you know the internal intestinal lining you know the bodies in the constant state of remodeling okay but specifically in a very very high state of remodeling because of the fact that we're in the gym destroying Numerable amounts of muscle cells on a daily basis We need the building blocks of a fatty acids Specifically the poly and saturated fats the omega-freezen sixes because these are used to rebuild those membranes So not only is the protein component of the muscle cell broken now, but the cell membrane component is as well So if you want to maximize your gains in recovery You need to take in a certain threshold amount of fat now for each person is different It you know it usually body weight is the Dependent but some people have higher Requirements to not this I have a very high fatty acid requirement in my body I could eat you so much fat eight on the course I probably Almost as much fat as I approach in during the course of a day I just that I think my body uses fat as a fuel source really readily, but it also for repair purposes and Until I restore fact Okay to an optimal level in my body because I was one of these you know late 80s early 90s body bullies We ate Protein and carbs that was it and I could not grow I got stuck at a point and I couldn't gain any mass I told the story before about McDonald's and all this stuff, but The bottom line is you cannot deprive yourself of any essential nutrients in the body And that's why taking a essential fatty acid supplement like the Omega-Lized formula that I make from species nutrition is so vitally important At least if you take that you know you have the essential fatty acids that your body Absolutely needs and cannot turn cannot create on its own That alone will give you a piece of mind. Okay, you know what at least I'm not Sacrificing my ability to repair muscle because I don't have a central fatty acid So that's number one, but then you also need to intake and dietary fats once again because the more muscle you break down the higher the amount of fat You need to ingest as well because once again if you could if you need to if one person needs 200 grams of protein per day And another guy needs 400 to grow and repair then obviously the four-inch of gram protein guys Gonna need a lot more fat than the 200 gram protein guy because it's proportional So if you if you're breaking down double the muscle you're you need double the fat too So a lot of people just don't realize how how vital that is So probably from a body building standpoint now you're putting aside the health perspective from a body building standpoint of muscle growth and repair We need fat Second question again from the Dave Fulumbo experience app The question in itself is pretty simplistic so I'm gonna take it a step further The question is are cheap meals or refeeds needed in the off-season? I guess if you want to take it a step further if you want to add the benefits or value To cheat meals in the off-season. Yeah, you know for people who don't eat that clean in the off-season if they're probably not necessary But I was always such a clean eater and the reason why I ate clean in the off-season was it was not Had nothing good metabolism I could do anything the reason I cleaned is because if I ate too much junk or too much higher sugar foods or higher fat You know higher you know nasty fat foods I would kill my and blunt my appetite. Never remember I would had to eat 10 to 12 times a day If you're eating if you're eating junkier foods, you can't consume as much as you can if you're eating clean foods because clean foods go through faster And they process faster. So for me I looked forward to a weekend sheet meal because it was it was a you know I would eat yogurt or you know like those frozen yogurt So it should really ice cream essentially I would go and have oil you can eat you know buffet Since I'm in that show it was a name it enabled me to have like extra and I always did it the end of the day So I had already got all my good meals in now and then it was like icing on the cake For people who who who gain weight really easy and don't need a ton of food You probably don't need a specific specified sheet meal other than if you wanted to say hey It was one day where I'm eating what I want a lot of guys don't eat that clean in their off-season So for them It's irrelevant but the way I structure my diets and for my you know athletes that I work with it's pretty clean off-season eating and Then I give them that sheet meal so they can kind of go nuts one day a week and I don't mind because it doesn't matter It's only one meal Let's go to the Instagram questions again if you're not following us already it's underscore or Ex-Muscle official underscore or Ex-Muscle day the first three questions that kind of sandwich together So they all have to do with carbs So I don't know if you want to ask them all rat that fire and you want to take your time answering them or you want to go to an Individual league. Let's see let me hear what you grab the fire. So one is your take on front carb loading The other one is can you carb load on BCA's two when I answer those two first? I don't know what would carb loading on BCA's really is you're not gonna not kind of really Stored like a chin-y taking in branch Shane amino acids. I mean So you really I mean I guess they're referring to the fact that maybe mixing carbs with branch Shane amino acids Opposed the eating with like a protein source you always want to eat carbs with protein You never want to just eat them alone. I'll tell you why because protein buffers the insulin response Okay, what it means is it slows down how fast the food is absorbed Okay, and it prevents you from overreleasing insulin because when you eat pure carbs You release your body just goes crazy and releases too much insulin usually so Protein kind of balances that a little bit so and also when you got to remember a lot of people think Oh, I'm carbing up the last couple days. I don't really need to eat any protein You're dumbies just still eat you still repairing muscle You know, you know unless you took three weeks off from the gym, you know before you show you're you know Just because you have been trained in a day or so it doesn't mean you're not repairing muscle It takes probably two weeks before you bite it repairs all the muscle from your last workout you did Likewise as I mentioned earlier you're still Replacing you know the internal lining of your intestinal track your skin cells your hair nails That's that's a protein requirement So you don't want to start cannibalizing Skellable muscle which is the expendable muscle source Okay, while you're carb loading because you're gonna you're gonna start flattening at and not looking as good So I don't I very rarely reduce the only time I reduce protein is that last the day of the contest Because on the day of the contest you don't need to eat a ton of protein So if a person's eating eight or seven or eight ounces of protein per meal I might have me for four and a half ounces of protein per meal with their 50 60 whatever 70 grams of carbs per meal Only on showday because on showday you're really not drinking anything So you really don't want to be taking the tonic protein, but you do want to have some so it balances that insulin response Now I just wanted to just throw a plug in here for my good friend Heinz senior who sent me these great are a Tumosal masks that are adjustable So if you guys are looking for a adjustable mask I don't even know where he's selling him I got I gotta find out, but see they got this little like dry string I was showing him my after I was there that it's the only mask that fits me because I could actually adjust how how why they are August and they don't because the ones that they sell in the store They're usually too tight at the big head and they are they're always pulling my ears back like this and so These are great. They have the repeater one. We have the one with a little logo in here I got to get to see I got to get some of these for you so you can wear them through your nails and gigs Yeah, no one Just coverage otherwise I'll be wearing the hospital one. Let's go I'm gonna throw in a third one here It's from Ivan body building Do you think insulin would help at all when carbing up for a show if you're not consuming a crazy amount of carbs? I don't think it's necessary now now you could tell if it's necessary very easily By testing your blood sugars, okay if you're carving up and your your blood sugars are running high Meaning you're not absorbing your carbs properly because for whatever reason your insulin's not working You don't have you don't produce up insulin or because of the GH you're taking the insulin's not working Or because of the clumbutor all you're taking it's raising your blood sugar because you know Clumbutor all can raise blood sugar by and by causing glucogun production Very simple like I said as your carving up you test your blood sugar if it's if it's running high It like two hours after your meals if you're running over one 30 or your fastings in the morning or over 90 You might want to take a little fast acting insulin with your meals while you're carving up, but I don't but in my experience most people don't need that Let's go to Samurai 84 thoughts on a young guys in the industry opting it to be on TRT Does Uranus are cycling by young men early 20s? Yeah, I think it's stupid. I don't I don't think staying on HRT is is necessarily Bad for your health toxicity wise because I mean, let's face it an HRT dose is It's gonna do nothing. I think what the problem is Is that you're not allowing your receptors to resensitize themselves because here you are you're on the high dose You go down to TRT dosages, but you're still like taking in the exogenous source of testosterone and you're You're maintaining your your levels at a high or maybe slightly higher than high normal Value your receptors really are still overstimulated So they're not gonna they'll improve somewhat your engine and receptors, but they're not gonna go back to baseline normal If you go off and you go low because what happens? Look at when you go off a side like you can take all the HDG and one you're still gonna be low testosterone Okay, that's good for a few weeks it four weeks of being low is not gonna it is not gonna end in a world You won't even realize it probably But what it's doing is it's resensitizing the receptors because the body doesn't know it doesn't have enough testosterone The engine receptors think that this is not enough and the engine receptors pro president So they increase their numbers and that's the advantage of going completely off every year and I guess that I've told the story before One year out of my entire career. I didn't go off. I stayed on like an HRD pet like five million ribs a week I felt like that It was in 2000 1997 I just placed fourth and 96 nationals behind Warville Burke Tom Prince and Jay-Totler I probably should have been hired I year but whatever for whatever reason this I was happy was my first placing in a national a pro qual file show I was over like excited about the whole thing I stayed on the whole year. I had a lot of guest posing. I should have gone off like I did every year I didn't have to national's like stayed on and in 97 I I placed fifth of the nationals And you know what I my body looked tired even to myself and and one of the judges told me that Of course, I was insulted when he told me that but I looked at the pictures after what I said You know what he's right. I didn't I wasn't sharp something like I didn't improve It was the only year I hadn't really made improvements I did my body weight went up a little bit like five or six pounds But but I I wasn't a better look for some reason and that upset me and I realized you know what I got to clean out and I went off like 12 or 14 weeks after that That nationals in 97 and I looked I thought I looked and felt way better the following year so Whatever it's worth Sorry, I'll just go to JD J bear Shockey your take on doing standing calf raises one leg at a time By feeling is that it allows for a greater mind muscle connection Obviously the weight will have to be reduced because you won't let it at a time Would love your opinion our thoughts and for the more is that something that you tried during your bodybuilding career I'll you can't do standing calf raises one leg at a time because it's impossible to balance the weight would happen to you greatly reduce But what you can do when and what I used to do sometimes is every like maybe other work out I would go on a leg press machine You know they had that little pad that extends and I put my foot and I would do one leg is on there with lighter weight of course Because now I don't the balance myself I'm kind of laying in a comfortable position and I can do my one one leg at a time And this way I would make sure that both gas truck nameiest muscles on the right and the left leg We're getting equal work and if one was a little behind the other one I would do a little few extra sets Excuse me a few extra reps for that the weaker or smaller calf and I felt that kelp kept the balance really well However as my career progressed and my calves kind of came up and they were they looked pretty good I was able to kind of balance it just doing standing calf raises with ball plagues I kind of knew which leg was was the weaker one So I would kind of favor that one when I would do the two leg it and I and I kept my legs pretty much in good balance But initially when I had the little bit of an imbalance that's what I would do Don't try to do a standing calf with the butt with the with the pad on top of you standing one like at a time You'll never balance your wine of twisting your ankle or something like that It's not worth the aggravation and the impossible injury Yeah, so that is second question as well You're take on assisted pull-up machines that a lot of gyms have I've been incorporating into my back training rather than regular pull-ups And I feel it allows me to really focus on hitting the last back muscles and getting a great overall Contraction I like the assistant it's kind of like you kneel on the pad and it kind of like you can set a weight stack I've of how much assistance is giving you as you're doing those pull-ups and I used to you know when I hit a certain weight I don't know if it was about 280 or something to seven when I hit a show I couldn't pull my body up my body weight in many more it was just I was too heavy And my most of my weight was in my legs so it was like dead weight hanging there So when I would do what I would do is I would usually every other back work I would do the assisted pull-up machine. I still think pull-ups are the best that I fact I said Which is the problem is when you get very heavy it's hard to pull your body weight up and I'm a guy who is a stick Well, I would get my my verse of grippers on there and I would literally pull up with till my chest hit the bar I mean that I believe in full range of motion and it's very hard to do that when you weigh you know 300 pounds So by standing you know kneeling in that little pad and giving you that assistance You can count a balance today as much as you want depending on how much you put on that weight stack It definitely gives you the ability to still do pull-ups without having to worry about you're being too heavy It was good a John Patty current Dave the maximum amount of scoops of way You should put in a shake without it being a waste of protein I've used up to six scoops in the path before bed To try and curb hungering side of so I might sweet tooth. I'm a bit concerned that a some of the protein will not be utilized and b It may be stressing out my digestive system. Yeah People who tend to do too many scoops like I do a kid or you was doing like a hundred grams of way protein like four or five times a day That's a lot of protein They their breath would stink of and it wasn't their breath really it was an internal body odor They were just reeking ammonia And that's just because the kidneys and the liver couldn't deaminate all that they were overeating protein That means if you're if you got an ammonia breath coming out of your body You're probably eating too much protein or something toxic is going on in your body so you know 60 maybe 70 grams of the most of protein per meal is probably Nax what I would do I think 60 grams of way I so like if you did two scoops of ice-sized Which is about it comes out to you about 55 grams of protein that's ideal You don't really need to go much higher than that. I'd rather you do more frequent meals or shakes Then try to jam more into each Because remember you can only utilize so much per meal in other words and and it's really dependent on how big you are So if I'm 300 pounds Let's say I could assimilate 60 grams of protein obviously I'm gonna be able to assimilate more than say a person who's 180 pounds would Because I have more muscle mass. Let's say 60 grams is perfect for me But I have a very fast metabolism and I might even tabilizes this stuff as soon as it hits my bloodstream So instead of doing a 120 grams of protein, you know six times a day I'll do 60 but I'll spread it out you know over 12 meals. That's why that's why I was eating so many times a day because I didn't want a jam at all into one big meal because I knew the body couldn't utilize in all at once So I kind of experimented and so how much my body can handle which for me was about 60 to 70 most grams of protein per meal I would never go over that and Especially with shakes because shakes get absorbed so quickly. Only one shot if you eat a steak that 70 grams of protein It's gonna take eight hours to absorb that whole steak okay, the way you're because the digestion is so slow But way goes right in so if you're infusing that much protein into the bloodstream that quickly Your body has to break something that down and get rid of it and that's just a waste It's a waste number one of money But it's also a waste because it's causing your body to have to work hard it to break down the stuff when it doesn't need all that protein It's gonna jam it and mills with a reclassification of Hc G by the FDA for TRT HRT related purposes What are your thoughts on clinics prescribing and forgive me if I get it strong gonna derail in as a substitute? I know that most compounding pharmacies don't want to pay for the new licenses of course, but is this going to have much of an effect on TRT HRT effects efficacy you know, TRT is really Predicated on a replacement dose of testosterone So the the an-an-fate shot you take on the test sipping a shot you think that's really what's giving you the bang It's the Hc is kind of just Stimulating the testicles Hc G is more of a post cycle or if your body you for some reason you want to turn your body back on Because you want to try to get your wife pregnant or something like that It's really not necessary to be honest with you, you know Really honest I don't think I took an ACGG I only took an HcG shot once a year Because that's when I would go off so I would do cycle the whole year, you know Offseason into pre-contest after the show is over. I did my HcG for two weeks literally that was it and then I went and then I Stayed off for six or eight weeks, you know, and then I went back and then again I never took HcG off if there's no reason to it's like literally going to the beach To enjoy the sand and bringing like a little a ziplock bag of sand with you and saying Look, let's throw this on the beach. We're gonna have a lot more sand now You're not gonna even know it's there you're basically wasting you should Might just keep the sand at home because you're wasting it because it's you're not Gonna even know it's there. It's not doing anything in relation to what you're taking already because you're taking so much more injectable Testosterone that that little bit of HcG that's gonna cause you to produce a little bit of natural testosterone is not doing anything Okay now Have you said that if you're on an HRT dose to testosterone, which is a hundred maybe 200 milligrams a week max And you know It's not gonna be a super super high amount and you want to take a little HcG with that to keep your testicles working Just to feel good because maybe the the the TRT dose is not giving you enough in terms of sex driving crease That's fine, but on cycle it doesn't even pay to take HcG while you're on the cycle Let's go to mod soloski Lucas low IGF1 level despite high GH level on blood test farm at GH Should you pay attention to it apparently level of IGF in the blood if not reliable? And we should be interested in the level of IGF in the muscle and that can only be checked with a biopsy your thoughts Girl hormone injections don't cause increases in IGF Basically local muscle IGF There's two types of IGF there's the IGF that's systemically produced and that's from the liver Essentially you're you take a GH shot of your body releases growth hormone It goes to the liver it tells the liver basically produced IGF1 Okay, that's why it used to be called so mademeed in C because median mean in the middle So you'd have the GH at the top Sumatem mean into the middle and then and then the the the growth effect from it is what you get Okay, so and then they change the name from some out of the insane to IGF1, but because it had an insulin like effect on the body But that's the systemic effect now when the your body systemically releases IGF1 in Relation to growth hormone injection or release It will find the target issues that have been damaged so if you break down your biceps from doing a bicep routine They'll cause Local production of IGF1 receptors that systemic IGF1 will locate those receptors and bind to them and help prepare Okay, they'll muscle there that that that we know But also there's a local production of IGF1 so when that when the muscle cells are mechanically disturbed Because you're in the gym and you're training right and they're broken apart at the mechanic of this disturbance You release something known as a mokmocanograph factor Mgf It's really just local produced IGF1 it's the same hormone, but it's being trickled out locally From the tissues as their damage and mechanically disturbed and that helps with local recovery right there So you don't you don't have to depend on this on systemic taking gh doesn't affect that that local production of IGF1 Now there was a this this you go to these peptide sites and you can buy a mokanograph factor Ngf and a lot of people thought well if I take an angel and I'll get local growth Not really because what's happening is you inject it into the muscle of your arm your bicep and then it's in the bloodstream And 30 seconds and it doesn't stay there But when your body is trickling it out in that area in relation to like I said a mechanical disturbance down there That's why you're getting some growth from it because it's being trickled out constantly in in this area You can't really duplicate that by injection Okay, now if you're taking growth home and you go to get your your labs checked and your and IGF1 levels are not elevated There's a number of reasons, you know assuming the gh is real it could just be that you're about you have it delayed response to it You might have already released your you know IGF gets elevated, but it doesn't stay elevated very long So you might have missed the perfect window of when it went up So that's why that that whole test of a I'll take a shot of GH go to the doctor two hours later Get a blood work and I'll see what my IGF1 levels it doesn't always work that way That's just not the way our bite. We're not we're not robots. Okay unfortunately That's why the right test kit that I sell for testing GH at daypaloma.com is so important because it's like It's almost like a pregnancy test you dip the stick in for 20 seconds you put it on the table you leave it after 20 minutes If you got two lines it's fake if you got one line It's real it's that easy and and everyone who uses GH should test because I hate them I keep reporting worse than worse statistics, but it's true I would say 75% of the GH out there is nothing zero has nothing in it And the other 25% you know seems to be good how what's the dosage? We don't really know now what's as far as anabolic skill for my experience over the last You know a couple years with his right test kits. I'm seeing that a lot of the anobox The last six months have been coming back as test propina Meaning that if it's an injectable rather than putting decker rather than putting test an antfait rather than putting Master on and they're putting test propinaated there because it's cheap and Most of the orals I'm seeing tested the anobars and the winchials which a lot of women are using They're coming back as diannable method and just stand alone Probably at least 70% of the time so you have to test your gear you've got to go to go to my website You got to buy these these it's part of your regiment if you're gonna buy the steroids in the GH by the test kits At least you'll know if they're good or not and the great thing is the new test kits are quantitative or Senate 70 quantitative Mean that you can see what the dosages on test test Test an antfait test sipping a deck at And try an anthe you can actually determine what the range of dosages in there It's a separate test it's called the 20 quantitative test you buy that and you could test your your gear Not only for if it's real, but if it's how much is in there if you buy the complete testing system Everything's in that kit you know you just might have to buy some refills depending on how much you're testing But everything is in the kit so Yeah, it's it's bad news, but it's good news is bad news because it's unfortunate that there's a lot of unscrupulous It's kind of that's a word there are a lot of people that have no scruples about them And they'll they'll sell you anything the good thing is that we have testing kits to verify if this stuff is good Time only for a couple more questions. I'll just go to Ben barnbell at Nutrition. Do you think someone really needs to go all in on Balking or trying to lean out or is there a middle at ground approach to be hadn't gaining muscle and staying only Look, you know depends what your goals are I was an extremist when I was growing I wanted to grow as much muscle as possible when I would lean out I want to get as ripped as possible. I don't like this like well I'm happy with the balance in my life. I wasn't balanced. I wanted to be extreme So for me There's no casual diet and there's no casual bulk up. It doesn't work you get no results You gain two pounds or lose two pounds and that's not acceptable to me So when I did something I did it at a hundred percent Now that's not to say that I'm not going to if I'm walking up I'm not going to eat Way more food than I need and you can turn to a fat slob just the game way It means I'm going to specifically target my diet so that I know that I can maximize gains and recovery Okay, and not worry necessarily that getting bloated or not necessarily worry About hey, oh I have to stuff eight meals or 10 meals down my throat every day. It's too much I don't want to be bothered I'm I've bloated I didn't make those excuses I said hey this is what I want to look like and I know what I get to do to look like that so I'm not going to make excuses If I feel like I'm going to throw up half the day because I hate eating all that food so be it. I'm getting that food down Let's go to Shawnee boy fit Dave. How do you feel you would have compete done competing in this era? Do you think you would have gone pro easier? Relatively speaking and do you think you would have made it to the Olympia stage? What if anything knowing you know now? Would you have done differently again? I just competed today I think I definitely would have been pro because I think it would have been easier for me to turn pro There was more opportunity you know Think about I play second twice at the national level show. I mean now they're giving pro cards for top two It national so I definitely would have turned pro How I would have done is the pro. I don't think I would have made it for the Olympia stage Unless I had a show I got really lucky and one because I was the only guy there that was like shredded and big You know because there were guys the just the structures on the even today These guys have this beautiful structures. I can't see winning a pro show today You know back in the day you place top three you made it to the Olympia You know that's not the case today. So I don't think I would have made it through the Olympia stage I probably would have placed top five maybe a couple pro shows I definitely would have gotten a pro card like that's it just because I think it was bit would have been easier And I probably would have made a lot of money because you know They didn't have social media when I was competing so you know people like to see big freaky guys If I would have documented what I was doing and eating I think people would have found that entertaining You know I would have been doing what I'm doing now just would have been in a different perspective would have been more in relation to me Rather than in relation to what everyone else is doing. You know Last question now you're gonna have to tell the story a little bit to breakfast Who would win in a fight you or your dentist? It's a good question. I don't know When I get angry you know You know the old saying you've seen my routine you wouldn't like me when I'm angry you know I turn it to the Hulk You don't want to make me turn it to the Hulk and I don't like to turn it to the Hulk because I'm a mild man or you know reporter You know from the metropalten newspaper, but When I lose my cool I could be pretty dangerous so You know you screw around with me with my mouth guard, you know three times the succession and you know You're done so I think I would take the dentist out. Yeah. He's a little on the skinny side But he is a little younger than me, but you know when I hit him with the Hulk smash that's it it's over We had to get this one last one in from a surge body dead. Is there anyone in body building that you haven't met before But you wish you had the chance to meet them in person It's good because it's a congression Yeah, I've never had I never had a sit down with Arnold Schwarzenegger I don't know why I I've a cost at him at a buffet once before at Whole famed ceremony and asked him about the meat bully bus eating, but I I don't know why I just never got a chance to interview and really sit down even talk with him I've shook his hands before he's come by by booth before and and we've said hello politely But you know, I've never really had a chance to sit down and talk shop I would love to hear some of the Arnold stories and just sit down and get him in a relax even if it wasn't an Interview for like a like a for for Channel or anything like just to shoot the crap with Arnold you know that that would I think though I think that would be interesting. I'd like to know like you know what he's like, you know Just just hanging out because I heard he's very funny and I already is really cool You know when he hangs out with all his buddies, you know that you know he grew up with you know all the body bulls He'll make like Ralph Mueller hit like most must-see-l-shots and you know He'll tell Fred used to tell Frank a wolf and time to hit poses, you know and you know they would have fun So I I know Arnold got a good sense of humor like that, you know, I'm kind of like that too He's sarcastic he doesn't make himself that seriously So I guess it would be Arnold you know that was really you know Lufra Ignel was my other guy. I really looked up to coming up and dory into so those guys I kind of am friends with so I I can't you know that kind of check that box off But Arnold was always that like a loose of you know because I kind of got into the sport when he was like almost too popular so to speak and I couldn't get close enough to him in that sense and So I guess it would be Arnold because he's kind of like an an enigma for me because I don't really know him on a personal level And that's gonna do for this episode of as Dave Reminder tomorrow episode the interview with Ian Valley a going up tomorrow afternoon Stay around two clock Easter center time on our smustle.com and the our exp muscle youtube channel Of course if you have not yet already subscribed hit the subscribe button below hit the notification button Not gonna miss any of our upcoming segments or any of our content and of course if you like which you're watching hit the like button Comment below appreciate your support as always for Dave plumbo and Tyler sure. I'm city for rookie. We'll see you next time

Today, Palombo here with an RX muscle spotlight. Today's guest is a special one and I love to get special ones here, especially when they accomplish something really, truly unique. Not only did she win her pro-card at the team universe in figure, but she also won it in women's physique in the same show. Very infrequently do you see that happen? The woman I'm talking about, of course, is Ashley Sodden. Come welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me Dave. I'm so excited to be here and to do this with you. Yeah, you know, the last person, I know it's happened a couple of times. I've remembered Nicole Wilkins back in the day, winning fitness and figure at the team universe one year. And I think she was the first person to ever do that. It's very unique. I actually think that that's a much more natural crossover. You did figure and women's physique, which is way different because you got to do poses and one is just turns what made you decide to do both? You know, I've always aired a little bit on the more muscular side for figure as far as you know, other competitors that I go against every point. And so when I was talking with my coach, Victor Nell Campo, he kind of gave me a little friendly nudging. And so you know, maybe we should take a look at women's physique. I have this feeling, this little inclination that you're going to do pretty well. And I'm not going to go away, but you know, let's throw them up there and see where the chips lie. See where you stack up. And you know, anybody who knows me knows I don't have to have everything. It's whole ass all the time, right? And so all in gave it all my efforts when it came to my diet, my training, the mental side, the opposing, the preparation. And we did it. We were able to come out with a pro-court in both figure and in women's physique. So super excited about it. Did you? When did you decide to do physique? Like how many weeks out? I was, so I started my prep around 18 weeks out. And right at the beginning of prep, I was teeter in the line. So I think this is where I started having those conversations. You know, do I go to the local level and get some shot? Do we, you know, try and do like a little like re-personal run at maybe a little or level show? And we decided not to do that and did just kind of throw it all out there, give the best prep that we can approach it just like we do with full intensity from the figure side. Bring that level of intensity to up level the game. And you know, it obviously paid off because we came out successful with this and it was such a unique and adventurous endeavor that we embarked on here. Was it hard to like learn the poses? Because I mean, it's one thing when you, I mean usually when you learn posing, you do it and like an offseason scenario. Here you are, you know, you start in your diet and you're like, all right, I got to learn the women's physique poses now. You know, Dave, that's actually the part that made me so in love with that category. Because figure, for anybody who's very familiar, obviously people watching us, very familiar with bodybuilding. So figure in nature when it comes to the poses is very, you know, front quarter turned the side, quarter turned quarter turned right. So it's very like superficial nature. But when you start to dive into those women's physique and up levels, that's where it becomes art, right? This like sculpting of the body, how you position, how you move the flowiness with it. But also being able to display that hard body musculature. So that dynamic approach and the juxtaposition between the grace with the muscle. Now that to me, that was like, oh, I just, I need to just dive into that wholeheartedly. And when we started the prep for that, I started the preparation for my posing specifically weeks and events. So, you know, we were taught having this conversation about 18 weeks out. I would say probably by like 17, 16 weeks is when I started putting together my actual choreographed routine and started going through the mandatory for that, especially being way outside of my usual wheelhouse with that. So yeah, it was very fun. I take it from the experience that you're exhibiting here that you're going to stick with women's physique now. I'm going to approach it from both angles. So it's interesting that you say that because I have this question a lot after I came out of team universe. And I'm like, alright, what direction are you going to take it? Are you sticking with figure? Are you going to women's physique? Obviously, very different trajectories there in terms of the body style. So what I did was I reached out to the judges, got a little bit of feedback from them. I wanted to see what their opinion was of where I would do well in the industry. And they basically said, you know, take it in either direction and see, you know, just see where you stack up in the competitions. Right. They said I have a very nice all around shape and package for figure. But I also bring the same level of muscular density for women's physique. And that's what I was told was that it's kind of rare to be able to have that like crossover ability because that's kind of a fine line. Oh, yeah, that's what we were thinking. Yeah, you can come into muscular figure and come in under muscular. Well, yeah, I mean, if you're going to train to be in women's physique in the pro ranks, you're going to obviously start adding more muscle. You'll probably push yourself out of figure. What's your Instagram for people who look into, you know, check you out? Yeah, a great, great question. My Instagram is the handles at Empower Body's Official. That is my business and my company name is Empower Bodies. It's a training platform, virtual training platform for lifestyle clients, nutrition and training. Okay. We'll put that up there. Some people can see that. Now, it's a different when you are coaching people and working with other athletes. And then you've got to work with yourself. And it's almost, I always say it's impossible to advise yourself. Is that why you've got Victor? Absolutely. I am such an advocate for proper mentorship. Especially when you're in competition, right? And so getting closer and closer to a show, there's so many moving parts. It is nearly impossible to stay completely objective. Right. And so you can be the best athlete in the world, even the best athletes in the world have mentors and coaches to guide them and keep them on track and a huge advocate for that. That's amazing. You know, I'm watching some video from Team University. And you look at even doing this for a long time. You look very comfortable on stage, which I assume is just your OCD nature of making sure every detail is covered. Right. That's exactly right. I've actually only competed three times. So once at the local level, which qualified me for the national stage, my first national stage was in 2024 North Americans, a place to second in figure. And then once again, went to the national stage, this is what I did a couple weeks ago at Team Universe. That's where I decided for the first time to throw in the women's physique and ended up landing the program as well. Now you have an interesting background. You were into rowing. I mean, and I always find I used to live with a in college. My roommate did crew. And he would get up at like four in the morning every morning and they'd have to go and get in the boat. And they would go out and they would row. This was a college, obviously. And I'm like, man, you got to really like it up early to be a crew. That's one thing I hate doing getting up early. How did you get involved with that? It's a great question. When I was younger, it was actually my father. He used to be a really well-known wrestler. And in college, he had all these scholarships all the stuff. Well, I'm so short. He had an injury to his neck. He was not able to compete anymore in wrestling. One of his buddies kind of steer him into direction of rowing. Fast forward a little bit. He has five kids. I'm one of them. Yeah. And I ended up kind of following in his footsteps just to growing up around the sport. Right. And just really just being an athlete by nature. I just always had this competitive side to me, right? And so go right into that at a young age. I completed my first World Championships at the age of 11. Wow. Greston, continue to compete in the sport of rowing. You're after year at the World level. And then eventually, whenever I think it was age 17, is when they voted me in as the headwomen's coach. And then headwomen's coach ever since. That's awesome. Now, you never had a desire to try. I don't know if you were good enough or not. To go into the Olympics or anything like that. It's actually so. The sport is called Dragonboat Racing. So it's interesting because it's a little bit different than crew or schooling. Or it's backwards like this. Sure. The sport of Dragonboat Racing is essentially like a sprint canoe. So it's like a high meal sprint canoe with multiple people in there. So it can be either 10 people votes or 20 people votes. Oh, wow. And with respect to that, the reason that they actually don't have the sport in the Olympics is due to the amount of competitors in each boat. So it's more of a logistical aspect of how they act physically run the Olympics. However, it is interesting that you bring that up because they actually had a trial run with it in the world games. 2008, they had the world games in Calshung Taiwan. And that is, I'm really excited to say that I was able to participate. Oh, wow. That's both a coach and as an athlete, competitor of at that time. So that's as close as it's gotten to the Olympics. So. But they have the curling in the Olympics, but they don't have like drag in the race. I'm a kind of, they are a trail. They exclude sports, put out of sports in. It's so political. It's crazy. But there is so much politics. And it is pretty much. So now you're still involved with the rowing, then you're still doing that on a regular basis? Yes. However, right now, in my training, as I'm embarking in this professional stage career here, I am kind of taking a step back from that. Due to the fact that I want to keep symmetry in my musculature. Being that it is canoe style, it is typically on one side of the boat. And that can create muscular balances, which has been a huge, you know, not a rope, but challenge for me to, to butt up against and be able to bring that symmetry back in the suit. Oh, I would do photoshoot back in the day. And they be having me do the same arm. I'm like, I gotta do, I gotta do the other one, too. I'm like, I gotta even it at, I said. That's exactly right. So, and then you also have a degree you said in behavioral neuroscience. What's that about? Is that a master's degree? By all, is that an undergrad? That's a undergrad. So I have a bachelor's in my behavioral neuroscience with a specialty in systems and neuroplasticity. So that is all things brain related. How it translates into behavior and how our brains interact with the world and become, you know, or personalities. And all the different intricacies of how our bodies work. That's awesome. Now you ever had a desire to become like a psychologist or anything like that? Is that, well, is that something you're interested in? Early on, it was before I really had the trajectory of, you know, life and everything like that. I for a long time, I wanted to go to medical school and kinda go down that pathway. However, different doors have opened and I started my own business. I'm now a competitor and all these different doors have opened. It seems to be my niche, my area here. And so what I do is I really pull from that degree of behavioral neuroscience into the actual trainings and coachings that I do as a virtual coach and as a business owner because the muscles are run by, you know, the brain. So everything is really systematically connected. And I really bring that training into my coaching platform as well as different practices, such as neurolinguistic programming, which is a fancy way of saying the way that we speak to ourselves and how it interacts with us on a cellular level. Yeah, I know a couple of competitors that should probably hire you because they're brain is not wired properly. They got the body. They got the physique, they don't have the mindset to be a champion. Yeah, that's right. You got a reprogram, that a little bit. Well, you know, I want to wish you, you know, number one, I want to congratulate you on the double win and the IFB Pro card. I'm sure next year you're going to take this industry by storm. You've got the mindset, you've got the determination, you definitely have a passion for it. And it's nice to hear that in the newer generation coming up that we're going to see some great new competitors on stage. I think you're going to go towards women's physique. That's my prediction. You know, I don't disagree with you. I was so in love with the experience. It was amazing to just get up there and flow and let it go. So I cannot wait to bring this even more amazing package to stage when I make my pro debut. I'll tell you why I think you're going to do it. Because figure is very genetically predetermined. In other words, you only can do so much with your body. I mean, you could change a little bit. But you know, if you're not structurally the best person on the stage, you're not going to be misalipia. We're just women's physique. You couldn't kind of mold yourself into that form that they're looking for. I think there's a lot more plasticity in that. So I think that's going to interest you more. But we'll see if I'm right. I want to once again congratulate you and Victor Del Capo. Good friend of mine, who's your coach, great victories, congratulations, and check out Ashley's Instagram if you want to hire her to get your brain reprogramed. I think I might give you a call, actually. For now, I'm a people love them. With another RX muscle spotlight. Thanks.

We're gonna be launching the tasty pastry for the Lowcar Poptart. We've got three and four brands in that carps, and we love to show this is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to Legendary Foods, Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palombo, and today is Friday, July 16, 2021, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, it's Friday and we're less than 24 hours away from kicking things off at the Portugal Pro. And that means that we are less than 24 hours away from seeing Wesley Vissers make his highly anticipated season debut. Over the last few weeks we've spotted a few names to watch, and the classic physique line up here. But when the official line-ups were released on Monday, whoever anyone was projecting is the potential winner immediately slid down as spotter two when we saw Wesley's name on the list. A few pre-used that we've gotten from his camp so far all have been right on the money. And if he nails it 100%, it's game set to match, as soon as he sets foot into the building. Believe it or not, this is actually the busiest week in the year so far in terms of how many shows are on the schedule. So make sure you tune in for our next recap Wednesday to check out what went down. But looking ahead to next weekend, everyone who's anyone is waiting to see what happens at the Chicago Pro, which means that there are going to be plenty of eyes on Joe Mackie. Joe's been working with Dennis James for the majority of his contest prep. And right now it's a pretty stage that to say that this is the best he's ever looked from a sizing conditions standpoint. I don't think Joe's ever been anywhere close to where he is right now. And I think it's the combination of these two things that has some people wondering if you can potentially challenge Puntil Abraata for a spot in the top two. Because of anyone in that top group leaves a sliver of daylight. I'm sure that Joe would be more than happy to take advantage of the opportunity. Body building is like most sports in this sense that timing is everything. If you peek a little too soon or you miss the mark and peek a little too late, your championship window can open and close before you even realize what happened. But with that being said, I know that in the Thalia Quaylo believes that this is her time to shine in women's physique. And if she's doing everything in her power to make it happen a few days ago in the Thalia release, her first training clip since she started her Olympia prep where we saw this year's top title contender showcasing some of her talents. When you look at how this division has shaped up over the last three years, the Thalia is the only athlete in the world. Not named Shini Kran, who can say that she's placed top three or better on the Olympia stage during that span. And since Shini Krodoffin to the sunset, that leaves the Thalia in a class all by herself. So if he just keeps improving, like she always has, she'll be right there giving a sour of a legus, oh, she can handle. Some of the ancient stoic philosophers believe that the two keys to happiness were focusing on what you can control and ignoring the essentials. And if being back on the Olympia stage for the first time in two years is what makes you happy, maybe moving out to oxygen-giv to train like Nathan De Ashich could be a solid third option too. After being forced to quarantine for six days after he landed, Nathan's picking right back up where he left off and says that for now the plan is to keep chipping away day by day until it's time for him to make his season debut with the Europa Championships in Spain. And you take into account how many distractions that he's had over the last year, digging this sort of distraction-free environment might be the best thing for him, because if he can double down and focus on what he can control and ignore everything else, that's unessential, well, that might be all he needs to make things fall into place. And that does if you had another edition of Muscle in the morning on Day of the Lumberal Reminding you to always be true to your passions and make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Hey guys, we're super excited to be here at the LA Fit X Road, there's 30-year-to-row, and what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be launching the tasty pastry. It's a low-car pothart. It's got three and four grams of neck carbs, and we love to show. This is our best place to be in LA. Welcome back to legendary foods, Muscle in the Morning. On the Palombo, and today is Friday, September 18th, 2020, and let's find out what's going on in the world of bodybuilding and fitness. Why get to when you can get three? Those words came directly from raining and defending men's physique champ Redmond's. So in case you had any questions about where his mindset was heading into his first title defense, I think that statement should pretty much sum it all up. On this show, we've talked a lot about mindset and what it means to be a champion. And hearing that statement from Ray really encapsulates what we mean. Champions don't have a plan B. They don't think about losing. It's not in their vocabulary. And at the end of the day, that self-belief is the thing that separates them from the path. Now, on the flip side of that, when you're entering into a situation as a challenger trying to unseat the incumbent, you need to wake up every day with irrational confidence. Because if your mindset isn't completely focused on doing everything in your power to do it, no one else in the world believes is possible. You're ultimately going to come up short. So in this case, you can't blame Andre Ferguson for thinking that winning the title this year is already a done deal. Outside of Ray Edmunds, you can make a pretty convincing argument that Andre's been the most dominant athlete in this division for the better part of the last few years. And since he already has the championship mindset working in his favor, the only thing left to do now is win the Olympia. I take a lot of pride in being a man of my word. When I tell people I'm going to do something, I deliver. Because building trust and keeping my promise is something that I place a lot of personal emphasis on. So when I hear William Bowen-Axay that he promises to improve specific body parts, heading into this year's Olympia, my natural inclination is to take him at face value. With everything that's happened over the last six months, it almost is like William's managed to fly under the radar, which seems like it should be impossible considering that he's the second best body builder on the planet. But between COVID and Flex in the return of Phil, there's then essentially zero conversation about William being a serious title contenter this year. But then again, maybe that's how he wants it. And maybe he'll show up and do exactly what he said he was going to do. And maybe a new one and improved William Bowen-Axay will find himself as the last man standing when it's all set and done. I know Dallas Cowboys stands are still sick to their stomachs after watching that terrible week one performance against the Rams. But the good news is that your division sucks, and Steve Kukul is back in the mix, so at least you guys have that going for you. Earlier this week, Steve released a video from a shoulder workout where he saw him hoist up a pair of gigantic 160 pound dumbbells, and knocked out a few clean reps. By all accounts, Steve's training has been spot on the last few months, and he's in a great place both mentally and physically. And just like we've seen so many times in the past, when Steve's completely dialed in, he's as good as anyone in bodybuilding, so I still wouldn't rule out possibly making another late season run. And that does it to get another edition of Muscle in the Morning. I'm Dave Palabbo reminding you to always be true to your passions, and they should have followed us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Day for Lumber with another RX Muscle Rank brought to you by RedCon1, visit RedCon1.com. Alright, today's topic is how do you shoot and why isn't it going to be if the Mr. Olivia competition this year? One of the most talented new competitors in our 212 division, he proved himself last year, really pushing flex lowest to the limit in Korea. A lot of people thought he should have won there. I mean, but this year, if you look at Heidi Schouppen, he just competed at the IFB Portugal Pro, he dominated that competition, he easily won it, even though Nick was fully pushed him a little bit. He brought probably the best look we've ever seen from him ever in his career. He's got more muscle for square in any other 212 guy up there. He's got some classic poses, he's got the vacuum pose, he's got probably the biggest legs in the division, he knows how to raise the weight of the biggest legs in the division for many, many years. This guy is huge. He's got all the wild fact, he kind of reminds me of a Momo Benzese from years past. And this is a guy that has all the workings of tremendous excitement in this division. He has the ability to raise up to 212 to another level. He's a guy that we didn't see coming because he was competing and I ran for many, many years as an amateur. Now we finally want to see him up there on that Olympia stage at his best, next to Flex Lewis and guess why? He can't do it. Why? Because he can't get a freaking visa to come to the United States. Look. I'm all for keeping bad people out of this country. I don't want terrorists in this country as much as the next guy does. But when you talk about the elite level athlete, okay, that is a political as far as I'm concerned, athletes don't give a crap about what's going on politically. They want to compete for this, because that's what their passion is, that's what they love to do. This guy has worked his entire life for this moment to be able to stand on that Olympia stage against the best in the world in the 2012 division and he can't even get a freaking ticket to the United States. It's a sad sentiment and it's a sad statement about where we're at politically in this country that we can't allow someone to piss caliber, okay, athlete to come into this country. Look, I know, look, when I do radio shows and I do these rants, everyone from every walk of life out there who watches these rants. If there's anyone who has any political pole or any way to get visas for people or anyone who knows anyone in immigration or anyone out there who can help this freaking guy get to the Olympia. Please reach out to me. I'll find the way to get in touch with this guy and make it happen. This guy got to be someone out there who can go to back to get this guy and the Olympia lineup. If you look at him at the Portugal pro when he's posing down and getting to Nicholas Voliatti, there's another terrific talent. This kid's gonna all snap. These two guys are gonna be the future of the 2012 class. You can watch them in the video that we have up there posing down against each other. Look at the excitement level in Portugal. We're seeing from these two guys. You can't believe what you're watching. Don't you want to see this on the Olympia stage? Look at these guys. They're just their little monsters. This is the future of our division. Unfortunately, one of the best will never be able to come to the Olympia and compete. That's a sad statement. I don't know if it's got to be on Shwastonaga that does it or it's got to be someone with a little more clout than the average Joe on the street. Someone's got to be able to get this guy at these at the country. I'm challenging you guys out there. I know there's plenty of body going fans that probably have connections with you. You wires, immigration people, something. Get Heidi Shwopen in the 2018 Olympia. For God's sake, this is the last year Flex Lewis is doing it. I want to see a hotie-suped Flex Lewis show down in Vegas, come September. That's what the fans want. That's what Heidi Shwopen wants. And I know Flex Lewis, he wants the best to the best to go out on top saying, I beat them all. And so someone out there can make it happen. I know you're watching right now, contact me, contact Shahadi. Whatever we got to do to make this thing happen, because bodybuilding's about the best of the best. That's what the Mr. Olympia is all about. That's what Joe we'd have created the Mr. Olympia about. We want to see hotie-suped against Flex Lewis. I want to see it. The question is who will win? Will we ever know? I don't know. For now, let's see if anyone steps up to the plate and makes it happen. One day, pull them both with another, or X muscle ran. See you next time.

Day Palomo here with a very special Ask Dave Special Addendum. This is two extra questions that we didn't get to during the Ask Dave TV show this past week because my producer left early on vacation. So I'm going to give you guys an extra little video, I guess with these two questions. They asked these come from the day Palomo experience, which is the day Palomo experience app that you can subscribe to on iTunes or Android store. It's $29 a month. You get access to all my videos that I've ever done, all my writings that I've ever done. You do a Q&A video every week exclusively for the app and I answer all your questions on the app in a public forum. So you see everyone's questions and everyone's answers. It's a good learning tool. We also put up a workout every single week. So if you want to vary up your workouts, you can kind of pick one of those workouts and do them every week. If it's kind of like having your own little personal day Palomo coach in your pocket. So I think a lot of people really have enjoyed it. We have a very good membership. It's always growing and I think for most people who maybe can't afford coaching and even the people who do coaching with me or with other people they subscribe to the app for the information. If you want to continually increase your education, your knowledge and the sport, this is a great app for you. So let's get to these questions. These are two questions that we're asked on the app. I'm an answer of here. Hey, day 42 years old now and noticing that the last I eat, the better I look, is this common? Well, I think we all want to be, you know, in our, the back of our heads like Mr. Olympia, like bodybuilders when we get out there, we want to put on as much muscle as possible. And a lot of times, a lot of us just eat too much food. I had mentioned this in a previous Q&A I did for the app. And the problem with that is that if you're 100, you know, when I was 300 pounds or 250 pounds, I needed, you know, 350, 400 grams of protein a day. And if I ate that today, probably I couldn't even get it all down. But if I did, I probably wouldn't be that. Even though I have a fast metabolism, I would put on some muscle sure, but I would probably be very bloated. Maybe my, my kidney function would be high because I'm just overwhelming my body with too much protein. I wouldn't feel good. And that's because I don't need that much protein anymore, because I only weigh 1,850, 90 pounds. So you have to understand, you have to cater your diet for what your goals are and who you are right now, not what you are when you were 22 years old. So you're 42 now. You probably just don't need as much food. And when you're trying to force all this extra food on your body, it's just, it's laying down extra body fat or it's making you feel bloated or you're just not comfortable. You've cut back your food. And now your, you're, you're, your body is obviously eating up stored body fat for fuel. The problem and the risk that you run here, and I've seen this happening, it's happened to me. Sometimes I get a little too carried away, is you start losing too much muscle. If that's not the goal and you, and you don't want to, you know, too much smaller, but you just want to get leaner, then you have to make sure you have a certain amount of protein. You can't just keep cutting back your food indefinitely because eventually what will happen is you're going to get to a point where you're just, you're not looking any better. You're just looking more caquette, you know, more, more, but kind of just, I guess you could say burnt out. So to speak, your, your body will look flat, your muscles won't be popping. Yeah, you'll be losing weight, but you won't be looking better. And you don't want that. Goal is to look better, to feel better, so don't overdo it. You know, if you're 42 years old and let's say you weigh 100, you know, 200 pounds, then you probably should be getting at least 200 grams of protein a day if you want to maintain, you know, even if you did 180 not so bad, but if you're going down in food and you're eating two times a day and you're going huge gaps, six hours without eating, you're going to just like cannibalizing muscle tissue. There's no way around it. Even if you didn't work out because think about it, your body needs protein for hair, nails, skin, the internal lining of your stomach, and then digestive organs. All these things are constantly in a state of turnover and your body needs protein to replace them enzymes hormones, all these things. So don't overdo it. That's the key. You got to find balance. Dave, if someone were trying to maintain one's physique and only looking to add sporadic cycles, I guess, to gear cycles throughout the year, does testosterone need to be run into 1,000 milligrams per week. Can it be lower to around 400 milligrams per week? Also what antibodies would be best to throw in the mix and it would amounts, again, I'm just trying to stay as lean and healthy as possible while maintaining what I already have. Well, if you're trying to say as lean and as healthy, leanness comes from diet. Okay, so you have to have a good diet. If you need cardio, you got to put the cardio and has nothing to do with the antibody cycles you're on. Why? Because it's steroid, don't burn fat. They build muscle and they repair muscle. So with that, having said that, we got to get that out of the way. In terms of being healthy, well, if you're doing full-blown cycles, obviously, well, it might not be necessarily detrimental to you out. It's certainly not making it help better. So if you're just looking to maintain what you have and stay lean, diet, do some cardio and take it to hormone replacement dose of 200 milligrams per week, there's no reason why you can't maintain what you have on that. Assuming you're eating correctly, you're training and you're resting enough. If you're not looking to get bigger, that's the way to go. I get it for 10 years. After I stopped competing, and I held onto a lot of times, it was like 250 for probably eight of those years, until I started to really want to start it down size. But it's easy to hold onto your weight if you're eating properly and you're just taking a hormone replacement dose to 200 milligrams, I get news for you. You're not losing anything on that. I know guys that are on 200 milligrams a week and they try to lose muscle and they can't figure out why they won't lose any. Because it's starting hard. You've got to cut back your food. You might even want to go back to 100 milligrams a week of testosterone. That's enough. If you're talking about health, you don't want to be too encyclos and putting trend alone in equipoies and DACA, not that they're that terrible if you're doing them in a controlled manner. But there's no reason for it because you're not trying to get any bigger. You're trying to maintain. So think about what your goals are. And this is, I guess, the theme of this little S-dave segment. What are your goals? Once you write down your goals, then you figure out a strategy of how to get there. Don't go by bro science, don't go by height and what you think might work. Realistically say, what are my goals? I want to get leaner and then I got to diet and do cardio. I want to maintain muscle mass. I got to do HRT. I want to grow. I got to do cycles. It's not that hard. You have to define your goals first. Okay, Dave Pellumbo here. Hoping you guys are going to have a great weekend. This is a little extra due-dap just to throw into your educational videos that you're watching on how to use your body to achieve the look that you're looking for. If you guys like this little video and you want to have your questions answered on a regular basis and you want to have some more knowledge that you disposal. Check out my Dave Pellumbo Experience app at your iTunes store or Android store. I'm Dave Pellumbo, we'll see you next time.