Hi, welcome to Mar. How may I help you? Hi, I'm on a diet. Um, do you do you have anything that you can recommend me for breakfast? Sorry, what was that? I'm on a diet and I'm trying to lose 10 pounds. If we have Do you have anything healthy I can eat? Anything healthy? Yeah. Like what are you looking for? Like something to eat or something? Yeah, something to eat. But you know what? I'll just I'm going to do I'll do eight donuts. Sorry. I'll do eight donuts. Actually, we don't have uh eight donuts. It's either 6:00 or 12:00. Can I just Can I do six and then add two? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Can I do two Boston creams, strawberry vanilla, one honey dip, one honey cooler, one pumpkin spice, salsa on English muffin on the on the biscuit? Sausage and a biscuit. Yeah. Anything else? And that's everything. 1235. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You too. I want to get that done. What is going on, guys? Welcome to today's video. Today, we are just throwing our fitness goals out the window. We are going all in like Stephanie Buttermore. We are just going off the rails with food. Today, I'm going to be attempting the 10,000 calorie challenge. It is exactly what it sounds like. I'm going to be consuming 10,000 calories in one day. And there is only one rule, and that rule is liquid calories do not count. because if they did, that would just make things way too easy and I'd probably end up hitting 100,000 calories. So, as you guys just saw, I was in the Tim Gordon's drive-thru for meal number one, and I got eight donuts in a breakfast sandwich. Guys, nothing in life hypes me up more than a full box of donuts. Maybe just when Flow Rider comes on at the club, but that's probably the only comparison. But but you guys get the idea. I love donuts. So, here we got two Boston creams. We got a honey cooler, hardly Noer. We got a pumpkin spice because it's fall. We got a honey dipped and then a strawberry vanilla. I also got an apple fritter which is in the bag right there. We got a Canadian maple right there. And then I also got a breakfast sandwich. Sausage, egg, and cheese on a biscuit. So, I'm going to shut up cuz you guys are probably screaming for me to shut up and start eating. So, let's start eating right now. And I am going to start with a Boston cream because it is the goat of all donuts. And before I start eating, I should probably show you guys the time so you don't freak out. It is 10:34 on September 29th. There we go. And let's begin. So, since it was fall, I was like, "Hey, you know what? Let's get a pumpkin spice donut right there. It's a cake donut. Um, honestly, I don't really understand like the mass worldwide hatred for cake donuts. It just seems like everyone just has to hate cake donuts. You could have someone who's never had a donut in their life and they're like, "Yeah, I hate cake donuts, but why?" So, if you hate cake donuts, let me know down below why. I don't get it. Like, it's it's literally cake. So, I don't know how you hate cake. Okay, so we have four donuts down. So now I'm going to dive into the breakfast sandwich. Kind of at the halfway point. Get some sweet relief. So here we got a sausage, egg, and cheese on a biscuit. This is so poorly stacked into a sandwich. Wow. All right. So, we got four left. We got an apple fritter. We got a Canadian maple, a Boston cream, and honey prer. Let's go with the Canadian maple. So, the Canadian maple is basically just a Boston cream, but with just a maple topping. And now for the apple fritter. This thing is good, man. Okay, now we're going to be going with the honey cooler. This thing is pretty light and it's like 20 g of fat or something insane like that. It's basically just air, which is insane. Super good. Last one. Ending with the Boston cream. Starting with the Boston cream. Okay, so the plan now is to probably go home, take my shirt off, stare at myself in the mirror, and start to panic. Uh, I'm just kidding. Actually, what I'm going to go do is go to the gym, and then I'll catch up with you guys for meal number two. Welcome back, guys. It is time for meal number two, and we're going to a place called Pizza Pizza. I'll give you guys a second to guess what we're getting. Hopefully you guys said pizza. So, we're going to Pizza Pizza to get pizza. Um, I believe the calories of this meal is going to be slightly over 2 grand. I think yeah, 2,50 calories for this pizza. So, we're going to go in and get a fresh pie made up for us. But first, I want you guys to rewind this clip and take a shot every single time I say pizza. Okay, guys. So, the pizza is served. And we got a lot going on here. We got buffalo chicken, New York style pepperoni, tomato, pineapple. Oh my god. do uh hot peppers and caramelized onions. And it's a mediumsized pizza. It is 2,50 calories. We're going to dig in right now. You know what? I don't judge people. If I see someone who looks kind of like rough around the edges, I go, you know what? He could be a smart person, he could have a lot of money, like he could be a CEO of some sort of big business. But if I go to a restaurant and I see someone go like this with their pizza and like fold it and you fold your pizza, I automatically assume you're just like a weird human being. So if you guys fold your pizza, I want to know why. So comment down below why Okay, so that's going to do it for meal number two. I'm in desperate need of a napkin. So, I'll see you guys at meal number three. And it should be time for something sweet. All right, guys. So, we're at Dairy Queen, as you can tell by the Dairy Queen establishment right behind me. And we're going to be doing dessert for meal number three. Specifically, a limited edition item. I think it's called the Oreo brownie confection. So, they seem to believe it's perfection in a cup, but I will be the judge of that. Okay, guys. So, we have the Oreo brownie cupfection. It's 760 calories. So, after having this, I'll be a 5,500 calories in total. So, we have the OG Dairy Queen soft serve. It's actually ice milk, not ice cream. Fun fact. We also have two brownies and then a bunch of chocolate sauce and Oreos. So, forgot to show you guys the time after my last meal. Apologies. But right now it is 4:03 on September 29th and we are going to dive in right now. Okay, so that was the confection. That was pretty perfect. So that puts us at 5,500 calories. Probably got to figure out something to eat very, very soon because we are running out of time. But we got this. All right, guys. So, as soon as we finished Dairy Queen, I basically just went straight to McDonald's to the drive-thru. So, it is 4:47 September 29th still. And just got to pick up on the calories a little bit. So, I ended up getting 10 nuggets. And then this thing I've never seen before. It's like a fried chicken sandwich. Like it's like mozzarella tomato mozzarella chicken sandwich. So in total it is So this is 6.40 for the sandwich and then 410 for the nuggets. So that's 950. Yeah, 950. So wow, this actually looks very good. So there it is, guys. McDonald's. I haven't been to McDonald's in a long time, but they have significantly picked up their game. Like, it doesn't even seem like it's fast food anymore. Like, I actually had to wait probably 20 minutes for that. So, I don't know. The quality seems much better. Guys, the 10,000 calorie challenge is not even hard. Like, I don't even understand how people think this is a challenge. Like, this is super easy to me. So, I'll say it right now. If this video gets 500 likes, I will do the 20,000 calorie challenge. So, basically, get every single person that you know to like the video. Get your grandma to like the video. Get your pet to like the video. Like, grab him by the paw and push the like button with his paw. Just get everyone to like it. And the 20,000 calorie challenge will go down. Okay, so that's going to do it for McDonald's. We have 3500 calories left roughly and we're going to do it all at the last stop. So stay tuned. Okay, so we are on our way to the last and final destination. We are going to the Cheesecake Factory. And guys, some of the calorie counts on some of these dishes are just scary. They should be illegal. Like if you're ever looking to like jack up the calories. I don't know why you would be. Maybe you're doing a food challenge or like a calorie challenge, whatever, this is the place to go. Like Cheesecake Factory breeds fat people. So it is 6:09 and we're going early because you know what? It's a 10 out of 10 chance that we're going to have to wait a long period of time. So we're going to go put our name in. But when we sit down, I will see you there. Yeah, like so it's 9:02 September 29th still and I kind of wanted to get some authentic Chinese food. So I got the orange chicken at the cheesecake factory. There's under the specialties just like 85% of the menu. It's kind of cocky if you ask me. So this dish alone is 1,800 calories. That's like absolutely nuts. That's kind of like what the average woman should eat in a day. So, that just kind of puts things in into perspective. So, we're going to polish this off right now. This plate 78 lb. Last bite. Okay, that was like super heavy and like I don't feel like I feel pretty ill actually. It's pretty oily. But we're still going to get cheesecake. Okay, so we got the Cinnabon cheesecake. Obviously, you have to get cheesecake when you come to the cheesecake factory. I mean, it's kind of like if you don't, it's like going to a movie theater and not seeing a movie. It's just like what are you doing? So, this comes out to I think around 1,400 calories, maybe 1,380 calories, something like that. So, Heat. Hey, Heat. Yeah, 10:43 September 29th, guys. Um, the Cheesecake Factory literally me uh because you guys saw I left at like 6 and I just got home now. Like the wait was 2 and 1/2 hours long and then we finally sat and then they didn't have the cheesecake that I wanted. And the cheesecake that I wanted was 1,730 calories and they don't have it anymore. was the carrot cake cheesecake. So, I had to just choose another one. And uh the plan was to finish the 10,000 calories there, but the cheesecake I got was a little bit less. So, I have 280 calories left. So, I am just going to like have two servings of this like Chapman's frozen yogurt. Each serving is calories. So, that's 320 calories. So, the final total will be I think 10,040. So, I'm just going to do that right now. Weigh it out. I'm feeling bloated and disgusting as hell. I'm not full. It just the whole day you're just thinking about food and I'm just kind of fed up and I just wanted this to be over with. Okay, so there we go. We got two servings of the Chapman's Crispy Peanut Butter Crunch. And then when I finish this, that will be the 10,000 calorie challenge. I am so boiling hot right now. And my face feels so loaded. I feel like freaking Jabba the Hut. Holy [\h__\h] guys. I'm still saying 500 likes and I'm going to be doing the 20,000 calorie challenge. So remember that. Hit that like button. All right, guys. So, that wraps up the 10,000 calorie challenge. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you guys enjoyed it, give it a like. Subscribe to the channel if you're new. And I will see you guys in the next video.