Obesity is normalized. Everybody's obese. Not a lot of people only go to the gym. What's the most amount of times you have at McDonald's a week? Probably about four or five times a week. I'll be honest with you. They just go out and buy like 28 cans of Coke and they just drink them in the house. Like they don't drink water. It's all like just carbonated fizzy pop drinks just all the time. Ebale officially the UK's fattest town. Nearly 80% of people here are overweight or obese. Fast food isn't just a treat, it's a way of life. Locals ordering it up to three times a day. And the trend isn't slowing down. I'm here to find out why this is happening. For the next 24 hours, I'm going to live like a local, eating my way through this town to understand the real struggles behind these stats. Good morning from Ebale, everybody. This is a small town. Like, I think we are in the only hotel they got, period. And I think that's because there's like nothing to do here besides eat. I even asked the lady at the front desk last night. We're known as the fattest town in Britain. know an awful lot to be honest with you. There isn't a great deal around here other than kebab shops and vape shops. Kebab shops and vape shops. Sign me up. But it doesn't take a lot to impress me. Now when we came last night, look what was on our table waiting for us. We had southern fried chicken kebab and pizza and oh yes pizza. There's just so many different offers. Free. Free. And then you turn the back all these different meal deals. Look at the selection of things here. It's absolutely insane. And I think today is Thursday. And Thursday it's buy 1 get one free pizza. I go loco for a BOGO. So this is where we're going for sure at some point today. Basically this is Black Friday for food. Today is going to be a good day. Okay. So we're going to stand on the scale and see our starting weight for the day and see how much damage that can be done by tomorrow morning. Here we go. 190 lbs flat. And you know what? I'm ready to experience the local cuisine. I packed my appetite. I packed my stretchy pants. Let's get rolling. We have made it over to the city center and it already smells like food. It smells like I'm going to be eating good and sleeping terribly. And they were not kidding about the kebab houses. They're actually everywhere. We've probably passed like 15 on the way here. Now, 73% of restaurants here are considered fast food restaurants, which is ridiculous. That is the most in the UK. The first cafe we ran into is Gregs, which is a really popular chain in the UK. Pretty quickly, we noticed the healthier options were limited. You want to know what kind of trouble we're in here? The only salads that they have are pasta salads. Look, look at this. chicken bacon pasta piri piri chicken pasta pesto mozzarella pasta technically it's a salad technically that's correct emotionally kind of misleading which is why we're here I guess but it's nice to see that there's some fruits at least not that many but the rest is just a lot of sandwiches a lot of mayo a lot of processed meats everything's just wrapped in pastry here what are you guys most known for sausage rolls. Sausage rolls. Yeah. Ooh, I'm going to get one of those. I'm actually going to add a donut. Which one? Do you have a favorite? Ooh, caramel custard. But if you are looking for something really yummy, the lemon mer muffins are the best in the whole wide world. They are I'll do both. I think I might be Ashley from Evail. It might be in my bloodstream. They are the king of sausage rolls. That entire display is almost completely empty, which is insane. It's only 9:30 in the morning. And this was only a pound30. Insane. Visually, it looks like it has the nutritional value of bacon wrapped drywall and probably more sodium than the Dead Sea. And given my history of the Gregs, this is about to hurt so good. Yeah. That's exquisite sausage. I'm going to be smiling a lot today. This would be the breakfast of my dreams when I was 8 years old. Now I strive to obviously have a breakfast that I can see the nutritional value, but this is awesome. Like you really can't go wrong with this. Just like pastry, meat, you can just see it shining with grease and butter, fat. In this sausage roll, there's 24 grams of fat and nine grams of protein, which is awful. You only see worse ratios at cigar clubs. My god, Greg's just like, "Shut up and put me back in." Now, we're going to try some of these things. Salted caramel donut. Not bad. She insisted. She practically forced me to get this one. Do you have a favorite? I'll do both. I had no choice. a lemon mering muffin. I'm happy I listened. Wow. Such good texture on this thing. I feel like a lot of people get this for breakfast here. It's a lot of calories. Pretty much no protein. It's all fat, all carbs. So, it's going to give you a lot of calories, but it's not going to keep you that full, which is fine because this is not my breakfast. This is just going to hold me over until we until we find breakfast. With already over 1,000 calories in before even going for breakfast, I can tell today is going to be a crazy high calorie day. Everything at Greg's is so reasonably priced, it's easy to end up leaving with so many things you didn't expect to get. Like this pack of four sausage rolls, which I'm I'm I'm heavily considering. Hey yo, we made it to Frenchies for some brekie. It's a local spot with some pretty lit reviews, mainly about the massive portion sizes, obviously. Here are some of the reviews. Mark says, "Just had 2x beef dinners plus a child's chicken dinner. The portion sizes are huge. The meat and veg were cooked to perfection. The staff are lovely. Would recommend this place to everyone. Mark, my guy. Was that extra children's meal needed? I don't know, but I'm happy to see you got some veg. Glider Bear says, "Breakfast is massive. Good food." Say less, Glider Bear. Hannah says, "Everybody should head here on a Saturday morning for a breakfast baguette. It will cure all trace of hangover and make you feel 10 times better about snogging that, being sick in the taxi, and waking up naked on the bathroom floor." Hannah, what does that even mean? I really have no idea. Now, the thing that intrigued me the most was my boy Ian. Ian posted this picture of the big daddy. Now, when I hear big daddy, my mouth hears open sesame. And I need to try it. Let's get it. Can I get a big daddy? Big daddy. Who's sitting in or? I'm sitting in. Sitting in. A big daddy. Yeah. Yeah. Looking somebody in the eye and asking for a big daddy never gets old. I found it very interesting when we were walking in. They had on the window healthy options. And then I look at the menu and there's literally nothing. You look at the salad part of the menu. Ham salad, cheese salad. What is that? What is even a cheese salad? Tuna mayo salad, tenduri salad, any chicken salad. These are not salads that you should be eating. And then we looked at them. They're just like covered in mayo. I fear if I if I wanted egg whites, I would get a regular omelette just covered in a thick layer of white cheddar or something. There really is no way to eat healthy here. I don't even know what their version of healthy even means. Wow. Holy, that was so good. Oh, and there's toast. Yeah, toast as well. So, do you ever see people finish this? Yeah, we like do they come regularly or Yeah, pretty much. Fridays is is the day Friday is the day you tackle the big daddy breakfast everything is it hard to eat healthy around here yes the wages are not very good the price of everything gone up they are so cute I feel like it's kind of my duty right now to body this entire thing um and it's another one of those times where it's it's bigger in person sausage underneath the four eggs we got four pieces of bacon which some thick pieces of bacon. We only got three hash browns because we're trying to cut back a little bit. And look at this tray. Look at this tray. It's a tray of toast and like a diabolical amount of butter. Look at that. That is crazy. We're like well over 2,000 calories for sure. Absolutely. It doesn't even look like I got this at a restaurant. Looks like I served myself at a buffet. Like this isn't an English breakfast. This is a full empire. I'm going to get high school acne for a week after this, man. Wow, so rich. A piece of fruit right now would be feel like a spa experience. It's so good. So sweet though. Woo. It's like pure brown sugar. Mhm. After this breakfast, I'll be my fifth sausage before 11:00 a.m. And that's not even a PR. The thing about this meal is that there's literally zero relief. It's like playing Russian roulette in every chamber has a bullet in it. Like, there's nothing that you can go to to just give yourself a little bit of a break. Like, you would think it would be the toast, but the toast is wet. It's just butter. And this butter, butter, butter, butter, butter. My pores already feel so clogged. And based off today's fiber count, that's not the only thing that's supposed to be clogged. These hot browns are fire. I wish I got four of those. You guys just made that? Yeah, I just made it. Oh, wow. That feels good. A little piece for you to share now cuz I don't suppose you ever had corn beef pie? I've never had that before. It's a Welsh thing. So, what's in there? Corn beef pie. Corn beef pie. So it's like potato, corn beef, carrot, onion with the pastry, and then you get our homemade gravy. Thank you. You're the best. Love you. Wish. Okay, here we go. It smells a bit. Oh, do you like that? Amazing. I really can't say enough good things about my time at Frenchies. Carol and Justine are literally my spirit animals. If you go, tell them I sent you. It's making my thighs shiver. Everybody here is so nice. Like, in this entire town, it's probably because they're wellfed. Like, you don't want to deal with hangry people, right? So, everyone's everyone's full. Everyone's feeling good. Everyone's happy. It's just a great place to be. It's pretty crazy to think there's two guys that come weekly for the Big Daddy. I kind of want to meet them and and get an autograph because it's seriously impressive. This meal alone could probably offset an entire week of proper dieting. The last thing I tried on my plate was this, which I thought was a two- bite brownie. It wasn't a two- bite brownie. I'm really trying to tell myself I'm enjoying it. It tasted nice and garlicky. Waddling out a breakfast with pride. One thing's for sure, I'm not going to need to eat for a very long time. So, in the meantime, I have a plan. One, talk to as many locals as possible. Two, find out what other kind of food is offered here. Did you know that Epavale is known as the fattest town in the UK? Yes, I did. Yeah. Is that an exaggeration or you think that's the truth? No, it's probably closest probably couldn't be far. Yeah, it is the truth. Yeah, it's it's quite bad here sometimes like cuz of McDonald's and all that. Yeah. What's the longest you wait in the McDonald's line for? 35 minutes away for I went there last night with my little one and it took me 25 minutes to drive through the drive-thru just to get a happy meal for him. And what would you say the average diet here looks like? McDonald's every day. Really? I'd say so. Yeah. How many times a day? Probably once, twice, maybe. Maybe at most. Wow. That's the average. What's the most amount of times you have at McDonald's in a week? Oh, in my prime. I Okay. I I was 19 stone 2 years ago. Wow. So, I was a big porker. I was I was definitely big boy. So, probably about four, five times a week. I'll be honest with you. Whenever. We're making our way over to the McDonald's because apparently it's always busy. Like 30 minutes minimum in the drive-thru. And it gets so busy sometimes it even blocks people's driveways to leave their home. It's like pretty much prime lunch hour. So, let's see what happens here. The place is absolutely packed. I was walking the town. I was like, "Where is everybody?" They're all right here. This is like This must be the unofficial town hall. Just a constant stream of cars. And then inside is ridiculous. With McDonald's being so popular, I was curious to see if the menu is any different than what I'm used to. And it was. There was so many options. It was crazy. You could come every single day for a very long time and get something different each day. What's the most amount of times you've seen one person come to McDonald's here in a day? Gosh. Do you have four times? Four times in one day? Yeah. McDonald's? Four times a day? Damn. I'm guilty of it. You know, I've lost seven stone now since last year. You lost seven stones? Yeah. There's nothing here. So, if you want to go and eat healthier, you've got to go almost out of town or go to the big supermarkets, buy all the healthy foods, which let's be honest, not cheap. You have McDonald's instead or we'll have a takeaway instead. And when you have that over a number of years, forunately, it does all add up. I think it's just like the old generation and everything. Um, they just um they just go out and buy like 28 cans of Coke and they just drink them in the house. Like they don't drink water. is all like just carbonated fizzy pop drinks just all the time. So like high sugar, high fats and just no water. So like you know it's causing like really a lot of health problems like you know around you. Wow. It is nice. That smells gorgeous. What was it? Sorry. What was the flavor of that? It's raspberry pier slusher or something like that. Oh my. It's our generation I believe that is probably the worst for the obesity crisis. And I was part of it. I spent probably my school years skipping gym class, sometimes writing fake notes off my parents to get out of gym class. Do you ever feel trapped living here? Like, does it ever feel like living a healthy lifestyle is like impossible? And you being surrounded by this kind of culture just makes it not that motivating for you? It's not about motivation. It's about normality. Obesity is normalized. Everybody's obese. It's a lack of education and social normality in the environment that you're living in. I'm currently 9 and a half stone lighter than I was this time last year. Wow. That's a whole person. A lot of people I can't be bothered, but the younger generation because of social media and the wanting to look better. They would probably be a lot more inclined to, you know, try and do better themselves. Oh my god. You don't understand. You're like my hero. Am I? Oh Thank you, man. My name is Blake. Blake, nice to meet you. Can I actually tell you about my journey? Yeah. Yeah, of course. I used to be um be 130 kilos. Yeah. Uh which morbidly obese. Yeah. And I cut down. Good for you. Did you try losing weight before and failed or did you just go like I'm going to lose weight the first time and you did it? No, I I tried and it sucked and then something just clicked. Yeah. I had a bit of a heartbreak. So then it I decided no, it was a time to change. Yeah. And I cut 40 kilos. That's amazing, man. That's amazing. Good for you. I got myself down to about 14 and a half stone. I was I was in the best shape of my life and then uh something happens and then it's all back on instantly. Yeah. So, it was so easy. It was so hard to get it off. It was so easy to put back on. Do you guys ever like choose foods and meals with calories in mind or No, I used to. I used to You should have seen me. When I used to go should have seen me. I was a beast. Yeah. When I used to go to the gym, I used to do a lot of that. Um, but I haven't been to the gym now in two years just because of finances and all that. Okay. It's too expensive to go to the gym for me. Yeah. I haven't been able to get a job for a good while. So, is it easy to go down like a bad spiral here? Like if you can't afford the gym and 100%. As someone who've sort of got to make her own living now in terms of money and whatever, it is a bit of a struggle. I mean, a lot of jobs that I've looked out for, I've come back and rejected because of my lack of work experience. So, you know, in terms of money, it is difficult. So, you have to you have to get the cheap bad food. You can't go to the gym. I mean I mean maybe I'd be making excuses for saying I have to, but it is expensive to buy good food. All the healthy stuff is really expensive these days. Yeah. Do you find it like you go in go into like a place with like healthy intentions and then all of a sudden like you guys Yeah. Cuz you got like you got like that shop over there. Sometimes they have like signs where it' be like two pound for like a tub of Ben & Jerry's. Oh, it's like£4 for like a pizza, a dessert and then like a It's always a bit and like a bottle of pop. So I was like very tempting to get that instead of the healthy stuff. Is there any healthy stores at all? Well, the next sort of big town over would be Murder. Oh, to go to another town. Yeah. When you say like healthy store, I mean, don't get me wrong, there's a green groceryer in town. A green groceryer is a shop that supplies just fruit and veg. And there's is there just one? As in straight from just the one? There's just the one. Just the one. So apparently it's the older generations that have the bad habits and the younger generation is okay for now. But I did find it interesting in McDonald's. It was mostly younger kids. Some kids are going to make it, some kids aren't. And she also mentioned that a lot of people here don't even have jobs. They're living off the state. The cheap food is absolutely crucial for them to survive. They can't afford the healthier foods, which is why there is only one green groceryer in the entire town, which is what we're going to go see right now. And I have no idea how they're going to compete with some of the deals that we're seeing because everywhere that we walk, there's just crazy deals. Deal after deal after deal. This isn't a food desert. This is a food jungle. It's pretty much a theme park of food. So, we made our way over to the only green groceryer in town, Fresh and Fruity. And as expected, it wasn't too busy. It's pretty quiet in here. So they have like potatoes four for £3 pound50 which is like not that bad but you're just getting the potatoes then you have to go home and cook it with other things or you can just go get the big daddy for 12 lb. What this onion is truly from here you can get duck eggs for 350 half dozen or you can go to Domino's and get a lunch for4. You know, being in this store really highlighted the struggles for the locals. The meal deals are just too good to deny. Six duck eggs cost more than a full breakfast at Gregs. It's hard to argue with the convenience. If they're going to get people in here, this is how this is how they do it. After checking out the Green Grocerer, I made my way across the street to the more popular grocery store to see what that's like. Look at this. £150 for an entire pizza. We are just at the Green Grocerer. You get a butternut squash and it costs more than a pizza. This is the strangest grocery store ever. This is all frozen stuff. At least there's frozen vegetables, which is good. In this entire grocery store, this is the only fresh fruit and veg that we got. Chicken, bacon, pasta salad. Yikes, man. Just like look how bad this is for you, man. Like, what is it? Just looks like Play-Doh. the ingredient list. It's like I'm reading a freaking Apple terms and service agreement. Do people eat healthy around here? Do people eat healthy? Yeah. If they can't Yeah. They say it's really expensive. The employees then showed us the most popular things being sold in the store. Ready meals? Okay. Meal deals. So you get like two things. Two things. Well, four things for a fiber. Okay. Then you come down to this one. This is a really popular one. Oh, this one. The Asian stuff's very popular. Yeah. But I would say that this is like one of the most popular aisles that we got. Okay. And what's the least popular? Our fruit and veg. Fruit and veg. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. 100%. We need all the protein stuff, but we can't get it. Is this a standard grocery store here, would you say? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Like our sweets are cheap, our pop is cheap, crisps are cheap. So, is it pretty much impossible to put like good deals on the fresh produce? Yeah. Oh, it is. Okay. We would find it difficult to sell in comparison to the fresh produce. Now we're in the junk food. Look at this endless selection here with the brownies, chocolate, cookies. Look at this Kit Kat, man. There's all these different kinds of Kit Kats. I've never even seen orange flavored Kit Kats. That is sick. It's basically just a massive convenience store that they're calling a grocery store. You know KFC? They have SFC, a boneless bucket for only three pounds. 1,081 calories, 76 g of fat. For 3 lb. That is a problem. That is a problem, my friends. It was truly incredible to see the deals this store has, but with income being so little or non-existent, it's essential. The crazy thing is, even with all the financial struggles in this town, there's still casinos and places to gamble. It's pretty crazy. So, everyone's talking about they don't have jobs. It's hard to get a job. They're making no money. So, they have to resort to getting unhealthy food. And then yet in the town, there's slots. With what money? You should go across the street and get some fruit. You see this place behind me? They're known for pizza, burgers, kebabs, and fried chicken. You mean known for greatness? That's an elite lineup. Back where I'm from, if a place served up all those things, I would see that as a warning and I'd probably never go. But here, I think that just means there's a master at work in there. So, we're going to go and get some lunch. BOGO Pizza Thursdays. This is the reason that we're here. This is it. Hello. Hello. How are you? Very good. You okay? Yeah, I'm happy it's Thursday. See, the thing is when you come here, they have the kebab section. You could come in and make the healthy choice, but I can see how you never would because wraps, burgers, fried chicken, kebab and chips, chicken nuggets, all the pizza. If you don't want pizza, they have garlic bread pizza because we aren't dying fast enough. And then there's also cowzones and chicken wings. And the offers are only on the unhealthier things. What's a chicken shish pizza? Chicken shish? Yeah. You know that one chicken breast on pizza? Yeah. And the cook on the grill and cheese on top. Oh yeah. And the Mexican hot. No problem. Today buy one get one free. You don't have to pay for a second one. As a business, do you guys need to offer meal deals to do well? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Meal deal offers. That's offer every day. Like this one. See everyday offer. Okay. We're getting this chicken breast on our pizza. Fast is better. That's a lot of chicken on the pizza. Yeah, plenty. Oh my gosh. Do people ever get salads here or No, not much, but they are. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We sell more popular like kebab meat. We got both pizzas and then we got some fries on the house cuz that's exactly what we need right now. Look at the amount here. It's overflowing. Wow. We got the chicken shish pizza, I think is what it's called. Some garlic dip. A lot of chicken on here. A lot of cheese. And then on this one, the Mexican beef street pizza. Oh, thank you. Thank you so much. The service is insane. I feel like this is going to be so heavy. I'm going to need a freaking spotter for this. Look at that. enough chicken. Yeah. Oh man. You know what? You know what this is like? It's like when you start playing GTA and you want to be a law-abiding citizen and then 10 minutes later you're running over hookers on your way to Five Stars. That's what it's like coming in here. Like I could have made the good choice getting the kebab with a salad and look what happens with the deals. I'm gonna need to spend a week at a Buddhist temple after this. Directly across the street from bargain beer, lowcost beers, wines, and spirits. You are literally set up for failure everywhere that you go here. Think about a recovering alcoholic working at a brewery. That's what it would be like. Like if you're trying to lose weight and you're surrounded by this culture, I can't imagine how hard it would be. Even for me back at home when I was trying to lose weight when I was younger, it took me so many times of starting and stopping and eventually I did it. But just being here, I don't know if I ever would, you know. So I think it's it's kind of scary to think about and I feel really bad for people that are here because it's again all they know. They only know what they know. They're brought up with the same habits as their parents and it's just kind of like a generational trickle down effect. The amount of cheese on this one is very overwhelming which makes it kind of fun. Cheese after all is an anti-depressant. Yeah. My favorite food is just what I'm currently eating. Like this is my favorite. Then this will be my favorite. Then the fries will be my favorite. And then dinner is going to be my favorite. I don't want to have to do all this, but this is just good investigation work. This is why we're here. I'm loving life right now. The ratio of meat and cheese to crust is unlike anything I've ever seen before. And the fries are so salty and crispy. This is exactly what I needed. Yeah, we're putting fries on the pizza. Calorie count today. I'm not sure. We've had all of them pretty much. Everything that we've eaten today is just highly palatable foods. And when you have that non-stop, even though it's a lot more calories, it just makes you crave it more and more and more. So, I've been eating so many more calories than I usually do, but I'm just ready to just continue eating. And am I that hungry? Not really, but I just want to continue this parade. That's a dangerous slippery slope. And imagine having that every single day. You guys know we had to do it. We had to come to the gym. It just makes sense given our food choices today. So, we're at Pure Gym. Pure as in the dumbbells have probably never been touched before. This place is £25 a month, which by the prices of things we've seen today, this is expensive. This is like buying a Bugatti. This is also the only place that has probably not a BOGO deal. No deals whatsoever. You have been kidding. It's me. Hi guys, just wanted to quickly let you guys know that my cookbook is now available for pre-sale this instant. Like literally right now as you're watching this. Link is in the description. Pre-order it for me. Do it. Please do it. You You got an ebook. You guys wanted a hard copy. Here it is. Everything's new. The title is new. Picture's new. Got 31 new recipes in addition to the amazing recipes already in the book. It just looks It looks wonderful. The actual book comes out December 2025. Low calorie recipes, all the flavor. The people in Ebale, they need this. They do. They really need it. So, pick it up. Okay, now back to back to the video. Bye-bye. This gym is surprisingly incredibly nice. They have like literally everything you could ask for. And I thought it was going to be deserted, but there's some people in here. This is like peak Thursday, he said, which is it's not that busy, but it's busier than I expected it to be. We're doing shoulders right now because if I did anything else besides shoulders, I'd vomit. Like literally, it just be projectile pizza onto the the mirror. Ebale and the gym just they don't coexist. The vibes in this gym are so good. Music is great and you have people from all walks of life here. You have the older crowd that just finished a class over there. You have a bunch of the young guns over by the machines. It's just it's great. It's making me feel like there's hope in this town. There's hope. I hope. All right, let's reveal the greasy food pump. Definitely not bad. Okay, training to fight off the kebab cartel. They're not going to get me fat. Every time I try to grind a rep, I feel like something's going to slip out, man. My freaking tummy is vulnerable. Just trying to do some damage control. I love the location of the cardio. It's directly in line with Iceland grocery store. So I can see get any 10 for 10 lb. That's my motivation. That's why we're here. Everything's slloshing around. We are on the hunt for some dinner right now. Not in the mood for anything too heavy. So I'm going to see if I can search healthy food options and and see what we get. I have a feeling my phone's going to freeze. Got a 404 error or something like that. But here we go. Healthy food place. Okay, there's a lot of orange little dots. That's promising. Now, let's zoom in. Are you guys seeing what I'm seeing? There's literally one. Dia. We're going to Denia. Indian cuisine. Just what I need. So, we made our way over to Denia and ordered our dinner to go. And while we were waiting, we ran into Denia's personal delivery driver. I'm sitting here with Paula. So, you're the delivery driver? Yes. Specifically just for this place? Yeah, just for this place. Yeah. Okay. People on average order Uber Eats or like take out three times a day. It wouldn't surprise me. Wouldn't surprise you? No. I do know of someone who does order probably once or twice a day. Wow. Yes. Okay. There is one house that we go to multit multiple times a week. Their favorite is the chicken tikka chili cheese naan. Oh, that sounds that sounds good. So, I guess being like a delivery driver is like a very good career here. It's not bad. Yeah. Yeah, it's not bad at all cuz obviously we get our set basics and then we get a per delivery fee as well. And then tips are pretty good as well. So, all over it's not bad. This menu is so extensive, man. It's like the Indian cheesecake factory here. And look at this. They got Ben and Jerry's on the back for the pure authenticity. So, we got chicken balty. We got a tub of white rice. We got chicken tikka. And then this very, very vibrant mint sauce. It all smells delicious. And currently, my digestive system is at war. And this Indian food is going to be the nuke to just finish it all off. Like, right now, I feel like I'm eating for sport. Like, I don't even need dinner. Like this is just kind of over the top. In theory though, this is probably the healthiest thing I've had all day. But there's a lot of sauce, a lot of oil, a lot of carbs. Especially if you're somebody who doesn't work out. This is my fourth time getting takeaway today, so it is a little bit unnecessary. You know, that is so flavorful. It's creamy. It's comforting. Heavy, slightly sweet. Indian food is not just food. It's like a weighted blanket for your insides. It's so heavy. I'm going to be sleeping so good tonight. I may not even wake up tomorrow. So, he did talk with your mouth open. He did say the average person would get a starter and then a curry with a rice. And this is a standard order. Calorie-wise, this is a lot. Like, this is probably like 700 calories of white rice alone. And then this, like, this is still easily a 1500 calorie meal. And if you don't work out, you don't move. Like, that's almost your day right there. And this is just dinner for some people. People are talking about how they can't afford the gym, but then yet all day today, we didn't see one person on a bike. We didn't see one person running. So, it's like nobody's doing anything anyway. So, this is just it's all about eating. I feel so bloated right now. If you came and poked me, I'd jiggle. There is so many addictive ingredients in this food. I just can't stop eating it. This is officially my favorite thing I've had all day. This is it. Nothing's going to top it. Nothing. Being full and hot. This is the worst combo. My cheeks are sweating. All four of them. My stomach says no more. My dessert stomach, however, it just kicked the door down like the Kool-Aid Man. It's ready to go. Like, I'm ready. My motto today is go big or go bigger. It's just simple as that. I should I should get dessert. I think I should. I think it first of all, it's cheaper than therapy. And I think it'd be rude not to here, you know. So, interestingly enough, I'm on the Uber Eats website, and usually back at home, there's a healthy category for food. It just doesn't exist here. It's just not here. We got fast food, we got pizza, Chinese, alcohol, Father's Day, whatever that means. Groceries, burgers, drinks, convenience, Indian, sandwich, Asian, and then there's comfort food, which just encompasses all of those things that we just said. And then, oh, pharmacy. We got pharmacy. Click on that. And the first thing on there is McDonald's and KFC. Like I'm I'm just as lost, guys. I'm just as lost. I'm going to go to the dessert category, find something that I fancy, order it, and you'll see what I get. Okay. Oh, yeah. Made my Uber Eats order and I was shocked to see that it could take nearly 2 hours to get my order. My anxiety about my ice cream was actually getting so bad. But my driver Abdadir has me feeling hopeful that everything will be okay because he is 14 delivered with care compliments which is great. Finally after 1 hour Abdikadir was close. I thought it was him in the car coming towards me but then all of a sudden this happened and I got kind of scared. Abdikadir was on foot. It must have been a glitch because this was him in the car and he was so sweet. Hopefully like my dessert. Thank you. My apologies for the late. No worries man. Take care. This took an hour and a half to get here. And the status of my ice cream is truly tragic. Look at this. It's it's it's soup now. Delicious soup, though. Wow. A brownie explosion tray. I cannot express to you how heavy this thing is. It is. It's a dense boy. Like, wow. A lot of stuff going on in here. brownie explosion tray because it comes to destroy your waistline and your relationships. This was 100% 15 reviews. How could I not? Costed 7 lb to gain 12 lbs. Oh my god, that is spectacular. M. Now, this one, the Biscoff heaven, my wife Katie would be so jealous right now. I think she'd rather see me with another woman than have this without her. I'm not going to let her know. Okay, I'm going give it a dip and put it to my lip. I know why it has that name. One bite and I can see the light. People in Epil, they got to start tracking their calories. They got to start tracking their macros. It's so easy to do, especially with the Macro Factor app. The quickest and easiest way to track your calories. And if you have no idea how to start, that's totally fine. The smart nutrition coaching feature will set you all up. So, you basically have to do nothing. Now, the app is premium and you're going to have to pay for it, but it's cheaper than My Fitness Pot premium. They're not going to serve you ads. They're not going to sell your data. It's literally the best freaking app on the planet for tracking calories. I use it every day. It's low hanging fruit that makes all the difference. So, if you want to try it out, go to the Google Play Store, the App Store, or macroofactorapp.com and use code will for a twoe free trial. I think I'm I'm losing breath eating eating dessert. What the hell's going on? If this is the first video that you've ever seen of me, I apologize. You can see I'm a lot better. I'm pretty disgusting right now. This isn't an accurate representation of me, okay? So, stick around. I promise. My body is so confused. It's like it's happy. It's like going through a traumatic something. I have reached capacity. I'll tell you that. I brought my dessert to bed, full and bloated. But I'm not going to quit. 24 hours in the UK's most obese town was eye opening. People here are kind of trapped. They have limited choices to healthy food. Breaking the norm is extremely difficult. And when financial troubles are in the mix, it isn't about health. It's purely about survival and putting food on the table. Heat.