 I love food, i love food, i love food, so much, i love food, so much, people have told me, they can't imagine me living without it, but apparently, food is what's been holding me back from reaching my peak existence, you see, i've been seeing so many podcasts and articles about how fasting is the key to living forever, autophagy, cellular cleaning, mental clarity, there's so many fancy things that it does, dr stan above all has really convinced me to give it a shot, for no particular reason, other than, he looks like he knows things, so i'm gonna do the unthinkable, i'm not, i'm shutting my stomach off, i'm shutting my stomach off for the next 72 hours, i'm just not gonna eat anything, i'm just not gonna eat anything, this is going to be the last thing that goes inside me with nutritional value for the next 72 hours, so i really need to savor this, this is not just a meal, this is loading up the vault, and my god this is a large steak, it's like a freaking poodle on my plate, and that is raw, good vet could bring this thing back to life, for this meal, i intentionally win, higher fat, and higher protein, for higher hopes of satiety, throughout the video, and i also just want to limit the carb withdrawals, because those are gonna be, those are gonna be really bad, i don't know how, but hopefully, one of these eggs could hatch inside me, and feed me chicken over the next couple days, i savored every bite of this steak and eggs, and oddly enough, i felt calm, even though i knew this would be my last meal for days, but at the time, i had absolutely no idea what i was about to put myself through, last bite, last bite, and just like that, the fast has now started, started monday at 4 30 pm, and i cannot eat again till thursday, at 4 30 pm, goodbye food, i will see you in three character building days, good morning, we are just about 16 hours into the fast, and i slept, so good, i don't think i've eaten, that early, before bed, ever, so that's pretty interesting, now i intermittent fast, every day, already, so i knew the beginning part of this, was gonna be pretty easy, morning weight is 194 pounds, down 4.9 pounds, from last night, today, i'm feeling, a bit worried, because this really is, just the beginning, i did a quick physique check yesterday, before my last meal, and while this really isn't about fat loss, it's still gonna be very interesting to see the difference, that just 72 hours can make, maybe 10 years ago, i would have fasted for the pure reason, of getting shredded, but now i care about other things, equally as important, killing off cancer cells, eliminating tumors, inflammation, but the thing that i am most excited to achieve, is autophagy, autophagy literally means self-eating, which sounds a little alarming, but it's actually one of your body's most powerful cleanup systems, when you go long enough without food, your body starts breaking down old, damaged cells, and recycling them for energy, think of it like a biological cleanup crew, clearing out the junk, so healthier cells can function better, because of that, autophagy has been linked to anti-aging benefits, and increased longevity, one of the less glamorous parts of this experiment, is checking my pee, these strips measure ketones, to see if my body switched to burning fat, for fuel, and at the moment, we've got nothing, we're negative, my body's still acting like food is coming, but it's not, and lastly, we'll see if my skin improves, fasting has been linked to clearer skin, and better tone, so if this works, at the very least, I'll come out looking slightly less tired, breakfast is served, my boy's gonna be working overtime, I gotta build a plan, because the way I see it, the only way this fast works, is if I don't have free time, if my mind stands still, I think about food, so I just need to distract myself, from my own thoughts, if I stay busy, I forget that I'm starving, so let's get busy, according to Dr. Sten, 0-24 hours is phase 1, the glycogen depletion phase, in the world of torture, this is the stage where they break you, this is when my system starts draining all of its stored carbs for energy, because I'm not yet adapted to functioning in a fasted state, I'm about to feel every single side effect, I am at the grocery store right now, diabolical first stop, I know, but we need to go inside, and get some supplies, fasting grocery list be like, Being in a grocery store while you're fasting is a dangerous game, I walked past the bakery like it's an ex I broke up with on Christmas, I didn't stop or make eye contact, I just quietly made my way towards the drinks, hoping to confuse my stomach with the carb, in carbonation, and hopefully my skin is just as sparkling, I grabbed a bunch of different flavors like coconut pineapple for an island vibe, and strawberry lime for a, I'm not sure what vibe really, and realistically we already know that plain water is just going to be straight up boring very soon, don't be looking over there, they sometimes say that when you feel hungry, you just need some salt water or electrolytes, who's they? they sound skinny and weak, whoever they are, but essentially it sounds like electrolytes is the difference between focus and fainting really, but I'm going to stay as optimistic as possible on this fast and just believe everything, my mouth is closed, but my mind is open, I thought it was smart to get some decaf coffee and herbal tea just so I don't overdo it with the caffeine, ooh, a dark affair sounds right up my alley, I'm totally joking, it'd be so easy otherwise, can you tell fasting is just about collecting flavored waters, so I went home, filled the fridge with drinks, and tried my best to bury myself in work, so I forgot food exists, then I played with Boba, I might not have energy, but he does, he loves this cat toy we just got him, a while back, Katie's mom made us this really cute custom puzzle, of one of our engagement photos, look how happy I look, me with the love of my life, filled glycogen stores, but this puzzle is going to be a side quest for me during the fast, so when I have nothing to do, my mind will be occupied, so it's going to distract me from hunger, by making me just angry instead, 500 pieces, I hate to see a donut in pieces, instead of in my mouth, we are officially 24 hours into the fast, or 48 hours remaining, I don't know if I'd rather have the remaining time left, or how much time I've fasted for, as my default, they're both just reminders, that the suffering isn't over, they both disappoint me, every single time I look at them, in terms of how I feel right now, I wouldn't say I'm starving, I'm just aware of food, that's not mine, I think my stomach is like, are we really doing this, or are you joking, I'm just trying to remind myself, that hunger is weakness, leaving my body, we cannot get into ketosis fast enough, for 24 hours in, I felt good, better than I expected, but very shortly after, it hit me, 26 hours in, and I'm starting to get a taste, of my first downward spiral, at least I'm tasting something, but I just got so hungry, out of nowhere, I'm literally dissecting, the flavor profile, of my own saliva, boba, is starting to look like, a little mobile brisket, I'm irritable and moody, I'm irritated, with how irritated I am, I feel like I'm gonna bark at somebody, if they walk by me, I think I'm just psyching myself out, and wondering if I can even do this, I'm second guessing everything, like did fasting take Dr. Stem's hairline, I don't know, but I know with fasting, there's highs, and there's lows, and the lows are very low, but we just gotta keep on going, right through the low, we got this, I don't know, I think we do, for dinner tonight, I'm having some tea, and a sparkling water for dessert, sophisticated starving, I call it, definitely feeling better, than a few hours before, but I am feeling really, really weird right now, I feel like I could eat, everything, but I also feel like, I could eat nothing, I'm at this, tipping point, of either giving in, to every temptation, or leaving hunger behind, for good, like I'm calm, I'm focused, but I'm one second away, from a bad decision, at all times, which is a very, weird place to be, but overall today, I definitely think I've handled it, much better than I expected, today literally felt, twice as long, as a normal day, so it just goes to show me, how much food, plays a role in my daily life, it's literally the main plot, everything else is filler, based off today's fluid intake, I predict, I'm going to be up, every 45 minutes to pee, which is going to be great, I'll see you all in the morning, hopefully, good morning from me and Boba, we're almost 40 hours, into the fast, which means we're over halfway, which is super exciting, morning weight is 190.5 pounds, whoa, what the heck, and I'm feeling calm, because we're in phase two, the ketosis phase, glycogen is mostly gone, we're burning 90 to 95% fat now, I'm getting less delicious by the hour, good news is, autophagy really starts here, last night's sleep, was actually really good, I just thought about Dr. Sten, being the big spoon, covering my mouth with his hand, telling me it's all going to be okay, like I have never had a readiness score, that looks like this, I am just ready to take over the day, I feel super natural, all of my senses, are heightened right now, like I heard a train at 5am, that I've never heard before, I told Katie, she's like, it happens every morning, this was the first time I heard it, can you explain that, I can't, the reason that I'm feeling calm, is because I don't have the capacity, to stress right now, I can't overthink, I can't even think about, what's going to happen in five minutes, I am just so present, and in this moment, it's peaceful, and it's freeing, and it feels amazing, in terms of my hunger levels, I'm at like a two, three out of ten, I could definitely eat, but I don't need to, and I don't know if it's just me, the skin though, it's glowing, so I don't know if the 40 hour mark, is where things start to get spiritual, but it's certainly feeling that way, so if I can ride this feeling out, it's going to be a breeze, but why do I doubt it, definitely sharpened up, a lot this morning, not holding any water, don't feel bloated, feel nice and dry, I will say, I am feeling flat, as hell, flatter than a surfboard, here's a look at my pee pee, things are looking a little bit more pink, than yesterday, which would put us in, the trace category, for ketones, now considering the amount of fluids, that I have consumed, my pee, is gold, I'm not going to show you, because that'd be just, too much information, that'd be gross, but I'm just letting you know, it's looking like a nice apple cider, I don't know why, usually my pee is clear, now it's like I'm super dehydrated, but I've been drinking so much, so I don't know, I don't know, it is really crazy, how you can go from feeling like roadkill, to feeling like you're at a rave, peeking, right before the beat drops, I'm just ready to take on the day right now, I don't need food right now, I just need normalcy, so I'm in the drive-thru, just sticking to my regular, morning routine, there are some things, that only a big, black, coffee, can fix, so I'm excited for it, the first one, always hits the most, what's the largest, coffee size you guys have, extra large, can I do an extra large, dark roast, black please, ooh, now that the windows are down, I can smell the donuts, so much more intensely, than normal, usually these things, are a freaking, talent show spectacle, but now I should be working TSA, or, I found my calling, as a truffle pig, I think I ascended, I think I have powers, I don't know what I am anymore, it's crazy that no food, is doing this to me, usually, I just like to feel, defeated by food, I let it conquer me, I go to bed disgusted, with myself, and then I wake up, and then do it all over again, wow, good morning, hi sweetie, how are you, call up with the babe, yeah, thank you, thank you, take care of all, she called me sweetie, twice, she can see I'm glowing, look at the size of this thing, it's a freaking, it's a freaking wizard staff, oh yeah, that instant head rush, woo, this might be the straw, that breaks the camel's back, basically what I'm saying is, I'm currently at the gym, almost 43 hours into the fast, and I'm about to do, a heavy leg workout, so this is where the fast, might come, to a quick end, but apparently experts say, if you want to minimize muscle loss, you still got to train hard and heavy, even during the fast, I don't know if that's actual advice, or some survival of the fittest type shit, regardless, I'm gonna do the best I can, and if I black out mid-rut, it was all in the name of autophagy, this is about to be, a super primal lift, back in the day, they would go days without eating, hunting, until they finally caught an animal, this is essentially the same thing for me, in my own, first world problems kind of way, I'm also really just hoping, that this lift does not ignite my hunger, just warmed up to my top set, for the pendulum squat, and feeling good right now, the joints are feeling way looser than normal, I usually need a lot more of a warm up, but now, I'm good to go, so if I can get this for 10 reps, I am gonna be, super happy, and also very surprised, oh, yeah, oh my god, I did it, that actually felt easier than last week, what, I don't know if it's the fast, or Shania Twain, you're still the one, but whatever happened during that set, I liked it, I felt good, I felt super focused, like laser focused, they do say, that during a fast, human growth hormone production, increases by like a couple hundred percent, so fasting could be, nature's high dose TRT, but I'm gonna keep the volume, super low for this workout, just a couple heavy sets per thing, and then get out, I'm not gonna overdo it, because I don't wanna die, but so far, we're off to a good start, I did another set, and hit 10 reps again, and I noticed something different, about my mindset, I felt more aggressive, more willing to push harder, and stay in that uncomfortable place, during the set, I really thought, the weight was gonna feel much heavier, it just feels, really good, from there I moved on to leg press, and honestly, I really do feel like, I've reached my peak human form, I feel happy, strong, energized, and clear, I'm starting to really see, what all the talk is about, even though this workout, is going amazing, and I'm hitting all my lifts, training in this state, feels as catabolic, as being caught, failing a parallel park, or being the first to apologize, in an argument, like my body, is screaming for protein right now, like imagine, nobody shows up, to your Disneyland birthday, that's what my muscles, feel like right now, it's kind of weird, sometimes I'll go to the gym, after a small breakfast, and I'll feel hungry, and weak, but now being almost, two days fasted, I feel like a new person, with not even one dip in energy, I'm also definitely noticing, I can manage the lactic acid, so much better, like when it starts to burn, I can continue the set longer, and go up more reps, than when I wasn't fasted, I don't know how to explain that, but, it's a pretty sick benefit, especially for leg extensions, usually during my workouts, especially after a hard set, my face gets super flushed, and my cheeks get extremely red, but today, it's nowhere near as bad, which I'm really enjoying. Workout is complete, gonna do a little physique update, 44 hours into the fast. Considering I had nothing in my system, I didn't expect much of a pump, I even thought flexing would feel flat, and lifeless, but again, I was wrong. I just got so hungry, so I tried the salt water trick, it didn't work at all. What I am noticing, is that these spikes of hunger come, when I would typically eat, on a normal day, so I don't know if I'm actually hungry, or if it's just my body being like, let's just get something in the system, like I'm craving something firm, and impactful, inside of me. I'm just missing flavor right now. So yeah, I'm becoming very food focused. I'm just thinking about all the ways, that I can break my fast, and many legal reasons, as to why I cannot record it on camera. But for now, I'm gonna have this, hopefully it subsides the hunger. When you start appreciating the notes, in the water, you know you're deep in it. It tastes like the ghost of a pina colada. I'm chewing the bubbles. I just tried doing some work, and I had to stop. I cannot trust myself at this point. Did you guys see on my stomach there? Jeez. What I was saying was, tried doing work, wasn't happening, so I just spent way too much time, more than I want to admit, looking at cooking reels, like it was adult content. Twice baked potatoes, but let's turn them into a breakfast version. Oh, my head just starting to throb. It's weird, I have like, whoa. My head feels like it's being compressed right now. But, at the same time, I have the mental clarity, that I only thought I could get from my right hand. But then I'm also noticing, I'm starting to act, strange. Like I'm, narrating my own, inner monologue. Like I'm an animal, a National Geographic, during mating season. Time is definitely ticking by a lot slower. This was the start of a very long, and difficult downward spiral. Making myself a decaf coffee, because I feel like my caffeine consumption today, has surpassed the legal limit. Greatly. Look at his face. Literally how I feel. Defeated. Sucked of all life. Then, Katie and I worked on the puzzle, the picture of myself becoming more of a distant memory each hour. Time was moving fast at first, but then everything just felt like it turned to slow motion. I can just stare at something, and somehow understand it deeper, with more focus. So fasting is either the limitless drug, or hallucinations. Everything I look at, I can hear it pleading its case, for me not to eat it. 49 hours into the fast, and I am going through it, more than I've ever gone through it, so far. I want to raid the fridge, so badly, and I can't even, make a thought. Like I'm just, I just feel like I'm existing, at this point. But here I am, making my beautiful wife dinner. Caitlin, behind the camera. This is completely my choice. I'm calling this exposure therapy. I really don't know if this is helping me, or potentially sabotaging me. I'm the villain of my own story. So I made her, a salad here. Usually, my secret ingredient is love. Today, it is restraint, and envy. Oh my god. I can, I can taste it. Oh, I can feel it in my eyes. I'm just gonna get so much joy, watching her eat this food. It's like a culinary, cuck, situation. Good chicken on that bite. I am getting leaner, by the freaking hour here. Look at that. Now it's time to show you guys, what I am having for dinner. It's a little bit of a liquid tasting menu. We got blueberry ginseng tea, got some electrolytes, with some ice, for some hardness. And then for dessert, as always, sparkling water, a little bit of tea. Superset, with a little bit of electrolytes. My mouth's like a luxury bathhouse. I'm so miserable here. I can barely focus on the movie we're watching. All that's going on in my head, is one long negotiation, about how much longer, I can hold off on this fast. Right now, I think my body's going through, full glycogen depletion. Meaning my body's relying, on fat oxidation, and ketone production. This is sometimes called, the keto flu phase, of fasting. My body is pumped, with so many different kinds of fluids. It's like spring break, all over again. But no matter, how much I drink, I cannot curb the hunger that I have. I'm really worried for tonight. Like I think tonight's going to be, one of the hardest nights, I've ever had in my life. I feel like tonight would be the night, I handcuff myself to the bed, and swallow nothing, but the key. It's going to be challenging, for sure. Like the second half of today, has just been, a grind. It has been a fight. Just to, just to keep going, and just to stay strong. It's very mentally challenging. But we have now officially hit, 53 hours into the fast, which is 73% of the way done. So things are looking up. I'm going to try to get to bed, as fast as I can. I'm going to try to go to bed, so hard tonight. So hard. I'll see you all in the morning. Hopefully again. I am feeling, so weird this morning. Yesterday I woke up, feeling great. today, is about detachment. Like I'm in my own world right now. I just turn my head, and things just move in slow motion. I can just stare at a wall, with laser focus, scary focus. I can smell things. I can hear frequencies. The best way to put it, is that, I just feel the most alive, that I've ever felt. Just so present, in this moment. I'm just so aware, of all my surroundings. So, I'm either in a high vibrational state, or, my stomach is just perma rumbling. Speaking of my stomach, hunger levels, like a 6 out of 10. So I'm getting to that starving point. Which is kind of scary, because I can feel my body, eating itself. Like I can feel, something happening. So, starving, while eating myself. Scary combo, don't you think? But, I think, a mood uptick, is on the horizon. I can, I think it's coming. Which is a good sign. I'm excited for that. Other good news, we're almost 64 hours, into this fast. Which is 88% of the way there. What is that? 8 more hours to go? That's nothing. It's like 8 seconds. I'm feeling all the emotions, this morning. Alright, morning weight is, 188.7. So that is over 10 pounds lost, on this fast so far, from the starting point. And I'm basically only 10 pounds away, from my stage weight. So I'm feeling very light. A lot more dry, and holding no water at all. My body's clear, and not inflamed at all. A feeling I actually love. Time to test my pee. Whoa. Oh. Can you have keto pee? Mmm. Why did I smell it? Alright, so we're gonna dip this tit, right in. Wait, wait, 40 seconds for results. No way. Is this what it's like for a woman, to get like a positive pregnancy test? Assuming it's planned? Like, look how pink that is. Oh my god. We're in moderate ketosis right there. Day one, we were here. Day two, there. Day three, boom. Could be, no, we're there. So basically just means, I'm using fat for fuel right now. The pee weirdly gave me a little life, so today I'm feeling kinda happy, because today I actually get to eat. I'm also in phase three, which means I'm in full ketosis, and Etapogy is at its peak. Starting off my morning with a dark affair. It could always be hotter and darker, but we're off to a good start. Downstairs right now. Yeah, I was thinking so far ahead. My whole entire kitchen is under demolition. Construction's going on, so I can't cook no matter what. I literally cannot lose. They just better be out of here by 4.30, or else somebody is dying. In terms of my joints and my tendons, they feel great. Usually, I have some aches and pains all the time. I'm a lifter. It happens to all of us. After leg day, my knees usually hurt a little bit. None of that. It's not completely healed, but like 90% of the way there. I don't want to leave this behind, but I want food. It's very confusing of what to do. I don't know what to do. I haven't pooed in a few days, and I thought I was going to be very sore after the leg day, considering I have no fuel in me, but I'm not sore at all. Driving right now is like a game. It's like I'm driving in third person. Safely though. Even though I'm feeling good, I'm also feeling pretty fragile right now. Like a porcelain butt plug. So with that said, the plan was to go and train, but I also enjoy consciousness. And I just have this feeling that if I went to the gym, it just wouldn't go well. It wouldn't go well at all. So today's workout is just three sets of not passing out. So with all that said, I'm not going to exert myself today. I'm actually just going to spoil myself today and relax and just be in my body because that's how I'm feeling today. I'm feeling very emotional. All the emotions are coming up and I'm just feeling happy to be alive. I'm driving. I'm noticing things that I don't notice. I get beauty in things that I don't notice. Like the red light is beautiful, you know? So I just feel happy to be alive. I feel grateful right now. So I'm just going to sit in this feeling. I love chewing ice cubes. When you remove something as basic as food, your brain starts noticing things it normally ignores. The fact that I can just get in the car and go somewhere. The fact that I even have food waiting for me when this is over. It sounds dramatic, but fasting has this strange way of humbling you. Not because you're suffering, but because it reminds you how easy life usually is. I really did think that the sauna was going to be peaceful for me, but all I'm feeling is like a turkey in the oven without proper stuffing. It's almost like my stomach is interrogating me. Also, the more I think about it, I don't even know if sweating is a good idea. I'm losing precious electrolytes. I'm going to get out. I just finished such an incredible massage. I think I must have flatlined during it. It was just so deep, deeper than I've ever had it. And I think it's because my muscles are just too weak to tense up and fight back. But good news is, it's 245 now, which means we have less than two hours left of this fast. I cannot believe that I can see a 70 on that timer. 70 hours? Basically 71 hours. Are you kidding me? Damn. I freaking did it. Well, not yet, but I pretty much, I pretty much did. They say that when you break a fast, you want to gently wake up your stomach. I just want to slap it in the face. I want to throw cold water on it. You know what I'm saying? I don't want to ease my way back into things. I want to just cannonball in, but no matter how much I want to do that, I'm not going to do that. You just don't want to break your fast with so much junk food because you're just not going to feel good. And I just respect the work that Autophagy has put in so far. So it's not going to be my first choice, but I do have a plan. So let's go pick up the food. Being in the grocery store in this fasted state is just crazy. A loaf of bread just waved at me. I waved back. If groceries on day one was hard, this was on another level. Bruh, are you kidding me? I don't even know what ripe bone broth even means, but we getting some beef bone broth. Everybody after a fast has bone broth. I don't even know why. I just want to fit in. Then I got some really overpriced eggs, which I can barely even look at the price of those things. Wow. Can I get a medium of the roasted potatoes? Thank you. Okay, I'll take one of those. I'm just kidding. You know I've matured because 10 years ago, if I was breaking a fast, my cart would look like I'm hosting a Super Bowl party. But now, a healthy young man. All right, goodies are secured, so let's go home and break this fast. Bone broth, eggs, and some roasted potatoes, and I'm tracking all of this using the Macro Factor app, the easiest and quickest way to track your calories. Not only is the entire database verified so you can trust its accuracy, it gives you an extensive micronutrient breakdown of all your foods so you know exactly what you're eating at the highest level. And today, that actually really comes in handy. For example, eggs are considered a great recovery food after a fast because they're high in choline and B vitamins. Choline helps your liver process fat. B vitamins help turn your food back into energy. If you want to give Macro Factor a try, use code WILL for a two-week free trial. Link in the description. Five, four, three, two, one. Yeah! Keep fasting? Are you kidding me? End fast. Man, that feels freaking good. I am so proud of myself right now. The restraint. That feels good. That feels really good to be able to push through that. Let's eat. I can't stop looking at this screen. I haven't eaten since Monday, February 16th at 4.30 p.m. My God. We have three whole eggs, we got some roasted potatoes, and we got some bone broth. My mouth is watering, my hands are shaking, a tent has been pitched, and I'm ready. Give me a moment. I might get emotional here. I don't know if it's just me, but the eggs look extra yellow today and extra scrumptious. Start with the bone broth. Oh! My toenails are curling. I have this feeling inside my body right now like I'm being saved from something. Wow. Oh, that is so flavorful. Now let's try the eggs here. Oh my God, my mouth's gonna start leaking. Chewing is a skill now. I forgot how to use teeth, which would explain the compliments last night. Oh, food is so incredible. I take it for granted. I'm supposed to eat this as slowly as I possibly can, which for me will still be under 90 seconds. I'm shivering now. Am I even being dramatic? This is like an experience. All I can say, the bomb is diffused. Woo! This really makes me want to keep on this rhythm of just being extremely healthy, eating whole foods and just focusing on my health. I don't want to ditch all the protein bars and all that stuff now. Every single bite really did feel like the first. I was so happy and relieved in this moment. Over the course of this fast, I ended up losing 10.2 pounds in total, which is significant, but it's mainly water. I'd say a pretty decent difference, definitely a little less bloated. And here's my skin, before and after. I do feel like my skin looks a little more smooth with a more even complexion overall. During this fast, there are two major things that I've learned. The first one, like a lot of us, I'm way too food focused. I'm always thinking about food. My life revolves around food and it doesn't need to be. It shouldn't be. The second thing, life is beautiful and I feel like I take so many things for granted. I just let things pass me because I'm just so go, go, go. So fast-paced all the time and this fast at a certain point forced me to slow down and my mind was clear. I was realizing just like the beauty and the simplicity of some of the most random things and it was amazing and I'm grateful for that opportunity. so hopefully that's not something that I forget because it is, it's really, it's really powerful. I'm not sure if fasting is the missing puzzle piece on the path to my peak existence but it definitely put a lot of things into perspective and changed the way I think. I'd honestly recommend every single one of you try this at least once but I'm pretty sure I did find the missing piece to eternal happiness. I'll let you decide whether I'm talking about Katie or the donut.