There ain't no ain't no tomorrow. I need everything. Number 24, Will Jason. 24 hours till I step on stage. 25 until I break some sort of doughnut world record. One day till one dozen. Put that on our shirt. So today's macros are supposedly 161 g of protein, 432 1/2 g of carbs, and 75 1/2 g of fat. Coach is coming over right now to see how I look before I can have breakfast. But here's majority of the foods I've been eating. Yeah. Okay. Lots of water. Same thing from the last video. chicken rice, sweet potatoes, more chicken breast, carb sauces, Gatorade powder, rice cakes. Took a celebration cookie from the plane to celebrate when this is all done. And then I had to go to the store last night to get some more olive oil, some maple syrup, and some almond butter. sort of feel better. Better good. Do you feel flat? Yeah. Yeah. Cuz you kind of look flat and I want to push you a little harder in the morning here. See how we're looking midday. And I by by this evening, I kind of want to be just tapering down a little bit. Let's go ahead and add a cup of syrup. All right. I've never seen someone get so excited. Okay, so meal number one is looking like that. In here, there'S4 oz of chicken breast, 8 oz of sweet potato, 1 cup of vegetables. We remove the tablespoon of olive oil. We also have two rice cakes, and then I'm adding 30 g of maple syrup, and then 1/4 teaspoon of salt. It's crazy how tedious this stuff is. And I never really understood people getting sick of foods. I can tell you I'm not going to eat any of these things for at least 3 months when this is all done. Maple syrup. Okay. 30 g. It's like the smart idea to put on the sweet potato cuz the rice cakes are already sweet. Oh my god, that's a lot. 30 g. Wow. I'm salivating. I feel like today's going to be one of those days that's just going to drag on. It's going to feel like such a long day because you just want to get to the show tomorrow. I feel so many different emotions right now. I am very nervous. I'm also the most in my head right now. I keep on looking at my physique in the mirror and I'm like, "Yeah, this is not it. This is not it." But apparently it's normal. But there's so many things that we have to do today. A lot of cool things. I'm getting a tan. I'm I'm in desperate need of a tan. So that's going to be super cool to see. I put Will on a mule plan at about 10 days out. One of the reasons is that to minimize the variables. I want to take control of those because if we have too many uncontrolled variables, it leads to a greater chance of something going wrong. We do have syrup, which will very excited about, but that just supplies fast sugar to help carb load him up faster. We have things like sweet potatoes, which also have carbs, but high potassium levels, which can also fill him out a bit more since it's stored more in the inside the muscle cells. We have things like salt to help increase blood volume, help them get a pump, but you don't want too much salt because otherwise that can cause them to get a little blurry and spill over. The syrup's giving me like shivers in my thighs. Are you feeling your volume? Oh, my toenails are curling. We are at the check-ins. 177.2 1772. Awesome. All right. Probably be a bit weight by the second show. I'm telling you, absolutely. No, you're going to be like, "Okay." I found out later that day that 177.2 lb would put me in the men's heavyweight division. Got my little swag bag. I'm number 24. Definitely doubt as many calories in here. We got protein powder, my numbers for my thong. And now we have to go get a polygraph test to see if I'm alive or not. All right, Will. So, we're going to be doing your polygraph exam. This test today is about the anti anti-doping and the and the band substance list for the WNBF Canada. So, please just have a seat over in that chair. I'll come put that stuff on you. This is like quite the setup. We'll start by putting two things around your body. This first thing is going to go around your stomach. So, will just lean forward a little bit for me. Lift up your arms. Just going to do this up on your side like that. I'm going to put this blood pressure cuff on your left arm. So, just stick your arm out. Thank you so much. Two things on your fingers. Monitors galvanic skin response or perspiration from the palm of your hand. Of course, the blood pressure cuff on your arm and we'll get started. All right. The camera now is recording and this test has begun. Regarding the WNBF ban substance list, do you intend to answer truthfully each question about that? Yes. In the last 10 years, have you taken anabolic steroids, testosterone, growth hormone, or any other 10-year WNBF band substance? No. Have you taken clinical diuretics or ephedrin in the past 3 months? Have you used any prohibited items on the ban substance list since their respective prohibition date? No. We passed the test. I'm sure people are going to be like, "Will's a psychopath? He just cheated the system." No. But now it's time for the tan. Will Tannis is about to check in. I'm so excited for this. You're going to roll up the wiener sock and you're going to make a little basket for your wieners and beans. Okay. And then once you're in the basket, obviously you put everything in the basket and try to Yeah. Oh my god. I want to see myself. I don't even see myself here. Can you flip the camera? Oh my god. Look at an Oompa Loompa that just did a crash diet. Wow. I don't want to look like a vampire. So, I took the sock off, told them to spray a little more downstairs. It's an optical illusion because I am feeling a lot more confident. Here are some physique shots after weigh-ins at 177.2 lb and first coat of tan complete. I really can't believe I have another tan later this evening where I'll even get darker. You look sharp, too. Really sharp. It's good. Y sharper, too. tighter. Yeah, definitely. You have shoot potatoes? I do. Um, how's the stomach feel right now? Empty. Okay. Um, let's do something we can write this down with you. Let's do 6 oz of sweet potato, 4 oz of chicken, 1/4 teaspoon of salt, 1 tbsp of olive oil. I want to see how you look after that and see how you feel. Okay, I'm giving you more fat, more protein. This meal should kind of sustain a little bit longer. Yeah, the soup is also give you a little pump of potassium. So, you just looked at my physique and then determined what I'm going to eat. What were what were the reasonings behind the choices? When we woke up this morning, you were a little bit flat. Yeah. But you've had a lot of carbs over the last 48 hours. So, we know the flatness isn't stemming from a lack of glucose. We're probably pretty good on carbs. Now, we're just kind of focusing towards fat. So, we're talking muscular triglycerides, getting sodium up to get your blood volume up, and so you'll be able to risk spilling over. Thank you. No, no problem, man. You're You're almost there. Seriously, I know. I know. It's It's tough. I'm like mentally fatigued right now. Okay, eat that. Rest like like get off your feet if you can doze off for a few minutes. Rest. Okay, I'm good. Yeah. Awesome. All right, man. Almost there. Last meal done. I think it's the last meal. Unfortunately, we are almost there. Getting close to the end. I always think about this story when I was younger and I was doing math homework with my mom and we were sitting on the couch and I just wanted to get it over with cuz I wanted to go play video games. But she was so insistent. She was always so insistent with me making my homework the best it could ever look, go above and beyond. And I would get frustrated cuz I just I was like, "Mom, this is not this is not a big project. This is not an exam. This is not this is just daily homework." And then she says to me, "Are you planning to put your name on it?" And I was like, "Yeah." And then she's like, "Well, whatever you do, big or small, be proud to put your name on it." I didn't really think much of it at the time. I think when we're young, we never really do. And then we grow up and we kind of look back at the lessons our parents taught us and we're like, "Hm, there's validity to it. It makes sense." And that's why now every single thing that I do, I give it everything that I got. If I set a goal, every little tiny thing up to that goal, no matter how small it seems, it's like I'm putting my name on it. So, with this prep, every time I went into the gym, I was like, well, you know what? This might be my last one. We're all going to have a moment in our lives and you got to be ready for it. And the way that you're ready for it is that you treat every single day as if you're putting your name on it. There's so many people in this world, man, that want something difficult and they want to stay comfortable and they have no patience. I see so many kids in this fitness game. They're lifting for 2 years and they start complaining about brain fog. the fact that, you know, they don't feel good because they're staying shredded and they still want to build muscle, all these stupid things, and then they go on TRT. I'm like, what the [\h__\h] are you doing? What are you doing? Like, this [\h__\h] takes time. This does not take 2 years. This takes 10 plus years of hard work, dedication, consistency, discipline. There's no motivation because motivation comes and goes. We all lose it. We all get it. Discipline is everything. Discipline is showing up no matter your emotional state. Discipline is showing up to the gym. No matter how long or hard your day was, you're going to show up and give it everything that you got. It doesn't have to be your best workout of all time, but the best that you can do that day. And if you are not prepared to put the years in, then bodybuilding and fitness is just not for you. If you find something that you love, you will realize what trying is and what trying is not. And if you love it, why would you want to rush it? I think there is such a beauty in going through these phases of life. You know, you're going to have to put on some body fat. You're going to not be shredded all the time. That is okay. That is sometimes what you need to do because guess what? Your physique that is under that body fat is there. It's always there. But you got to build to show it off. Why? Why rush? No matter what I say, no matter what I do, no matter how I could try to prove the fact that what I'm doing is natural, there is always going to be people out there that don't believe me. And that is pretty [\h__\h] cool. If one of you out there are watching and believe that and know that what that what this is, it's real and it's it's attainable, it shows you that you can build a physique that you're proud of that people can doubt and you do not have to turn to steroids to do it. You don't. You need to put the time in. You got to show up every single workout. And don't look at this end goal. Look at it as little building blocks to get to a certain point. I'm competing for the first time ever and I've been lifting for over 10 years. Over 10 years of hard training and I'm doing it now. That is what it takes. That is what it takes. And for the people out there who do not believe me sitting on the couch, you have the ability to do it too, but you just won't stand up. And that's where I gained the advantage. Checkmate. And going into tomorrow, I know that I did everything that I could possibly do. And I don't care what happens. I'm so damn proud of myself for being here. From going through this process, for me, a kid who was not confident at all to stepping on stage with a tan and a damn thong. I'm going to give myself a pat on the back. I've come a long way. Got to get to bed early, early morning and then it's show day. Wow. The day is finally here. I can barely believe it. All the months of preparation is finished. There's really nothing that you can do. So, the only thing I can really do is enjoy every moment of it. First backstage meal, we have one rice cake, two tablespoons of almond butter. This is like a dream I've had before, but instead of a spoon, there's Antonio. This can't be real. It's only 21 g. 2. I was in heaven with my single rice cake and almond butter, a ratio I don't think I've had since middle school. The next thing we needed to do was put together an anabolic cocktail that I'll be sipping on until I hit the stage. Breaking Bad backstage. 40 g. Yeah, I believe that's about 40 g of course and then there you go. Very nice. What's the biggest mistake? Honestly, just doing wild things, you know. They they constantly the biggest thing I see is people always think and then they start trying to pound food pound carbs and it's like I've seen guys pounding pasta back like I'm flat and flat and it's like eating Alfredo right now. Yeah. The pasta won't even digest in time and it's like you got just now you're walking out there with a belly full of pasta. I still can't get over my can though. It's so weird right brush my teeth a lot. with my man. Yeah. Bodybuilding. Yeah. Shows up. You want to get the Boston cream. Yeah. It's your double. Enjoy it. It's nice cuz it smells like a little chicken breast. And this just kind of We're almost there. Almost there. Best of luck. Almost there. You too. You got this. Great. You too, man. The vibes backstage are so good. It's like everyone's competing against one another, but then everyone at the same time is just so supportive and encouraging. It's just really cool to see. So, it's fun back here. I thought it was time to go by slowly, but it's going by fast. You're going to be rolling. You're going to get magic. Thankfully, it was time for tan touch-ups. Like, I'm not sure what kind of creature I look like, but it's definitely not human. And take a look at this hairline. that needs to be fixed immediately. I never really realized how much tan is required for bodybuilding. I feel like I look like a rotisserie chicken in a speedo, but the reason for such a dark tan is that it increases contrast. Darker skin creates strongest contrast between your skin and the natural shadows casted by your muscles, making lines, cuts, and separation stand out much more clearly. It also evens out skin tones such as redness, which can distract from muscle definition. Good. Now turn around. There you go, Will. Ready to rock and roll. Thank you so much. Yes. All the best to each other. How are you? I wanted those blue lines so bad. We got him. And we got him. We got him. No. Um, you want to be able to like see Heat. Heat. right there. Yes. Awesome. At this moment, my nerves were kicking in like crazy. My heart was pounding. But being around these guys definitely helped ease the tension. A couple of them have competed many times before, so they kept the vibes light and just reminded me to enjoy the moment. Heat. Let's go, guys. We're going to go to center X. You're going to strike one in your class. Okay. Follow her instructions. So far, some of the things she's asking for are getting into your poses quickly and when you're doing abdominal thigh, no back. I know what it is. Yeah, she's saying no. Heat up here. Gentlemen, can I have you come to the front line? Quarter turn to the right. He's going to have number eight, number 24 places in front of a nice quarter turn to the right. side chest. Get into your poses and relax. Side triceps. Double heat. Tricep hands overhead. Abdominal guy. For me, one of my biggest fears of this entire experience was going out on stage to a big crowd. I just didn't know what to expect. But once you get out there, you realize that you can't see anybody because the lights are just so bright in your face. All you see are the judges. And then after around 20 seconds, it all kind of felt like I was just in my living room doing my posing practice. Watching back this footage is crazy. The crowd was pretty loud, but in the moment, I was so focused that the only person I heard was my coach yelling at me to make adjustments as the show went on. Hit those hamstrings as well as the glutes. Will lats. Lats. Don't shrug. Don't shrug. Oh my god. Wow. That was cardio, man. Holy [\h__\h] Did you say so? You didn't sweat at all. Oh my gosh. I was tensing for my life. The individual routines are anywhere from 30 to 90 seconds. I think some of you know the song I picked. Up next, we have number 24, Will Tennyson. Hometown market Wilson and a special thanks to his family and his coaches. Heat. Quite possibly the first bodybuilder to pose to John Mayer and I will happily take it. 18. Now, with winning the men's heavyweight division, this gave me the opportunity to compete in the overall versus the champ from the middleweight and lightweight division for a WNBF pro card. I had to quickly run backstage, hand over my medal, and get ready to come back out for a crazy battle. Turn to the right. Heat. Heat. Can I 24 hands overhead? Gentlemen, show us your favorite pose. DJ, can we get some down music? The overalls literally felt like an hour and I was starting to get nervous. In reality, we were only out there for just over 10 minutes. I could see myself finding it harder and harder to keep my core tight and control my breathing. It was clearly really close. Some poses, one person would be better, another someone else. On stage, I was watching the judges the entire time, and it seemed like they had no idea what to do. All right, your overall and new WNBF pros, number 21, Joseph And number 24, Will to the front line. I was in such disbelief over what just happened that I felt nothing. I had no emotion. I didn't know what to feel. It was actually hard to put into words. Everything was moving at lightning speed since stepping off stage. It kind of all blurred together. And in the chaos, it was nearly impossible to pause, take a step back, and truly soak up the moment and understand what it all meant. initial. Just show everybody take from the toilet. Yes, it's it's fresh. It's warm, isn't it? It's warm. It's warm. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. That can go down there. You guys are going out for a meal or something. Oh, yeah. What's what's been on the hit list? What's not? Yeah, not fair enough. Did you hear screaming? Yeah. See you later. Awesome job. Yeah. One more in the middle. I got to get my son back now. I just Everyone show me a muscle pose. There you go. It's been a while. Just like 6 months. How's it going? Wow. And I'm glad to have him back. My dopamine receptors are running a wild. I don't even know what it is. There's bacon on it. Oh, I got How do you know that? I just said it cuz I don't need any pork. Oh, another thing. I still I'm not taking this whole thing. Okay, made it back to the hotel. Tried to get some of the tan off, but I still look absolutely ridiculous. But it's nice to be in some quietness to allow myself to process everything that's happened. But that was the first show. It's pretty cool. We got a natural pro card. We got a gold medal. And we also got a sword that is surprisingly pretty sharp. Bodybuilding. It's like an individual sport. It's just one person on the stage. But I don't think a lot of people realize unless you're in it how many other people are part of that team. This win like I want to share it with so many people. Firstly, my wife Caitlyn, she was like the backbone of the operation, keeping me in check. So without her really like no chance. Seriously, like no chance. My parents, my coaches Cliff and Mikey, posing coach Johnny Shrieve, so many other people. I the list could goes on and on. People constantly encouraging me, pushing me, even all of you in like the comments on my videos, Instagram, you know, just really giving me confidence to to keep on going when times got hard. I got some feedback from the judges and it wasn't really anything that surprised me. I think a lot of you guys probably already know. Bring up the lats, lats need to be wider legs. They weren't necessarily saying that they were not lean enough, but it was just that I wasn't able to keep them like engaged the whole entire time. And I think that's just me, you know, with my like being my first show. I mean, definitely they could be for sure leaner. I feel like my upper body like definitely kind of like helped me a lot, but I did notice I was losing the ability to contract my legs during the show. Now we have to deal with the post show stuff. To be honest, I am kind of scared about it because I have no idea what to expect. I've heard a lot of people say that it like the real diet happens after the show. You know, people gain 60 lbs, blah blah blah blah blah. I actually surprisingly don't have any sort of like massive cravings right now. Like you guys saw me have the donuts and like had a couple of them and like I'm good. Had some sushi and like I feel very content. I have no need to go binge. I really want fruit. I'm craving like egg white omelette with cheese. Like just such random things, which is a good sign. The thing that I am kind of the most nervous about is, you know, my headsp space because doing this, if you guys decide to do this, it is your entire life. It is all you think about. Every moment that you're up like you think about food, what you eat, like it's just it's so allconsuming. And when that's gone, I I kind of be like I'm like what what's next? It's like what what am I going to do? Like there's so much out of my mind right now and I feel like tomorrow morning is going to be like really weird not having to think about like what I'm eating to that degree. But with that said, I think a lot of people like want to take time off when the show is done, but this has just made me so motivated to get back into the gym and just absolutely crush it because I'm one to believe that we never have a cap, never have like a ceiling. There's no natural limit. I just think that, you know, if you just keep on pushing, keep on trying to do the best that you can there, you just you just continue to get better. So that's kind of what I want to do. And at the end of the day, man, it's really cool because so much time and effort has been put into this. And it's just nice when it all comes full circle and you get something out of it. Hopefully, this shows some of you guys out there that if there's something out there that you want to do, just go and do it. If you say you're going to do it, do it. Who cares about the outcome? Just do the best that you can and you never know what's going to happen. That is show day. Is that my last one? I'm not sure. I think a lot of people right now have been yelling yes it is. But who knows? Never say never. So that is going to wrap up the video. If you guys enjoyed it, make sure to drop it a like. Subscribe to the channel if you're new. And I got to do this. And I'll see you in the next one.