This is CNN breaking news. Will, how did you manage to do that? We have never seen someone eat so masterfully in all our years. Thanks, Bob. You know, I can't take all the credit. I mean, if I'm being honest, my little brother here taught me to just close my eyes and and go through the alphabet. What is going on guys? Will here. Welcome to the video. The alphabet, it's been such a big part of all of our lives. You know, as a boy, I used it to learn how to write. I use it to learn how to read, but as a man, I use it for technique. So, in honor of that, I'm going to be following the alphabet, diet, and training, and it's exactly what it sounds like. I'm going to be eating and training in order of the alphabet. So, let's get into it. Hopefully, you know, but if you didn't, there's 26 letters in the alphabet. So, my game plan today is I'm going to space my meals out into four different meals. And in the gym, four different massive supersets. So, meal number one is going to be A, B, C, D, E, and F. A, B, E, and F. Took me a little bit of time to think about, but C, and D. You guys already know. Hi, welcome. Can I help you? Hi. Can I get one honey dip donut, please? All right. And then, uh, one large dark roasted black coffee, please. And that's everything. All right. So, you guys saw I picked up a donut and coffee. So, I'm going to be making like a breakfast sandwich. So, for a, we're going to be putting avocado, which is nature's mayo. Then we got some bacon and put a slice of bacon on top. I got my coffee that you guys saw. And then I got a donut and my sister was like, "Will you only got one donut?" And I was like, "Well, yeah." And then she's like, "Don't you put two." And I was just like, "Oh." I was going to kind of cut it in half. And I felt like a big But anyway, then for E, we're going to do egg whites. And then in the egg whites, we're going to do F for feta cheese. So this is going to be a sick breakfast sandwich. I'm excited to put this together. Okay, now this is a breakfast sandwich that I'm talking about. I am so excited to eat that. Like the ratio of egg to donut is a little bit off, but it's going to taste good. Okay, so right away for breakfast, we are banging out six letters of the alphabet. And my oh my does this thing look unreal. Watch out, Egg McMuffins. Although egg McMuffins are probably a lot less calories. I will put the calories of this on the screen right now. So we have A for avocado, B for bacon, C for coffee. So this will be acting as my water for this meal cuz I guess I can't have water until I hit W or unless I got creative in some other way. We have D for donut. I I would usually use a Boston cream donut, but I think this would make more sense. Again, just like many things in life, it doesn't really matter what doughnut it is as long as it's filled. We have E for egg whites and F for feta. And I have to get into this right now. I have never had a donut. Holy crap, those bugs are loud. I have never had I have never had a donut breakfast sandwich before. I don't know if that's hard to believe or not. I don't think many of us have. It's just something that you don't typically do. So, let's see. Oh yeah. Wow. This is taking your taste buds on world tour right now. That creaminess of the avocado, got the saltiness of the bacon, you get that feta cheese. Feta cheese is such an intimate cheese, you know? It just takes over and I don't mind it in this situation. You got to like the plate. I never leave it drop. I've always been taught that. That was unreal. 11 out of 10 all day long. So, donuts definitely need to be the new breakfast sandwich BUN in my opinion. What do you guys prefer? a donut, English muffin, a bagel, or toast, let me know. And just like that, it is now lunch time. So although that breakfast sandwich was amazing, it didn't really fill me up. So for meal number two, we are banging out six more letters, and those are G, H, I, J, K, and L. So I feel like when you do something like this, you got to think about what you want to make first and then build around it. So I saw K and immediately thought of kale. So we're making a kale salad. And in the salad, we going in with some lamb sausage for L. And you guys know how I feel about lamb sausage uh in that vertical diet video. I'm getting like a a barnyardish taste in my mouth. So, today could be redemption day for the good old lamb. Also, with the lamb sausage, we are going in with some jackf fruit for Jay. Uh, young jackf fruit. Don't really know what the difference is there. So, that is going to be the salad. You must be wondering, will is the dressing? I mean, you could have it dry if you want to, but I prefer it wet. It's a lot more fun that way. So, for the dressing for G, we're going in with grapefruit. I mean, I had other plans for this grapefruit, but having it as a salad dressing will be a fine plan B. So, that is the dressing. And then that is going to go in with some hot sauce as well. So, we're going to mix the grapefruit with the hot sauce, put that in the salad. I know it sounds kind of odd, but you never know, right? And for I I'm going with some ice. So, we have an accidental ASMR segment. So, that is going to be lunch. And then after that, we're heading to the gym. I know a lot of people don't really count their green vegetables towards their calories, like spinach, zucchini, and stuff like that, cuz it's pretty negligible calories. But certain green foods, you really should. Like kale right here, this is 200 g of kale. It's 100 calories, and that's quite a lot of calories. So, if you don't really count your kale towards your calories, I would start doing that right now. The jackf fruit actually looks a lot like canned tuna. Then we got our lamb sausage and our kale. So now it's time to make the dressing. So I got my grapefruit. I got my grapefruit here. Going to add in hot sauce for H. And let's see how it tastes. Okay, maybe eight dashes of hot sauce. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. That was actually quite a lot. And now we're going to give it a little whisk. Literally with a little whisk. Smells pretty good. It works. All right, so let's get into this salad. It looks quite dry and quite depressing. Kind of makes me want to cry. So, we got lamb sausage, jackf fruit, kale, and the dressing is hot sauce and grapefruit. Oh jeez. Okay, let's get one of everything in this bite. Not a fan. I mean, you can tell the jackfruit has not hit puberty quite yet. The kale is very bitter and that lamb sausage, I just lamb, I just can't do it anymore. I think the best part of this meal is going to be the ice cubes. That feels good. I was thirsty. Was I supposed to cut the stem off the kale? Kind of hard to chew. Going to get jaw hypertrophy. You know what? I'm going to take back what I said about the salad. It's actually kind of good. The more you eat it, the better it gets. There's like a reward in the commitment. Oh my god. Wow. So, I never thought I had to go lie down after a salad. So, I'm going to go chill for a bit, chew on some ice, and then we're going to head to the gym for the alphabet workout. The most epic full body workout doesn't ex until now. So, like I mentioned earlier, we're going to be doing four supersets. Within each superet, we're going to do six to seven exercises. The first super set is going to be upper body, second superet's going to be lower body, third one is going to be purely body weight, and the fourth one is going to be abs. So, there's going to be tons of exercises going on here, so hopefully you guys can pick up one or two that you didn't know. So, let's get into it. All right, so we're on to super set number one. And we're going to be doing A, B, C, DED, E, and F. So everything we're going to be doing today is just going to be one set of 10 reps. And I didn't want to be that guy who like uses all the machines in the gym. So I decided to bring all the weights in the gym to me in one hub spot here. So going to start off with the Arnold press for a and let's see how it goes. Hey, hey, hey. Okay, that was the upper body superet. Thank god we're only doing one cuz if I had to do two or three, toast. Okay, so after around 10 to 15 minutes of putting the weights away from the first super set, we're on to the second one now, which is the lower body. So we're going to be doing G, H, I, J, K, and L. So, we're starting off the golfer squat, going into a hamstring curl, then an incline curl, cuz it's the legs of the upper body. Then, we're going into a jump squat, kickbacks, and leg extensions. All one set, 10 reps. Let's do it. Okay, so super set number three is going to be fully body weight. This one's pretty short. It's only five exercises. So, we're going to be doing M, N, O, P, and Q. So, starting off with mountain climbers into neutral grip chin-ups into one arm inverted row push-ups and end off with the quadriplex. Okay. So, that was the body weight one. Now, we just have one more, which is abs, which is going to be the biggest super set of the day. Super set number four is be purely abs. And this one is long. It's nine exercises. The last one was five. So, we're making up for it right now. So, we're doing Russian twist, standing side crunches, toe touch crunches, upside down crunch, or the upward bow. Both of those are pretty questionable. So, we'll see what we actually do. V-ups, windshield wipers, X crunch, Y crossover crunch, and ending off with Sman curl. You always got to end your workout off with some biceps. So, let's see how it goes. I I haven't done abs like directly in a long time. I feel like I'm going to cramp like crazy, but let's do it. Okay, now we're doing you. So, we're going to try the upward bow. So, we'll see how this goes. I'm not very flexible. Heat. I'm cramping like crazy right now. Fun fact, this is Bruce Lee's favorite bicep exercise. Okay, workout complete. Let's go figure out some dinner. Oh my god, my abs are going to be killing. I guess that's what I get for not laughing. So, meal number three, we have M, N, O, P, Q, R, and S. So, I saw P. Automatically, I thought of PA. So, I wanted to get you guys involved. So, I asked you guys on my Instagram, give me some foods that start with a Q. And obviously, you guys gave me a hard time. But then I narrowed it down to four. It was between queso, quail eggs, quarter pounder, and quinoa. And the overwhelming majority of you guys chose drive up to the next speaker, please. Thank you. Okay. Hi. Can I just hit a quarter pounder, please? And that's it. That's enough. Thank you. Why do I feel like putting quarter pounder on pizza is going to be less controversial than pineapple on pizza? But who knows? We could be making something epic here. Now, I haven't had a quarter pounder or a McDonald's for that matter ever since the last time I probably had it on this channel. So, very curious to see what this looks like. So, let's see what we're dealing with here. Okay, look at that meat to BUN ratio. That's pretty ideal. The meat has been freed. So, we're going to cut this up into small little chunks, put it on a pizza, and see how it is. So, the other letters that we need to incorporate for this meal is M. So, we're going to doing M for marinara sauce, nutritional yeast. This is what the vegan species use to replace cheese. And then for Ollie, I'm just kidding, guys. We are going to be going with an onion. P for pa. This is going to be the base of the pizza. As you guys saw, the quarter pounder. R for ricotta cuz you guys know I love ricotta. And S for sparkling water cuz I need to hydrate and that's very important. So, we're going to put this all together. I think this is going to taste amazing. Probably the best thing all day long. So, this thing right here is like a little disc. It's so small. It's 520 calories, 26 g of fat, 41 carbs, and 30 g of protein. I could probably eat this in two bites. Life's just not fair. All right, let's do this. So, normally I would have two pas as you guys know, but I'm going to have one today cuz this thing is huge and thick. It's 855 calories just in this one pa. So, I'm excited for this one. And I'm really thirsty. This is like holding a freaking dumbbell. Oh, I just had an encounter with the pickle. Wow. The bread from the McDonald's kind of got crispy. The meat got crispy, too. It's really good. Like, I didn't think it was going to be bad. Like I said before, if you make a pizza bad enough that I don't like it, you should be shocked. The nutritional yeast kind of reminds me of and tastes like fish food. How do I know that? As a peculiar boy. That was amazing. Best thing I've had all day. Easily a 12 out of 10. If you're feeling irresponsible, definitely give it a shot. Okay, so with all these words going on today, I thought it only made sense to do a spelling be. So, I'm here with my mom right now. We're going to go headtohead and see who wins. And I feel like being able to spell kind of goes handinhand with how much you read, right? It certainly can. And you read like what, like a book a week? Probably a book a week. Yeah. That's pretty mystery. Yeah. Me on the other hand, I don't really read. And Playboy magazines don't have that many words in it. So, what we're going to do is we're each going to get three words, and we're going to see who gets the most by the end. If someone gets a word wrong, the other person has the opportunity to skill that word. So, we'll see. I'm just happy I don't have to eat anything today. Yeah. Okay. I I already know I'm going to lose, but I'm happy. I'm happy to be learning. So, yeah. Lady is first. Okay. What's the word? The first word is pomegranate. Pomegranate. P O M E G R A N I T E. Pomegranate. Incorrect. Okay. P O M E G R A N A T E. Pomegranate. Correct. Wa. Okay. One point. Will. Did they put pomegranates in that Playboy magazine? You'd be surprised. Your first word, Will, is Quidditch. Can you use that in a sentence, please? Harry Potter likes to play Quidditch. Okay. Q U I T I C H. Quidditch. Incorrect. Quidditch. Q U I D I C H. Quidditch. Incorrect. Ooh. Oh, okay. Q U I D I T C H. Oh, that damn T is silent. Now N second word. Intermittent. Intermittent. I N T E R M I T T E N T. Intermittent. Correct. Correct. Yeah, that was that was that was an easy one. Come on. Oh, will second word. Aphrodesiac. A P H R O D I A S I C. Aphrodesiac. Oh wow. Aphrodisiac. A P H R O D I A S I C. Aphrodisiac. Incorrect. Both of you put an A in front of the S, but it goes A P H R O D I S I A C. Are you sure you read it? I don't even I don't even I don't even think I could spell it again now. Damn, we're looking bad on the internet right now. Holy. And NY's third word is squat. Squat. Squat. S q u s q u a t squat. Correct. I was about to run away with that. I suddenly thought that there was it was like a trick squad. Will's third and final word is carbohydrate. C A R B O H Y D R A T E. Carbohydrate. So, are we tied? So, it turns out it is a tie right now. We have two words each. So, what we're going to do now is just go to sudden death over time. And the first person to get a word wrong is going to lose. So, what's the first word now? So, you should go first now. I should go first. Well, because the first person to get it wrong is going to be out. Oh, you little sneaky little bastard. Okay. Don't call me that. The first word is perplexing. Perplexing. H. P U R P L E X I N G. Perplexing. Incorrect. Perplexing. P E R P L E X I N G. Perplexing. Correct. It's okay. I thought was I was going like purr like a cat. You know what? You did a lot better than I thought. And I did a lot worse than I thought. You did a lot better than I thought. Well, I did a lot worse than I thought. And you did better than I thought. So, we both learned something. Yeah. Now, it's time for meal number four. This is the last meal of the day. So, I'm going to do some sort of a dessert thing. And the letters that I have left are T, U, V, W, X, Y, and Z. So, I saw W. I was like, "Finally, I can have water or I can have waffles." And our body is 70% water. So, my body can wait. So, alongside the waffles, we're going to do a virgin cocktail cuz let's face it, we're all this far into quarantine. We're all virgins again. So, here is the waffle batter. I'll put the ingredients on the screen right now for you guys to check it out. And on top of the waffles, we are going with some Greek yogurt for Y. Then, we're going to mix in some vanilla. Uh, for tea, we're going with Twix. For X, we're going with Zantham gum. And then, for zed, the weird component, we're going to shave in some zucchini into the yogurt. Put it all together. And that's dessert. Look how much volume that that waffle batter makes. So, I highly recommend that you guys check that out. Kind of concerned about the zucchini in the yogurt. I'm not sure how that's going to taste. But, let's give this uh unfuzzy navl a try. Kind of tastes like a Shirley Temple. It's taking me back to like grade two. It's good. Love that grenadine. All right, let's give these protein pancakes a try. Slash waffles. I don't know what's going on. This is just screaming for some Walden Farms, let me tell you that. Oh yeah. So get a little bit of Twix in there. Twix are for kids, right? Or is that That's Twix. That's Twix. I'm about to get roasted. 10 second rule. If I'm being honest, you can't really taste the zucchini at all. You wouldn't even know it's there. So that was the last meal. That was really, really good. Good. I think we had a very good day of eating. The total calories and macros will be on the screen right now.