 Home Gyms can range from cheap to ridiculously expensive. And now that I own my own home, I've decided it's time to build the ultimate home gym. But there's just one slight problem. I spent all my money on the house. So in order to build this home gym, I'm turning to the cheapest place on the internet. T-MU. It's time to become a budget bodybuilder. I don't know what that is. Here goes nothing. It goes to the... The budget for this gym is max $2,000. I don't want to go over that. I think that's reasonable. I think it's totally doable using T-MU. Now, you got to be very careful picking things online because sometimes they show up at your door with a baby. They claim it's yours. Let's get shopping. As if child labor wasn't bad enough. At these prices, do they even get paid? Now, this thing looks pretty cool. It's triceps, biceps. I think I'd have to be Spider-Man to figure out how to do chin-ups on here. There's five stars, four reviews, zero humans, I bet. There's only six left, so we better hack quick. Probably only six ever made. Let's add that to cart. You will never convince me anyone has ever paid full price for this. 88% off? That isn't a sale. They are offloading stolen product. But I think for a home gym, it is important to get multi-purpose things so it doesn't take up a lot of space. And this looks pretty legit. So we have a preacher pad. We have a leg extension. It does all of our shoulder pressing, our bench pressing. It says it's sturdy. It looks like it has the structural integrity of a breadstick and apparently it holds a thousand pounds, which I'm going to be very excited to test out. We'll see about that. A wealth of postures awaits your personal unlocking. That just sounds like a fortune cookie you'd find in a Shanghai brothel. Let's add this to cart. I think this is great. Oh, okay. This one looks good. The chest press machine here. It's again a multi-purpose thing. We got bench press. We got incline bench press. I'm not really understanding the mechanics of that shoulder press and then the photo of the sit-ups both confuses and scares me. But I think this looks pretty good and of course it's on sale. If you buy anything full price on Timu, I think you should just get an automatic bang fraud alert or something like that. It has five stars, nearly 4,000 sold with zero reviews. That can't be right, can it? How is that possible? And the cool thing is this is also black and red again, just like our tricep and bicep machine. So I think we just found our gym colors. This one looks legit, but the price feels cheap and it's not actually on sale for once. So now I'm just kind of confused about how I'm going to get screwed on this one. Add to cart. Obviously every gym needs a squat rack and I just found one here for only $140. That's terrifying. So I'm going to need a spotter for the actual rack instead of the lifter. Curling in the squat rack in the first photo is obnoxious. 66% off, 100% is going in my cart. I would love to meet whoever came up with that. Super creative. Dumbbells into a barbell? Count me in. In terms of cardio machines, we don't really need much. I have stairs going down to my basement, so that should really make up the bulk of it. But I do think having something in the gym for cardio would be a good touch. Now I found this. Check out that discount. 82% off. I mean, maybe if we just wait another couple weeks, they'll just be giving it away. Use half an hour a day and it's equivalent to all of these things here. 4.4 stars is usually a pretty good review, but on TeamU that just means that people were pissed. I kept browsing for a bit and ended up adding one more piece that's really going to bring the gym together, bringing our total gym spend to $1,696.59. Everything has been ordered and I'm just realizing now that I'm going to have to build everything. Yeah. Let's hope everything shows up. Holy crap. I ordered eight things from TeamU and I'll be happy if I get five of them and ecstatic if two of those are actually functional. How did the guy just deliver that? Part of me was worried I missed some sort of fine print and ordered miniature gym equipment instead, but all the stuff, as you can see, is actually huge and extremely heavy. Alright, well this is either the TeamU barbell or the final piece to my life-size Shack Mannequin. Okay, well that was the last of it, so everything showed up. I lied. It turns out the barbell isn't actually here yet. But this is where the gym is going to be. It's very spacious. I don't know what I'm getting myself into here. It's like I created my own TeamU escape room that I need to build my way out of. But if I can build this, I can do anything except return it. I'm for sure going to need a therapist after this. We do not have much time to waste because in just three days, the biggest home gym reviewer in the entire world is flying all the way here to come to this gym and review it. Let's get drowned in an Allen keys. Also this is just like really not a good sign before I even open the box. I have not built anything. Like I don't know how to build, so this is going to be interesting. When I was little, I remember watching my dad build things, and the first thing he would do is just take everything out and lay it all over the floor, like put everything on the floor. So that's exactly what I'm going to do. Babe, do we have tape? Oh God. I really don't know what happened there. I swear I put zero effort into that. The paper just kind of gave up on its own. If this is foreshadowing the quality of my gym equipment, I'm in danger. Step one done. Yeah. That was easy, man. What the heck is a nut? I have aged three years, but I have built the bench. This bench was advertised as being able to hold a thousand pounds, so let's test that right now. Okay. It feels sturdy. Oh, this is actually a nice bench. It feels really good. I feel so confident right now, like I cannot be stopped. Holy. Understanding the instructions is going about as well as playing charades with Helen Keller. They somehow made gym equipment instructions look like a quantum physics dissertation. I'm not qualified for this. I grew up on Lego instructions. This to me just looks like hieroglyphics. I'm a big fan of how each step has 13 mini steps within it. I love that. I'm just going to freestyle it and hope for the best here. Yeah, there's no shot. This thing is going to be built by me. So I'm going to call on some help now. Help is here and they're good. They're really good. They're super fast. Like, look, they've already finished making the chest press machine. So I'm up here. I'm the owner of the gym. So I'm doing some admin work right now because I'm just trying to make myself useful. The gym is called the budget barbell. Take a look at that logo I just made with the red and the black to match the machines. Things are coming along. The next thing I'm doing is coming up with something that Timu has probably already made me secretly sign. And that is a liability waiver because people are going to be using this gym other than myself. And I the likelihood of injury is probably very high. So I just put it into chat GPT and it's all done. It just saved me $5,000 in legal fees there. Okay, I should probably really go help build right now. Right now we're putting together the squat rack, which is important. This is the crown jewel of budget barbell. It's literally the focal point. I actually messaged the gym reviewer ahead of time for some intel and he said that equipment wise a squat rack isn't obvious. Yeah, so obvious. It only took three men, three hours, two YouTube tutorials and one minor mental breakdown. The squat rack's done. Good job guys. I just got some really bad news. I got an email saying that our barbell is running late. And I just feel like that piece is going to bring this gym to another level. It's not a crazy machine, but I feel like our gym reviewer would appreciate it because it's just such a unique piece. And I really hope it shows up, but I'm not feeling that confident. Yeah, we're running out of time. Anyways, I got back to work tightening bolts, lining up pieces and pretending I fully understood the instructions. I was doing as much as I could trying to look productive while on the back of my mind, constantly anticipating the doorbell for my barbell. Day number two in the books and it's coming along. I'm not going to lie. It looks like the newest final destination set. Like there's just so many ways you could probably die in here. Like you could not pay me to hang off that bar, but you actually probably could pay me to hang off that bar. Even though the gym is looking amazing, I am getting extremely concerned that it's not going to be finished in time. Like we spent half the day on the lap hold-down machine and it's not even done yet. We also haven't even started the biggest machine, which is the last thing I got. And I know that's also going to be a full day thing. So I'm really hoping our gym reviewer is not flying all the way here for absolutely nothing because that would just be mean. So this is going to go all the way to the wire. I don't know why. I don't know why I cut it this close. Good morning, everybody. We have one more long day of building. Let's get it done. This is the last thing that we need to build. It's huge. For reference, I'm just about 6'3". So it's going to be a nightmare. Look at the instructions I'm dealing with right now. Attach part 22, number 30 to part number 21 using two part number 2 M10 75 volts. Please help me. Guys, I cannot believe I am saying this, but the gym is done. I am so tired. You have no idea. I smell. I haven't showered in two days. I haven't cooked a meal either. But luckily, David has been here to hold my hands to make sure that I hit my protein every single day. David protein, of course. This is actually my fourth today. Here's proof. David is the highest protein to calorie ratio protein bar in the entire world. 150 calories, 28 grams of protein. And did I mention zero sugar? Yeah, zero sugar. Texture is unbeatable. Now, if you've never had them before and you're at the store, I recommend you reach for the cinnamon roll flavor. That is my personal favorite. That is what I'm having right now. It's like they microdosed a Cinnabon in here. If you guys want to pick up some David protein, use the first link in the description and you will not be disappointed. And just as I was finishing up my fourth David protein, this happened. I literally cannot believe this made it just in time. Let's go down and finish this gym. To finish the gym, I got what every gym needs. This sick five foot running Pullman poster for $13. And this Arnold poster for $22. That was actually 82% off. Budget Barbell is looking better than I could have ever imagined. And I can't wait to show you all in the morning. Everybody, welcome to Budget Barbell. All the hard work has been done and now it's time to just try everything out. So on the surface, this looks phenomenal, but so did Ted Bundy. So I mean, you're not supposed to judge a book by its cover, but I'm really hoping it matches. So the first thing we're going to try out is the squat rack right here. And this was like $158. So my expectations are like down here. This thing is supposed to hold 350 pounds and I'm terrified to put 45 on right now. Okay. Best case scenario today. I get an incredible pump. Worst case, I get carried into an ambulance with a decent pump. The tripping hazard here is pretty insane for the squats. That's not ideal. Okay, here we go. Time to rack it. So we tested 135 pounds. Now I'm going to do some pull ups with 200 pounds and hope for the best. Oh, that didn't sound good. Oh, not going to lie. Every single rep feels like there's A-50-50 chance that I'm going to pull this thing down instead of meet up. But it's nice. I like it. Next thing we have our bench here, which is also a preacher curve. And then they marketed it as a leg extension. And as you can see, a budget barbell not only is leg day skipped, it's just canceled entirely. I mean, it offers very little resistance. They should give me an attachment just so I can isolate my pinky. That is way too shaky for comfort. I'm going to do a little bit of a push-up. I'm going to do a push-up. I'm going to do a push-up. Thank you for comfort. Really nice. A nice fat pad at the back. So you have a nice back stability. Let's test out the preacher curl now. Nice. You got to hold this for stability. It's actually a very nice piece. Minus the leg extension. So the thing I was most excited to try, the barbell. Was supposed to hold any kind of dumbbell that you had. It doesn't fit my dumbbell. The barbell was like $86. Doesn't seem to be usable. Maybe if I go to like a Star Wars convention, I could just be like a jacked guy's lightsaber or something. That is the one downside so far of budget barbell. There is no barbells. The next thing we're trying is the lat pull-down machine, which was by far the hardest one to build. There was a lot of different small parts. Hopefully they are all still intact. Oh, that does not. That does not sound good. That sounds as sturdy as a canoe and a tsunami. This actually feels pretty good. The nice thing is this seat isn't so far back. So what it does is it kind of forces you to maintain perfect form the entire time. Not cheat it because if you cheat, you're just going to fly off. Head's going to hit the wall. Concussion. Then if you sit down, we've got a rowing machine. Then we've got the abs. This thing is a three-in-one machine. So we've got the lat pull-down and the abs and the rower. It does three things, not all three things incredibly well, but decent. The lat pull-down was by far the best of the three. Now we're going to move on to the chest press machine. Not going to lie, T-Move kind of cooked with this one. This one looks incredible. I cannot wait to try it. This was $360, which is kind of, I don't know how it was that. Maybe I missed the fine print where that's like my first installment of the payment. That's a really good price because this looks like a machine that you probably find at a commercial gym. Oh, what the heck? Oh, it's not even. The handles are not even. It has a nice convergence at the top. But once you get to the bottom, you feel you're just going to tear your pack. You can actually adjust the handles here. So your range of motion is extremely good. This was also advertised as being a chest press machine and a shoulder press machine. I mean, this is probably the worst shoulder press I have ever used. This machine also looks great, but just because it looks good as we've learned doesn't mean it's actually going to be good. First, we're going to do the tricep dip. That's a really annoying sound. Now, the cool thing about this one is if we go around back, we have ourselves a mini bar here to do some curls. Now, I can't fully stand up and do it because if I do that, I'm going to hit the floor and my wife's going to get mad. So we're going to have to do... I'm going to have to push it out of it and I have to get on my knees. Biceps are not usually what I'm working from here. There's a preacher curl. I'm calling this one the altar boy curl. Yeah, I mean, the way that this one was built, I got a question. Team is engineers here. Last piece, we have a team functional trainer. It's supposed to be bolted to the wall, but as you can see, it's not at all because they didn't give us bolts to the wall. What's great about this is that we can do lateral raises with it. We can do barbell curls with it. I probably wear a helmet when I do this. Let it chase you a little bit. It's like a fun game of tag while you curl. Say, come on this way. Let's go. And then we got ourselves... Maybe next time. Overall opinions on this gym for $1,600. It's pretty good. I mean, I can hit everything effectively. That's up for debate. I see budget equipment kind of like vegan food. If it kind of can mimic what it's supposed to be to some degree, I would say it's an overall success. So in terms of a score out of like 10, I'm going to give it a... I'm going to give it a six and a half. But that's just my opinion. I think we need an expert's opinion. Oh, and that's him right now. Will, daddy's home. I want to see the gym. This right here is Cooper Mitchell, owner of Bra's Gym Reviews, the largest gym review resource in the world. Nobody knows home setups and equipment like him. And he's about to give me a brutally honest rating of the gym I put together. Before you see this gym, I have to blindfold you. Okay. Don't be worried. It's standard procedure. Oh, these are actually comfy. As you can see right there, all the boxes and all like the stuff. I can't see anything. Now this entire gym cost me $1,696. And 59 cents. The whole thing. The whole thing. What's your thoughts on T-MU before you take that off? T-MU is great if you're balling on a budget, but there's a lot of crap on T-MU. Okay. Take off your blindfold. Okay. Yes. How much did you say? $1,696. Oh my goodness. This is incredible. Save money here spending on... Did you come up with this? I did, yeah. That's beautiful. Honestly, that rack looks like a death trap. That's motivating. I may die if I lose this rep. But the thing that's weird about it is that you're looking at Ronnie Coleman's squat 800 pounds on a rack that you can't ego lift with. That's true. Also, I don't know what these are for, but I've never done dips this wide. Yeah. So I mean, there's definitely a few like engineering flaws with it. Sure. It could also be my building. The building. It is your building. Yeah, probably. These go on the other side. Yeah. I'm thinking because it's a home gym, you want it to be very compact. Yeah. So you can just go... Oh, it folds. It folds. Yeah. That's a... No. That's actually sick. How much do you think this was? $150. $158. That's incredible. Coop is going to give each piece an individual score out of 10. And at the end of the tour, he'll add it all up and reveal to me my gym's total score. What's the most important criteria for like a piece? Well, safety is number one because if you die... I've blamed you. You do what's the most scarce resource outside of some people. Money, it's real estate. It's like I don't have a lot of space. Right. Moving on here. This sucks. Guess the original price. Original price. Yeah. Retail. Retail. You won't guess it. $100. $2,000. $888. I got it 88% off. Deal, dude. It was supposed to be a leg extension, but it doesn't... It doesn't extend. Well, you know... Let me introduce you to leg extension, sir. See, the problem here is the fulcrum point is really far up the... Back pad? Yeah. Well, when you're pressing, where is all the weight? It's right here. Right there. So... I got... Yeah, you could get it. Yeah, you know, that creek of that plywood. You mind if I... Go for it, yeah. Do you lift in kilos or pounds? Pounds. Okay. Is that normal for... I don't know. I'm not usually normal. I'm not getting any... Careful. This sits too fast. It does. Oh! It does. All right, Cooper, you might be on a viral work of video right now. You lean back and snap. My head is off the pad. Very uncomfortable. Not ideal. What's the average height in China, though? That's a good... Yeah. So I've never calculated that. Yeah. The other thing to mention on this, which you can't tell right now, this pad gap... Watch this. I mean... Oh, yeah. That's uncomfortable. Yeah. You don't want a grand canyon in between your pads. We judge it by finger lengths. That's three fingers. What should it be? It's no go. It's always zero gap. Oh, that was always two. One of the things I was most excited about... It's not the flashiest piece here. Yeah. It was this. Oh, I know what this is. You do? Oh, yeah. You put dumbbells in it. Yeah. Those ones don't fit, though. Oh, yeah. Dang. Oh, wow. That was a scribble. The barbell can't fit, but I can think of something else that can. Yeah. I can't. This one, lap pull down machine. Yeah. It was by far the hardest one to build. It's kind of scarring. This... This is a unique pulley location. Yeah. This is the ab pulley location. This is for the ab channel. Oh, yeah. Is that hard for you? Yeah, it was really hard. Typically, these are on two to one ratios. Okay. So you go along your cable travel. Yeah. And it'll basically have the weight. You're getting whatever weights there at that pulley. So all 50 pounds plus the trolley weight. That's why it feels heavy. And then the back row, which I actually liked this one the best. The location for the pulley is pretty low. A lot of cheaper ones will be lower. But... I did not know I did that. Oh, yeah. You gotta be worried about a sink tipping. But for like upright stuff. Okay. And the curls. So you can do upright rows. Yeah. You can do curls. Oh, that's pretty heavy. It's showing off now, man. I do want to say the fact that you color matched every piece of equipment. I know. That's actually impressive. Yeah. I was not expecting it. And it just kind of happened that way. Even the shade of the red. It's almost like it's all made in the same factory or something. How much? 222. 222. Yeah. And 10 cents. What was the retail? This was actually the only one that was not on sale. Now we have this piece. I thought it felt strange. Okay. I did feel like it kind of went too far on the way down. I thought I was like tearing my pack away. Yeah. Yeah. You can see the eight handles are kind of angled. And the other thing, I don't know if this has it, but did you do this? I did not know that. Bro. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That feels good. Okay. This was the most expensive piece as well. $360. Was it? Yeah. Oh, you got hosed. Did I? Oh, yeah. We've reviewed the GMWD for 199 bucks, baby. The other thing it's supposed to do, there's two other things technically. Shoulder press. Shoulder press. It's like so bad. Like what? I know. Yeah. No. Yeah. It's worthless. This pad does fold all the way up though. So you can get it out of the way. Oh. And if you wanted to. Oh, shh. You know, you could do some trap stuff here. Oh, I'm sick. Honestly, budget gym. People that want to build a budget gym, if you want to do high-perch fee stuff, this is one of my top picks. Really? And then also right underneath you. This is the cardio at budget barbell. This is the cardio set. Yes. Next piece. I was excited about this one because again, kind of like the chest press, it looks nice. It looks like an arsenal of strength piece. Okay. There. There you go. There's something going on, babe. Yeah, you always thought. I'll tell you. If you stand and curl. Yep. You're going to hit the floor. Oh, right. So you have to go down? Uh, yep. I said, I call this one the altar boy curl now. So you go down. Well, I could help you with the reps really easily. Oh, like, yeah. Like, you're in. You know. Come on. Yeah. Good job. Yes. Did you get those pants from Tima? Gym shark, man. Come on. Gym shark? Gym shark. Those are cool. I don't, I don't care. All you're trying to like, roast me or something. No, I think. They're cool. 200, 250, somewhere around there. $248. That's, that's good. This was the, the team of the functional trainer. So it's a one sided thing. It is. It's supposed to be bolted to the wall, but they did not give me bolts for the wall because the thing moves with you while you curl it. Okay. So you go. Oh yeah. I like that. It feels good. Yep. The multi-poly game changer. That's 10 pounds right there. But if you want to quickly go heavy, say you're super setting. All you do is you bring them together. And now you're pulling the entire weight. Right. Oh man, if you saw what was behind me just now, yeah. Yeah. Price. No, this could be worth it to you. Oh. My guess is it's probably more around 150, but I think for how much you can do with cable, I'd go 300. It's 262. Okay. Yeah. It's not bad. Oh yeah. And this has actual guide rods way smoother than what you got on there. Yeah. And you didn't oil them up. You should have bought some WD-40 or something. Actually, three in one oil. I got lube. Is that fine? No, that won't work. Absolutely not. Heading into budget barbell, I was not expecting a lot. Not going to lie. Coming in though, you've pleasantly surprised me. Really? Yes. Yes. First impressions are most important. The fact that you got a sign saying the name of your gym matters a lot. I also got some pieces that truly the versatility as well as the foldability matters a lot. Right. You know, the real estate you're taking up and I think you could build incredible physique someday. The score I would give your gym is 5.5 out of 10. No. What? I thought it was like, it sounded like it was going well. It was? You leave me all that. Pull down. Four. A four? Dude, it was so expensive. I was going to bring this. It was a bench as a two. Oh. Negative. Yeah. I'm sorry, man. The tri-set machine, seven. Seven? Okay. Cable machine, eight. Eight? Eight. Okay. Cable machine is great. Dumbbell bar, six. The chest machine, a nine. I gave this gym 6.5. That's, yeah. That's not that bad. All right, man. Thanks so much. Appreciate you coming. See you, bro. See you, bro. Yeah. I'm going to give you a half out of 10 for my Timu gym. A pill that's hard to swallow with all the work that was put into it. But that's okay because the score is going to be nothing compared to when he sees the real home gym that's being built real soon. Hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you did, make sure to watch this one right here. Bye-bye. See you next time.