 nearly 70% of long-haul truck drivers are obese. This isn't just a job. It's one of the most dangerous lifestyles in the modern world. They survive on fast food, no movement, no sleep, and relentless stress. They result in a life expectancy 16 years below the national average. And I want to try it. I'm somewhere in Seattle right now, and tomorrow morning, I'm getting picked up by truck driver Mike, who agreed to take me on the road to experience two days of the world's unhealthiest job. He's picking me up at 4 AM. I gotta get to bed. Here we go. Mike, hello. Oh, hey. What's up, man? What's up? How are you? Pretty good. How are you? Everybody meet Mike. He's going to be leading this road trip for the next few days. So, Mike, I wasn't expecting Mike and wife. Yeah, no. Well, Mike, other co-drivers. One of them kind of got fired. Yeah. And the other one went to Mexico to take care of my dad, so she decided to step up, get her CDL, and take over for them. What am I in store for for the next two days? A lot of sitting, a lot of shaking. You're going to hear a lot of stuff falling around the truck because... What, shaking? Oh, yeah. The truck just kind of vibrates a lot. The road's kind of crappy some places. What about healthy food? No. No. I really cannot believe that this is going to be my home for the next two days. Is it? So, Becca is going to be the first driver. How long is this... Oh, whoa. Yeah. Look at our beds back there. Those are our beds. Bunk beds. And who's that? Tucker. Tucker. Everybody say hi, Tucker. Hi, Tucker. Wow, this place is like a little home. Yeah. And your bed is right up there. I'm top bunk. Yeah, you're top bunk. Wait a second. Are those... Are those dumbbells I see? Oh, yeah, I'm upgraded. Are we getting to lift it? Are we? Sure. Am I getting to lift it? I don't know. We'll see. And we're off. Are we there yet? Okay, so what's like the total driving time? About 10 hours. 10 hours of driving today? Yeah. Yeah, so I can't drive more than 11 hours in a shift. Is this right here? How many driving hours you have left? Yes. So I can't exceed the legal amount of hours in a day. Okay. I mean, you only have 7 hours and 47 minutes of driving left. There's nothing. Yeah, well, once I take a break, it'll add another 3. I can always pop into if you guys need me. Right. Our journey starts in Fife, Washington, and today our goal is to make it all the way to Boise, Idaho. But first, we need gas. This is a big draw. I'll go do that. Oh! My back's already gone. You gotta remind you, don't drive hungry. See? They just want to make truck drivers fat. So you've been truck driving for, what, 10 years? No, I've had 11, actually. 11? Okay. Yeah. Started when I was 21. So how many total... Like, what's your total distance driven in your career, you think? About 2.5 million miles. 2.5 million miles? Yeah. Well, you can't. How does that make you feel when you hear that? Kinda feel like I've wasted a lot of my life just driving. I mean, he said it on me. As we hit the road again, I wanted to find out whether Mike and Becca knew the real health consequences tied to this line of work. Were you guys aware that truck driving is considered the world's unhealthiest job? Definitely. Oh, yeah. I knew way before getting into it. That's personally why, like, I was hesitant to get into it, but if my mom needed me to, so I did. I was about 100 pounds less before I started driving a truck. I used to work out all the time. Used to work late at night that goes straight to the gym. And that kind of just all went down the drain. And I started truck driving. I did solo driving for a little bit, but even then, like after a 10-hour shift, I had to sleep 10 hours and then leave for essentially, I think, my mother's on time. So that only gives me 10 hours to go to the gym, exercise and eat food, relax, kind of wind down. Yeah. And by the time I'm done doing all that, I only have like six hours, five hours to say. Yeah. Which sometimes is just enough. So truck drivers are the most prone job, too. Obesity, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, chronic back pain, depression, blood plots, substance abuse, and irregular sleep patterns. That's a lot. Yeah. Not a check south, though. A check south for sure. He has chronic back pain, I would say. Back pain. I get a lot of like leg swelling, especially like at the end of a shift, because like, you know, blood goes down if you're not moving at all. So my... She hasn't been doing this nearly as long as I have. Yeah. I've only been doing this for a few months, so... Symptoms of driving. What was crazy wasn't the list I just read. It was how unfazed they were by it. With so much on the line, you have to wonder, what keeps them going? Money. Money. Just money. Yeah, just money. The pay is good. So we're about to arrive at our first truck stop of this trip. And is there anything I should like watch out for? What should I expect for my first truck stop visit? You might run into a lot lizard here. A what? A lot lizard. What's that? That is a woman of the night. They like to get in your truck and you pay them for their time. Are you warning me or my wallet? My guy. We've been on the road for a little over four hours now and haven't gotten any activity at all. Like I think I've burnt probably zero calories. Like the only time my heart rate's been like remotely elevated is when cars get a little too close to the truck and literally every single lane change. It's terrifying. We are currently at Jubit's truck stop in Portland and is known as the classiest truck stop in America. I mean, it doesn't look too bad. There is a hotel. They have a cinema probably with a bunch of lizards lining the back row. But we're going to go inside and see what a truck stop has to offer. Let's get it. A whole bunch of junk food right there. A bunch of TV dinners. How much is the fruit? $4.99 for that much pineapple is absurd. This is just the convenience store part of the truck stop to grab snacks with every unhealthy option you could possibly imagine. And then some. My nose is bleeding already. Columbia room. What's that? I feel like the bar here is so low that I'm going to say if it's under a heat lamp, it's technically fresh. $22 for that. Yeah, no. Mike, what do you just get? I got Fran's donuts, gingerbread. I love gingerbread and Fran's originated in Portland. Mike, come on. Mike, can you grab an energy drink? Yeah. Yeah? You don't like when he has energy drinks, right? As long as it's not too much. It's the responsible thing to do because you don't want to fall asleep at the wheel. No, for sure. Yeah. For sure. You need to have the caffeine. Like water keeps you alive. It doesn't make you feel alive. Yeah. No, I need to feel alive. I need to feel alive, not be alive. All right? Come and have breakfast at Mo's. Get yourself a breakfast pizza. And then for lunch, just have a regular pizza. We are at drostanolone in Jubits waiting to order breakfast. But while we wait, me and Mike are going splitsies on a Mo's deli bulldog pizza. Looks so good. Yeah. Oh my god. You pick a slice, man. Can I have a slice with the Mo's shit on it? Hopefully it's not Mo's deli, Mo problems. And home food. Yeah. We'll find out if we can get the wrongs on the road. Mo's harpern. So this is the signature slice, the bulldog. Place on a tear of assholes, anyone? Pizza hits at 9 AM. Oh, it does. I feel like when you're a truck driver, time doesn't really matter. Mm-hmm. You'll be ending your shift at 4 in the morning, starting at 2 PM, you know, breakfast and lunches whenever you want it to be. Mo's deli pizza, 3, 2, 1, 6. 7.5. 7.5? 7.5. Yeah. 7.5. I got the veggie omelette to be healthy, but I think that amount of cheese that they put on it overrode my decision here. A lot of cheddar cheese, but it looks really good. You want to waffle with your whipped cream? Nope. Mike, you need some protein, man. There's no protein in it that way. The omelette was pretty fire, I will say, but probably a lot more calories than I think. I love Mike, but if I had his breakfast, I don't think I'd feel too great on the road. We are back on the road for another eight hours today? Yep. Another eight hours today, and so far, it's been great. I'm riding shotgun, shotgun energy drinks, living the passenger princess life right now. I also bought a ton of snacks that is supposed to last me for the duration of the day, but realistically, it's going to last me probably the next seven minutes because for me, boredom is my diet's greatest threat, so I'm probably just going to be eating this road trip just to feel something. It was time to eat my snacks immediately after breakfast. On the road, I can do anything. The donut, it hit like I knew it would. Oh, Mike, you want to try it? I'm doing. Oh, yeah. Next, the apple fritter. Probably better than we got there earlier so it wasn't like super old. Oh, my God. Then Mike started sharing his donuts back, the start of a true brotherhood. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It is a cake donut, which I don't like as much. Yeah. That's still very good. Honestly, being a truck driver, it's like just having a cheat day on wheels. There's two basic rules. When the truck is moving, the calories don't count that you consume, and then rule number two is if you have to fart, you open the window. I'm looking at you, Mike. Great food, great company. So far, this trip has been so much fun. Little did I know, dead man's past is four hours away. But in the meantime, I enjoyed the beautiful scenery. Mountains, trees, waterfall, Tucker. We even started playing games. Black eye. When you don't move out of the fueling. A truck with a headlight out. Oh, okay. These are things that you guys should know. We don't do that. We make sure our things are working. Okay, easy one. Hammer lane. Hammer lane, okay. Hammer lane's the best lane. There you go. There we go. I know that one. Okay, toothpicks. Oh, uh, trucks. Drugs. No, a lumber load. A lumber load? Yeah. You know, though, how you're talking about like, truck drivers are prone to like, substance abuse. There are the bad truckers that they like, dip toothpicks in like, the mean water basically. Oh. They're gonna like suck on those to stay awake. Have you guys tried that? No. You get randomly drug tested. Oh, do you? I'm having a good idea. Would a guest get randomly drug tested? Like, would I get randomly drug tested? Oh, no, no, no. Okay, thank God. Good. Okay. Becca. What would you say is the most exciting thing about the job? Uh, I don't know. That's kind of like that really long road trip to Disneyland, except for you never get to Disneyland. Because you can only see like, what you can see from the highways. It's not like you can't drive your semi anywhere you want to. You can't park at all the pool places and the museums or whatever you want to see. That's kind of sad. What was once a happy truck where time was flying by, and it was a happy truck, what was once a happy truck where time was flying by, all of a sudden took a drastic turn. We were both feeling it. Look at me and Becca. Mike has passed out back there too. But we needed to wake up quickly because you see that mountain? That's Dead Man's Past. We need to make it over that mountain before it gets dark or else bad things are going to happen, Mike said. They call it Dead Man's Past because it's a notoriously steep and dangerous stretch of interstate in Oregon, known for its challenging 6% grade, frequent accidents and losses of life. But first, truck stop two. We are at our next truck stop or should I say a McTruck stop? Because there's a McDonald's here. There's also a casino across the street so you can lose your money and your health all in one convenient location. The morale was high early on, but right now, I'm convinced that time is moving backwards. I am. I think my Apple Watch thinks I died back in Portland because it's not registering anything. I don't even know if it's registering a pulse right now. Like, Brian Johnson wants to live forever. He should become a truck driver because today has felt like a week. There is no way that it's only 3pm in the afternoon. There's just no way. There can't be. The crazy thing is, we've been sitting all day and all I want to do is just lie down. I don't want to stand. I don't want to walk. I just want to lie down and go to bed. It's very tiring doing nothing. Seriously. I don't even know how to explain it. But we're at this truck stop. I have no idea where we are. We're just going into P. We might get food. Who knows? We might get food. I feel like getting food is the only thing that's giving me some sort of life. So we might get something. Who knows? We don't know what's inside. Let's go. I was going into this stop hoping it may be different from the first one for some reason, but it wasn't. We're going to have some pretty cool snacks though. Look at this donut flavored pretzels. They also had this three quarter pound burrito, but I'd never do that to Becca and Mike. The truck would smell. We have the fruit cups right here right beside the cookie dough chunks just in case you want to pick between the two. You know you're in a dietary danger zone when McDonald's seems like I might be actually the best option here. All pastries here. I think if I ate this poor boy Hogi, I would make the truck smell like a burning man porta potty. Like that would just give me crazy gas. Why is it like this? Those are some girthy dogs. I'll check this out. We have a pizza that's probably microwaved fresh today. I kind of have a feeling that all truck stops are going to be the same, just different walls, but this one has literally no protein snacks, no protein shakes, literally nothing. You can get cheese. You can get a sandwich. You can get a fruit cup. That's pretty much it. This bear claw is not even that big, not even that thick. And it is 290 calories for half of it. I could probably eat that in 30 seconds. I bet you haven't heard of candy salad. Now you have. I didn't end up getting any food because I'm sitting all day, so my calorie needs are substantially less. So I just can't get food every station. Otherwise that is when you just gain all that weight. But I did get the dead man's pass blend coffee. Just in honor of what we're about to endure right now. So hopefully we're survived. We're all kind of unsure. It's Becca's first time driving the dead man's pass, which is, I mean, kind of terrifying for the first time. It's worth going down the mountain. It is? Okay, let's give this a try. Tastes like human ashes. The time has come. You see me? I'm almost pooping my pants as we enter dead man's pass. Mike is playing Pokemon Go. Look how narrow these roads are. It's also so slippery. One wrong turn and look how far the journey down is. Either Becca made it look too easy, or dead man's pass is just... is not dead man's pass. It's just a road. I think it's just a road overhyped. I think I've become officially one with my seat. I think it's now part of me. The crazy thing is, I've been in the truck when the sun was down. I've been in the truck when the sun came up. And now I'm still in the truck when the sun's going back down. And now that I'm thinking about that, you're pretty much in the truck 26 days of the month. Yeah, pretty much. It's like, you have freedom for days. Yeah. So it's a lot of time, like I mean, even just for me, like I'm just like sitting in my own thoughts. So like, do you find like a lot of negative thoughts come up? And like, do you feel like any sort of like, have you heard anything about like mental health issues with truck drivers? I mean, you definitely see it. There's no social interaction. You're missing any like family events. I feel like you're literally, it's like you cannot have a relationship. Because if you're away, so like, you can't just come back home for one day. Yeah. And then expect to have like a healthy relationship. And then you have to leave again. Yeah, I feel like it's extra hard probably, if you're single out, you're trying to find anybody to have a relationship with. Because also a lot of people, I mean, even if they've been married and they, you know, start, one of them starts truck driving, a lot of people can't handle having a significant other that, you know, has gone 90% of the month, or even the week. There's also the aspect of, you know, the nutrition is terrible. And like, you know, nutrition definitely plays a part in it. And then if you're depressed, then you're going to eat your feelings. Mental health with truck drivers is a serious issue. As staggering 22% of truck drivers in America report being diagnosed with depression. Due to the nature of the job, it can worsen mental health problems that already exist, as well as create new problems over time. It's just kind of like the perfect storm for being lonely and depressed. And you definitely hear about, you know, truck drivers every once in a while, you'll see the truck that just didn't move for a few days. There's a nice having me here on my third wheeling, an 18-wheeler. Yeah, because otherwise he'd be back there sleeping probably. Yeah, up here with my thoughts. If you guys ever want to have a kiss or anything, I can look away. Tomorrow is our four-year anniversary. Is it really? Yeah. I'm sharing among the anniversary. I saw him at the Portland Truck Stop. There's a lot of him to share. And after driving for a few more hours, we finally made it to our destination. The boys are in Boise! I was saying, I've been wanting to do that all day. So we finally made it to Boise, the final stop of the day. And this just so happens to be also our campsite for the night. We were staying in this truck stop tonight. Yep. T.A. Truck Stop. Hell yeah. I'm tired. We're both tired. We both want to go to bed. But before we go to bed, there are a few things that we need to do. Starting with a workout. Somehow this 30-pound dumbbell felt like a max effort lift. Not because I'm weaker, but because after a full day of sitting, my joints forgot how to be joints. Blood wasn't moving, and my nervous system was asleep. I mean, 10 hours in the truck can now work out. At 8 p.m. at night, I don't even think the ghost of Greg Plitt can motivate me right now. Be honest, how often do you use these? Not often, is it? You don't use it? No? No, I think in the last two weeks, I've probably done it once. Come on, Mike. Go ahead and get the pump. You gotta earn alpha status in the showers tonight. Get it. Oh man, my back is hurting. And I don't think the bed's gonna help. Are the beds bad? Oh, they're not very comfortable. I mean, the fact that we got anything in is just a huge W. Get it. Blood. Oh, how? How about that? Get it. Next, dinner time. So what's for dinner tonight? We are eating some beef lasagna mountain house meals. We're gonna steam it up with a Becca's little steamer pot. And it's gonna be delicious. See the answer? Oh, it does smell good. Here are the macros of what I'm about to eat, and I ended up having two cups dry measure. Oh, that smells good. Oh, they all look like crackers. Mmm. That's bomb. I approve it. So is it hard to like pack like fresh food on the road? We've had a lot of bad luck with the fridges. There were so many times where he brought like cheese sticks or something, and then you bring it out and say, oh, it's bloated. It's like, yeah, don't eat it. Also, when it comes to like fresh fruits and vegetables and stuff, the constant shaking will just bruise it really bad. Yeah, you'll have jam by the end. So just the most reliable to have something like this. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, because even if the like trickle in here stops working or something, or the truck just doesn't want to work. Yeah, it's still fine. Nothing goes bad. Well, even if we can't use that, truck stops always have free hot water. Dinner was absolutely delicious. Chef Becca and Chef Mike killed it. My lower back is killing. My knees are killing. My neck is hurting. And I'm kind of just realizing I have not had any fresh food today. I'm not proud of that, but I'm full. So I mean, that's really all that matters. The next thing on the to-do list is a truck stop shower, which is apparently a right passage for a truck driver. Yeah, sure. So this is where I kill any innocence that I thought I might have left. Hope you brought a blacklight. Don't bring a blacklight. The shower cost $17. Are we bathing in San Pellegrino? My body might leave clean, but I'm afraid my soul won't. Like I was expecting like a two-star hotel shower. This has given me like haunted car wash vibes. Like I think I'd rather bathe in a dog pound, but this is all we got. At least they have soap in there. I didn't bring any soap. So we're going to shower and brush teeth, moisturize the face. Let's get it. Shower shoes and absolute must. Otherwise, a de-warming prescription would be a must. If these walls could talk, it definitely would be. I can't even imagine how many of the positives have been made in there. I'm not going to lie, this shower was epic. Probably the highlight of my day. The pressure of the water was incredible. The body soap was hand soap, though. For sure, guaranteed. Well, I just popped my truck stock shower cherry. I feel cleaner. I'm slightly violated. Then I put on my deodorant, moisturize my face, and brush my teeth. Feeling so much better after the shower and getting all cleaned up. All cozy in bed right now on the top bunk. And I'm kind of terrified because I move around a lot. And if I fall, it's quite the drop. It's a big drop. But the fact that we have to do this entire day again tomorrow, with actually a little bit more driving, is crazy. Like, I don't understand how they do it every single day. Because I'm ready to go home and never drive for at least a month. But I'm dead. I am so tired and I can't wait to go to bed. See you in the morning. Even though I was excited for bed, I wasn't expecting a very good sleep. According to a study, long haul truck drivers in the U.S. averaged just 4.78 hours of sleep over a 24-hour period. Good night, Mike. Good night. Good night, Becca. Good night. Good night, Tucker. Good morning, sleepyhead. I'm telling y'all, I'm going to need something much stronger than an energy drink to get me going today. Because there are bad sleeps, and then there are the sleeps that I just had. Like, I think I would have had a better sleep being Hannibal Lecter's Little Spoon. Like, check out my readiness score. I don't think I'm ready for anything today. I don't think I'm ready to even be a passenger. Like, look at that sleep index. That is in the toilet. There should never be that much red on your sleep score ever. Never that much red. Do you guys hear the trucks just idling? Well, they've been idling all night. Because if they want to keep the temperature of the truck how they want it, the car just has to stay on. So try sleeping in this. Also, I feel like there must be no claustrophobic truck drivers. Because that was a very tight, confined environment in there. It was just an all-around experience I just don't want to have again. And I think the thing that's actually much worse than even the diet is the stress the drivers go through to, like, hit deliveries and deadlines and stuff. But mainly the sleep environment. It just kills them. Like, if your sleep suffers, everything else does. And that is definitely, like, the main thing that is putting their health in the trash. But the day must go on with another long day on the road. But first, truck driver morning routine. First, repeat. I held it so long last night. Then Mike and I brushed our teeth together. We might even start sharing a brush soon. 7.49 a.m. Hawaiian pizza. Diabolical, bro. Next, it was time to get caffeine. I got Mike a sugar-free Red Bull. Happy anniversary. Thank you. It's sugar-free, though. Oh, no. To get you on that. Small changes, Mike. This should definitely help fix my readiness score today. My sleep floor was in the toilet. It was. Yeah. How was it on your back? My back's blown out. Then we got gas. Then we took Tucker for a pee. And then we made our first delivery. Just making a drop off right now. You probably want to know what we're dropping off. Don't worry about it. Just a couple boys and boysy. Am I saying that too much? No. No? No. Boys and boysy. Boys and boysy. She fits in there perfectly. Oh, yeah. I sanded it. Perfect. You slept it right in. Oh, yeah. I'm the best at backing. With the sunrise in back there. Beautiful. Even more beautiful. Mike. So what's the plan today? The plan after this is we're going to the Oasis. It's a very pretty truck. Stuff that actually just rebuilt it. Then after that, we're going to go all the way to Wyoming to get some nice home comfort food. And there's a truck stop work out area there. So what's the final destination? Tonight we're going to get to Brighton, Colorado. And that's where, well, I'll be doing my middle delivery, but your last delivery. And this is where we part ways. Yep. I'll never see Tucker. Don't say that. Come on now. We made the drop and are now on our way to our first stop, the Oasis. That's only 124 miles away. We finally made it to the Oasis truck stop that for some reason, they call the Garden of Eden. And do you guys see the restaurants that they offer there at the Garden of Eden? Like what? Like calling this the Garden of Eden is as accurate as calling my high school bedroom the maternity ward. Like if this is the Garden of Eden, then the devil must be the landscaper. But it's one o'clock in the afternoon. We have yet to eat. So we're going to go inside right now and break the fast. All right, Mike. So I'm just going to fully give into the experience of being a truck driver. And I'm just going to think of exactly what you're getting. You're going to do the exact same thing? The exact same thing. Mike decided he wants to do Sonic for breakfast. I'm getting the double. I removed the lettuce because that should taste awful. And it's vegetables, right? I don't like onions. Remove the ketchup. You're going to remove the beef too? Oh, no, no, no. So, so far we've removed all the vegetables from the burger and we've added bacon. Thank you for that. Thank you. So this is a 44 ounce drink and there's nerds candy inside of it. This right here is how a man becomes a statistic. Like this is just the amount of sugar in this. We tell you open it up and see what's inside. I'm going to do one of those sugars in the room. Oh, wow. Not as much strawberries as I thought they'd be. No lettuce. No onions. Add bacon. How much sugar is in this? 167 grams of sugar and 630 calories. Okay, here we go. Why do you tell them? Oh. Don't mind me? Did you get a nerd in there? Yeah. There's like enough sugar to kill a moose. Twice if it respond. Like, holy shh. You're taking my Sonic progenity. Yep. Popping that Sonic cherry. A lot of people stick you on this road. Yeah. No better way to break the fast. It's actually really good. I'm going to need to have a juice cleanse after this. And a lavender soak. That'd be smart. Yeah. I feel like this is how a lot of truckers start their day. One thing that I'm noticing at every truck stop is that they are incapable of grilling foods. Everything is fried. And you're just surrounded with creative unique ways to kill you. Like we are in a food court with a Sonic, a Pizza Hut, a Taco Time, a Fried Chicken Place. And then right behind us, there's a place called Sinful Delights in the Garden of Eden. I am in absolute shambles right now. I am full. My stomach hurts. My brain is not operating. The brain is not fully engaged today. I'm so tired. I'm aching everywhere. I feel like I'm a phone at 3% battery. And I lost the charger. And I'm about to fade away. My question is out of everything that trucking encompasses, what is something that you struggle with the most? I'm just honing to eat anything healthy. It's like you get addicted to it.  and sugar and salt. So when I'm home, it's she that shows my wife's cooking and grilled chicken or vegetable or something. It's kind of, I'm craving. You know what it all means by? Yeah, yeah, I just want more salt and sugar. I think a pretty shocking thing to me was, I would have assumed that the company that hires you, gives you guys some sort of a daily allowance that's right on the food, to let you guys have the option to get healthier things, but you guys are paying out of pocket for everything on this trip, right? Yeah, usually that is crazy. Definitely. Day two started to feel a lot harder than day one. Just sitting with yourself in your thoughts for hours on end is actually very difficult. We were driving through some incredible scenery and I couldn't appreciate any of it. I just woke up from a pretty long nap and it feels like no time has passed. Every single minute and hour, just all feels like they're like bleeding together. It just feels like it's never gonna end. I'm really not feeling well. I was extremely overtired. I just haven't had any good quality food. I just feel like I'm just getting a little bit car sick now. This is hard. I don't know how they do this. On top of that, I had a really bad headache because I wasn't drinking any water, so we didn't have to stop multiple times. Again, the day turned into night and we finally made it to Wyoming for our next stop. I am never taking the outside and fresh air for granted ever again. Like I'm just craving any form of movement right now. But I can barely walk because my body is so stiff. Like I feel so much older than I should. But hey, we're in Little America. This place is really cute, super wholesome looking. I like it. So this is the workout area in Little America. Like what am I supposed to do here? Like freaking Tai Chi? Like there's no squat rack, there's no barbell, there's no dumbbells. We have this thing. Just I don't know if it's the climate or whatever. But then we have, oh my God, my back. We got battle ropes. If you're gonna be a trucker and then you come to a rest stop to do battle ropes, you're an actual psychopath. So I'm not doing battle ropes. And then if we go over this way, this is actually a pretty neat thing. It's got calisthenics all in one thing. We've got some dips, push-ups, pull-ups. And yeah, that's pretty much it. Not the most motivating atmosphere, but I mean, that's why it's empty. So like no one uses it, but that's the workout area. Let's go inside, it's cold. We all just ordered food at this barbecue spot in the gas station. And I've watched enough Guy Fieri, diners, drive-ins and dives, to be pretty optimistic about the food I'm about to get. Like this could be a hidden gem. I got myself a full chicken, a full family meal. Just for me. Food looks, some food looks good. Some food looks a bit questionable. My rotisserie chicken has seen better days, I think. I think that's more bread than shrimp. Yeah, that's definitely more bread than shrimp. And you're having your second burger of the day, man. I am. Truck drivers track their miles. They track the hours they drive. But what they should be tracking the most is the calories that they consume. And that's why I recommend they use the Macro Factor app. It's the quickest and easiest way to track your calories. Yeah, they definitely never show you what's in it. Like they're not gonna tell you how many calories are in there. Macro Factor has an AI tracking thing, so all you do is look at this. I'm gonna hover this over, and I take a picture of your meal, boom. And it's uploading. Okay, so there it goes. It says you have chicken breast, grilled steak, fried shrimp, you have the cocktail sauce. So it says the meal is 959 calories, 97 grams of protein on the plate. Clothed protein. Yeah. Not terrible. Fried parts probably not great, but. Yeah. Would you guys start tracking your calories? Oh, for sure. Yeah. I mean, we probably should. It would help. Yeah, it would help a lot. So having Macro Factor is like having your own personal nutrition coach in your pocket at all times. So if you're on the truck sitting all day or you're working out seven days a week, the app is gonna tell you exactly what you need to eat to reach your goals. So if you guys wanna try it out, use Code Will for a two week free trial. Do you guys like driving? Like if you guys are not working, do you guys just like to go drive? I don't mind it. I don't. He really says that he hates driving. I've never. You hate driving? Really cared. I feel like, I feel like that helps me drive careful. I hate it so much because I don't wanna get an accident again. Like, well, I got an accident when I was 16. And then from there on, I was just kind of terrified of driving. So I think that has made me a more careful and a cautious driver. Have you ever heard the saying, do something you love and you never work a day in your life? You're doing the complete opposite, man. But I'm with the person I love, so. That's cute. Yeah. Damn. A truck driver that hates driving. So we're heading back to the car for the last hurrah, right? This is like the last stand. The last one. The last one. And you're free. Over the past 50 hours, we drove 1,371 miles. We barely moved, barely slept, and completely abandoned the idea of a normal diet. I'm gonna miss my crew, especially Tucker. But now, it's time to go home. Drive safe. We crewed. Yeah, you too. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh, I have heartburn right now. That was a rough two days. I am in desperate need of a massage, a plate of fruit and some sleep. Yeah, I'm going to bed. See you in the next one.