What is going on everyone? Welcome to the video. Today I'm going to be following Mark Wahlberg's absolutely insane daily schedule. I'm gonna eat like him. I'm gonna train like him. I'm gonna live my whole damn day just like him. Now, the guy wakes up every single morning at 2:30. Yeah, he's a freak. And goes to bed every night at 7:30 p.m. So, I thought I'd do the smart thing and start this challenge off the night before and go to bed at 7:30. So, I'm well rested, ready to go. There's no chance I'm going to be tired for tomorrow. Holy And now we pray. So, I ended up praying for a full 1 minute before I uh fell asleep with my legs crossed. But for the time it lasted, it was actually kind of nice. It felt kind of good. I might keep that actually. Anyway, let's go make some breakfast. Oatmeal is always good no matter what time of day. All right. So, like the whole entire drive here, I was trying to think about how I feel right now. And I feel like I'm in like Walking Dead season 1 where like the zombie apocalypse kind of like just happened. So, like everyone's either like fled or have already turned into zombies and I'm like one of those like people who still have no idea what's going on. So, I'm just going about my everyday life like it's all normal and uh like a group of zombies are about to come out and just like attack me, turn me. Yeah. Yeah. So, like I'm genuinely scaring myself right now. So, let's get in the gym and work out. Oh, we're cutting the grass. We're cutting the grass. Okay, guys. Post-workout meal time. So, we have three turkey burgers, five pieces of sweet potato, and for some reason, because this is not enough protein, we have a protein shake on top of that. This actually looks pretty good. Like, don't get me wrong, I'm not remotely hungry, but like all in all, like I'm happy with this meal. So, I'm going to dig in. Yeah, I don't even know what to do with myself right now because no one is like even awake. So like I I keep on like going on social media, but it's still the same from last night. So I'm just like aimlessly looking at the wall. Guys, my dog is so shook right now. I don't even think he knows what's going on. Like, he usually gets up at 6 and I got him up at 2:30. I think he thinks he's like in a paranormal like universe or something. You good, man? Are you all right? Yeah, he's he's actually like creeped out. just wrapped up golf. I actually really enjoyed that. It was really relaxing. I used to play a lot as a kid, so it was nice to get back out there. Brought back a lot of good memories. But now it's snack time. I'm starving. So, when you typically think of a snack, you usually think of like fruit, protein shake, protein bar, yogurt, something like that. But we're going to be having meatballs. How many? Do you ask a question? Four? No. Six? Keep guessing. Eight? Not yet. We're having 10 meatballs. 10. In what world is this a snack? Anyways, actually Mark Wahlberg's world. Now, ideally, I'd like these warmed up, but like he has these on the golf course, which is kind of weird. Like, he's just a weird dude, as you guys can see by now. You're dry as All right, guys. It is 9:30 and Mark Wahberg does cryo chamber recovery. So, I went on Google and guess what? It is $100 for 3 minutes. So, I think he makes a little bit more money than I do. I'm not quite sure, but I passed on that. And the next best thing is an ice bath. I've never had an ice bath before, so this should be kind of fun. Oh. It is 11:00 a.m. or shall I say it's family A.M. Unfortunately, my whole entire family is away and I'm just by myself. If you feel bad for me, like the video. Now, I would speak to my dog. But he won't speak back to me on camera. He's seen Planet of the Apes. He knows what humans do when they find out an animal can speak. He doesn't want to go to a lab. So, that being said, I'm going to call someone from my family and I'll see who picks up. Hopefully, they don't all scream my call. That tends to happen. So, yeah, we'll see who I'm speaking to. Hey, Mom. Yeah, I have to call you for this YouTube video. Okay, so it is lunchtime and we have steak and green peppers. This meal looks sad, man. Looks sad. Like why green peppers, Mark? Why? You got red, you got yellow, you got orange ones. Like no one likes green peppers. But I'm also like really sick of all these like small, not small, but I mean constant meals throughout the day. Like I like to have bigger meals. Like I've been like living in my kitchen today. It's like insane. Guys, I really don't want any more meat in my mouth. Oh my god. Okay, so it's now 2:00 p.m. which means it's time for meetings and work calls. I don't have any meetings and I don't have any work calls. So, I think I'm just going to start editing this video and get ahead. Okay, so it is 3:00 and that means we go pick up the kids from school. But plot twist of the video, I do not have kids. So, what do we do when plan A doesn't work out? Say it with me. We do plan B. And plan B is we're gonna go to the closest not high school, they're way too old. Closest elementary school, pick up a child if they can get in my car, and I'm gonna see if I can take them home. Hopefully all of you guys knew I was kidding. And if you didn't, come on. What we're actually going to do is I'm going to go home and pick up my dog, Olly, and we're going to go get some coffee because if I want workout 2 to happen, you better believe we need some coffee. The child, aka the dog, is acquired. So now it's time to go get some coffee. You ready, buddy? Yeah. And can I get a water as well? So, it's snack time, aka pre-workout number two. It's just chicken and veggies. Uh, I got Orange Theory at 4:00 and it is 3:30, so I have to kill this pretty quick. I definitely don't need a snack. I need a nap pretty bad. But enough complaining, right? Just when I need more meat, right? Since this video is about Mark Wahberg, comment down below your favorite movie that he's in. I think mine's Alone Survivor for sure. Let's head to the gym. All right, it is 7:30, which means we have made it. We have spent the full 24 hours being Mark Wahberg, and now it is time to go to sleep. So, contrary to the sun being out, the birds still chirping, which I'm sure you can hear it, and a nice pool party going on, I am going to bed. It is super weird. I feel like I'm institutionalized and I'm never going to do this again. And you know what? The more that I think about it, Mark, you have four kids, man. You just go, "Honey, it's 7:30. I'm going to bed now. time for you to take care of all the kids. You tuck them in, you do everything. I'm I'm going to bed. I'm done. Have you heard of date night, bro? Like, come on. Also, guys, this this day has felt like 3 days in one. Like, it would be 10:00 a.m. I' I'd be like, it must be three. No. Nuh-uh. Nuh-uh. But anyway, that's going to wrap up this video. I hope you guys enjoyed it. If you did, leave it a like and comment down below what day in the life you'd like to see next on the channel. and I'll see you guys in the next