I have gathered thousands of scientific studies, combined them all together, and created the ultimate routine that some would consider the scientifically perfect life. And for the next 50 hours, I'm going to be following it. Why? Because my life is far from perfect. And maybe there's something in here that I could bring back to my regular life to make it just a little bit better. Let's let the science class begin. Starting with a morning routine. Now, for a morning routine, I'm not interested in doing some sort of like a Navy Seal hell week type thing. I'm not hopping in a cold shower. I'm not getting in a cold plunge. I'm pro warmth. I don't want to do that. So, I'm going to show you a very simple routine that everyone can do. There's really no excuses. And it all starts with going to bed at the same time and waking up at the same time every day. Don't stay up late playing with your joystick. Get to bed. Sleep is literally the most important thing, which is why tonight I have the most insane plans for sleep tonight. The next thing we want to do is immediately brush our teeth. Yeah, that's a biological weapon. No wonder why my nickname in high school was nut breath. But basically, when you go to bed, your mouth dries out and bad bacteria builds up. And when you wake up the next morning, consume a sugary drink or sugary food before brushing, you're feeding that bad bacteria. I never brush my teeth first thing in the morning. I always have a coffee. I always have my breakfast and I brush. Is that gross? I'm not sure. I guess it is. Yeah. From there, I went outside to wake my body up by boosting energy, mood, and sleep quality while also giving me vitamin D and keeping my hormones and body clock in balance. Next up on the routine, we are making a special cocktail called the high-fiber hydration bomb, which is for hydration. Bet you didn't see that one coming. Energy, gut health, and it's an anti-inflammatory. You're going to need some water, lemon juice, salt, chia seeds, and a greens powder. Well, hopefully bomb isn't code for what I think it might be. And if it is, hopefully I get to choose when that bomb detonates. Here we go. Mhm. That's going to leave zebra stripes. Black undies kind of day. It tastes like a handful of Amazon ED pills blended up with lemon juice. Next, we're just out here grounding. It promotes calmness, reduces stress, enhances mood, improves sleep. You see all these photos of the data I'm showing? I actually don't understand any of it. Like, none of it. Might as well just be cave paintings. I've either peaked in grade 5 science or I'm just straight up illiterate. I must say, walking barefoot in the grass makes you instantly feel amazing. And fortunately, I'm in a part of town where the only thing I have to worry about not stepping on are antills and not needles. And if there's any anything wet, I'm just telling myself it's a sprinkler. I will also add this entire time of the morning routine so far, I've not had my phone with me. Social media detox. You don't need to be on your phone right away in the morning. And watch, this is the day I have a missed phone call from Arnold Schwarzenegger or something. For breakfast today, we are making something that was popularized by a famous strength coach of the name Charles Pulquin, and that is a meat and nut breakfast. That just sounds like my favorite breakfast in bed. But there are a lot of benefits to this kind of breakfast, and that is lower carbs equals fewer crashes. It's better for body composition and insulin sensitivity. It improved dopamine and focus. It stabilizes blood sugar, and it keeps you full. Meat and nut breakfast is consisting of filet minan and some walnuts. Now, the calories of this dish, I don't want to know. I looked at the nutrition label of the walnuts and it was terrifying. Yeah. But I think I'm going to finish the meat off and then earn the nut. I just call that oral tradition. And I don't need science to tell you that filet minan is a premium cut dog. Obviously, medium rare. Anything more, give it to the dogs. I didn't know meat could be this submissive. This is grass-fed. I almost just made a noise. Reserved for hotel rooms. M. The perfect amount of blood. Gives it a little bit of that sickening edge. Don't get me wrong, this is amazing. But I'm a sweet breakfast man. Why can't what I want and what makes me happy just be science? You know, you want to know what's kind of funny? We have so much data supporting this kind of breakfast and how good it is for you. Yet the government just wants us eating cereal. The government wants us eating cereal so we stay fat, weak, broke, bloated. Eat cereal, feel foggy, blame yourself. It's all part of the plan. What's the plan? I'm not entirely sure. None of us are sure. But there is a plan. Nothing says population control quite like Tony the Tiger. I'm just putting that out there. There's a plan. Walnuts are the real deal. There are so many health benefits for walnuts specifically. It's it's the apex nut. So, this nut should give me clarity that monks meditate 20 years for. All right, here we go. It's been a while. Kind of reminds me of an old man in a hot tub. Little bit of a tan, wrinkly, surprisingly creamy finish. Very earthy, too. H I can already tell it's going to keep me a lot fuller. >> The other day I DM'd Andrew Huberman and I asked him if humans could only take four supplements, what would they be? And uh he just he didn't answer me. So there must be a lot more interesting things going on in the DMs, Andrew. Anywh who, I did some research on my own and I found that the four supplements you should take are creatine, magnesium, omegas, and vitamin D. So this is what I'm going to be taking. You are supposed to delay your caffeine 60 to 90 minutes after waking so you can truly feel what rock bottom feels like. Now, I've seen a lot of studies about caffeine and coffee, and the only thing I got from it is nothing bad has ever happened from drinking coffee. If anything, delaying caffeine, it's making you immortal, more or less. So, we're getting a quick little black coffee because you got to take a black before heading to the gym. I don't know if I can keep this habit up. Waiting 60 to 90 minutes after I wake up. My cure egg is now my dominatrix. H, can I get a large black, please? Thanks. Oh, the smell. that's hot. It tastes so much better. You had to wait and beg for it. >> I'm sipping on my coffee on the way to the gym for the perfect workout. But we're not just going to any ordinary gym. We're going to the muscle lab where we're actually going to hook our muscles up to these tiny devices to see how hard they're working during the workout. >> First ever person to use these in the Jeff Nipper muscle lab. And it basically just measures electrical activity in the muscle. It's a good proxy for activation. Before we hit the weights, I wanted to mix up the ultimate concoction. Something to squeeze out every last drop of this workout. So, I'm going to start with some citrine mallet for endurance pump fatigue delay. So, I'm going to do a scoop of that. Next, 10 g of EAS. Then, we got a carb powder >> for energy endurance. Cool. And then last but not least, some electrolytes for hydration, cramp prevention. So, if you had to give me a score from 1 to 10, >> um, >> the scientifically perfect intra-workout shake. >> Honestly, I would give you I would give you a nine. So, the only thing I would say is I I prefer to have sit pre-workout. It probably will help improve the pump, but >> I don't know if I would do it intra. I would just do it pre. There's one thing that is completely necessary and it gets you like all the way to 8 and 1/2 out of 10. >> Okay. >> It's water. >> Just water. >> Yeah. Because if you cuz if you become dehydrated while you train, that can severely impair performance. All of this stuff, I would say, is more like the cherry on top. >> Okay, today's shoulder day for me. >> Okay, >> so I'm looking for the perfect scientific most effective shoulder workout. >> You're in the right spot. >> We hooked up the EMG device on each of our front, side, and rear delts in order for us to monitor the activity of each head of the shoulder. >> Do a problem photo, man. So, how important is a slow eentric and a pause at the bottom of the rep? >> Um, ah, that's a good question. I don't think a slow eccentric is important. I think a controlled eccentric is important, though. You want your total rep to last at least 2 seconds. But from 2 seconds to 8 seconds doesn't actually make any difference. It was time to slowly work our way up in weight in order to get to our two top sets of maximum weight where we're going to be pushing to complete failure. No, no, no. Don't more control. Last rep, please. Last couple. Drive it. Drive it. Drive it. Finish it. >> The shoulder press is usually thought of as mainly a front delt exercise, but interestingly, both Jeff and I felt significant lateral delt activation. In fact, I actually felt it more on the side delts than the front. >> So, your lateral delt was 13%. Your front delt was 112%. So, they're pretty close. >> You actually had more lateral than front on the shoulder press. >> What? >> Yeah. >> With the side delt, is that enough of a percentage of activation to be worthwhile doing. >> Now, what we're going to do is we're going to compare it to lateral raises and see. For side delts, we're actually just going to do a dumbbell lateral raise. So, normally I'd go for cables, but I think dumbbells work really well, too. Um, there was a recent study that showed no difference in hypertrophy between cables and dumbbells. And so, I think the best practice is to use both. When it comes to rep ranges, generally speaking, I think for hypertrophy, you want to be six to 10 reps. >> I'm going to call that failure, Will. Every rep the same. One more. Yeah, that's your Good job, man. Oo, nice set. >> Thanks. >> Good. Let's see. >> It feels just as much the side as the uh shoulder press, actually, which is weird. >> Look at the lateral activation on Will. 158. >> You cooked me on that one. >> Oh, congratulations. Your rear delts pretty high, too. Yeah, definitely way higher than mine. And you don't have much front. So, I guess either the way your anatomy is set up or maybe it's a technique thing, you're getting way less front than me and you're getting significantly more rear than me. It's pretty interesting. Even with the most optimal exercises, everyone experiences them completely different. That's why it's so important to find the movements where you personally feel the most benefit. So, a six set shoulder workout doesn't sound like a lot, but is that that's enough? A couple times a week? >> Yeah, I think so. I think if you throw more volume at your shoulders than that, you're getting close to what some might call junk volume territory. Um, I don't necessarily think it's like junk volume and that it's useless. It's just that you get severely diminishing returns with adding more volume. And at a certain point, you're kind of just wasting your time to be honest. Like for the vast majority of people, I'd rather see them do two sets per exercise that are actually executed well, meaning good technique and high effort, than like three or four sets where they just kind of come in and heave some weight around and get a pump. Like, it's infinitely better to do more quality volume than just more total volume. So, you must be wondering why I'm at the grocery store and not rushing to get my meal in. That's because the anabolic window doesn't exist. >> Contrary to popular opinion, you don't need to get your nutrients in within like 10 to 20 minutes of training. In reality, there's about a 5h hour window that brackets your pre-workout meal and your post-workout meal. So, in terms of post-workout nutrition, as long as you're getting your meal in around 5 hours after you ate your pre-workout meal, you're good. So all this idea of like spiking insulin and like all the fast digesting carbs and everything, it's kind of bro science for bodybuilding. >> The only study you'll find supporting it is probably on the label of some sketchy mass gainer. So unlike the Easter Bunny, Santa, the tooth fairy, my life actually improved once I found out the anabolic window wasn't real. All that time rushing home to choke on some dry meat was for nothing. I'm not just aimlessly picking up random things. I have exact ingredients and macros I want to hit because earlier I asked Jeff, "What is the perfect post-workout meal?" >> Well, the most important thing is protein. So, I'd like for you to get at least 30 to 40 g of protein. Then the next priority would be carbohydrate. That's not that important, especially if you had carbs in your pre-workout meal. The thing with glycogen is it will replenish, generally speaking, within 24 hours anyway. So unless you're doing full body training where you're hitting every muscle on consecutive days, there's really no urgency to that. But as a general rule of thumb, around half a gram of carbohydrate per kilogram of body weight. And then fats, again, since there's no real urgency for absorption, um it doesn't really matter a whole lot. So, you know, the traditional wisdom was to keep fats low in the post-workout meal, but that's just to increase carb absorption. If there's really no rush to get the carbs absorbed, then it doesn't really matter if you have a lot of fat. Okay, so that's that's the theory. So, what do you actually eat? Okay, what I might do as a post-workout meal would be a a chicken wrap. Okay, so you get a a nice whole wheat tortilla. You get some chicken, some lettuce, a little bit of cheese. Probably go for the lower fat side just to get, you know, the nutrients absorbed a little bit faster. Um some salsa, a little bit of sour cream, or you could go Greek yogurt if you want to get a little extra protein in there. Here we have the perfect post-workout meal. And to be honest, these macros are really easy to hit. So, I'm going to have to find something later to really manipulate because I was expecting to get like half a pie to to like spike my insulin or something like that. Something fancy, but no. 80 g protein, 51 carb, 17 fat, 646 calories. The heck was with this science, man? The anabolic window might not exist, but we still live in a calorically limited prison that we call Earth. Tastes like the whitest Mexican food ever. Somewhere a Mexican grandma felt a disturbance in the force. It is also a little after 300 p.m. So, the meat and nuts filled me like no other. This is actually pretty filling, too. The lettuce is stupid, though. I'm stressed. You're stressed. Yes, you are. Don't lie. And that's just part of being human. It's okay. But according to science, there are some very easy, low-hanging fruit things that you can do on a daily basis to greatly reduce your stress levels. And I'm going to test four of them. Test one, gargling salt water. This apparently helps activate the vagus nerve, which helps calm your heart rate, lower blood pressure, and reduce the physiological effects of stress. I feel like my stress would have been more regulated by swallowing. The job kind of feels half done. I swear a bunch of these studies have to be more dares than anything. Like I can imagine a bunch of these people are just sitting in a lab being like, "Oh my god, I can't believe that guy actually tried that." And I tried it. I'm so focused on the salt water in my throat. It's like It's like I gulped the damn Dead Sea that I kind of forgot about everything. >> Test two, dark chocolate. It boosts feel good brain chemicals and reduces stress hormones. Stressed spelled backwards as desserts. Coincidence? Yeah, actually, probably. And that's that's crazy. You want to know what else is crazy? No matter what, all roads lead to something dark to loosen me up. dark chocolate, black coffee, and at least this kind of dark chocolate won't leave any permanent damages. I can't really imagine chocolate is going to solve my problems, but it'll probably at least pause them. Got to let them melt in your mouth. 70% dark chocolate is like the perfect percentage. Anything more, we're getting into nasty territory. This is like a dark chocolate, milk chocolate hybrid that I'm okay with. It does make your toenails curl a little bit. It shivers up my spine. Honestly, just eating d-stresses me. So, I would say this works. >> Test three, random acts of kindness. >> So, random acts of kindness reduce stress, huh? So, I'm going to go hold some doors for some people and see how that feels. I've always seen myself being a bouncer at a coffee shop. So, let's see. When you do something kind, your brain releases oxytocin, dopamine, and endorphins. These not only make you feel good, but they also lower stress hormones like cortisol. That did feel good. If he didn't say thank you, that would have been Rage City. There you go. >> Oh, thank you. >> No problem. >> You coming in? Yeah. Got you. >> I will admit this worked. >> Look at me. I can automatic door. I feel good. >> Test four. VR forest bathing. What? This is supposed to mimic nature's stress reducing effects, but realistically I think it's because you're escaping reality. >> The fact that I'm in virtual reality to distress is kind of stressing me out a little bit. But I will say it's nice and calm out here. What is this? Horizon Central. Do I just go that way? Like Oh no. How do I get there? Oh, now I'm getting stressed out. Something about this is getting really creepy. I feel so helpless. Oh, I like that. I like that. VR is like the one place where I could actually grow a full beard. Oh, for the camera. Oh having a very disturbingly early and late dinner this evening. It's just after 5:30. Uh I like to be tossed and turned in bed. I don't want to be tossing and turning from being hungry. And so so I'm just a little bit nervous that this is my last meal because to me carb coma is backed by science. How much I eat directly correlates to how much I'm knocked out later. But the truth is the lighter your meal is before bed, the lower your heart rate is when you go to sleep. And you want to have a lower heart rate, which helps with a better sleep, which kind of sucks when you think about it. Now, the perfect dinner is a low GI carb. So, I have some red lentil pasta, good quality protein. So, I got some turkey, I got veggies, and then a good quality fat, which I have olive oil. Now, there was a study done saying that more olive oil means more fat loss. And I don't know about that. That just sounds like something that you would tell your significant other to do so they gain weight, get fat. So you feel safe in the relationship. One of the pluses of living the scientifically perfect life is I don't have to argue with anyone anymore. Everything I do is according to the data. So there's this sense of freedom that I have for never having to make a difficult decision ever again, which is awesome. Calories for the meal, 743, almost 60 g of protein, 32 g of fat, and 60 g of carbs. You know, whether your goal is to build muscle or lose fat, you need a nutrition plan that adapts to you, which is why I always use the MacroFactor app. It's the only app that adjusts your unique metabolism. And you want to know how they do that? It's one word, science. All you have to do is log your food and the app takes care of the rest. It's literally like having your own personal nutrition coach, but for way cheaper. It's really the most goatated calorie tracking app of all time. And because of that, it's a paid app. But don't worry, they're not going to give you ads. They're not going to sell your data. And it's cheaper than My Fitness Pal Premium. So, if you want to try it out, go to the App Store or Google Play Store and use code will for a twoe free trial. Do you guys remember when I said I had something epic planned for bedtime? Well, tonight I'm going to be sleeping in something called the Frequency Forest. It's an energy enhancement system. I have no idea what that is. I know it's good for healing. It's just good for you. It's good for sleep. So, I have a room booked in this wellness center just for me. Maybe they double booked it. That'd be kind of cool. So, we're going to go inside right now, figure out what it's all about, and hopefully have the best sleep of my entire life. It's crazy. I'm spending a night in a plaza across from a Popeye's. What the heck? >> Before I enter the Frequency Forest, it was important to bring myself down into the calmst and most restful state possible. So, the first thing I did was 20 minutes with the neurovvisor. >> The neurovvisor is a great way to just start to decompress from coming from the outside world into float valley. Um, the light therapy is basically stimulating your pineal gland and it's causing you to produce a little bit of endogenous DMT. DMT is produced to make you dream. So, it starts to put you into kind of like a a dreamlike state that's very relaxing, very comfortable, but also sometimes very visual. The lights will flash behind your eyelids, but then your brain will interpret as colors and shapes and patterns and things like that. And so, it becomes a very cool visual experience, but it's also a great way to drop in. And so, that's the reason why I chose that first. >> From there, I went on to do a 1-hour sensory deprivation float. >> You're going to be able to absorb all the magnesium, which will get you really relaxed. You'll have a full like nice theta session which is an hour long which is a great way to just decompress before you come into this room. I am so relaxed right now. It's time to enter the frequency forest. The frequency forest is basically this room that we've created here at float valley. The energy enhancement system are the TV screens that you're seeing on the walls. The TV screens are four towers that are in the corners of the rooms. And these towers are precisely like calibrated and aligned to each other so that they converge in the center point of the room. And so the screens are giving off different types of frequencies. And these are frequencies that are usually found in natural places in the world. But what they found is when they take these frequencies and they precisely align the screens and they send them at each other, when they hit each other, they collide and create something called a scalar wave. And this scalar wave has the power to actually go into our body into our cells and charge up the electrical voltage within the cell. And so healthy cells are somewhere around like a 70 to 90 molt voltage. When you start getting down to like a 20 to 30 molt cell, that's when you're seeing cancer cells. And so anywhere in between there, ailments are there. There's pain, there's disease, you get an injury, the cell starts to lower its its energy. What the system does is the sends the scalar waves into your body. The scalar waves are then able to charge your cells back up to that 70 to 90 molt range and the body can start to selfheal and self regenerate itself. I've either entered the chillest rave ever or I'm about to be uploaded into the matrix. I don't know which one. Also, I'm just lowkey stressed about the electricity bill. It must be crazy. But I'm super excited. This is probably one of the coolest things I've ever done in my entire life. And I have a feeling tonight's sleep is going to ruin all other sleep experiences for my entire life. In this room, we've got these copper pyramids. The copper actually conducts that scalar wave and amplifies the activity of the scalar waves in the room. So, we've had a lot of people that are like energy healers, raiki, along those lines. When they come into this room and they've been into other E systems before, they're like, "This is something completely different because of the copper pyramids." If tonight doesn't go well, one thing's for sure, I'm going to have the craziest sleep paralysis demons ever. He was telling me there's only 500 of these systems set up in the entire world. So, this is this is quite the treat. Right now, I'm going to be tracking my sleep tonight on my Aura Ring. I'm excited. I have no idea what's going to happen. Is it going to be the best sleep I've ever had? Will I have the best score I've ever had? I'm not entirely sure. I hope so. That'd be pretty sick. But then I'd have to buy this. It cost 160K. Yeah, it does. $160,000 for broken TV screens is what it looks like. You know, the the Our number one clients here are chronic pain patients. My aunt specifically was one really good testimonial. she had her torn her ACL and she's she's very skeptical about like things like this. Um and so when she came in um she was like, "I'll give it a shot just because you're my my nephew." But she came out, she was smiling, she was laughing. She's like, "My pain is completely gone. I've been trying to work on this for like I've taken so many medications. I've done so many things and it's gone." And then it came slow started to slowly come back. She came in three times that week. She never came back and it was gone. So, I'm like, "Yeah, for pain, for recovery, if you're sore, if you're insomnia, like literally across the board, I'm seeing benefits for everything." I would consider this to be holistic wellness. And when it comes to holistic wellness, if you believe it's working and you want to believe it's working, it's going to work. So, that's it's kind of where my head's at. I think that this is going to be a gamecher of a sleep. See you all in the morning. Good morning from the frequency forest. I feel like I had such a deep sleep. You know when you wake up and you're like, "Wow, that was a freaking deep sleep." That's how I felt. I had very vivid dreams. So, I thought the sleep score was going to be good, but it was very mid. So, I feel like my score was not a reflection of how I feel and what the experience was because Wow, that was nice. I would do it again. >> Got another pro keto propaganda breakfast. It looks absolute gas. So, we got some walnuts. I brought my own nut. Got some guacamole, tomato slices, chicken breast, and egg. I love eating two generations at once. The only thing that's missing is a And we got the whole family. I still can't get over how good a meat and not breakfast made me feel and how full it kept me. keeping me full. It's not science. I consider that to be a scientific breakthrough. Like seriously. But I am one that does fall for the placebo effect. Tell me it works and I'm already 30% better. When a place has Cholua, you know it's the real deal. It's also been 90 minutes since waking, so you already know. Going to go crazy with it with the coffee. Unlimited cups. This meal came with hash browns and toast, and I had to say no to both. So, call me unhinged, but I'm using tomato slices as my toast. It's a low carb diet, but requires very high commitment. I'm just a boy sitting in front of a tomato asking it to be bred. I don't know why, but I definitely feel like I'm making a statement bringing my own walnuts to a restaurant. We have to work to get nice things. That's just how it is. I can't just escape and live in the frequency forest for the rest of my life. As much as that sounds awesome, I can't do that. So, with that said, I have work to do and I want to boost my productivity as much as humanly possible. So, I have put together the ultimate scientific setup that will help me achieve the most amount of work in the shortest amount of time. Starting with blue light blocking glasses. Check. Next up, we have a standing desk, which is linked to better attention and comfort. I didn't want to buy a standing desk, so I made I made my own with my air fryer and some checkers. It's ugly, but it'll do. Coincidentally, the top comment in my yearbook, but a standing desk does make a lot of sense because when you're sitting for a long period of time, you're hunched over and that kind of adds up. Your posture is going to suck. You're going to look like Quasimoto in like 5 years. So, this just seems like an overall good choice to make. On this side of my desk, I have some fresh rosemary because rosemary scent increases speed and accuracy of cognitive tasks. M sometimes you got to put the spray can down. And then on this side, we have some gum because chewing gum while working increases alertness and reaction time. So, I'm set up here. Let's Let's get some work done. Let's do it. So, I popped a piece of gum and it was time to lock in. I will say I definitely prefer sitting down when doing work. I'm not sure if I'm getting anything out of doing it standing. Surprisingly, the rosemary scent was doing something or maybe I was just being hustled by placebo. I'm not really sure, but time was flying by and I was getting a lot of work done. Taking a quick work break and I'm going to make a snack. So, I found that tyrroscen rich foods enhance focus. So, I went online and I found a tyrrosine rich smoothie recipe and all the stuff that you're seeing on the screen, it's all in here. Everything. This is for a fact the most in-depth smoothie I have ever put together. I just went from bodybuilder to straight up mixologist. So, this is a lot healthier and a lot more legal than what I would typically use to enhance my focus. So, I'm excited. I love a good smoothie. So, let's blend this up and see how it tastes. What the heck? How do you work this? Jesus. Okay, let's try this bad boy out. Smells good. Oh, straight goosebumps, man. With this smoothie, I am clapping the cheeks of procrastination. The banana saunters in when it goes down your throat. Everything is coming together. This is so solid. Best smoothie I think I've ever had. Really high cow though. Almond butter and pumpkin seeds. Insane. Running 75 minutes a week can drastically improve your lifespan, which is like 11 minutes a day. Tell me right now you don't have 11 minutes. People who do not have 11 minutes a day are already in the grave. There is literally no excuse. Now 10 minutes of hit cardio apparently equals 50 minutes of regular cardio. Now, I'm all about efficiency, sometimes against my own will, but this one is hard to overlook. So, today's an off day from the weights, but we're about to hit some hit and then do some recovery after. Let's get it. We're going to max this bad boy out. Oh I've only done four rounds so far, but look how quick the stuff's adding up. It's almost 2500. Oh my god. I'm pretty sure Treadmills were originally invented as like torture devices in prisons, and I could totally see why. Since today was an off day from lifting, after the cardio, I went to get some of the top-of-the-line sciencebacked recovery. Starting with compression therapy, which has a long list of benefits. The green light just beaming in my face is a therapy used for skin issues like hyperpigmentation, dark spots, and sunspots, as well as to promote calming and anti-inflammatory effects. It just feels like some dude is just gripping both of my ankles as hard as he can. And because it's constricting my lower body, all the blood is rushing to my head. This head, I'm starting to feel a little bit lightheaded right now. It feels really good. From there, I moved on to the pulsed electromagnetic field therapy, which is like a battery charger for your cells. I got magnetic pulses sent into my back, my stomach, and even my knee. Then I did some more common things like red light therapy. >> Imagine a science video without red light. Not possible. I never heard Einstein talk about red light. Maybe he knows nothing about science. >> And then lastly, cryotherapy >> gives more energy, boosts flexibility, increase blood flow. That's exactly why I do cocaine. You're only in this chamber for 3 minutes, but there are so many benefits. One of them being you burn 500 to 800 calories per session, which I know is probably not it's completely not true, but I'm going to I'm going to choose to believe it and get a treat later. >> I always wondered what castration look like. That's getting pretty crazy cold. >> My nipples could take your eye out right now. I'm on this vibration machine post cryo. Get the circulation back. No dangle at all. Nothing. >> I do notice after any cold therapy I do, my mood is so much better and my mind feels so much more clear. Oh my god, I'm closing my underwear. It's so cold. It's fake ice. Evening routine time. Starting with red light glasses. So, the red light signals your brain and your body that it's time for rest. I think you should all know by now that colder is better. So, the optimal temperature for sleep is between 60 to 67° F. So, I'm going to change my thermostat to 65. For my next magic trick, I'm going to turn all the nipples to nice little diamonds. This next thing is actually pretty interesting, and that's to brush your teeth with your non-dominant hand. And because you're not used to it, all you're going to do is think about how you're doing it. So, it's kind of like a form of meditation. If using your non-dominant hand is a form of meditation. I have been meditating since I was 14. Surprised I haven't reached a higher plane yet, but I usually go like this. I will be honest. All I'm thinking about is brushing my teeth and how weird it feels. If you're somebody like me who has a hard time meditating, you just have to do something that confuses you. So, it basically forces you not to think about anything else. After brushing my teeth, I went outside for a moonlight walk with my son, Boba. You're not supposed to have your phone, but I'm filming this on my phone, so I don't know. But it felt really nice to be outside. Having a little sleepy time cocktail of warm almond milk and collagen peptides, maximizing my restfulness, one milknut at a time. It doesn't taste like sweet dreams, but hopefully it will lead to them. And while I sip on this, I'm going to journal three things that I'm grateful for today. It's supposed to uplift my mood, reduce my stress, and calm me down to get in the mood for sleep. I'm in bed now. Normally, I'd be scrolling on my phone, possibly doing some work, but that's a big no no. You don't want too much screen time right before bed. You're supposed to do things like read. I just finished Squid Game season 3, so I have nothing more to read. So, because of that, Katie gave me Sudoku to give it a shot. 150 easy to very hard puzzles. Let's hope we find a very easy one here. Oh, man. I love feeling like an idiot before bed. I'm currently naked with three socks on and this eye mask. I look like a someone who the FBI would have a no knock warrant for. But that doesn't matter because you want to know what? I'm someone who's going to have an epic sleep. Isn't that right, Boba? Yeah. So, that was a pretty easy evening routine. All backed by science. Give it a shot. I'm pretty sleepy right now, so I'm going to bed. As my head hit the pillow after yet another day of flawless execution, I feel like I just aced life's final exam. But tomorrow, tomorrow is the real experiment. Breaking bad habits and putting the new ones to work. Thanks for watching. Make sure to subscribe. See you next time. Bye-bye.