Today I am no longer a bodybuilder because I'm becoming an IG fit girl. The most important part of the day is setting up the Instagram account because social media is directly related to your self-worth. So I'm no longer will I am will fit. And the first thing that we need to do in our bio was add that we are a personal trainer because all fit girls are virtual personal trainers, right? Forearm specialists. So there we go. Do I need an emoji for that one? No. Just like candles on a birthday cake, we got to add a peach emoji to show people what they're wishing over. So, we're going to add a peach and [music] and a flexing arm, girl power and stuff like that and a rose. And then, just in case a Drake wants to hit me up, I got to add my location. Now, 30% of my following will be other influencers only following me for a followback. And the other 70% will be men who only get head when they pour a glass of beer. That said, we're still going to look cute. We're still going to stay very active on this thing. Now, come get ready with me. People think getting ready for the gym is easy, but those are the same type of people that think that dick picks count as foreplay. And they're definitely not the kind to recognize the deadlift platform as the stage it is. This is stressful stuff. Like what if Kristen wore this last week? God forbid you break the 30-day no repeats rule. Why does it feel like no waste is high enough today? The list goes on and on. But when you find the one, you just know. I feel like I look like a fit girl or a or or a or a used tampon, but I feel cute. Um, feel confident. Will te checking in. The first thing on the menu today is an oat milk latte. Why oat milk? Because who the hell drinks cow's milk? in my Instagram feed already. He helped milk a few nuts this morning. Oat milk is just absolutely essential. 80 calories per cup. This thing is just so cute. For the main meal, we are making an asai bowl, which is colorful enough to match my personality, but more importantly, my gym fit. We're going to have all the colors of the earth here because, you know, bright colors equals fitness. Okay. So, we got a nice berry medley in there. Got some blueberries. And then I have this like this cranberry powder. It's really good for you. It's loaded with um it just matches my socks. And then we're going to add some protein because you can't have your cake and eat it too, though. I do get a lot of offers. So, we're going to add one scoop of some birthday cake whey protein. The new BPN flavor. Oh my god, they have little sprinkles. That's so cute. And oh my god, the scooper is even a different color. It's not like see-through Q ice cubes. Come on. How do you [music] work this thing, man? Okay. So, just like when I do my Instagram reels, I'm going to do minutes of research here. Oo, now that is pretty. And we're going to make it even prettier. I have this banana. I'm going to give it more of a purpose besides helping me pay off my student loans with my Only Fans. So, going to dice it up. That's what happens when you stare at my ass at the gym. And this is my beautiful heaven in a bowl asai bowl. This meal just screams flat tummy and glute fuel. I'm excited. Like I I know there's many heroes out there. I just want to be a food one. And this one just this one is stealing the spotlight right now. And and I'm not liking that. I'm not liking that one bit. So we got to eat it right now. This isn't fit girl etiquette, man. I needed a stronger reminder of my favorite done in Italy beyond just my memories of Fabio, so I had to add some pistachios. The roastedness just [music] contrast the freshness of the fruit. It's going to make you regular, too. Fit girls, just like bodybuilders, drink a lot of caffeine, especially oat milk lattes. It takes a lot of energy to run through all the minds of the guys at the gym. So, usually three to four of these a day. Hey angels. You guys know I'm going to my safe space right now, which is the gym. And you always know that two scoops equals big glutes. So, I have some BPN electrolytes. As always, my stuff is in the link in the description. Make sure to check it out. Really make sure to check it out. Let's go to the gym. We are at the gym and I was able to source a real live in the flesh. Like a real Toronto fit girl. We have you go by like your name's Melissa. I go by Mel. So you identify as a fit girl, right? Yeah. Okay. What's the biggest misconception of a fit girl? Uh we don't actually look like this all the time. Like whatever you see on social media and like our postes, it's um it happens for like 5 or 10 seconds. I mean, I didn't expect to be like I I stand out more. I'm going full red. There's no breakup of colors. It's just full red. the sexy Elmo cosplay. I mean, Elmo's sexy as is, but like how do you rate the fit? I give it a seven out of 10. Seven because for effort, I'll give you like a 6 and 1 half out of 10, which we can talk about later. I'm just surprised you guys actually work out. Oh, we work out, trust me. Oh, obviously we're starting off with some hip thrust first. And I was like, do we need the cushion for the bar? She's like, yeah, I brought my own. Who brings their own hip thrust cushions? So, you don't have a green one? I don't. I know. That's right. What's your hit PR? Um, three plays in 15. What? Don't laugh at me in the middle of the set. That was good. I feel like I look like a sweaty M&M. Now, just got it. It's going to be a little difficult. Don't slam your waist in the Are your fitness goals like you want to be able to like walk into like a knife fight and use your glutes as a defense? Like Exactly. Just kind of like buck them out of the way. Her face does not change from rep to rep to rep. It's like she's always Instagram ready for a shot. You're always Instagram ready. It's just like you're like just like this face. This is rep one. [music] This is rep A. Stop smiling at me. Are you serious? She gave me a tip. After every set, she said to look back at it. Just look back. I look at mine all day. Give it a wiggle. See, mine has like The thing is that I don't know. It's like mine has no like like recoil. You know what I mean? [music] Wow. We're We're uh powerlifting with our glutes right now. Oh my god. Two more. [music] All right. Now, you got this. Good job. [music] I'm seeing like black. Holy [\h__\h] We have encouraged Melissa to go for a PR right now. So 365 hip thrust. How many reps you going to go for? I'll go for two. No, you got four. Two. Two more. Go. Three. Come on. It's about the ego, not the point. Yes. We're testing new glute boundaries today. If I get five reps, Melissa has to post an Instagram selfie [music] with white socks and black shoes. Fine. Black Adidas, white Nike sauce. I do that, too. What's wrong with that? That's even worse. [music] I'm just here to lift, you know? Like, I just Okay. [\h__\h] You ready for social suicide? I had some momentum on those trust, too. Like, I was I was trusting like I was mad at it. Do you ever feel like as a girl there's like a pressure to look a certain way in the gym? For sure. Yeah. I always feel like kind of anxious about that because like I used to come in the morning wearing sports while I was feeling fine. It's funny cuz like Katie I met her at the gym and she like the she's like wearing like baggy shirt no matching. She has like beads with like tape on. I still I'm like like what the I'm going to put you on the spot right now. How much would you say that you spend per month or per year on gym fits? Oh my god, my boyfriend's not watching this, but um [music] six grand. This is interesting. I do I do buy a lot of gym fits, but I also sell a lot of them. I do get a lot of creepy messages, not lie, of these guys being like, "Can you deliver these to me wearing them?" I'm like, "No." Very, very weird. But, uh, the price is right, right? Oh, sure. She also totally said that she underballed that. She didn't want to upset anybody watching. Anyway, that's like a You just hit a brick wall. [music] Oh my god. Is that like too high? A little high. Ronaldo, huh? Do you like what you see? Next up, we have dumbbell sumo squat. Four sets of eight. And she just she just goes right off the bat and grabs the 110s. What the You also will notice a fit girl always squats so so below parallel. Like that's like that's like your way of flexing at the gym. Like if you don't go parallel, you might as well get low because you're you're getting no abs. I'd usually set up my tripod like behind me or whatever and then do a shot right back and forth 100 times until you get the perfect one. Exactly. Sometimes you got to work with what you have. Work with what you have. That's like it's such an insult. Work with what you have. Man, this is And then you know I feel like you have parts of your body that I don't have. Do I have to like spread my teeth? You have to spread it. Cut yourself out and push your butt out. Yeah. I think the assh kind of ruins it. No, I think it's great. Okay. Especially in the red. Don't do that. And what you have don't push it up. Okay. You're going to take this hip and like scoop it around. Oh. I do actually have to be. Now it's time for the fun stuff. Like we posed and we've earned the donuts. She brought donuts. Like you know it's honestly the best place too. So I had to I had to. This is my favorite bakery along with Katie's. Are you ready? Oh my. Oh no. It's crazy. I know. I know. Unexpected. Like you see that and then it's filled in the inside. It's like a cake batter filling. It's next level. Do you have any words of wisdom, advice to like girls, women who want to go to the gym, maybe feel kind of discouraged about it? Yeah, just be comfortable, confident, and just showing up at the gym. Do it for yourself. Don't do it for anyone else. And work with what you have. Love it. Thank you so much. I'm going to enjoy these donuts. Yes. I'm just going to enjoy these donuts. Don't worry, you're not in that. It's for my Instagram. Got it. You don't need to leave it if you don't. My body, it's a garden. So, I'm going to feed it a garden. I'm doing this for me. Okay. Like, look at this. We literally have mother nature here. There is so many colors going on. I'm extremely excited. I don't put much meat in my mouth besides shrimp or has a 405 bench, but you know, a lot of good nutrients, antioxidants to fuel me after that workout. I'm going to take this dressing and put it on the salad and treat it like how the guys imagine treating me and give it a rigorous toss. I literally had one of this thing just travel down my throat hole. No gag reflex. That's delicious. There's nothing better than eating healthy, you know? I ordered double meat and I can barely find anything. Like, don't be shy. Show me your meat here. Literally free shrimp and there's like a damn freaking forest of veggies here. We got some big things to do right after lunch. So, we got to get some energy. We have some very, very important business to do and I need the energy for it. and that is to take Instagram photos for literally the next 2 days. I got myself an energy drink to keep me going, keep me perky. We got the witches brew flavor, naturally flavored, very perfumey. Get a vague hint of feminism [music] in here. Overall, really good. Very sweet. Let's go take some photos. Can you take a quick Insta for me? Okay. Would you mind taking a photo of me real quick just for my Instagram? [laughter] I have a sweet treat to beat the heat. You're doing a lot of bodybuilding, huh? Yeah, a lot. Yes. Do any of you guys want this? I can't have it. It's okay. It's not open, so I can't drink it. I don't have any room anymore. You take it. You want to pay it forward? It's for you. Thank you, sir. I'll make sure to tag you. Turning into a raisin. Can I get [music] a chocolate covering to save me? [\h__\h] The Gym Shark drop. People don't understand pre-launch anxiety is real. It's a real thing. The latest Gymware drops are a mustave. Securing your size in the latest neon and pastel apparel is the only way to stand out on social media, regardless of how many others have bought from the same Whitney Simmons collection. This isn't retail therapy. This is retail cardio. And this means war. Oh my god. If Jess gets this set and I don't, girl, maybe focus on getting a good spray tan first. Who is Monica even wanting to wear these for? We all know her ass is the last one her boyfriend pays attention to. Carol, could you just let me have something? You could have a poncho on your ass and it would still look better than my face. Hopefully, she gets camo print so no one notices that pancake butt of hers. [\h__\h] can I get it? Workout complete. Instagram's been uploaded. Pretty much my life's purpose is complete for the day. And now it's time for dinner. Dinner, we're going keto. I'm not changing my diet. I'm just changing my lifestyle. Keto simply is 25% protein, 70% fat, and 5% relatability. The foundation of tonight's dinner is the golden snitch of Fit Girls, and that is an avocado, cuz we're making some pretty badass avocado toast. Let's see if I know how to pick them. Drum roll, please. Oh, not a bloom list Instagram, that's for sure. We always say the best ones squirt when you eat them. And I like a little bit of a kick. I like to make my my cheeks sweat. All four of them. A lot of red pepper. And then some cilantro. It's not about eating well. It's just how little can you possibly eat cuz you want to keep that waist thin. The booty [music] massive. You want to take off the protection here. M. There's way too much green going on on this plate. We got to We got to brighten it up. So, we're going to add some cherry tomatoes. And boom. My [music] drink of choice tonight is going to be some rosé. Girls night out. Why rosé? Because I don't want to stain my teeth in my sleep with red wine. Okay. Okay. So, on the top right here, it's kind of weird. It says best enjoyed with friends. It sounds like something my pimp used to say about me. It seems like they're kind of like automatically assuming their customers like to drink alone, which is which is pretty stupid. I'm freaking thirsty. Jesus, that is so sweet. It tastes like it's Valentine's Day. I'm alone in the dark watching cat videos. Oh my god, there's so much avocado toast. It can't even hold up. That's why being keto sucks. The bread that you have can't even hold the freaking spread. This is literally [music] keto summed up. This is like your heart. Just the more I'm eating this, the more I hate this damn bread. You know, obviously today I'm doing stereotypes. I don't know if you can tell by now, but I've been joking the entire video. fit girls, girls at the gym, they train hard, as you can see today, they train heavy. They have balance with their diet. They'll have donuts. They'll have salad. They'll have a bunch of other things. And I have a lot of respect for women. Girls that go to the gym. It's not an easy place to be, especially being a woman. I can't even imagine having all these eyes on you. Feeling like you're being judged. My overall respect for fit girls after today went through the roof because that posing is definitely not easy. Give it a shot and let me know in the comments down below. So, I'm going to wrap it up here. If you guys enjoyed it, make sure to drop it a like, subscribe to the channel if you're new, and I'll see you guys in the next one.