Resorts are for relaxing, eating endless amounts of food, and drinking till you nearly pass out. But what if there was a resort designed to do the exact opposite? One that pushes you to your absolute limit every single day with one goal and one goal only. Weight loss. Well, you don't have to wonder because it exists. And it costs a little over $6,000 a week. And I'm going this place is absolutely massive. I'm super excited to see the room. Wa! How cute is this? If gaining weight gets me to stay in a place like this, pass me the cheesecake, man. Oh my god. We got the flat screen TV. Got the beautiful king bed. Nice couch. What is this? Simply delicious. View the menu. There's room service. This is either a sick joke or they're just trying to extend my stay. Good marketing move. Oh, we got a mini fridge. What do we got in here? The only thing they're serving up is my reflection. Absolutely nothing. Look at this. We also got the pool views over there. This place is so beautiful. I can't even imagine having to go through pretty much boot camp for the entire day. It's like working in the McDonald's drive-thru in Bora Bora. Like I'm going to try to I I have to figure out my mindset. Like I I want to be on vacation right now, but it's all going to be about losing as much weight as humanly possible. Oh, no chocolates on the pillow. I guess the accommodations are absolutely amazing. Although I doubt I'll be spending much time in the room at all. Once I settled in, I made my way over to the clubhouse to find out what I'm in store for tomorrow. Is that Is that Will? Is that me? Yep. So you Is there another wheel here or is that That's That's yours, my friend. So all of our clients have their own cubbies. This is Oh, your bag. I won't turn down a swag bag. Your swag bag that everybody gets. No, right. No calories in there that I'm aware of. It's not an edible hat, though, is it? Nice hat. You got some boxing gloves. Boxing gloves. We might put you through a boxing class. That's the schedule. Oh, that's a busy schedule. It's a busy schedule. Yeah. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner is pretty consistent. And then we're just we're jamming things in there. Yeah. This is Megan. Hi, Megan. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you, Will. Nice to meet you. Our fitness uh program director here. So, she'll you'll see her a lot tomorrow working out and getting your getting your your heart rate up and pushing the limits. I'm going to bring her up. Yes. We usually start with fitness assessments. So, if you want to put your bag down and head up to the front of the room, we'll do a little bit of getting to know each other before I poke your finger cuz we love. Next thing I had to do was, of course, some fitness testing to see where I'm at. Some of these tests are tracked weekly to measure progress. First thing was taking my blood pressure, as well as getting a sample of my blood to test things like my cholesterol, blood glucose, and triglycerides. Oh, I didn't I didn't realize that happened. Yes. Then we did a weighin and tested my body fat. 6.4%. Yep. Go ahead and step off. And what were you last time you said when you did 7.9? All right. So, your cutting is working. Yeah. Trying to get to zero. Yeah. Skeleton. That's I don't think we want that. With weight and body fat being so wildly dependent on many different factors, we also did a bunch of body measurements, which is an even better way to track your progress. As you can see, I wasn't thrilled by some of these numbers being called out. 15 and a half. That's That's awesome. Yeah. All right. So, here with Chef Andy. What's for dinner today? We have a homemade marinara. Oo. Got some sauteed peppers and onions. Does the food change every day? It does. We have a 6 week rotating menu. We have some chicken apple sausage. Men will get a 6 oz portion. Women usually get four. Oh, that's good. Chia seed and gluten-free garlic bread. And then Wow, very creative. Then we have some micro celery straight from our garden. That's like Michelin meal. Nice. Is this your own green goddess? Yes. What's in that? Um, it is a secret. Walden Farms. What's your opinions on zerocalorie dressings? Zerocalorie dressings. Uh, now you can tell a lot about a chef by their style. And my boy Andy, the man BUN, the way he did his hat, you just know this is non nonsense good food. We got three sausages here. My minimum for a good time. Chicken sausage. We got some marinara. Got some sauteed veggies. This thing that looks like a chicken breast, but it's actually some creative form of garlic bread. Then we got a salad. Right away, I noticed I wasn't going to be having anything basic. Rather, a more fun, elevated, and almost fine dining experience with calories and protein in mind. I love the way sausage bounces. Has a nice snap to it. Calories are low, but my expectations were high. And this is good. I would totally want to ask for seconds, but I don't know if that's allowed. And we might even get dessert, like a black bean brownie or something. Today has been a lot of the admin stuff. Just getting myself settled in, getting all my data. But tomorrow, that's where the work starts. It is currently 5:45. Not even my lamp is awake. I don't understand why people in weight loss camps get up so early because that's just more time thinking about food, starving. I'd rather just be asleep dreaming about buffets. I actually have extremely high expectations for today because this fitness resort is five stars on Google. On another website, it'S4.9 stars. The onestar review being from Carolina saying she only lost 3 lbs in 3 weeks. What snacks did you sneak in, Carolina? Come on. currently walking over, or should I say sleepwalking over to the clubhouse to get our nutrition shake. And when I hear nutrition shake, I my mind automatically just thinks protein shake. So, I hope they know that. Uh, but if I'm going to wake up this early, it's to consume something. So, I love that this is the first thing. I spy a nutrition shake. Ooh, no idea what's in it. That's vegan protein. Protein's protein, I guess. There's no coffee, so I guess I'm going have to rely on internal motivation, which is kind of scary. But today, we have two goals. One, infiltrate the group, make some friends. I feel like a loner right now. Two, to my right, I see crowns and I see a knife. I need to get one. Is this weight loss king and queen? I never I never went to prom. This is my opportunity. Being awake before the sun, I was devastated by the no caffeine. But fortunately, Chef Ryan was running a little side hustle. It was the start of a beautiful friendship. Yeah. Chef Ryan's my goat. Contraband. Our first class of the day is strongman fitness, which is interesting. I'm kind of expecting this. But I doubt it. Before we get into that, we were told to just walk around the court to get our bodies warm and get some steps in. I already know today's step game is going to be crazy. The goal should be to be able to do the movement for 1 minute without resting. You and a partner will set up at one of the stations. You'll do that exercise for 1 minute and then you'll have 15 seconds rest while you go to the next station to do it again and again and again. Grab a partner. Grab a station. Let's get ready to roll. This is like Squid Game trying to find a partner. Yeah, let's do it. Ben, right? Bill. Bill. Bill. Yeah, let's do it. Okay, cool. Bill and Will. 3 2 1 go. There it is. Yep. 7 a.m. strong man. Probably one of the more humbling experiences ever. Woo. Good job, man. I'm making sure the instructors are watching me cuz I've watched too many shows to not have an idea that the effort that you put in reflects the meal that I get at the end. It's like a bigger breakfast, more effort. This strongman workout consists of tire flips, medball slams, squats, rope pulls, sled pushes, basically everything with only 15 seconds between each station. I'm pulling all my bad food decisions. Let's get it, Bill. Oh, excellent work. Good job. Water break. Good job, man. Dream team, man. That was fun. Thank you. My heart rate's not even registering. I'm dead. Vibes were so good the entire time. On paper, this workout really isn't all that difficult, but man, does it catch up to you quick. The moments where you just want to stop and slow down, all you have to do is just look around and see everybody giving it everything that they got. And it just pushes you to just keep on going. Oh. Oh. Oh. Do I get extra credit for this? You get extra credit? Because the tire is green. It makes it seem like it's a lot lighter than it is. It's like in the colored dumbbells at the gym. This thing's heavy, man. 88 lbs. It should be all black. Water break. I need a damn meal, man. Holy breakfast. Oh, it is after this. After this is breakfast. Yeah. Okay. That's the only motivation I need now. This is my time to shine. Not that it's a competition or anything. But when you have a little bit of muscle, you have a certain sense of responsibility. Responsibility to dominate. Round three. Unfamiliar territory for me. It's time for the last round. And the song choice couldn't be more perfect to dig deep and finish strong to earn that breakfast. I'm busy. Wow. Excellent work. So, what's your breakfast? So, we have a gluten-free pancakes with blended with some strawberries, almond milk. There's protein powder in there as well. Oh my god. Nothing brings the boys to the yard. Quite like some protein pancakes. Am I right? 100%. Yeah. So, Will and Bill, more like Jordan and Pippen. We were a dynamic duo out there. We were, dude. We were crushing it. Yeah. What do you think of that workout? Uh, really intense. Yeah, it was super hard. So, how long have you been here for? Uh, a month so far. Yeah. I lost 10 lbs of fat, gained 4 lbs of muscle. So, oh yeah, pretty good. Not like uh not like my ideal weight loss, but like it's exactly what I wanted to do for muscle. I think the key is because like portion control is a thing. I hate it. Yeah, but you got to like slow down when you eat. You don't just treat it like a an F1 pit stop for no reason. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's my biggest struggle. Yeah. You know, they have this uh As you can see, I've been mind blown by the food at this place. Sorry, I just I can't even listen to what you're saying. Chef Ryan's going to make me cry. Tears of joy. You're going to make him cry, Ryan. Dude, crush it, man. Thank you. These frittatas are you made these? Yeah, the fresh veggies we just sauteed together and just put them in the bottom of the cup. And I'm comparing these to Starbucks. Okay. Starbucks. I eat Starbucks every day. For real. Ready? And the creeper sauce. And a creeper sauce. That's from Chef Trent. Careful. Wow. It's good. I want to kiss you. Another coffee. Absolutely. No, it's there's some right there. It's out for Oh, is it? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I thought I was I thought it was getting special. You did earlier. The creeper sauce is good. You douse it. I know. I Man, dude exploded. I didn't know what to do. That does tend to happen, man. Yeah. Yeah. Chef Ryan ended up coming back with another sauce for me to try and he didn't disappoint. My tongue's already tingling. Yeah. So, we'll see. Creeper got you. That one is sweet and it'll it'll punch you right in the mouth. Right. That's all it is. Good luck. While we were eating, a class started on sugar facts, showing us how much sugar is in some of the things we consider healthy and how fast sugar consumption adds up. Can we agree that sugar is maybe the most addictive thing in our lives? Raise your hand. I don't know if I can handle this donut slander. If she doesn't bring it up, I'll let it pass. Breakfast is partially digested, but time to get back to work with the weight training. My personal training session that they call max muscle. So, we're heading to the PFC weight room. Trainer Zach, with a name like Max Muscle, you have my full attention and curiosity. The way we break it down in this class is we break it down into four categories just to simplify it the most. So, we have push exercises. That's mostly upper body pushing. We're talking chest. We're talking shoulders, we're talking triceps. Pulling exercises with our lats, our rhomboids, and our biceps. Classically called our back day whenever we're working out. Then we have our legs with our quads, hamstrings, glutes, adductors, abductors. And then core. We've got our abs, our obliques, our low back. So, we're doing all this in one day. Oh, yeah. Choose your poison. I kind of just want to max it. Go. Yeah. Let's do it. Okay. You've definitely done these ones before. So, are we just going like is it just like non-stop like a circuit style? Um, yeah. So on Mondays, what we do when you're spending 20 minutes at each one, we're doing 10 to 12 reps of the first one, moving on to the second exercise, allowing that chest to rest while those shoulders work. And then again, moving on to the third so that we're working on those triceps while the others get a chance to recover a little bit. Okay. And how many rounds? Typically, we're shooting for three rounds. Okay. Oh, that's looking a little easy for you. We might need to bump up that weight. Yeah, I'll go out. I got to go out. There we go. There we go. Very motivational lighting in here. All right, let's do some flies. Time to pull. Yep. Time to pull. Very nice. Keep that nice long spine. Very nice. Oh, I'm I'm bringing that home with me. Oh, yeah. Super setting that is hard. Oh, yeah. Super setting with a lat there. Those lats are already a little more tired. So, those romboids are having a little extra work there. There we go. Is lunch after this? Chest up. Nice. People online will still say no depth. Finish it out. Finish it out. There we go. Yeah. Glues look good. Yeah. Yeah. All right. You ready to move on? No. All right. So, it's snack time. I really appreciate the frequency in which we're eating. It's like once every hour and a half. And eating frequency is great for happiness. Just ask any divorce lawyer. So in here we have I think it's it's pear and then I think that's just purely Oh man, that's purely almond butter. That's a lot of almond butter. Wow. A frightening amount of almond butter in here. But that workout downstairs just completely exposed me freaking hard. And I could do an entire TED talk right now on the importance of every single piece of this pair because I am just so hungry right now from just so much activity and I have no idea what's next. Snack was great. The even better part was immediately after it was lunchtime. Part one of lunch hopefully is a salad before I don't know what's next. But great strategy when I go to a buffet I tend to do the same thing. Fill up on some veggies. Fill up on get some volume in so I don't overdo it on the next portion. So, got some I don't know what the heck's in here. It's too fancy for me. Chef Ryan, man, he's my personal Jesus. I don't have a crush on him. I'm going to ask him if he does catering. I have nothing lined up, but I'll figure something out just so I can see him again. How's it going? Where's Chef Ryan? Uh, he's stepped out. Oh, wow. Are y'all seeing what I'm seeing? Like, come on. That is crazy for a weight loss meal. I mean, it's quite light. I think even my shadow is heavier than this thing. I wish the meal was just 10x the size. Wow. I feel like attempting to make ratoto healthy is just diabolical. They use so much cheese, so much butter. That's good. I'm going to try Chef Ryan's meat. It's so juicy. She's in perfectly. Chef Ryan, man, can't get enough of you. Awesome. It's been great having you guys here. Mhm. When Chef Ryan came to the table, I will admit there was some tension. I was just wondering the entire time who he was making that phone call to. As most of you know, each week a camper is nominated king andor queen. This week we have Queen Carrie. She was nominated last week and she's going to do the honors this week crowning our next king or queen. Take it away, Carrie. Okay. Well, this person is someone that I watch work extremely hard and very invested in everything that we're doing. Uh very friendly and easy to talk to and I feel like those really help inspire people to to want to give more effort when I see someone working really hard and really invested and you want to work hard. So I am very happy to announce who will Oh, thank you. Wow. Thank you. Wow. Thank you. Thank you. Wow. Oh, I have to do a speech. Yeah, do a little speech. Yeah. Um It's been really cool to be here and like see all of you guys and meet you guys. Everyone's so kind and it's been such a pleasure. And seeing you guys like train out there was really inspiring and the energy was just like it's really cool to be a part of it. And just uh especially during the um strongman I like even like when the clock was finished a lot I saw a lot of people continue their set even when the time was done just to make sure they were finished. And I I thought that was rare to see and I think it's super inspiring and it just shows how much you guys care and uh Yeah. It's just really been great to be here. So, thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I never went to prom, so this is the closest I I I am. This is it. This is it. We have to do a dance. Yeah. I'm totally down. I think we make like a power couple here. Right. Right. So, how did you earn uh the queen? Queen. The guy that was the king nominated me. Um, and what he said is that because of my back, there are things I can't do, but I'm I'm trying to do everything that I can. And he's basically said that I'm overcoming a lot to do what I'm doing. What motivates you to like come here and put in the work every single day? I love to work out. Really? I've been an athlete most of my life. This place is so incredible from so many different directions. you know, Katie, the nutritionist that gave that lecture. She's amazing. You know, you can do one-on- ones with any of those guys. Yesterday, there was a lecture by Paige, who is the head of the behavioral department. She talks about your thinking, you know, and people are trying to lose weight, you know, what's going on in your head and what what are some impediments and how can you encourage yourself into, you know, the habits that you want. So, it's just incredible. and the and the trainers. I've had trainers most of my life and they're like a cut above. I think maybe one of the best things about this place is you can be any size and come here and be successful. I think especially with like um you know fitness and like kind of changing your life and just being healthier. There has to be like a strong purpose that gets you out of bed in the morning. What is that for you? I want to be able to play with my grandkids down on the floor. Honestly, I've got three and I know I'm going to have more. But um I want to be fit and strong and able as long as I can to be doing whatever coaching them. I'm a coach, but I want to coach them as they grow up. That's a big motivation for me for sure. That's all from me. Thank you. I appreciate it. Oh, you're welcome. Very nice to meet you. Mr. King. Yeah. You'll always be my queen. All right. You'll always be my king. We're here with Jeff. One thing I noticed is that you always bring the energy. You're always clapping like you're you're getting everyone fired up. Yes. Yeah, I'm pretty enthusiastic guy. Just I like the uh highintensity training also that we did this morning. Yeah. Yeah. So, what's like what motivates you to stay in shape? You know, I've always been active. I love sports and I've always felt better when I'm working out and on a consistent basis and my body feels good when I do that. So, that motivates me. Yeah. Plus, I have a younger wife. Okay. Yeah. By midday, I was king. I was literally on top of the world. I felt like nothing could stop me. Whatever workout was coming my way next, I'd be ready. It was my time to lead. But before any other workout, it was time for a cooking class with none other than Chef Ryan on his sensational sauces. This is the hot sauce. Yeah. So, um I always tell people, you want to cook your vegetables in steps. You don't want to just throw everything in the pot and then season it later. We're going to add our onions. And then we're going to add a touch of salt. And we're going to get some color going on those onions. And then we're going to add our fennel. Then we're going to add a touch of salt. And then we're going to get a little color on those. Then we're going to add our garlic and a touch of salt. And what you're doing there is you're layering your flavors. You're building your flavors. Wow. That's pretty. Currently 1:30. I'm already ready for bed, man. I'm done for the day. But we are heading off on a hike now. I don't know why we need a hike. I'm already past 10,000 steps for the day. But it really is go here. Oh god. I'm not ready for this hike and I'm hungry. So, it was nice that we got a snack for the hike just in case we need it. I was getting worried about that cuz this hike was about to turn into a hunt with how I feel right now. I was just like, which one looks the tastiest up there, you know? So, I look like a condom. I literally went to go pee, came out, everybody's gone. So, it's just me. I have the map that they gave us. is ruined pretty much as you can see. Probably should have had it under my poncho in hindsight. Oh well. I don't really need to read a map. I'm just going to follow my gut and hopefully that just leads me to a taco truck or something because I am hangry. It's raining. I'm wet. This is slowly turning into a little bit of a survival situation. Okay. Okay. I'll slow down. Jeez, it's 2:15 p.m. I think I've been running on like maybe 1,000 calories today. I burnt more than that. I'm really wishing right now I didn't eat my hike snack on the car ride here. I could have really used that right now. Look at this incline. You kidding me? The heck? There's literally nobody else here. This is like strictly the weight loss camp people, the determined people who want to make a change. I feel like a lot of this stuff today would be really hard to do on your own, which is why I think it's so important to have a community of people who are like-minded, who have the same goals to push you and just to keep you on track. because all you really need is around a couple weeks of some sort of a routine and then it just becomes a habit. Getting started is always the hardest part. So places like this are amazing for a little bit of time to change your entire life. So I finally caught up with Carrie a PFC alumni and you also now work here. I do. So how did that happen? Um it evolved. I had such a great experience with PFC. Crazy transformation, right? I did. Yes. I really feel that it saved my life. I gained about 80 lbs in 3 years. I kind of for 6 weeks I ended up gaining 10. In that for me, I lost 32 lb. So, what was like the driving factor of you even trying to find this place? I had type 1 diabetes. I was getting overweight. My mom died before. I thought I don't even know what level. Um, when I signed up for PFC, I was 41. she kind of went past that point and I didn't want to do the same thing. I I I feel terrible because um growing to that size, I kind of believe the latest struggle and I couldn't really empathize and so it drove me every day to show up. You know, we have this amazing group of people that come here with all their struggles and they're doing the hard work and you know, you you have to join them. I mean, you can just take a day off. They're here working. Yeah. Well, your transformation was amazing. Very inspiring. So, good job. Yeah. Nice to meet you guys. After the hike, I just passed the heck out in the car. Nothing and I'm telling you, nothing could get me up besides dinner, of course. Another masterpiece here. We had a salad before this. I don't think I've tossed this many salads in a day since I got the nickname sweet green during senior year grad trip. But look at this crazy. It's the last supper, but it's also the eve of my return to freedom. So, it's kind of bittersweet. We got some vera mundi. Never had it. It's kind of like a sea bass uh palenta cake. Some artichoke stuff. Just I don't know if I'm just playing hungry right now because of all the activity today, but this is this is the best meal so far. I feel like they just keep on getting better or I just like to eat it. It's it's probably it could be that. I don't know, but incredible. Well, everyone, that was an amazing day at camp. Great people, and great food. This place isn't just about losing weight. It's about gaining confidence, friendships, and a healthier lifestyle, which is what it's all about. Hope you guys enjoyed the video. See you next time. Bye-bye.