They say what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. And while that's true for drinks and degenerate gambling, that doesn't have to be the case for your gains. Today, we're checking out the best and worst gym Sin City has to offer, so you can be the real show of the Vegas strip. The best gym in Vegas is actually at the Venetian. It's the biggest, has the most free weights and machines. Who would have thought a Venice themed hotel would have the best gym? Because Italians are known for using their hands for talking, not for lifting. But we'll see. We have been walking for the past 5 minutes. It's hallway after hallway. I'm totally expecting the Vegas gym to be pretty quiet because who goes to the gym in Vegas? Maybe just trophy wives and fathers hiding from their kids that they regretted bringing on the trip. But it's pretty quiet right now. Ooh, rock climbing wall. Wow, that's crazy. That's pretty deep. This is the cardio area. It's pretty massive. A lot of options here. Bikes, a bunch of treadmills. I was kind of half expecting it to be like gondola themed, like wallto-wall rowers, just being the Venetian, but I don't see a rower inside. tons of treadmills to undo one drink, but unfortunately you can't do anything about the other dozen that you had. You have to wonder, why don't you just use an escort? They're practically hit experts. You know what I mean? Like, why waste your time here? Just be on the strip. This is Vegas for you. It kind of reminds me of my dad's garage bow flex. It's there, just nobody uses it. I will say the decor could use a little bit of work, but I can totally understand where they may have gone over on the art budget. There are so many machines in here. It's like pretty much a casino floor. Like this looks sick. This chest press. Another chest press. Another chest press. Oh, they even have like the best freaking lateral raise machine. Usually at hotel gyms, like you don't even get a machine. And if you get a machine, they're like bare bone It's pretty cool. Cool. They also have like a performance lab where you can do body composition tests with a bod pod so you can see how much you ruined your body in just one long weekend. It's kind of depressing but I don't think you ever see that in gyms like let alone Vegas. Maybe they just want you to feel bad about yourself so you go gamble more. That's probably it. Then on this side what you never see is like the free weights. You have the bench press, incline bench press, military press. They have dumbbells up to 100 lb. Usually typical hotel gyms up to 50 lbs maybe. But with the fact that they have 100 lbs, you know, it's just like the manager of the gym just wants to come get a lift in after work, which is why you probably got hundreds here. But that's sick. Wow. There's even a squat rack. Like, do you know the liability that this gym must have? Like, I feel like to get into this gym, being in Vegas, you probably take a breathalyzer to get in because like people can hurt themselves, snap their up, and they're drunk too many fat Tuesdays. You got to have a Smith machine. Then all the nice plate loaded machines. This is sick. Damn. You really have no excuse. But I want to make an excuse. So, I'm on vacation. I want to make an excuse not to come here. But there really is no excuse, which I mean, wow. Oh my god. I love this. I will give them a knock here because they still have the diamond plates, which is which is a no no. But I mean, they're probably so underused, you can probably still trust the calibration. It's nice to see that they have a glute machine in the middle here because as we all know, good girls go to heaven, bad girls go to Vegas, and there's too many pool parties that are important not to have one of these in your gym. So, I'm very happy that they have these things here because it's just it's community service from my point of view. That's a blessed contraction. Time to show you guys the sickest part of this gym. We saved it for the end. They literally have a dedicated powerlifting room with calibrated plates right here. So, it's not just the call girls that are handling loads professionally cuz now you can just, you know, exactly what you're lifting. This is sick. You got like the hexar. You have this thing. I have no idea what it is. And I love the lighting in here. It's very like cozy and just it just makes you want to lift. Let's see what this is. Oh. Oh my god, it's like you're having an orgasm on December 1st. Getting like shivers in my thighs. That's equivalent to 1 hour on the machine. 30 seconds is all you need with just this thing. All right, let's go. Now, when you're on holiday, doing legs is like reading the terms and services of an app. Like, you're not going to do it. But here, you have no choice because you actually have a hack squat. Now, finding a hack squat in a hotel gym is like spotting Beyonce in 7-Eleven. is just so rare. And you also have a fantastic leg press right beside it. So, usually leg presses like on those rails which are really bad for your knees, but this one actually breaks at your hip, which makes it a lot more comfortable. Like an actual squat. Oh, yeah. Usually on holiday, it's all about maintaining what you got. I'm building, man. Only in Vegas do I do 20 reps. What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. I feel pretty good about myself right now. Having an insane workout right now. Quads are super pumped. Usually you pretty much just have to forget about doing legs when you're on vacation cuz you just you can't even make it work cuz there's just such little weight. But feeling very effective doing some leg extensions and that is going to be the workout. That is going to conclude the workout. So to accompany the best gym, we're going to be going to the best buffet. This part of the gym sucks. I don't slow up. No, I don't take I got no love for the fakess. If you want to play tough and want to hate this, I'll always show up. I don't slow up. No, I don't. Yeah. Holy dude. We're at the Wind Buffet. 4.3 stars, 8 and 1/2k reviews. Typical wait time at this time is an hour to an hour and a half. And this line is crazy right now. Freaking crazy. I will say buffets are like a beautiful place to people watch cuz you can see a full spectrum of human behavior. You have like the plight nibblers, the ravenous vultures, and then there's me. The salad bar is definitely the part of the buffet that nobody invited to the party, so we're going to stay away from that. Extremely cute presentation, like I will say. Like look at this little fish and chips and like the little baskets like that. It's great, but I just don't know what to do right now. I'm kind of overwhelmed. We're in Mexico right here. kind of like that. So, it looks like they kind of section it off based on like where you are in the world. Oh my god. Okay, we got some dry rub chicken here. Let's go. This buffet is reminding me of that time I got fired from that Calvin Klein photo shoot cuz there's too many things I want to eat here. I'm tired of I watch your videos. Oh, really? Yeah. Appreciate. Is this your first time at the buffet? Yeah, actually. What do you think so far? Honestly, it's phenomenal. Yeah. Are you overwhelmed a little bit? Yeah, a little overwhelmed. It's just amazing, actually. Yeah. How many plates are you going for? Uh, right on my fourth. Oh, yeah. Nice. You know what they should have? They should have like a badge on your shirt to show your plate as like, you know, like a merit badge. Like I've got I've gone out four times. That's pretty sick. Nice to meet you, man. Nice video. Thank you. Thank you. I got to do it, man. I got to do it. Yes, you do. Very well. Have a good day. Would it be too much to go for an omelet now, bro? Oh my god. Let's Sorry, guys. I'm being gross right now. I'm usually better. Okay, I'm just excited. I'm just excited. I'm sorry if I'm really gross, guys. I'm usually a lot better. I was getting some looks on the way back to the table. I think people are probably pretty impressed right now, but got a hill of food here. I'm practically traveling the world without leaving my seat. Let's go with the Polish sausage first. From my experience, it's probably going to be pretty hard to swallow. A lot of variety of meat up there. I haven't seen that much variety since book club. Oh, that's so good. Little spice to it. The sushi. Tastes like I swam on my plate. Wow. There it is. This is like the rare American Chinese food that doesn't taste like it was made in the same factory as a McNugget. That tastes authentic, man. So, you want to say hi to the video? You're about to witness something disgusting. Yeah. Feel like I need like a shower curtain instead of a napkin. Look at this thing. I will say right now the staff here is super nice. Like they are amazing and I love like the decor. Like I like the sunlight. I actually feel good about myself right now which is pretty rare in a buffet. Plate number two. Going to taste the Mexico this time through the mouth and not through the nose. Got some anchilada asada asada chicken. A quality buffet is both a curse and a blessing. Curse to bless myself with an insane glycogen pump later on. I really don't have room for dessert, but this is now about ego, not satisfaction. Bro, this looks like Brucey from Matilda chocolate cake. Look at that. Shotty is dense. What's your favorite flavor? Oh, um, raspberry. I'll do that. Everybody here is so sweet. How are you? Oh, she's so nice. Reminds me of my grandma. Definitely got to start with the donut here. To be honest, it looks It looks quite mid. It tastes quite mid. Yes, but that's not good. cake pop. Ooh, it's moist, man. Definitely better than Starbucks, that's for sure. Now, we got this. It's called the chocolate fantasy cake. Now, if it's anything like my other chocolate fantasies, it's going to be quite filling. Nice little jiggle. Man, my fork could get lost in this thing. It is so dense. Wow. I'm pretty sure I'm eating gold at the top here. My girl over there, she recommended this, so I put it in my mouth. I listen. Okay. The worst gym is at New York, New York. Hence my girl behind me there. So now when I think of New York, I think of rats, not gym rats. So it's no surprise that this is probably the worst gym on the strip. So let's go find out. Now, we have a little obstacle that we have to overcome because we are not guests at this hotel. So we got to be a little bit naughty and sneak in. We have infiltrated the third floor. This isn't good. Thank you. We made it and we're literally the only people here, which is kind of nice. And um first impressions are I feel like I'm at a hospital gym or I'm at a community center getting a pump in before I talk to at risk youth. Dumbbells go up to actually 70s which is quite surprising. I was expecting 50s. So we can do something here. We can do something. Can someone please explain to me the logic of this pull-up bar? Like look that kind of hurt. There's more cardio machines than there are actual weights because I'm sure the line gets crazy in here to use the treadmill, right? These are pretty neat though. What's going on with these? Like why why is this like this? It's maybe too high techch for me to even turn it on. Anyways, let's move on to something else. Now, I don't know why they have these like sporadic black mats kind of like dispersed throughout the gym, but it's probably certainly better. You don't know what was there before. One thing I do love about this gym is this mirror right here because they're doing something special. They have a separation. So at the top you have kind of like a regular mirror to admire your upper body and then at the bottom it's distorted. So you can like my calves literally look five times the size. That is just so kind. Wow. Let's go over the machines. I would I mean, in my opinion, there's a lack of machines. There's literally only three in this entire gym. This is absolutely horrible. This is the worst leg press machine that you can possibly do. If this is in your gym, I give you the permission to skip leg day. This sucks. It really does suck. And I'm starting to think that they have not renovated this gym since opening, which could be a good move because I think by keeping this in its natural state, guests of this hotel can see how far the rest of the hotel's actually come. Also, another thing I've noticed is that there's no Smith machine in here. So, I'm just going to take that as a principled stand against Smith machines and not their commitment to the bare minimum. But, uh, honestly, it's not as bad as I thought. Going from the Venetian gym to this is like me trading my Mercedes in for an Italian sports car and then I end up with a Fiat. We're just doing laterals for days right now. I want everybody to comment down below. How important is a hotel gym for you? Like do you care when you go on holiday? Do you train? Do you like to stay on track or you kind of just enjoy that time off? Let me know. to me super important. I think the I think the like the uh I think the Vegas wa what the is wrong with me right now? I think the lighting of this gym is quite nice. I will say I feel pretty pumped. Also, when you look out the window over here, you can see the pool of the gym. So, you can look down upon people that are lesser than you because they're not up here lifting. See, they're just enjoying the hot tub. They're not working. They're not working hard. And we're up here putting in the work. Look at this. We have a nice little rack here for the cable attachments. So, we have 1 2 3 five spots. And there's one bar. People will do anything for a Vegas souvenir. Workout is all done. Definitely a gym that shows you that fitness is not the goal of this trip. But now, you guys have guessed it. We're going to the worst buffet. The worst buffet in Vegas is the Circus Circus. And by the looks of the outside, you would think the buffet is going to probably try to put me on the menu. If this is any indication of what's to come, I'll probably have to double check my medical travel insurance first. But, uh, let's get it. Time to enter the taste bud graveyard. There's literally no line. A little bit different than the wind here. Wow, this is very concerning. It's empty in here. It's very like loomy in here. It kind of feels like this would be like Walmart's attempted a response to Costco food courts. You know what I mean? It's just nothing looks appetizing right now. Oh, no. No. Can't do that. like I there's literally nothing like I I think I'd rather fast. Like I'm almost positive that this pineapple came straight from a can. Like this looks like dull pineapple. I'm going to say right now, the people here, super nice. The food, however, this plate, if I finish this, I think it might be fatal. I feel like I have a better chance in roulette than I do finishing this plate because I'm unsure. I'm very unsure. I mean, if that is a pancake, then I'm Chris Bumstead. It kind of reminds me of like my high school ex. It looks innocent, but it knows exactly how to make me suffer. It's It's like cardboard. It's like really It's very off-putting. I'm probably just going to leave that and move on. Spaghetti meatballs. It's really hard to make that bad. It's good. It's actually edible. You know what? It tastes like the chef was trained in the kitchens of Master Boy RD. You know what I mean? It tastes like childhood. Like it tastes like childhood in the can. The tomato sauce is like more like ketchup, but it's good still. It's a little bit out of tune. A little bit out of tune. There's a few bad reviews about the eggs. So, it somehow manages to taste like roadkill. Like, I think the chicken was probably sick. I think it's powdered eggs. It's powdered eggs. Yeah. Oh, that's bad. No, I'm serious. I think I'm going to pull up. What is in that, dude? Take a look in there and tell me what do you see. I see darkness. Like, what is that? It literally looks like a turd inside. I'm literally risking it all right now. That meat is drier than my soul. No. Now, I'm no baker, but I didn't think that like desserts should look non-p perishable. Like, these look very mass- prodduced things. I was like, no fruit. The hell is this, man? There's ice cubes in the in the in the freaking I will say though, the donuts look better here than the wind. That's for sure. It receives my fingers like a crispy cream donut. I know it when I feel it. It's definitely the ones from yesterday from Cer Cream that they bring here, but it's still better than the one at the Win. So, I mean, I like it. It's the best thing I've had so far. I really don't think that you can mess this up. I swear this is the Walmart carrot cake. They have the cute little carrot on top. See, moist. I actually like that. I'm down bad right now. So, when you're downy, have yourself a brownie. It's so basic, but it's good. Enjoyable dessert. Horrible beginning. So, when you go to Vegas, you know exactly what to do. Venetian is the best gym. The wind is the best buffet. Try to avoid these places. If you guys enjoyed the video, make sure to drop a like. Subscribe to the channel if you're new. And I'll see you guys in the next one.