 every year, every year, thousands of supplements hit the market and nobody reviews them. Not because they're bad, but because no one is brave enough to be the first. and for good reason. That's where I come in. So for the next week I am only going to be consuming supplements With no reviews. So first up Irish Carbom smelling salts. At least they nailed the most important part about a supplement which is an impactful name. Now I thought that smelling salts were like all the same but based off the packaging I really I don't think so. Now these are whiskey and stout scented smelling salts. Scented smelling salts sounds simultaneously dumb but also kind of genius if you think about it. Lift heavy, don't die, finish your Guinness. Sounds like going to be like inhaling Hercules ashes or Conor McGregor's farts before my bench press today. What we need to do is we need to combine this activator into this bottle and then shake it until we feel regret. That's what the package says. So I shook it until I felt some feeling of regret which surprisingly didn't take all that long. Okay um the bottle just got really hot all of a sudden so I will say I do feel regretful now. Usually anything up the nose it brings out the best in me so let's go to the gym and hopefully the luck of the Irish can help me hit a PR. Warming up right now to a 315 AMRAP and I'm not gonna lie not feeling that great not feeling that strong so it's gonna be very telling how powerful and effective this stuff is. I'm not wearing headphones. I didn't have any caffeine beforehand so I'm relying solely on this stuff to hopefully get me a PR that I have been chasing for such a long time. For years I've been chasing a 315 bench for eight reps. Always coming so close with my best ever just barely locking out seven. Maybe today could be the day. Got my trusty spotter over here. In terms of directions, how to not die, I gotta partially open the cap, sniff one to two inches away, replace cap after use. Okay so one to two inches away I think I should hold it double the distance because with these things I already get double the dose. I can smell a sundae roast on a Wednesday but here we go we're going for eight okay. Partially open the cap, one to two. Oh! Oh my nose bleeding! Oh! Let's go! Got it! Come on. Good. Come on. Come on. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. No. No! No! Well I'm crying. My brain's hurting. I didn't really take in the scent. I don't really think I'm thinking about the scent of the smelling salts before a big lift. Ugh! But I didn't get it. I actually got, I actually regressed. I feel like I was almost too hyped. It kind of threw me off and I wasn't as focused. I mean that's just my opinion. First I gave it to Ray and it got him good. He started to cry as well. Thank God I'm not alone on that one. But because he was so tweaked out, he couldn't even get a rep. But with all that said, he had this to say. That is amazing. Out of five stars? Oh, four stars. Versus a minimum. Then Michael tried it, who had a different experience. His best ever with 225 is seven reps. Here, he almost locked out a ninth rep. Ohhhhh! My eyes are watering man, holy shit. One to five stars, what would you give it? Four? Not bad. After forcing my friends to become lab rats, I continued on with my lift and things started to feel better. It's been like nearly 10 minutes since I took my first with. And I don't know if you can see it in my eyes, but I am still feeling it a lot. So like usually smelling salts that I've had, it dies off within like a minute after you use it. This stuff is actually the kind of like tapering off into kind of like this like weird, interesting feeling. Like I feel high, drunk, and I just spent an all nighter. I didn't go to sleep. They say online that this stuff is perfect for lifters who want intensity, energy, and a little fun in every inhale. It's so far from fun in every inhale, but as the workout progresses, I feel like it's getting a bit better. A bit better. But I wanted to make sure my review was as useful as possible to people, so I went for another sniff. But this time, with a different tactic. Oh! Woo! I'm about to buy my CNS some flowers after this, but just took another whiff. Not as intensely, and I tried to think about the flavor. And it actually smells very nice. Like a minty, fresh kind of flavor. Not like alcohol at all. My eyes are kind of twitching a bit. But the gentle sniff, not the aggressive inhale, makes you feel pretty good. I'm liking it. I'm kind of liking it. But I wouldn't use it all the time because you will go brain dead. The rest of the workout went really well. I think once the initial chaos settled down, whatever I took stopped fighting me and started to work with me. And either that or my nervous system just accepted its fate. Workout complete. The pump was actually phenomenal. Besides the bench press, every other thing I did, I progressed on. And I think it's because I learned how to manage the dose. It made the dose work for me. Just a gentle sniff made quite the big difference in terms of my focus and aggression in the set. Whereas the first one, I think it just kind of threw me into shock. So it kind of threw off my lift. But if you understand how much you need and how much you need to pull, I think it's pretty good. But it's again, something that I would not use all the time. But I think I do have enough to leave my review. Next up, Anarchy Labs Shogun fat burner. Shogun may be the most powerful fat burner ever created. So they say. Key features include fat annihilator, craving crusher, and mood maximizer. What is this, diet MDMA? But this stuff looks serious. Very intense. The thing that I am most afraid of is that there's 500 milligrams of caffeine per serving. That's a hefty dose. Like that is no longer supplementation. That is taking over my entire bloodstream. Also, what in the world is grains of paradise? That sounds like an agricultural Zelda game or something that I would call my multi-grain THC bagels. But online it says, Expect intensity comparable to an intense pre-workout. Plan time accordingly. Sounds like it should also say, plan your will accordingly too. Like, I'm nervous for this one. I am. Take two to four capsules. I'm gonna take four. I'm not gonna take two. I don't want to be a geisha. I want to be a Shogun. So we're taking full dose. Each of these tiny capsules holds 125 milligrams of caffeine. Four of them? That's more than six cans of Red Bull compressed into the palm of my hand. I got my four pills. Time to become a Shogun. Instantly, my heart rate started to rise just sitting in my car on the way to the gym. I knew I was in trouble. I feel like an active, ticking time bomb. Like I am caffeine. I am feeling so anxious right now. In terms of my mood, I'm gonna try to explain this the best I can. In vampire terminology, I am on the cusp of turning and giving in to what the supplement wants me to feel, which is happy. And I can't think of a worse feeling than feeling happy because a product wants you to feel that way, but you're truly not. Artificial happiness is on a collision course with reality sadness right now. And it's so weird. One thing I did notice is every ingredient description starts with me. On one hand, it's not making any promises it'll break. On the other hand, it's not committing to doing anything at all. My heart rate isn't just elevated. It is summiting Everest right now. Like I can feel it. My heart rate is as high as it is while lifting, just sitting still doing nothing. It did feel harder to breathe, but the show must go on and I started my lift. I wasn't feeling amazing, but I got done what I needed to do. The so-called mood maximizer? I'm still waiting for that. For one of the first times ever in the middle of my workout, I had what we'll call a code brown near miss. One wrong bracing cue on that set and it was over for me. Oh my God, that was a close call. 500 milligrams of caffeine is really doing its thing right now. I'm melting. I am not somebody who runs hot, but I am boiling right now. Like it feels like I'm training in a sauna. I am sweating and I actually do kind of like the feeling while I'm training. It makes me just feel a bit looser and I like to feel warm. I also cannot stop fidgeting between sets. I'm moving my hands. I keep on looking around everywhere like I'm super paranoid, which I guess does help with fat loss because the more you move around, the more you fidget, the more calories you burn. I started to think that maybe I was getting used to the feeling, but the effects just kept coming so strong and it eventually got the best of me. I feel like I'm going to die. I have never thrown up from a supplement before. I can't handle this. I was burning up. My heart rate was pounding and it wouldn't let up. I just took an extremely cold shower and I'm still very hot. I'm still feeling nauseous. Imagine the entire day you feel like you're being hunted. That's what Shogun does to you. I'm feeling so anxious. I'm sweating like I owe the mafia money. Or worse, having to make a phone call. But I'm just hoping that this feeling goes away soon. It's 3 p.m. Having my first meal of the day. I'm not even hungry. I'm just having it because I feel like it's going to make me feel better. So I will say appetite is down, but that could just be my overstimulated body going into shock. In terms of cravings, I'm having no cravings at all. I'm just kind of craving going back to the good old days like a few hours ago before I took this supplement. I really should have taken only half the dose, like the bottle said. But I get cocky. The food didn't really help and the effects didn't wear off for a very long time. It was a brutal day. One I never want to repeat. Time for my review. Next up, anesthetized. I really don't have a hard time sleeping, but I'm always looking for a way to suppress the intrusive thoughts. Anesthetized, as the name for a sleep supplement, just sounds straight up creepy. Like, terrifying. That is like calling melatonin bedtime fentanyl. On the back here, it says it's supposed to enhance my REM sleep. And it says, due to extreme potency, users may wish to begin by consuming half a scoop to assess tolerance. So, this stuff sounds very effective, which is probably why there's no reviews. Everyone's still asleep. But if Katie really is my true love, at least her kiss will wake me up if this stuff is too effective. Now, this company, Blackstone Labs, they make like pro-hormones. They make SARMs. So, I hope I don't lose my natty status in my sleep and like wake up with the gyno or something like that. But we got snow cone flavor and this, I mean, hardcore sleep formula. Oh, you suggested half a scoop? Did you? Smells really good. Tastes like a snow cone and a multivitamin mixed together. This snow cone is about to tuck me in though. I'm just kidding. It has been 30 minutes since I've taken anesthetized and low-key, I'm feeling a lot more drowsy than normal. I'm going to be tracking my sleep tonight using my Oura Ring. So, we're going to see what happens. I have no idea what kind of sleep I'm going to have tonight. Maybe I'm going to have no dreams. No thoughts. Nothing. Maybe this is just going to be a practice run of death. Or maybe I'll get to finally finish the fantasy where I'm the personal spray tanner of every Mr. Olympia in history. There's only one way to find out. Time to go to sleep. That night's dream started as they often do. But then, they got weird-er. And now I'm afraid I may have unlocked something in me I can't ignore or repress. And don't want to. Last night's sleep was incredible. It was an experience. Like, I feel so well rested. I feel energized. I feel on top of the world. I must have really needed that sleep. And usually with sleep supplements, you wake up the next day still feeling a bit tired. I just feel ready. And I haven't felt that in freaking 31 years. So, pretty legit. In terms of my dreams, they felt so real. I literally woke up, rolled over, expecting a note from LeBron as to why the hell I'm waking up alone. I think I could have slept through an entire John Wick movie unfolding in my house. So, from a security perspective, not that great. Now, looking at my sleep score, I got a 90. Optimal. A night of truly restorative sleep. 8 hours and 26 minutes. Sleep efficiency, 91%. REM sleep, an hour and 52 minutes. Pretty good. So, that's definitely improved. REM sleep, deep sleep, an hour and 34 minutes. Latency, 14 minutes. Usually for me, it's like double that time. So, this stuff really knocked me out. So, people do all this fancy stuff. No screens before bed. All this crazy stuff. Drugs is the answer. So, I feel like I have enough info here to leave my review. Up next, LiPo-6 Defining Gel. I saw this product and immediately folded. Like, I'm willing to get scammed a thousand times. If this is legit, just once. So, I'm picking vibes over research for this one. Like, buying this is like swiping right on a celebrity on Tinder. You probably know you're getting catfished, but... But what if? It's described as a very unique fat burning product. Unique because no corner of the internet can tell me what the hell Topazorb technology is. But apparently it's instant delivery. It's fast acting. And, uh... I'm not even gonna bother eating the ingredients of that. All we have to do is apply, feel the heat, and then get toned. So, it works best in stubborn areas like the stomach, lower back, love handles, glutes, and hamstring area. I just wanna apply it all over me like sunscreen. One, two, three, four. Oh, it smells nice. Worst case scenario, I smell like a gym candle. The scent? Anabolic desperation. Put that in. I definitely have to remember to wash my hands because some things I cannot afford to get any skinnier. Just so we can accurately compare the before and after, here is what I'm looking like before applying the gel. The gel has been applied. And I don't know if I'm burning fat right now, but I am definitely feeling something already. Like, a deep burning sensation. Quite frankly, if I actually do start losing fat right now, I'm just gonna be very worried. I'm dying from something. Let's see what happens. Now glazed in toposorb technology, I continued on with my day theoretically torching fat in scenarios that usually involve zero effort. I hate to say it, but I think I just paid $29.95 to feel warm and optimistic. No visual changes yet. I am feeling a significant burn in my love handles. It has to be the toposorb technology. I have no idea what I'm allowing in my pores. But why treat them differently than my other holes? But I'm not gonna give up just yet. I'm not. Because if this works, it's gonna be great. It's gonna be so great. I don't have to fix my diet. Still no visual changes. I don't even feel the burn anymore. Damn it. However, they say that if you work out with it, it amplifies its effects. Yeah, I bet it does significantly. So, workout time. Since working out really wasn't on my schedule for the day, I just did some upper body pump exercises, trying my best to get a sweat and ignite the fat loss effects. Well, there are literally zero visual changes whatsoever. And I applied it properly. It just didn't work. So, I'm not taking any blame for this. Because I know how to apply a gel properly. I wanted a shortcut. And I found a lesson. It's diet and exercise always. Which in this case, maybe I should give it five stars. Because sometimes you need to burn money to learn you can't cheat burning calories. Time to leave my review. I had the review completely mapped out in my head. I knew exactly what I was going to say. And then before I could even start writing, this happened. I just had the most painful shower of my life. And that's because my skin has started to react to the fat loss gel. So the water was just burning me. Like, look at me. I'm like a freaking tomato. My love handles, my chest, my stomach. Look, I got a gnarly sunburn. That's why it has no reviews. Next, Epiplex Muscle Builder. Natural, anabolic, muscle builder. Natural and anabolic in the same sentence. Has to be an oxymoron. Unless I'm just a moron. But this is apparently supposed to surpass what my body thinks is its full potential. Would it kill them to link at least one peer reviewed article? Come on. Like this is supposed to override my DNA. Which sounds about as natural as a cat using chopsticks. Or a frat bro guarding a girl's drink. You know, like this cannot... How is that even natural? But apparently this is supposed to enhance everything about my workout and my physique. Increase lean muscle mass. Increase my strength. Increase my endurance and stamina. There is a review, but it's not really a review. It's Eric B. stating he ordered the stuff but never actually got it. And then they went on for the most insane response ever being like, Hey, put your email in for your possible chance to get it again. So no one's actually tried it. Now I'm about to be the first. In terms of use, they have suggested use where you take one capsule twice per day. Or there's intensive use where you take three capsules per day. Now I want my gains to be intense. Not merely suggested. So earlier today, I have taken a capsule at two different points. And this is going to be my third dosage for intensive use. So we are going to be completely saturated with EpiFlex. Are you addicted to becoming bigger, leaner, harder, and stronger? Yes, I am. On the actual company website of this product, which also has zero reviews, it says, I'm about to decimate my genetic limitations. So today's leg workout is going to be crazy. It's pretty simple. If it worked in rats, I'm willing to see if it works in me. If I have a once in a lifetime workout, this product is getting five stars. So far, I feel absolutely nothing. And when it comes to supplements, I always wonder if it's underdosed or if I'm just over tolerant. But it's early on. We'll see if it kicks in. I made my way over to the next exercise, patiently waiting for my superpowers to download. This right here is going to be the true test. I was a little more confident in my weight selection today for obvious reasons, but the weight definitely didn't move like I thought it would. Oh, shit. That certainly does not feel like I surpassed my genetic limitations. The main ingredient in Epiplex is epi-cat-to- epi-cat-to- I don't know how to say it. Epi-catechin. It's a flavanol found in cocoa, which helps inhibit myostatin, meaning I'm officially a chocolate bodybuilder. So far today, the workout has been going as planned for like a normal day. I don't feel like I'm on anything. The placebo effect hasn't even shown up yet. I think I get more of a kick from a fricking decaf coffee than the stuff I just took. So I don't know what's going on. I was promised more stamina. Where is it? I mean, I should have known A-50% increase of zero is still zero. If this is my genetic limitation, it is aggressively humbling. From there, I moved on to leg press and put up some pretty good weight. This is where I seem to have a noticeable increase in stamina and strength. Adding 25 pounds per side for the top set. Here we go. A-50 pound increase to a set definitely does not seem natty, but I still don't think it's the supplement. I think I just blacked out and believed in myself, which on leg day is something that you kind of learn to do. I don't think I got any help there. Just as painful as normal. Imagine you think you're going for therapy and you end up just getting a horoscope reading instead. That's this supplement. I had super high expectations and I was let down drastically the entire time. But maybe that could mean I've reached my genetic limit already, which would mean all my hard work over the years has paid off. Which is kind of nice, but also, that sucks. But, I do think I have enough to leave my review. Next up, UMP Protein Bar. UMP. Ultimate Muscle Protein. Tell me you didn't chat GPT a name without telling me. UMP. Is that the sound my throat's going to make trying to swallow this thing? So, it's from a company called Beverly International from 1967. We got almond honey flavor, which is definitely a flavor fit for someone born in 1967. Like this thing is flavored as if their target market is an inoffensive airplane snack. Do they not realize they are competing against actual candy bars with pinches of protein powder in them? But this could be delicious. That's the whole point of this video. Now, the highlight of my day is having my morning coffee with a protein bar before the gym. And this is the protein bar today. I got my coffee. Let's try a protein bar. And it better not ruin my morning. 56 grams for 230 calories. So, not a lot of volume. A lot of calories. That's strike one. 10 grams of fat. 19 grams of carbs. And 20 grams of protein. Not bad. It's high. 20 grams of fiber, which is actually pretty decent. I feel like other protein bars have way too much fiber in them. Like they should be stored in a bathroom. Like you should need a prescription just to have them. Like they're just, it's just too much. Oh dear. Why does this bar look like I got it from the museum? It smells like rat poison. That's strike two. It's like World War One trench food. That's fake honey. Somehow, this bar is dry and wet. And wet at the same time. Like sand after a high tide. It's very confusing. It's very confusing. I can taste the no reviews. I don't know if any of you guys have ever had dog cake. It tastes like dog cake. Which is not necessarily a bad thing. But it's just a bad dog cake. They say there's no wrong time to eat an ump bar. Turns out every time is a wrong time. I thought because it was almond honey, I'd have more of like a natural flavor to it. But somehow it tastes more artificial than ever. I feel like the intentions were pure. But the execution was just bad. Time to leave my review. Next up, Insane Labs psychotic pre-workout. I don't know if I'm more afraid of the font. The fact that it's a Saw movie inspired pre. Or the fact that there's hanging rotten teeth on the front. Either way, it looks dangerous. But every successful serial killer needs to be pretty strong, I think. So I see the logic behind this product. They don't disclose the caffeine content on the back. Which I don't even know if that's legal. I don't. So online it says 390 milligrams per serving. Which, I mean, I guess it's enough to threaten my life. But not enough to finish the job. But maybe there's something else in this psychotic Saw blend that will do just that. I want to play a game on the lid of a pre-workout is like super unsettling. Like, I want to play a game with my heart. Like, I mean, that wouldn't be the first time a mystery man has played games with my heart. And then on this side it says, I'm not a beginner. I play games on legendary mode. So I guess I'm making this a workout for two. Ooh. Insane Labs Psychotic Pre. It's quite the name. So I really only need one of those things to be true to make this a good pre. Look at that. That's red 40. Alright, here we go. It tastes like Sunny D if it was made in a prison toilet. But it's not bad. Not bad. Smells a lot worse than it tastes. Okay, let's go to the gym. Oh God, my eye. I was fighting to stay still at this red light. Not from excitement, not from motivation, but because my entire body felt wired in the worst way. I was buzzing with anxiety. I just drove the entire time on the highway in the slow lane and I don't do that ever. Like, and I felt like I was going a million miles an hour. I think when it comes to all strong pre-workouts, they're all more or less the same. They make you feel like you have an ant farm on your face and rising anxiety. But the excellent ones convert that anxiety into raw rage. So let's hope it does that. So if it doesn't hit, a panic attack sure will. Let's play a game. It's a PR or die kind of day. Last week I got that for eight. I just got nine. And I did not get that because I feel more energy. I got that because I'm feeling scared. Like, I feel like I'm training at gunpoint right now. Like, my hand is hovering the fight or flight button, but I can't press it. Out of the energy, focus, pump, and psycho promised on the front of the label, I can confidently say I'm feeling one of them. Psycho. I also cannot sit still. Between sets, I just, I'm pacing. Like I forgot something in the oven at home. I managed to squeeze out another solid set of bench press and then I moved on to pull-ups. And that's when I noticed something interesting. I just added five pounds to my pull-ups. Now, the interesting thing is my heart rate is no different than a regular workout. It's in the 120s after a hard set of pull-ups, which is just pretty normal for me. So even though I'm feeling extremely jittery and very off, the heart rate's in check, which is a good thing, but still feel terrible. Like, I just want a pre-workout that makes me feel like I got nine hours of sleep, had a proper meal, I'm well hydrated. Not one that makes me feel tempted to start texting all my loved ones. But I am making progress. So there's a trade-off. Just when I thought I couldn't feel any worse, the stimulant wave flipped and my body started reacting. I am starting to feel the crash of this pre so hard right now. I am feeling dizzy. I'm feeling nauseous. I'm also just realizing this entire workout. I haven't had my AirPods in listening to music, which is insane because I rely a lot on my music for a workout. So I have nothing good to report about this pre, but for some reason I'm tempted to finish the tub because I have this small belief that at the bottom of the tub, there's like a message declaring me a winner of the game. I just wanted caffeine, not symptoms, and this pre gave me every bad symptom possible. Time for my review. Up next, pump gel. I think I would trade just about anything to be able to walk around with a pump 24-7 and this product apparently allows you to do just that. Like I can't even think of a world where I'm not responsible for my own pump. And this product promises a lot. It's supposed to help with fat loss, give you next level vascularity, muscle fullness, and insane definition exactly where you want it without even lifting. Without even lifting. Surely a product cannot make so many promises without being able to deliver, right? Surely. Without even lifting. I really don't want to get a skin rash again. For every great new discovery, someone has to be the first to try and hopefully the first to survive. And hopefully that person is me. So we're going to be putting the pump gel on the arms and see how pumped up we can get. Apply one to two pumps to desired area once or twice daily. One to two pumps is all it takes. Don't I know it. One, two. So we're going to buy here. Ooh. It's almost like gasoline. Now we're going to try. A little bit on the delt. A little side delt pump would be nasty too. I am praying to the gods. I don't get a skin reaction again. Because it says to apply 30 minutes before a workout, I started a timer for 30 minutes to see if I noticed any difference in my arms and shoulders. Before adding the gel, I took my arm measurements. The right side coming in at just over 17 inches and the left side actually a little smaller. Maybe I should have added more gel. Then I just took some random shots so we can see the difference in definition, vascularity, and fullness. Gel is supposed to flood my muscles with cellular energy. And whatever claim that is, hopefully it's by somebody who's actually been in a lab. So it's time to get a pump anywhere else but the gym. And I feel like the pump's already coming on right now. We're a little over seven minutes in and I cannot believe I'm saying this, but I can feel the pump coming on. My arms feel warm. My arms feel as if I'm at the gym training arms, which is super weird. So we're off to a good start. And just so we're clear, if this product works, don't even bother searching it to buy it. Because I've already cleared them out at that point. It's all going to be gone. This is what peak performance looks like with zero performance. I feel like something's happening. It's just a burning sensation. So it could be working or it could just be hope induced. Regardless if I get a pump or not, I do feel like applying this to the muscle you're going to train would actually benefit because when it feels warm, the joints feel looser. So I can imagine putting this all over your legs before a leg day would be really good. It definitely does feel a lot easier to flex my muscles. This stuff, next level for pool parties. We don't need chlorine in pools. We need this gel in the pool. We have just over 10 minutes left. And like, look at this. I mean, the delts are a little bit more pumped. The vascularity is coming out a little bit. Like, why lift weights when chemistry exists? You know? The arms have felt the same since when I applied it to right now. It just feels like I just, I did a gnarly drop set on bicep curls. That's kind of like the, you can feel like the blood flowing in the arms. It's a very, very nice feeling. And the smell has definitely subsided and I'm not sticky at all. I thought I was going to be sticky. I'm not sticky. Okay. Let's see if this worked. Usually when I train arms at the gym, I usually get like a one inch, maybe slightly more of a pump from like my cold state. So if I can get a one inch pump from the gel, five stars, a hundred percent. So both sides were like right around 17 inches. So let's see. For this gel to be five stars, it would mean this measurement right now would need to be 18 inches or slightly more. And we are at 17. We're at 17. Yeah, we didn't get any. The heating effect got me. Not only did I not get a pump, it looks like my measurements are actually smaller in the after. And uh, 17. Looking at the before and after, if I didn't label them, you wouldn't even know because there's literally no difference. This was my shark tank investor moment. It really was. It really was. I would. Hopefully there's at least SPF in the gel to make something about it useful. But at the end of the day, if it sounds too good to be true, it's probably too good to be true. Like imagine explaining to Arnold, you built your chest and your arms using scented gel. Like, you know, it just, it just doesn't seem right. You know, so back to the gym, I guess. Time to leave my review. I spent the entire week as a human lab rat testing supplements with zero reviews. Some of them, I completely understand why they stayed in the shadows. A few actually earned a spot in my daily routine. And then there were the others. The ones marketed like some kind of game. And when I start a game, I don't stop until it's finished. But somewhere along the way, I realized something. I wasn't playing the game. The game was playing me. With someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to someone who started to go to someone who started to go to someone who started to someone who started to go to someone who started to someone who started to someone who started to someone who