Guaranteed results on the first day. This one supplement can literally change your life and body in days. 10 to 20% increase in strength your first workout. Those are just some of the outrageous claims this product makes. But are any of them actually true? I'm putting it to the test along with a bunch of other hyped up products like this bar that increases strength 300%, peanut butter that can't be stored as fat, and a drink that's supposed to literally make you invincible. All to find out if they're legit or all just one big juicy scam. Starting with Noratine heavyweight. Ridiculous claim. Guaranteed results from the first day. 10 to 20% increase in strength your first workout. Have you tried everything and are still not gaining muscles? Then it's time for Norine Heavyweight 2. Norine heavyweight 2 will build muscles and get you strong very fast. Okay. Apparently, this supplement was voted the strongest muscle builder ever according to Men's Health magazine. By who and when, because I can't find it anywhere online. And just the sheer claims of what this product does. This is not a supplement you're buying at GNC. This Walter White is cooking this in his trailer. This is anabolic amphetamines. Like, I don't think my natty status has ever been in greater danger until right now. Like, forget going to the doctor. I might need to go to the vet after this. There are just red flags everywhere. First, look at the homepage. What is that? Bro is not human. Bro is human growth hormone. This dude was literally created in a video game with all the sliders maxed out. Also, Norine Heavyweight 2, the sequel is just, it's never as good. This company has been around since 1997, and this is the first I've heard of them, so nothing is boating well for them right now. Uh, the weird thing is the reviews are just insane. 4.9 stars, 188,000 reviews. What this is telling me is that we have no chance against AI bot technology. I will say though, absolutely insane packaging. We're going to go to the gym and I'm going to I'm going to take this. On the back of the bottle, it says to take two pills 30 minutes before the gym. Uh, this stuff smells so bad. You have no idea. Which makes me hopeful for some reason that it's going to work. Let's hope I don't turn into a lizard or end up in a secret bunker in Area 51. I was expecting to start feeling something on the way to the gym because they claimed I would notice something instantly, but nope. Hopefully, they deliver on their promise of increased strength. I chose this workout specifically cuz I've been plateaued on a number of the lifts for multiple weeks. But just progressing, adding a few reps is not good enough. It does not make this supplement legit. I got to blow this workout out of the water. On this machine, I've been stalled with these reps. Set one, I added two reps, and I was shocked, as you can tell. However, sets two and three, I felt the exact same as any other day, but two reps added was still a big W. Next machine, I matched the same weight as last week, maybe with a little better form. But this is something you should expect with no supplements at all. I don't know. I'm definitely not dominating like I thought I would. The best way to put it right now is think about being a kid and your parents are like, I'm taking you to Disney. You get all excited. But what they actually meant was you're just going to go see a Disney movie. It's like that's still pretty good, but it's not like what I was expecting. So it's like I'm progressing this workout, which is great, but not like what I was expecting, which is making me believe it's a scam. The rest of the workout was fine, but nothing memorable. I'm definitely farther away from achieving the physique of this this man, if you want to call him that, than I thought. Yeah, nothing. Noratine heavyweight scam. Professor Nuts. Ridiculous claim. The world's first digestibly corrected peanut butter. This is officially the weirdest looking nutrition label I have ever seen. 40 calories for 2 tablespoons. Now, this one gives me a bathtub full of bad vibes. Oddly enough, it's almost entirely sold out online. So, people are really wanting to believe that this is real. And I don't blame them because that would be epic. And if this is legit, I might have to sue because only one of us can be crowned with that name. Now, on the front, it says world's lowest calorie, all natural peanut butter. Low calorie, all natural just they just don't exist ever. Like, I've tried lowc calorie peanut butter before, specifically Walden Farms. It tasted like chemical warfare. It tasted like the FDA just gave up. It tasted like somebody strained real peanut butter with a gym sock. But the thing about this one is that apparently they have an ingredient that doesn't allow our bodies to absorb fat. Now, when I look at the ingredients, the first ingredient is dry roasted peanuts. Peanuts have calories. Is this laced with ompic? This sounds like sci-fi to me. This is like trusting a fra bartend. But we have all walked to the fridge at one point, grabbed an entire jar of peanut butter, and wanted to finish the entire thing. Now, we possibly can. We possibly can. So, as a bodybuilder and a passionate enjoyer of a good nut, I'm going to keep an open mind and I'm going to taste test this, see if it's good, and if it's even worth investigating further. I had to get the coconut macaroon flavor because it was the only one available when I got it. Okay. Wow. I kind of want to cancel my plans tonight. Make new ones. Me, Antonio, and a locked door. Oh, they have some really nice coconut flakes in it. And they're not super crispy. They're a little bit chewy. It's kind of like dry skin. I might just go head first into this jar. I'll let you guess which head. This is a solid offering. Like, this is the key to my heart. I'm adding this to my daily routine 100%. I think it's legit. I think it's legit. Am I coping? Maybe. But I think it's legit. My face is saying it all right now. I'm really impressed. And I think this stuff is definitely worth investigating further. The cute little mascot is delivering a nut of my dreams. The slight healthy taste it has is making me hopeful that this stuff is legit. But just to be sure, I'm going to talk to somebody who knows a nutrient label like nobody else on Earth. All I know is this product is 100% a scam. I would pray that they could make something that just would help you to not absorb all these fats and calories. I would 100% be using it. So, I just ate regular peanut butter. You had regular peanut butter? Unless you experienced the if you your pants. Dreams with a zed are being crushed as we speak. I'm barely listening to a word he's saying. All I'm doing is trying to calculate how much peanut butter I actually ate. And you had stomach pains. Then it would have worked. Hopes and dreams ruined. Hopes and dreams ruined. Professor Nuts, I'm sorry, it's a scam. Cold hands. Ridiculous claim. Increase work capacity by 300%. Get more sets and reps. I am extremely excited about this one. There is just so many ridiculous claims surrounding cooling your hands. Now, he punches out sixfold more dips. And we know anything that Andrew Huberman says is gospel pending Jeff Nepard's approval. There's also this crazy study where the group of people who cooled their hands actually outperformed a steroid group on the bench press. A lot of proathletes use this. I've even seen Brian Shaw use it between meals, I bet. So, I mean, to me, it just looks like a bicycle pump. And if this is legit and works as claimed, it's it's going in more than just my palms. And we're going to see if my my work capacity can increase by 300%. When I got to the gym, I filled this thing with some like cool water. So, you don't want this thing to be absolutely freezing. On the instructions, it says the sweet spot is between 45 to 60° F. So, by the thermometer at the top, we're right at the higher end of the range. 55 kg dumbbells per hand. Now, it's time to hold this for 2 to 3 minutes and then we do our set. It's kind of reminding me of my first night I spent in an igloo. Come to think of it, that was a night full of PRs. Okay, here we go. Well, I wanted 12 and I got 11. It felt no different than normal. Time to grip the bar for another 2 to 3 minutes and hope things just get better. Apparently, when we train, we don't fatigue due to our muscles. We fatigue because our body gets hot. So, when you fail, it's because the muscle heats up locally. If you can keep core body temperature down, pyrovate kynise can remain active and you can literally do more sets and repetitions. Some of the more impressive effects that have been seen for endurance have been a a doubling of output with no extension in recovery time. I got 11 10 with the 55 kg dumbbells. I'm happy with that. I think I was just being greedy at the beginning. I did notice I didn't build up any lactic acid at all. Usually, you start to feel it towards the end. Nothing. Just like pure muscular failure. So, that must be saying something. I really started to notice the effects of cooling my hands. It's like I had my own little gym partner cheering me on each set. There is something very interesting about this workout. Every set that I go into, I feel so fresh. It feels like it's my first set of the day for everything so far, which is definitely making my performance go up, but not as much as like the 300%. I just added three reps per set on this. I cannot believe these words are about to leave my mouth right now, but I have endless stamina. I finished my back workout off with this super set of pull downs and rope pullovers, and the lactic acid burn is brutal. But today, surprisingly, much less added reps and weight. This thing is actually great. I have no idea what I was thinking at the beginning, but my work capacity went up like crazy. Nothing dipped. Constant good energy and strength the entire time. Definitely going to be using it again. It's really weird. We always associate coming to the gym, warming up on like a treadmill, getting a sweat on, getting hot, but actually cold is the secret to gains. Cold hands. It's legit. Dream Crust Pizza. Ridiculous claim. The world's first healthy frozen pizza. You know those companies on your Instagram feed that won't leave you alone? They're just relentless and bombard you with ads. This was that company for me. Well, this looks so good. I got it. So, I mean, I guess that's saying something. So, they claim to be the world's first healthy frozen pizza. It's not. Dream crust pizza. It's a scam. Editor Josh. Editor Josh. Wait a second. Maybe what they mean is it's the world's first healthy frozen pizza worth eating, which is a bold claim and throwing a lot of shade at other companies. But I will say this thing does look very, very good. Some other claims that they make are this pizza allows you to cheat on pizza with pizza. It's the only pizza that can exist in your wildest dreams, and it's reinventing the way that you eat pizza. There is 68 g of protein and 88 g of fiber in this pie. I mean, yeah, it's reinventing the way I eat pizza because if I eat the entire thing like I usually do, it's literally going to kill me. Like, I'm going to eat one slice and somehow out six per slice. 5 g net carbs, 17 g protein, and 22 g of fiber. That does not sound like dream crust. This just sounds like I'm going to need to bring a pillow with me to the bathroom tonight. So, what we are going to do is we are going to do a blind taste test with some other pizzas and see where this stands because they do seem somewhat proud of their product and very confident that it's going to be amazing. For this taste test, I have three other pizzas, all cheese to even the playing field. One of them being another healthy protein focused and the other two just being regular pizzas but with pretty decent calories. If this pizza can score in the top two, I think it's fair to say it's legit. Thank you, darling. It smells like I walked into an Italian restaurant that's also a drug front. Where you at? All right. Oh. Oh my god. That's a sharp chip. I want to hit it from the back. Spin it around. Okay. For being in a freezer, this is pretty elite. Could this be the first Michelin star from a freezer? I think so. The dough is pretty good. The sauce is a bit basily. I need one more. Let me give it a six. Oh, this is the other healthy branded pizza in the lineup. And as you can see, things aren't looking good. It's so bad. Hopefully, this isn't a glimpse of what's to come with Dream Crust. It tastes like somebody like condensed a salad. Like this is like pizza adjacent. It just turns to mush. Is that crust? Yeah, I think I Oh, it's like drywall, man. The cheese is fake. It tastes like the kind of pizza that you would have when you start a New Year's resolution. It also tastes like the pizza I would have that would make me abandon my New Year's resolution. That is disgusting. That's a one. Wa! The dough is different. The dough has a sourness to it. It's nice. Let me go around back. Oh, the crust is dry, though. It could identify as a crouton. I do feel like I'm still tracking my macros a little bit, though. If I'm eating this, it definitely would not be fooling me into thinking it's delivery. Give it a four, five. I really hope I haven't had it. M. This one has some garlic. This one's trying. The sauce is nice. This is the best one by far. That's like a 75. And being cheese, there's no meat on it. Like I would I'd love to try a pepperoni version of that. Whatever that is. I like this one. Can't stop. Yeah. What was that one? Do I tell you? Yeah. That was the cloud one. That was it? Yeah. Oh my god. Actually good. It's actually great. Legit. Dream crust pizza. Legit. Cali. Ridiculous claim. Track your calories by taking a picture and consistently over 90% accuracy. There is no way a picture can tell me the damage some foods can do to my physique. Like it is so easy, trust me, to let a few extra things sneak inside you and you have no idea. I did not train these calorie counting eyes for over a decade to be outdone by AI. Did I? All the influencers are promoting this app, so they must be paying extremely well. or well, that's probably just about it. Now, I don't want to speak too soon. I don't want to on it yet. So, what we're going to do is go into the real world, put it through four different tests, and see how it does. 90% accuracy. Come on. No way. Test one. Can it detect calorie dense ingredients in something that looks relatively harmless? A cookie is just a simple joy of life, right? Wrong. Not at all. I hate to put numerical values on them, but this is the life I've chosen. So, the kitchen sink cookie is 820 calories. It looks pretty harmless, but it is a sleeper build. Like, there's it's it's got some weight to it. So, we're going to see if the app can laser eye it and see how accurate this thing gets. Theoretically, this app should explode trying to calculate this thing. Am I going to have a bite or not have a bite? 200 calories. I'm having a bite. Maybe the AI thought it was two bananas. It's okay. Hey, we all make mistakes. We all make mistakes and I'm happy about that mistake. Test two. How will it respond to a variety of different foods and sauces? So, I hit up the Whole Foods hot table and got a bunch of different things making it hard to track. I did a rough estimate in my head based off the calories listed on the foods. We got the Whole Foods hot box, a bunch of different things in here. So, based off the caloric content on the signs, this roughly comes out to 620 calories. We're going to see how close this app is. Boom. 600 calories. I estimated 620. 30 g protein, 70 g carbs, and 25 g of fat. Damn, that's actually pretty Wow. And now for the 480 calorie pizza. Boom. Analyzing food. Come on. Tell me that Whole Foods is wrong. Tell me that it's 140 calories. The hot box calculation was insanely impressive. The pizza calculation, however, not so much. 285 calories. Well, that's wildly inaccurate. Test three. How close is it to my trained calorie counting eyes? Here's the most basic chicken teriyaki roll with chicken breast, lettuce, and some avocado. I wrote down my thoughts. Let's see how close we are. And we're only 25 calories apart. Another impressive calculation. Test four. Can it track even the most basic meal? Things are just not looking good for this app. Like, I made bread yesterday and I was just kind of curious to see how many calories were in my bread and then I scanned it and I thought it was salmon. To be fair, it does look a bit like salmon, but it's not. This next test should be the easiest one to pass. So, I had the most basic meal on the plate. 6 oz of chicken, no oil, nothing. 347 g of a raw rusted potato. And then 75 g of just fresh strawberries that I tracked extremely fast on Macro Factor. So it came up to 550 calories. We're going to see how close Cali is. I feel like this has to be within the 90% that they claim everything in. Boom. So it's off by 100 calories. It's also off by 10 g of protein. So there's just and this is the most basic no fill or nothing. It's not accurate. Cali scam jit. It's both combined. You guys want to see something cool? Okay, sit. Stay. Huh? Look at that. So now we just wait like 30 seconds. In the meantime, I think it's fair to say pure AI food logging way too risky, dog. So, what do we do? Well, we use MacroFactor, the quickest, easiest way to track your calories and your macros. The entire database is verified, so you can trust its accuracy. They have a new AI feature, which gives you the speed of AI logging, but with results that you can actually inspect. It's also the only app that adjusts to your unique metabolism. How how cool is that? Like, you can't you can't beat it. And it's it's a it's a paid app, but they're not going to sell your data. I don't want people knowing where I live that I don't know, you know. So, all your stuff's protected, so you can trust it. So, go to the Google Play Store, go to the App Store, use code will for a twoe free trial. Good stay, Boba. Make sure to comment down below. Good stay boba. Heal. Huh? Workout candy. Ridiculous claim. Best pump guaranteed. I better be walking out the gym door sideways after my workout. This also cost me $68. So, it better be coated with a different kind of sugar, if you know what I'm saying. But just like every other product in this video, the reviews are crazy. Raquel, she gets a pump just taking this stuff. She also loves the word hardcore. Kevin has me feeling like I'm becoming a believer. So, if my veins aren't popping by the end of this, I'm coming for you, Kevin. Not actually. Take three chewable tablets pre-workout per three chews, six calories, 90 millig caffeine. That sounds kind of dangerous. We've all heard of muscle mommies. These are muscle mollies. Hopefully it's not one of those once you pop you can't stop things I find myself in. O, this is shock tart flavor. The heck is a shock tart? Sour candy that acts as pre-workout. This is a lifter's Flintstone vitamin. Oh, it's actually pretty good. Oh, I also like the fact that it's like this. Like the last thing I need is more powders to move. I recommend not ever smelling it. So, we got an upper body workout today. We are going to see just how nasty of a pump I can get. If you're wondering the ingredients of this product, here it is. It seems decently healthy. It's like they're listing off ingredients in a salad. In the pre-workout world, as we know, that's that's pretty rare and definitely a plus. First round of exercises is done. Pump is pretty good. Pump is pretty good. Energy is also very good. I feel like I trained arms directly and all I've done is lap pull down. So, this is a good sign. And uh boom, locked and loaded for the next round. So, I've been handing out the candy at the gym. Call me Call me the gym Willy Wonka. And uh people have been very receptive to it. One dude I I've accidentally gave him six and he ate them all before I told him it was too late. So, I'm just going to go check on him right now. Is the candy working? Yeah, it's kicking. It's kicking in. You feel it? Yeah, feel it. Nice. Thanks, man. Yeah. Okay, so he seems to be pretty good. It might kick in a bit later. If you're watching this, I'm sorry, man. I'm I'm sorry, but you know, people people know I have this now. I'm getting looks at the gym. I'm getting attention. I think I can lure lifters into a van. Happy Halloween. Next up, we got some chest press and some seated row. I don't think I've remembered ever sweating this much during a workout. Intensity stayed high the entire time. Pump is phenomenal. I've taken Sealis before. I'm I'm shocked I'm going to say this. It's not far off. This stuff is delivering. And it's so much easier just to take three pills than to just drink the whole entire shaker of pre-workout. So, very convenient as well. This product is not only made for working out. They say it's also for studying to make the most out of your study sessions for your exams. That that is just dangerous. That I I can hear Adderall knocking at the door as we speak. This stuff is great. Just take it responsibly, okay? If if taken responsibly. It's workout candy. Too legit to quit. God mode. Ridiculous claim. The closest thing you can find to invincibility in a bottle. Live with unstoppable strength and focus. The closest thing to invincibility in a bottle. I think my friend Joseé Quervo would say otherwise. And the name, the packaging, the colors. It has me feeling like Drake is the owner and this is some test run for an OO cult, which has me hating it already. I will say the website seems very interesting and quite promising. There's a long list of benefits. Hopefully that means a long list of truths. Become the guy she knows you're meant to be. That is a face of a man who knows what his next cardio session is going to be. We won't lie to you. Full transparency. This isn't about the money. All of those things so close together. So many red flags. I'm going to go color blind. Like every promise kind of seems like a confession. So today I'm not going to the gym. I have an off day. So I'm going to take god mode. See how god mode I can be. Not that God needs an off day, of course. Add one scoop in a smoothie, a yogurt bowl, or anything you prefer. Can consume up to two scoops per day for extra potency. So pretty much take one scoop and become Thor. Take two scoops and transcend Beyond Time itself. I'm going to go with two. It kind of smells like fruit roll-ups. Feel like snorting god mode. Probably be the way to go. Okay. Smells intimidating. Looks intimidating. There's a lot of chunks in here. Smells like somebody's ashes. Oh, this thing better work. The taste is having me feeling like it's going to work. Oh my god, I'm going to throw up. Hey, I'll give it to them. They did say it tastes bad. And here are the ingredients. The fact that they were honest about something like this makes me feel like today I truly am going to turn into a god. I think my eyes are watering. Okay, let's get on with the day. First thing I did was start grinding computer work to capitalize on the product while it's fresh in my system. I'm expecting something like the Limitless pill where I access 100% of my brain or or something like that. So, I took God mode nearly an hour ago, and I don't feel like God. I don't feel invincible. I just feel like a man that's $120 poorer. I also still just can't get over the flavor. They call it God mode, but that swallow just put my throat through hell. Like, I had a demon in my throat. I'm not going to give my entire judgment yet. I feel like it's way too soon. I think I'm going to wait just till the end of the day. Then I went downstairs to do some cardio before picking up Boba from his haircut. Bro gets so excited to get picked up. Look how cute he looks. Oh my gosh. Then I went back home and did some more work. And I got to say, today felt like any regular day. I think I've given it enough time and I'm not feeling anything. And the more I look at the product, the more I go on the website, take a look, it's for a very particular person, very particular demographic. Like realize your true sovereign nature. Dude, I'm just trying to get jacked. I don't need some Lord of the Rings type of prophecy. You know what I mean? I think this product is meant to be had by a bunch of dudes at the edge of a waterfall shirtless screaming on like this like strange alpha male retreat. But for me, no. God mode sam scam. PR lotion ridiculous claim. 25% more high-intensity intervals before exhaustion, 16% more in total pounds weight lifted, 53% reduction in doms, perform harder for longer. I will admit this is not the first PR lotion I've tried, and even with extreme numbing, I still couldn't get when it comes to the gym though, I've never seen anything like it. It's super exciting. I think the closest thing that I've seen is liquid chalk. Now, with the claims that they've made, I feel like there's no better way to test if this is legit than with a high volume, highintensity leg day. So, we have to apply a generous amount on the muscle group that we're going to train and then we wait 30 minutes for it to kick in. Smells like crap. You think that they want me to be in the gym longer, I'd want to smell good, especially if I want to be like working in with people. I'm getting super generous with it. Probably going to do two coats on these. Well, I'm all cream covered and ready to take over the world. I'm going to put my shorts on and then we're going to go to the gym. Now, it's been about 30 minutes and it's definitely starting to take effect. My legs feel great. Like, they feel warm. My joints feel loose. That is all signs of a fantastic leg day. Also, I smell amazing. It smelt horrible coming out of the bottle, but now I just smell like minty fresh Vix rub. I feel like I'm going have to be going like this a lot because I feel like I'm going to be getting a lot of double takes. Also, I thought I was going to be slippery, like all the machines would be a slip and slide, but it absorbed into my legs. I'm excited right now. PR is inbound. Holy Well, that was weight that I've never touched before. That's 10 lbs up from last week. I've also added two reps every single set and I'm nowhere near as sore during the set. There's like literally no burn. After I moved on to the leg extension, where the burn is probably the worst of any exercise you can do. Surprisingly, it was much less. I increased the weight, had more control, and had less burn. If you watch my old video where I tried baking soda and beet juice, it's the exact same feeling. Yeah, this stuff is incredibly legit. You almost feel like you're not training hard enough because you don't get the muscle soreness during the set at all. Like I didn't get that excruciating burn from leg extensions at all. And I hit a PR. But the true test pack squat. Now the weight on this machine is 10 lbs up from last week. If I get this for eight reps, I will be over the moon based off how last week felt. If I get this for eight reps, I will probably faint on the spot. So hopefully I get eight. And hopefully this feels a bit easier than I'm expecting. Oh my gosh, I'm nervous. Oh my god. Oh my god. Dare I say I could have had another one. Oh my god. That was easier than last week. And my quads aren't even burning. I feel like I'm not even trying, but I also feel like I'm trying a lot. It's a dangerous place to be. 53% reduction in doms is definitely true. I was able to repeat the same weight and reps on the hack squat and then moved on to leg press and it felt amazing. I didn't notice any dips in my performance. I can't believe I'm going to say it, but I am. Every claim is real. My legs were so pumped after this workout. It was crazy. Look at this. What the heck? PR lotion. Can't believe I'm saying it. Legit. David Bar. Ridiculous claim. Humans aren't perfect, but David is introducing the most effective portable protein on this planet. Hi, I'm down here. Will David. So, they say that they are the most portable protein on the planet. What does that even mean? I'm not sure at all. Like, I think I could probably carry a can of tuna just as efficiently. Now, the macros for these things are absolutely insane. 150 calories, 28 g of protein. So, 75% of the calories are coming from protein. Now, that would make you believe that they would taste like poo poo, but given my history of David's, I can't imagine them tasting all that bad. Now, they have something called EPG in them, which is what replaces the fat with something less calories. I I'm not entirely sure what it is. Um, I don't know if it's if it's even good for me, but you can't argue with the macros. And the FDA considers it generally recognized as safe. And I trust I trust them. So, we're going to try these right now. See what the hype is all about. I bought these. This is not sponsored. Here's some proof. And And let's let's go. I am going to be rating these bars on a scale from 1 to 10. 10 being the goats, like Bearbell, grenades, those kinds of bars. So, with the David's bars, I am promised a creamy texture and addicting taste. Hopefully, they're soft. This isn't the time for David to come in hard. The first one we got cake batter flavored bar. Cake batter birthday cake always reminds me of my childlike innocence. 150 calories, 28 g protein, 2.5 fat, zero sugar. Come on. Okay. It smells a bit like it. It's not the prettiest looking bar, but it's all what it does inside me. It's quite sticky in my hands as well. Very flimsy. Wow. Oh my gosh. M. Ooh. This one's delish. This one kind of tastes like a Rice Krispie square. Very good texture. Mhm. Now, I mean, the fact that they're 150 calories, I'm not sure if my expectations have just dropped dramatically. It's like being very hungry, going to 7-Eleven and getting a hot dog. You probably think that tastes really good, too. I'm going to I'm going to give this a a 75. 75. Red Velvet. I love Red Velvet. Love it. Is there a Red 40 in here? What's Carmine? Carmine. Carmine's a a bug. Carmine's a cockroach. Wow, look at that red. This one tastes like nothing. It just tastes sweet. If you blindfolded me, I would have no point of reference of what's in my mouth. Honestly, it tastes exactly the same almost as the other one, just slightly less good. I'll give it a 64. Time to swallow David's salty nut. So, we got the salted peanut butter flavor. I feel like protein bars cannot go wrong with peanut butter flavor. Oh, me. It's all right. 66. I swallowed David's nut, so I think I can call him Dave now. He's now Dave to me. Next one. Chocolate chip cookie dough. Looks very much like the Quest bar. Mhm. M. This is the best one. It has a very interesting taste. Very interesting sweetness. I like this one. Eight peanut butter chocolate chunk. Time to open wide and let it slide. There it is. Oh, look at that chocolate side. Tastes like the cookie dough with a hint of peanut butter. Going to give this one an eight, too. Pretty good. Would I get them again? Some of them. So, I'd say I would say they're legit. It's legit. Good job, David. David Bar legit. I think it's fair to say if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. But hey, if you believe it's true, then technically you're just confidently wrong. And sometimes that's all that really matters.