 A lot of you remember Sal, who once weighed 725 pounds, a weight so extreme, it nearly killed him. Every day wasn't about living, it was about surviving. Now, Sal is working his way back to health, step by step, nearly 200 pounds down. But I was curious, what was the diet that got him to his heaviest weight ever? Well today, I'm trying that exact diet. I need this button. So this is the exact department that you lived in when you were 725 pounds? Yeah. I'm going to show you around, but before you do, we have order food. Because you're having 12,000 calories today. 12,000? Yeah. You ready? I would wake up around 9am and then by 11 o'clock I was in Uber Eats Drash. I probably spent an hour there. An hour looking? Yeah. I'm never letting you pick Netflix movie, holy, what, an hour? Yeah. Like it wasn't intentional, it was more so indecisive, everything looks so good. And nothing looked good at the same time. You don't know what you want, but you know what you want a lot of. Yeah. That's a weird place to be. I mean, like lion's take like hours, stalking everyone. It's kind of like the same thing. No, exactly the same. Exactly the same. Stalking every restaurant they see, what do I want? It's like if your stomach could like doon's roll. It did. Yeah. Yeah. It did. I want it to be a surprise, so I'm just going to let you order what you would get, and then I'm just going to close my eyes and just... Cool. I closed my eyes and handed the decision over to Sal, letting him pick one of the breakfasts he relied on the most back then. It's almost 11.30 and we're just ordering your breakfast. So like you basically did intermittent fasting to get north of 700 pounds, which is like incredible. You almost stopped eating until like late, late, late at night. Breakfast was ordered and while we waited for it to arrive, Sal walked me through his old apartment. Memories he wasn't exactly eager to revisit. This fridge is pretty barren, but it looked like that for the whole year I was here, the last year I was here too. Your fridges look like that? Yeah, nothing was there. Wow. So I would just order food every single day and then I'd eat it as fast as I would order it. And then this was probably the biggest shame point. I fell in the bathroom and I broke this sliding door off. You just hold me and it's gone, get it fixed, right? I was too ashamed that I broke it and of how big I was, I just let it sit like on the side of the, whatever, and it would shower with the door open basically. Probably the size part about this apartment is that it has this window here. And I remember I would like, more than one occasion, put open this window in the sliding door and like just peer offside and just think about like, what if? Like there were times probably like, the last six months I was here, this window looked way better than the front door. There's a hospital like right across the way. That's where I spent five days with diabetic kidney oscidosis. My first hospital stay. But you come a long way. I'm doing okay. Yeah, you're doing good. Yeah, well, see how it looks later today. Yeah, I'm excited to see the way in today. Yeah, send me, so am I. I'm hungry right now, but I feel like I'm later on. I'm not going to be saying that maybe. It's probably here. It's probably here. Why don't I go see? Yeah, let's go. So, I love getting on pizza. I love the start of this day. First of all, don't give us four ranches. I usually like eight. Eight? Two for pizza. Dude, I thought four pizzas was the issue. I think the two to one ranch pizza ratio is more of the issue. Wait till later. Oh gosh. Of the four pizzas, two of them were a chicken and waffle pizza, and the other two were a four cheese pizza with a cheese sauce base. Honestly, the fact that this doesn't seem overwhelming to me is a concern. I can see why you did this. Wow. It's very good. I'm pretty sure it's spicy syrup on it. Spicy syrup, yes. Which as a Canadian, I'm kind of offended, but as a human, I'm very turned on by that. You're also really enjoying it too much. Like you're supposed to just be like, it's quick. Of when? It's quick. It's quick. It's like you're enjoying it a lot, which is good. But like also, there you go. How do you feel right now being faced with this? I mean, I definitely want to try some, but also I've got to weigh in later. That goal of like weighing in every single day has really helped rain in like some of that food noise a little bit. I did not think that I was going to be putting up like generational carbon fat macros just at breakfast. Right now I'm like thriving. I think I love my breakfast like this for like maybe four days. And then I hate myself after that. Yeah. For you, were you always hungry? Were you like always like wanting this? Or is it just like? Just like habit, habitual. Okay. It was like you, this is what I have today. Like I wasn't ever hungry around 11 o'clock. My brain starts like, oh, what's the, I'm going to have for dinner today or breakfast or for lunch, whatever. So I start looking on Door Dash Breaks and seeing what's there. Right. And then I look for buy one given free options. And I start purchasing. I think you made a very clever decision though, with the chicken and waffle one with the syrup, because it's like sweet and savory. Yeah. So I see what you did there. Okay. Yeah. Kind of break up like the culinary chaos a bit. Yeah. Mmm. I don't want to enjoy it too much in front of you, but holy shit. But would you, would you eat this like by yourself? Absolutely not, no. Unless it was like my like death roll meal. I'd probably eat two of them out of hunger. Yeah. The third one would be a curiosity. And then the fourth one's just pure ego. How much would you say you spend on food daily? 150 plus. Really? So your yearly bill would be like, 40,000, 50,000. Was it always just about the food, or was the food helping you with something else? The food was safe. One of the times my Door Dash person messaged me. And she's like, I want to, I want to let her know what she was in my class. I know a person who used to be friends. And I was in my apartment when she dropped it off. And I was so ashamed of myself for what I ordered, and that she was delivering it. But I didn't even go out and say hello or talk to her. You left it at the door? And I leave it at the door. Yeah. Like anyone else? Even though she was someone who had been to her house, who spent time with her, I know her parents. She's a very good friend of mine, if I call her, she'll answer. But like, I didn't even go out to look at it. So like the food wasn't like in control, but no one, they didn't talk back to me, and tell me that I was fat, and I'm really in it, and tell me that I was ugly. It just gave me comfort. The first video we shot, when we were around like the chicken, yeah. You were struggling. Yeah. So do you feel like now you're in a much better headspace? Much better headspace, and I have like tools to get me back on track as soon as this video is over. So like, when we're done like doing all this today, I'm going to go back to work out tonight, and I'm going to eat my meal plan tonight, and then tomorrow morning I'm going to wake up and eat my meal plan tomorrow, and then wait until tomorrow night. So like, it's the same thing every single day now. I feel like I hosted like a children's birthday party that no one showed up. So that's what I do to all myself. I'm wiping out an entire pizza bloodline. It's a family right here. Bloodline's a lot of cheese. You're making some headway, not much though. I'm doing this off of research, man. Listen, I was an expert. I'm going to tell you, you got to fold it. So I got to work on this massive breakfast, doing everything I could to get it down. Like Sal said, it wasn't about enjoying it, or even being hungry, which pushed me to some pretty drastic measures, just to keep eating. It's been me a long day. I've gone through a mess for a while. Today we're exploring Sal's past, but what matters even more is the progress he's making now. So after breakfast, we headed to the gym for the most important part of his day, the weigh-in. Weigh-in time. Weigh-in time. So first video, you were 607.4 pounds. You started your journey at 725. Let's see, man. 526.2. It's not good. Good job, man. I'm proud of you, dude. That is insane. Is that your lowest weigh-in yet? Yeah. There's been struggles in the last few months. So I wish it was sooner, but happy that it's at least going the right direction now. What are the struggles? Just mentally. I was burnt out from the holidays and stuff. And then I opened doors to Bucks, until eating off plan too much, and just not following what I needed you to be. It's a guess for long term. So once you're 200 pounds down, you go like, okay, now I need to get the 300 pounds down? Or do you look at it more like, sure? 25 pounds at a time. Because I can't think of it like, 500 pounds is 100 pounds. Even if that's too much, that's too big. So it's always chunked out. 25 pounds at a time. As long as it's going this way, it doesn't matter if it kind of has like little ups and downs. As long as like over time it just goes down, you're in the good spot. You at 200 pounds, you'll be a beast. You're not on muscle, you're probably on your frame right now. Oh man. Everyone should be scared of self. We're trying to see the more he steps on it, the weight will just continue to go down. It's just a new weight loss method, right? If you just keep moving it inch by inch, that will just change. Does it see? Oh, why not? You over age us now. You over ate within that past three seconds, man. After Wans, we moved on to the next meal of the day before training. Sal's going to show me his current lunch versus his lunch from the past. This is pre-workout meal? Yeah, this is pre-workout meal. It is ground venison, rice, and then you can't really see, but some corn, peas, and carrots. Okay, with some G. Hughes on the side? G. Hughes always. All right, I'm assuming I'm not having that. Here's yours. 24 wings, a couple biscuits, and a lot of ranch. There's literally like one, two, three, four, there's five added buttermilk ranches here. Yeah, plus the four that come with the meal. As I was pulling this meal out of the bag, I was becoming increasingly more jealous of Sal's lunch. So at this point of the day, were you like hungry or were you just like, I needed to have lunch? Like what was the next thing? It was just the next meal. Just the next meal. Yeah. I mean, my pizza's still threatening that I can come back right now. No, you'll be fine. Yeah, I don't know about that. What do we have here? We have honey barbecue wings, lemon pepper wings. Lemon pepper wings. Just plain wings. Plain wings. And it's like a buffalo rub wing. So I mean, four different kinds of wings. Yeah. We got the biscuits. So at least I'm not going to get flavor fatigue. Don't watch me eat this. It's a good idea. I swear on my favorite food, is what I'm currently eating. Could you eat this like now? It's too much fried food. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like the first one was like dairy demolition. Yeah. And then this one's just like, there's no relief. There's no relief. Yeah. I would say it's like, like when you play like Russian roulette, but then every chamber has a bullet in it. Yeah. You know, there's like no winning. Give me a bone. And extract all the value from it. The lunch I'm eating has roughly 3,500 calories, versus Sal's 700. So I was curious, does he get excited with his new diet plan, or is he jealous of what's in front of me? I got excited picking up the new bucks and having a fresh new box in front of me. So like, now I don't get excited about this. It's just, it's good. And I know it's like, the San Diego was going to be like feeling like more excited about the scale going down. Yeah. And like, I know that this will help the scale go in the negative direction. I'm actually jealous of you right now. That looks so tasty. Oh, you eat venison? Yeah, of course. Like any meat. Really? Yeah. All meat? All meat. It's all out in. Yeah. Oh, you're nice. Did you ever like crave, crave fruit, ranch covered or not? To me, I don't. Yeah. To me, that's us. People who probably don't know, like, what is food addiction and like, is it like a real thing? Food addiction, I think, is the inability to control impulses related to and around food. So like, for example, if I see like, seeing Popeyes, for me, I'm going to be thinking about Popeyes probably for like another couple of days after this. After this video. Yeah. Okay. Like, I'll be thinking about it, right? Now, I've developed the tools and the habits to not act on set thoughts. But it doesn't mean that doesn't, it's not in my brain for a little bit. Is that improvement? Like, we're used to think about it for like weeks on a week? Weeks, like months. But it's talking to you. I swear I've heard what he's talked before. Wow. Yeah. What does she sound like? I swear to a lady. I've heard Timmy talk too. Timmy? Yeah. Who's Timmy? Cortons. Really? I've heard him talk to you. I haven't even heard that. Really? Yeah. I think I've heard that more than you. The Timbits really speak to me. If you have like kind of like bingey thoughts. Yeah. And then you know tomorrow you're going to do a weigh-in. Yeah. Like, how do you go about that? Because I think it's very similar to like going out and drinking alcohol, right? It's like you're going to go out and enjoy your night. Yeah. But it's kind of like that thing where you're like, enjoying yourself right now will take away from tomorrow's happiness. Yeah. Well, the scale is the most important thing in my head. So like, the scale going down and just getting healthier. I'm trying to save my life is more important than the food. I tell myself that most days, but something is that it doesn't work. And so like I've definitely missed where like, it's been 60, 40, maybe 70, 30. You want it to be like 90, 10, where it's like 90% time I can tell myself that the scale is more important than anything else. Yeah, that 10% to slip. But you know, there are times when that becomes like a 60, 40. You want it 60% telling yourself that the scale is the most important. 40% time you're slipping, you're missing more. And that's okay too. I think that's the whole entire process. When I've had to lose it before, I think I've lost it maybe six months. Right? That's the first and the last. This is not 15 months, almost 16 months into this process. Not easy and it's been quite difficult at times, but showing up every day trying to do better. When you like look back at your habits and like this, do you look back at like anger? I'm just sad. Yeah. Like why were you like so hurt? Why didn't you let people in? Let people care about you? Let people be there for you? That's what I'm more just sad. Just like meal one, the first few bites were great and then it just became a lot. I was really not enjoying any of it. And again, it was simply about getting the food down, which I feel like is going to be the case for all the meals to come. Yes, I push through. Just keep chewing. The range helps a lot. That's why. No. Yeah. This is something I never say. It tastes great, but I can't swallow. With lunch down, it was time to train. Something Sal never skips. Starting with cardio, 10 minutes on the Stairmaster, which just a few months ago, he couldn't do it all. Meanwhile, I was fighting for my life, trying not to revisit my Popeyes on the bike. From there, we did a chest and back workout with maximum intensity. You could tell he was locked in for all of it. He was strong as hell, scary strong. But the best thing of all was you could really tell he was genuinely happy to be there. Once the workout was finished, we went to go check out a place that Sal used to spend majority of his time when he was at his heaviest. Wait, wait, wait. This is the famous bench. No matter what happened, I would walk here, rest for five minutes, and then I would go inside to go right there. Wow. So just like boom, boom, five minutes, catch your breath, and then inside. And inside. So bench to bench. Was that like a psychological thing for you, or is like an actual like, I don't think I'm gonna be able to make it there? No, I couldn't make it. You couldn't make it? No, I couldn't make it. Like a zero percent chance I could make it to the, from my car, to the cash register to get gypsies to get to the table. Wow. Yeah. And did that ever like freak you out, or like how did that make you feel? Ashamed. Yeah. Ashamed. But when the card got my hand, I was like, I felt like a euphoria for a second, and so I was chill. You say like ashamed a lot? Yeah. Did you ever like, were you ever scared within it? Like, did you ever go like, holy shit, like this is my life right now? Or was it kind of just like, you kind of just accepted everything? You kind of felt numb? No, no, no. There were times when like, in the hospital, especially where I was like, this is, this is really, this is really scary, really bad. When I came close to death, I was, I was just afraid. Everything else, I was just like, this really sucks. Yeah. And I should change, but I don't want to change. Or I don't have the strength to change. I think I always want to change. I don't know if I have the strength to change. Yeah. Until the day I don't have the strength to change, I think I'm teaching myself as I go. Yeah, you got it. I can see it. I can see it in the eyes, man. Even for the last time I saw you, you're down a lot of weight. Yeah. Yeah. It's been fun. So you can't say you're not, you don't have the strength that you're 200 pounds down. So yeah. I think that's a, that's a whole average male human you've lost. Yeah. Like, fuck yeah, man. Come on. Appreciate it. Yeah. You're new at strength. Come on. Oh, I'm sorry. All right, man. Where are we right now? Poker Club. So I used to spend probably 30 hours a week working out here right now. Working out. I guess yeah. Working out your mind, I guess. Something like that. Yeah. But you know, I was, I was playing poker 30 hours a week, especially like if I lost my job. It was like the main funder of my life, was poker. Oh, so you, you, you gambled to, for your, for your job? For food. Yeah. For food? For food and my job. So like, I didn't have a job. So I was playing cards professionally, whatever. But like, cards was okay. I went to the casino, I got out of hand. So do you think you also had a gambling addiction along with food addiction? Probably. Yeah. Yeah. And your prime, like how many hours are you spending in here? On an average week, 30 hours. 30 hours a week. On a, on a bad week. Okay. 15 on a good week, 60 hours. Okay. And they guys win in a day? 20,000 dollars. Okay. But the loss is also 18,000. Oh. So this place closes at 2 a.m. Okay. But oftentimes if you pay them enough money, they would stay open till 4, 6, 8. I was always the instigator of like, let's stay late, let's go, let's play late. Because I never wanted to quit playing because I'm a social creature. I need to be outside, extroverted, but not when I realized it was like nine people sitting down and just shooting the shit for what could be 14 hours. Well, now I can be extroverted again. So now it's a safe space for me to come and hang out with friends, be with friends and talk shit. Whatever, whatever. But they don't care about me. They don't ask me how are you doing? How's your family? Okay. They don't notice the subtleties of the win game. Right. I used to spend probably, in a session, if I'm here from like 5 p.m. or 4 p.m. till 4 a.m. at 12 hours, I'm going to probably have 10 bags of chips. No matter how full I am right now, I always have a stomach for chips. I guess the strategy is like new location, new stomach. Yes. Yes. It's the first time here, so the new stomach is ready. The stomach is ready to go. It's interesting that you wanted to hang out with people here, but they're not like your loved ones. Well, I wanted to be around people because I needed, again, I need human interaction, but I didn't want anyone to care about me. It became clear this wasn't just a card room. This was a place Sal would go to escape, from friends, from family, from people who cared about him. He had people to talk to here, familiar faces, casual conversations, but they were surface level. No one really knew what was going on in his life outside these walls. It was a way to not be alone without really being seen. I actually remember one time vividly, it was like 10 PM at night, my mom calls me and she's like, your aunt passed away. And I asked the dealer to deal me in. Like I did not, like I was like, we weren't close, but I was like, okay, thank you. Hung up and put the next hand. Like I didn't miss a hand. Like I was really detached from everything and everyone, because I was ashamed of who I was. So I had gotten to the point where like I was almost immobile, but I didn't care enough to like let them love me, let them care about me, let them. You didn't want to hurt them? I didn't want to hurt them, but I also didn't want to hear like I wasn't ready to change. Right. So I didn't want to, like I knew if I showed up, all I wanted to talk about is like, Sal, you look really bad and we're worried for you. Yeah. I'm like, well, if you don't see me, you can't worry about me. You know how to play cards? No man, you're taking advantage of me now. We sat and played cards for a bit and honestly, the chips are going down pretty effortlessly, considering the stuff I've eaten today. It's scary how many chips you can eat without even realizing it. I kind of forgot that I've eaten today. You forget real fast. I can get lost in that. Yeah, you get mindlessly just eat it. Some of it's like tedious, so it's like, you don't play very many hands. So a lot of the time there's just chit chatting, talking, hanging out with people. So you become friends with folks. So what happened, what ended up happening was I came to the card room to avoid people. I ended up meeting folks and becoming close to them. And that was not on the agenda at all. What made you continue? Was it just purely the food or was there another emotion in yourself? Shame. Shame. Shame. It was the food for sure, but shame was like... Actually, I remember, this is funny, this is not played. I remember Jimmy and I talking. He stopped me one time outside and he was drunk. But he stops me and he says, buddy, I see you here every day. You play basketball once a week. Come out, text me, come out. And then I didn't come back for two months because I felt ashamed that someone noticed that. And I didn't want to be there because I felt so ashamed of myself for being in that situation where someone felt like... Who really didn't know me, but they felt so concerned about my mobile being that I needed to... They wanted to say something. I appreciate him saying something, but it wasn't like I was in the mood to receive it. Same thing with my friends and family. My friends deeply cared about me and I was... For lack of a better word, they're in my life away. And I was content with that until I wasn't. And I had to almost die three times to get there. And just now seeing you and what you're representing online, it's just such a... The shift is just incredible. I appreciate it. I try to just show up. I mean, it's not easy. I feel a lot. I mess up. I make mistakes. But if I can win more days than I lose, that's all I'm trying to do. Yeah. Do you feel like getting... Like if your mom was going to say something to you now, like do you feel like you respond much better to her? Yeah. Do you... Yeah. Respond way better. Like I'm way... I can have tough conversations now. I couldn't have tough conversations back then. Half of life is having really difficult conversations. The good moments are easy. There's a lot of those. But the tough conversations where you have growth, and I was deeply afraid of growing. I got out of the hospital, then I waited like 10 days to make that first video. Because I needed to like... I needed to find the right... Like a right of day basically to make... Okay, I get to sit down. It was like a 7 p.m. We filmed that video for 15 minutes. Yeah. And then I posted it. And then I was like, well, it can't go back now. We just told a bunch of people that we're doing this. Yeah. Right? Because it got like 10,000 views in the first two hours. So I was like, well, we're here. And we'll see what happens. With each bag of chips averaging around 140 calories, that's 1,400 calories in just chips, bringing the day's total to just about 10,000 calories. Sal, what are you doing? I'm ordering some food. All right, man, hit me. What is this? Is this... Wait, do we call these meals at this point? I don't know. Yeah, I mean, like... Next eating... Feeds, feedings, feedings. This third feeding of the day. Next eating adventure. So this is like Indian food. Indian food. Just what I need after playing cards. Indian food at max capacity is like a freaking spiritual challenge. It was like 2 AM. Maybe that's a Hindu concept, though. Non? Yeah. Non-negotiable. What's this? Rice. It's not the rice. Carbs are low today, man. Got a refeed. Two rices. One of them is a goat. One of them is chicken... Butter chicken. Let me grab you a fork. Please. Or a shovel, man. Oh, the smell. Oh man. You're smelling good. This one might put me into submission. Here's a fork. Thank you. Here's your shovel. Thank you. I don't think that Indian food goes with ranch, but why do I feel like I'm testing out here today? Oh, we haven't even out? No ranch? Okay. No ranch. I mean, I will say the butter chicken is giving off ranch energy a little bit. But there are some rules that we just don't break. Now, what I would do is I would pour the butter chicken over the rice. It's crazy how good it tastes, and then how there's like an aftertaste of regret along with it. Oh my gosh, so good. Yeah. Food really is addicting. It is. Oh, I've never had goat. I've had... Oh. It has a huge fat pocket. It's real rich. Yeah. So what is your favorite food? Like, what's like, what is that one food? Probably Middle Eastern Indian food. Indian food? Like this. Uh, so versatile, so much flavorful. Because a lot of times today you've been like, I wasn't necessarily hungry. I was just getting food to get food. I was eating out of shame. So what percentage of like eating was joy at all? I think the Indian food dishes are always like, oh, they're like actually good. That's the way I want. But most of the time it was just kind of like, mindless eating. Right. And the Indian food turned into mindless eating pretty quickly. But for those first, probably 10 bites, full of joy. You might think I wanted the pizza or the wings, or those might be the biggest triggers. This is the one that's like, this looks fire. Yeah. Like... Probably the healthiest one. Maybe. Yeah. White rice. Yeah. Chicken. Rice would spike in blood sugar too much. So I'd only eat one rice. Also you just... Yeah, I would just not eat that one. Okay. So that was my... But then like the naans? Yeah, I would probably eat like half those. Oh. Yeah. And then I would split that up. And so like I may pour my rice into the butter chicken. So it's a little bit more... And then you know, the other half rice wasn't that curried goat. And then the naan would be there. Now like sometimes I would, I would falter. And around like 4 a.m. And you come down and have... I might wake up and have the rest of the rice. It's in the house. It's hard for you to like stop thinking about it. Yeah. Yeah. It's really weird. My eyes are like... Yeah. Yeah. My stomach's like, no. You know. Could you finish this? Like in like if I had a gun to my head behind camera. Yeah. I could have a chip of that. Otherwise like... Brush on. No. I think you could finish it. It's just so oily dude. It's just like so heavy. Like man, like I am craving... Something fresh. Yeah. Like a salad or like vegetables. Like an aside bowl or something. Oh, that was so good. I know. Just looking at that is making the table raise like 2 inches off the ground right now. I feel like I'm like drowning in a ranch filled swamp. Like is the non ranch flavored or am I just losing my mind? Like what? Losing my mind. But it's fire. But you're kind of doing it wrong. The ranch... The non has to be dipped in something. It needs to be dipped in some gravy. There you go. There you go. But it's like kind of addicting too. Yeah. It's like you can't... Like you're full. But you like... Find yourself coming back to it still. It's like I hate myself. But not enough to stop. Yeah. You know. It's so sleepy. Bro. I'm ready to go to bed. So yeah, this was like great because then you could eat and then you'd go to sleep. My sleep is gonna be legendary. Yeah. Even though I was extremely full and feeling very sick, the Indian food was actually delicious. I thought that this was gonna be it for the food, but of course I was wrong. Around one o'clock in the morning I would start ordering this food at the courtroom and we might go till 4 a.m. unexpectedly randomly. So that means there's more food. So I needed to make sure I had extra food just in case. We'd play till 4 a.m. Makes sense. Yep. Yep. So I couldn't risk this being delivered and then not being there. So I'll stop at my home and grab something I'm guaranteed you never had before. You're right man. I've never had this before. It's gonna change your life. We're gonna order 12 original sliders with cheese. And then I need four 1929s. What? 12 plus 4. 16 sliders. Yeah. Okay well these sliders are either really small or I'm really in trouble. You ready? No, this is actually this is disgusting dude. Like this is like I don't know if I should be impressed by you or scared of you. No I'm scared of me. Yeah I'm scared of you. Yeah I'm scared. Yeah it's official. You ready? I mean you really do eat like tomorrow's not guaranteed. Yeah you do. Yeah like wow. We were really pushing every day to the max capacity. Yeah so I mean I've never had white cast before so like how would you describe it? It's great. Yeah it's great. I've heard mixed reviews. It's equally great and horrible. That kind of sums up today actually. Yeah so let's say. But you know what's important is you gotta have a mixture of your ranch. Okay so this meal is 3,910 calories not including the ranch. All right they're extremely cute. They have like their own little casket each individual slider. I'm just so concerned with how cheese is going to smell. Probably like raccoon meat. I didn't even need to use teeth. It's like old people food. The bread. It just like recieves me. Yeah is it a small slider or do I have big hands? It's a small slider. I think you're gonna never eat ranch again after today. You're gonna correct my friend. This is a chicken slider. It's not really much slowing down you're just coming. Yeah so for this we're kind of just going as fast as you possibly can. Yeah this is like 4am. I was trying to eat it before I went to sleep. You want to go to the dark place yet? I've been there for a bit man. How long would it take you to eat something like this? 15 minutes. But you ate bite by bite I would just eat a slider at a time. Oh you python? Yeah just one slider let's go. Wow dude. Sure should we get a fresh one? Yeah. Oh yeah just go. So yeah I do. You gonna make it? No. It was bad. As you can tell this white castle slider was a battle. The first time I ever heard a white castle was in the movie Harold and Kumar go to white castle where they need a serious amount of drugs just to make this  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,