 the other day I saw an article of a gym that has a sushi bar on the gym floor. That is what I like to call heaven, but also a level 5 gym. It can't get much better than that, and I'm going. But before I go, I want to experience every level of gym before that, so I can truly appreciate just how special level 5 is. So it's time to go all the way down to level 1. It can't get much worse than this. Like, this is a step above doing endless push-up variations in your mom's basement. So in Chicago, they have a fitness center in all the parks, and we're at Chase Park, the cheapest one in the entire city. It's only $10 a month, so I don't think it's possible that I get let down in here. But we're going to find out. Yeah, this gym is small, man. Vibes in here, $10 vibes. Now this place is government funded, and what this is telling me is that the people in Chicago are good at tax evasion, man, because there's not a lot of going on in here. Like, we literally have, like, one of everything. We have this arm machine, which looks super cool. Never seen anything like it. It's kind of like a super set thing, so you do like a tricep push down, and then you can go right into a bicep curl, which is a very interesting handle choice here. And then we go over here. We have dumbbells up to 50, which is pretty much like a standard hotel dumbbell rack, and these are pretty neat. Well, these are filled with water. They're water dumbbells, 10 pound water dumbbells. Well, that grip is really nice. I'm forgetting to put in their nails in there, though. There's always two treadmills. There's always more treadmills than there are weights. So we got the treadmills. We got the bike over here. Got the AC, which is not currently working. We got a TV, which is also not currently working. Leg press. I love this leg press because it's a lot easier on your knees. It doesn't have been greased in a while. Well, that's very nice. We got one Smith machine, so I feel like during peak hours, it's probably a long line here. The cool thing about this Smith machine is that it kind of mimics a regular barbell, because when you unwrap it, you can kind of walk it out like a regular thing. It doesn't just stay in a fixed position. Well, that's trippy. Then we also have a cable machine. I feel like a cable machine is like a staple in all gyms because there's so many different exercises that you can do on it. Lateral raises, chest flies, curls, push downs, pull ups. Then here, a really nice chest press machine, which I feel like the depth could be incredible here. So far, for $10 a month, it's actually a lot better than I thought. It's really not that bad. Obviously, the dumbbells could be a bit better, but you really have most things that you need to build a pretty good physique. I've been coming for about two months. Okay, so what do you think? I mean, hey, it's got the basics. It's got everything you need. You know what I mean? If you're no thrills and just trying to get in and get out, this is the spot to be. It's really quiet in here. You get your occasional senior citizen doing their walk-in, trying to get their steps in and stuff like that, but otherwise, I don't know, a Smith machine, a LAP machine, everything's usually open. Obviously, it's not the best ambiance. I wish I had a better view instead of just a little apartment building, but hey, I've still got everything I need. From level one to five, what would you put this gym? I'd say 3.5. So basically, if the bench was taken, they have this. See what I'm saying? If you become a member at this gym, your biggest muscle becomes your creativity. I mean, realistically, coming into a $10 a month gym, I think the only chance I ever had of getting let down here is if I finally saw my dad and then he just left again, spotting me mid-lift or something. You know? All right. The one thing about this gym is that it is so small. You can't eavesdrop here. You're just automatically a part of every conversation. Also, if a buddy rips one behind me, all of a sudden, my set of leg extensions takes an altitude training twist. And then if you're into functional fitness, there's a functional fitness area for you know, get downs and get ups. Like that. We also have a ball. Second best thing I bounced on all week. Now for a gym to be considered level five, they have to have a lot of great machines, but also a lot of amazing amenities. So for every gym, we're checking out the amenities. And for this one, I don't, I don't think, I don't think there's really many. Yeah, that's the AC. There's a clock. We can tell the time. This right here is the cue for the Smith machine during peak hours. We come down this way. We have men's washrooms, women's washrooms. We have a water fountain. Very nice pressure. And then over here in this very nice, like ominous setting, we had a punching bag with a Muhammad Ali quote. You don't lose it if you get knocked down. You lose it if you don't. You don't lose it if you get knocked down. You lose if you stay down. Whoa now. Whoa now. It's a pays animal. I will say it would be nice to have the windows like not painted to get some natural light in here. I feel like that would do wonders for this space. Because right now this is just a little bit like it's too grungy. I just like, I'd like some nice lights coming in the fall leaves and cute stuff like that. But maybe that's just me. I don't know. Although definitely not for the advanced lifter, this gym does cover quite a bit of the basics. It has some decent machines. And if it's usually this quiet, you can't go wrong for the price. Time to make my way to level two. Welcome to level two. So as if a commercial gym wasn't already bad enough, we are at the worst rated LA fitness in the entire city. Some people call this LA fitness the yard because convicts go here. One guy in particular said that the bathroom is the worst place on the planet. What happened in the bathroom, bro? I mean, it is called Piper's Alley. And all I know is I packed extra slippery soap to my post-workout shower. There is literally no LA fitness sign anywhere. Along with investigating the men's locker room, other very common complaints revolve around missing equipment and the gym being so hot. This has seen other members collapse from the heat. I don't know if this is very Canadian of me, but I've never seen a gym with metal detectors at the entrance. It's going hand in hand with the yard. Getting a little bit nervous right now. I don't think there's any other way to put it, but LA fitness is a portal to sadness. Like, there's just something about like the ambiance here. Like every day at LA fitness is a cloudy Monday. Even the machines look like they don't even want to be here. We are currently in the dumbbell area, and it's exactly what you'd expect. Like literally everything's missing. Like everything is gone. It's like a kid playing with Legos. It's just like scattered all over the gym. Like what is even happening right now? I think someone is slowly stealing the dumbbells to build their own at home LA fitness. That has to be what it is. It has to be. Also, this has definitely seen some better days. Unlike level one where the dumbbells went to 50, these ones go all the way to 150s. And you'll notice that dumbbells 105 pounds and up are all still here. Because if you're stealing the 150s, that is certainly a theft PR. This is also motivation to get strong. So you'll always know your dumbbells are here waiting for you. All the guys are like, this is my yard. My yard. In terms of the machine area, you're not going to find any unicorn items here, meaning like must hit items. But it's actually not that bad. Like I like hoist because it actually moves with you during the motion, which feels super nice and super natural. So this entire row is all hoist machines. And then on that side, it's like techno gym, which is like a big no-no. But right here, not too bad. So on this back machine, this handle, I don't know what happened to it. It's completely worn off. This side's fine. And everything is a little bit rusty, which adds an interesting resistance curve. I feel like science-based lifters would find that kind of cool. It just adds a little bit of a different element to the movement. But I think the wear and tear is because it's a commercial gym. So many people are coming in and out. And that's what you get. That's why it's level two. That's what you're paying for. There's always going to be things out of service, always things a little bit lower quality because there's so many people coming in. And a lot of those people don't really care about the space. In terms of convicts, there's no one here that I would say looks like a convict. Although like you never really know. I'd be one if I was ever caught. And in terms of the AC collapsing from the heat, I don't need to yet. So I'm going to keep on trying. So far overall, it's a decent experience. Everything I kind of expect from an LA fitness. Walking around this gym, it was very clear on multiple occasions that it's not very well maintained. This place is like a frat house. Everything's dirty. It smells strange and dudes are leaving loads wherever they want. This is a pretty neat form of cardio. We got rock climbing here, which I mean, I fear if I get to the top and I see an eagle eye view of this gym, I might want to jump. Based off the machines, I don't even want to look at how rusty those bolts are. Like I think like the change room might be safer than doing this. There's also a ton of cardio equipment as well as a basketball court and even a pool, which looked more like a crime scene if anything. Bro, that is crazy. Oh my God. I think I got to go. I've made my way through the entirety of the gym and now it's time for my last task. Taking a shower in the men's locker room. What's your experience been like in the change rooms? I try to avoid them as much as I can. I'm showering there after. Godspeed brother. I try not to really go down there. It smells kind of weird and it just has, it's like very musky inside. Like the sauna is like the whole thing. I'm showering now. Oh here? Yeah. Oh God. Good luck. Okay. The locker room was described as being musky and smelling heavily of urine, which is definitely correct. It did. I'm kind of scared, but also really excited for some reason. As I entered the shower area, fortunately it was quiet, but almost too quiet. Definitely the only gains I'm making here are fungal. I don't even think my flip-flops want to touch the floor right now. It smells so bad in here. I feel like there's like a new weird random aquatic bed bug breed being made here. I hung up my towel and removed my boxers and felt more vulnerable than ever. Surprisingly the water pressure was great and it got hot pretty quickly. Overall there wasn't much to complain about. I survived the shower, but let's hope level three is significantly better. Level three. Quad's gym. $88 a month. This is an iconic gym. A lot of the greats have come here and if there's one place where they're going to notice that you skip leg day, it's right here. The gym for men and women. Sounds a bit outdated if I do say so myself, but like looking at the stuff on the walls, I can already tell you I'm going to have the greatest lift of all time. I love the old school vibe. Right here, the largest freeway gym in the city, 40,000 square feet, which is pretty crazy because it's a very unassuming place. You wouldn't think it's that big, but 40,000 square feet is no joke. And it's also, what? Yes, when the outside is very deceiving. I've been to since 1999. 1999. November of 1999. Best gym in the city? Oh no, not in the city. I'm just stating. I will say this is the number one gym in the US. These are the first people in a serious about their workouts. None fancy. You want that foofoo stuff? Go to foofoo place. I mean if the expectations weren't already here, they're now up here. And also, voted top 10 gym in America by muscle and fitness? We're in for a treat. If you're a bodybuilder and you walk into this gym, your program for the day is not happening because there are so many things that I want to try. It's so overwhelming. Good thing I know how to get around. When there's a gym that has the old photos, you just know you will never ever be the biggest guy in the gym. I have never seen a back row that looks like this. I feel like a fat kid in the food court. I'm like, do I want to go here or do I want to go there? I'm so overwhelmed. We have all the different bars here all the way down to here. It's like a fricking anabolic armory. They come pick your fricking barbell, man. I think if I was a member here, all of my muscles would be bigger. Every single one, even my calves. This is a treat, man. I can't stop saying that. It's a treat. Not a lot of gyms are strongman friendly, but I've seen a lot of strongman things so far. So powerlifters and bodybuilders, strongman, even crossfitters may be welcome in here. We never know. Probably not. Here is the cardio area. Tons of insane machines. Look at this. We have a treadmill where you can pretend to be holding grocery bags for your next Costco grocery haul. Oh, what the heck? How do you do this? Oh, what's an on? I think I'm like Magna's Mipo here. And I only burnt two calories. Oh, there we go. I can't flow state. That's fine, man. That makes cardio fun. I've also never heard of sports art fitness. And this leg extension might be the best leg extension I've ever used. Like the mind muscle connection, I thought I could only achieve with my right hand. But this one, you can get so far back without hitting the end of the machine. The stretch is incredible. This place is like a fricking panabolic carnival. There's so much fun stuff to do. I could actually live here. I'm going to say it. This is the best bodybuilding gym I have ever been to in my life so far. And we're just getting started. There are so many machines I have never seen before and will probably never see again. And this is only the first floor of this massive gym. All right, so now we're heading up to floor two for more of the same thing. I'm so excited. One of the staff showed us this chest press machine that is so customizable, you can hit your chest at any angle. He then showed us a three in one shoulder machine where you can do upright row, then into shoulder press, and then lateral raises. Are these like one of a kind pieces at this gym? Yeah, this one. Is this the only one to exist? This company is out of business. You don't find this anymore. The best way to describe this place is it's a lifting museum, but you actually get to touch and use everything. Everything that you see is first generation hammer strength. The best of the best. We're in the next room right now and there's these machines which look so old. They look like they're created by the founding fathers of hypertrophy. What is going on here? So I think that this is a curl. Wow. And then there's this here. Look at that machinery on that thing. These machines right here that I just tried, they've probably been banned for being too effective. What? Oh my. What the heck is this? What? And then from the chest you go right into a fly. This is for real the anabolic red light district because I want to hit everything. If you don't like these dumbbells, that's okay because there's also these ones, these ones, and these ones which are actually my personal favorite. Bruh. This is crazy. Look how much bars are going on here. Holy. Wow. Who is using this bar? Like look at this. This is a girth that is both frightening but very tempting. But we're going to do some incline bench right now and I picked this one out. It has like the slight curvature for extra range of motion. It's absolutely beautiful. Incredible. You feel the chest pump right away. You guys want to see the little fun thing? Look at this. I lie down and I can see myself in the mirror above. You know what that means. Chest days get freaky after hours. Kind of unexpected that they had a boxing room as well. Really cool spot. You're like in a Muhammad Ali Bikaki here. We're just being completely surrounded by him. Poster, picture, picture, picture. Just Muhammad Ali is everywhere. I had to do it. Flex the quads at quads. I'm going to get a post-workout snack so they have a ton of energy drinks and they also have a nice amount of bars and stuff here. Whenever there's an option of bars, you know I'm picking a David's bar. 150 calories, 28 grams of protein, zero sugar. It dwarfs all of the other options on the table. It keeps me full. It keeps me lean. Or not lean. Leaner. And I highly recommend them. They taste delicious. So if you want to pick them up, actually have the link in the description, check them out. You will not regret it. In a lot of ways, this is a level five gym. Like 100%. It was such a privilege to lift there. If you are a bodybuilding fan and you come here, you just gain such an appreciation for bodybuilding. It's just, it's incredible. And I just, I cannot wait to come back. Level three was epic. Now let's see if level four can do better. Level four, Chicago Sports and Fitness Club. Now this membership is only $1 more per month than quads gym. But just like an inch, every dollar counts. And the outside looks, it looks like a mall. Anomalic. I really wonder why they need that much space. Let's go find out. We're on the first floor of the gym right now. All of this is upper body stuff. And right away, it's a lot more of a clean aesthetic than quads. A lot more modern, which means we're not going to find any like crazy unicorn rare items here. A lot of kind of things that you'd expect. So I see prime. I see life fitness. I see hammer strength. I see matrix. I see arsenal. All still really good machines. This machine is cool because it counts your reps and the time of the set. This is kind of cool. It's like an actual gamified ab machine. I could see this like in an anabolic McDonald's play place or something. So you just grab the ball. Down. Boom. Bowzei. Down. Boom. Dip. I'll try. Boom. Money shot after money shot. Dumbbells only up to 50 pounds is surprising and also kind of concerning. So hopefully we do find heavier ones elsewhere here. This place is huge, by the way. Floor one was really nice, but it did seem slightly under equipped. But little did I know what was to come when I went downstairs. Now we're in the basement gym and this feels a lot more hardcore than upstairs. These walls have heard some deep grunts. We have a lock going on. So it's a mixture of upper body and then it looks like lower bodies all in the far corner over there. I think the whole entire basement is almost all arsenal. Arsenal. Arsenal. Arsenal. Really good arsenal chest press right there. We got dumbbells up to 120, which is respectable. That's okay. Very rarely do you need to go more than that. This I would say is a pretty rare piece of the gym at the seal row machine. They are incredible for your back. So it has the gap in the middle so you can get the full range of motion. We're in the leg area now. Some incredible machines. This one right here is amazing. You can get so low, so effortlessly, and it's so easy on your knees. You just hold right here. Oh, so nice. And then right beside a pendulum squat, one of the goats for the quads. Then we got a pitch shark over here. A hack squat. And then an insanely heavy duty leg press that I must try. This is kind of terrifying. Oh, that feels good. This place is extremely overwhelming. There's so many different rooms and stuff going on. I feel like if I just press on this wall, it's going to open into a smoothie, speakeasy underground thing. But so far, really cool. And it's about to get even more overwhelming because there are so many more areas to explore, starting with the leg dungeon. They call it the leg dungeon, but looking at the wall, I would just call this like the patriotism pit. Like, I'm not getting leg dungeons. It's like a giant soaring eagle with an American flag. Eagles don't have big legs. Have you guys seen eagle's legs? They have big talons. That's it. And then this room is called the powerlifting room. It's all just like barbells in here. Look at this pretty sweet custom bench here. I love the fact that powerlifters don't have to be in the same area as bodybuilders. You know, like you wouldn't put a lion in the same cage as a gorilla, although I'd love to see it. But you can kind of be whoever you want to be at this gym. Like if you're a powerlifter, you come in here, bodybuilder, you go out there. It's great. And look at the amount of writing all over the walls. It's pretty clear which type of lifter is more literate. And then right next door to the powerlifting room, we have the squat deadlift studio. The difference between the squat deadlift studio to the powerlifting studio remains unknown, but this is pretty sweet. Very interesting that we have a Muhammad Ali quote in the powerlifting room. He's a boxer if you didn't know. Very cool vibes in here. Very like grungy dungeon vibes with like the kind of like the horror hands marks on the wall from the chalk. This is a cool. This is a cool rack too. This platform is taken and beating man. This is clearly the boxing area, which is super nice. It's a mixture of like a modern boxing gym and then an old school boxing gym. It's like if Rocky trained with Sylvester Stallone's money. That's when I thought this gym couldn't get any better. What? There's a full outdoor gym. We got dumbbells again up to a hundred and then we walk outside and you got like tire flips and stuff. What? Oh, yo. This is a vibe. Like this is hard to beat. We have like everything. We have upper body. You got lower body over here. We've got a deadlift platform over there. Deadlifts outside in the summer is going to hit. The art on the wall is really sick too. You kind of feel like you're training in a prison yard. You kind of fulfill that fantasy if you ever had that. I have. I'm really interested. Comment down below. Do you prefer Quad's gym or this gym? I feel like it's going to be a toss up for a lot of people because these gyms both have some very unique things to offer. So which one would you pick? Comment down below. Basically what makes this gym a level four is obviously the amount of incredible equipment they have, but also the amenities. So we have a ping pong table here. It'd be so nice to just absolutely pound some balls between workouts. And we walk around this way. And then right here we have a basketball court. The hoops here are a bit small. Kind of like those like carnival scams. And then right here we have a pool which I would actually go in. It looks very nice and very well kept. Okay. We've got tanning beds in here. We've got a tanning bed. A really nice feature of this gym is that they have a women's only area that's called the booty lab that you can only access through the women's change room. We access it with complete permission and everything. So don't worry about that. Even though it's called the booty lab, it has everything that you need. You can train chest, shoulders, and of course your boots. So I mean, I feel like for women, this is a really good thing because I think a lot of times women are very intimidated in a big gym with a lot of guys staring, you know, so this is a good safe zone. I think if my Greek mythology was correct, that is Medusa. And she's known for making guys rock solid. I think that's what she's known for, right? Which now it makes sense given the name. Yeah. And now that I think about it, the booty lab, it's kind of racist towards women. It's not all they care about, you know? They care about other things. If you're finding your way around this gym is not already considered functional fitness, they have a functional fitness area with the turf, a bunch of balls down there, and then there's also Thera guns on deck. How do you operate this thing? We're in the posing area right now, and I've never seen this before in my life. And it's the down light that you can actually move with you. Look at that. The lighting is sick. Damn. I don't know. Can level five meet this gym? I'm not sure. I'm really not sure. Let's see. Welcome to the level five gym beyond. This is one of the most luxurious wellness facilities in America. It's expensive. I feel significantly underdressed. I feel like I need to be wearing Saint Laurent just to be accepted inside. But we'll see if they'll take me. This place is not cheap. It's not cheap at all. And beyond in Vietnamese means mysterious, secret, which makes a lot of sense because I have a lot of questions. So let's go to infinity and beyond. The entrance is incredibly beautiful. It's kind of cultish. I feel like I'm going to have to eat like a child's heart or something when I go inside. But here we go. Oh. Cut it for a sec. Oh, wow, man. Definitely not a gym where you're going to see Arnold on the wall, maybe like Gwyneth Paltrow or something. But you feel like you're like in a five star hotel right now. There's lots of plants everywhere, which I'm assuming they're going to tell me very soon that they're all real. This bar, this bar is just not energy drinks and pre-workout. Maybe I can do an apparel spritz to pair well with my leg day today. I've been to a lot of luxury gyms across America and this one has to be the most beautiful one I've seen so far. Every inch of this space looks really carefully thought out. It also just smells amazing in here. I want whatever they're cooking. It just smells like a freaking Thanksgiving dinner. I met up with co-founder Mar and she walked me over to the co-working space of the club. Yeah, some people say it's the most productive workplace that they've ever had because they just have to walk down the hallway to get to their fitness center or class, their acupuncture treatment, their physical therapy. One of those things about physical therapy and chiropractic is those are the easiest things to just kind of ignore because it's very inconvenient to do. Same with seeing your doctor for something that might seem small. So we made that really possible that you can just walk down the hallway and get any of those things taken care of every day. That's so cool. So you can basically do it all here. We are currently in the co-working space where members can just come chill, get coffee, get on their laptop, do a bunch of work. Then you can just walk up here and grab some water. So they got the orange water. If you don't like orange water, they got lemon water. If you don't like lemon water, they just have regular water. If you're a child or something like that, then you walk down this way and then you got the self-serve coffee, which I would be fully taking advantage of my full membership. I'd be making my money to just some coffee. They have cream and then they have almond, but they even have self-serve oat milk. That's when you know you're at a place with a lot of money because you never see self-serve oat milk. Oh, wow. Where does this lead to? This leads to the gym. Ooh. Yes. So we'll head on down. The post leg day steps wouldn't be so bad on here. This is the most beautiful stairwell I've ever seen. And at the bottom of the stairwell waiting for me lies the sushi bar. Okay, so I need to know the story of the sushi bar because this is the most epic gym and melody I've ever seen. Formerly, this was known as Japane in Chicago, which was one of the most well-known sushi restaurants in Chicago.  catalgo. Then my partner, Kevin Bame, of Bokeh Restaurant Group, has a really beautiful restaurant that has some of the best fish quality, so we were able to think about what would be that unique spin on having a beautiful dining experience and that additive. It's ran upstairs to any of the spaces for lunch, dinner, you name it. Can you do, like, a sushi super-set? Like, can I go from, like, spa rack to- You can! I think that's actually really good protein play. It's the shime-set. That's what you should call it. Yeah. Yeah. Just see me in squat. Yes. Time to take a look at the gym space. We got the cardio here. We got treadmills, treadmills. We got some ellipticals. We got some bikes over there. And we walk over here and then there's a really nice turf with this like insane jungle gym thing. Like it's actually beautiful. Like there's so much going on in here. Like the amount of different handles. Like you could do like some sort of like luxurious physical 100 with all the members here. Oh, that's so fun. Wow. Got a wall of balls over there of all different sizes. It's wonderful. And then the dumbbells we have up to 80 pounds and they're rogue dumbbells, which I've actually never used, but rogue is always really high quality, which is great. We got kettlebells, dip bar, like this thing is like you can do so much on here, three squat racks. And then there's also in house physiotherapy. So you can come train and then come over here, get all fixed up. So there's not a lot of machines at all, which I can kind of overlook because the space is so beautiful. Like there's basically just squat racks, dumbbells, kettlebells and benches. So it's forcing you to do the basic compound movements, which is also not bad at all. I think if they had a quads gym machine in here, members would actually be kind of scared. They'd look at it and be like, this setup of this gym is definitely for more functional athletic training, but you can still get super jacked here. It may not be a bodybuilder paradise, but that's not really the demographic here. Whenever I see these things, it just makes me realize how good some salesmen are out there. So I think apparently I'm burning fat right now, burning tons of calories. Three, two, one. Oh, that's a hard set. All right, we're going to do the in body here. If I'm paying a premium price to be a member here, they better round down my body fat by at least 3%. All right, so I am currently a hundred and 98 pounds on the dot. Okay, face your heels on the sole. Grab the hat. Place your nose on the elbow. Eight point four percent body fat. I think they call us for two rolls of sushi, man. I'm under 10%. I'm printing that. Hey, hey, hey. And then we got the sushi bar, which I think is again, I keep on saying it. Like this is, this is why we're here really. Like it opens at 11 a.m. We're going to get a roll of sushi a hundred percent. Like I kind of want to, like how much would it cost you to bench press a tuna? I kind of want to bench press a tuna. I wonder if they'd let me do that. You really don't feel like you're like in the middle of a really busy city. Like everything just kind of just feels so relaxed. You feel like you're at like a resort in Mexico or something. It was now time to take a look at the amenities right at the gym. They have a nice water here and the water here. I don't know if it's tap water. It doesn't taste like it or I'm just thinking that it's at the on or something. It's such good water. This is also an extremely random but cool room. It's like a music room with all these like vinyls here. Look at this. Look at that. There's also a full spa side to the gym with these comfy couches, which I'm not sure if you're allowed to nap on or not. But if not, don't worry. They have a nap room. So this is a steam room and then this is also the ice bath. So you get the hot and then you go into the cold. Oh yeah, that turned into a baby carrot in there. That is cold. But such a beautiful ambiance in here. Everything is beautiful here and everything just smells so nice. Every single room is like, oh, that's a nice smell. Lavender, rosemary, Thanksgiving feast. It's just, it's amazing. It doesn't smell like urine. I get LA Fitness. What the fuck? Look at the shower. What is going on in here? Like there's a seat there. There's a seat here. There's a mirror here. Like you have a lot of fun in here. Like and how many different heads are in here? Like I think this is a full one. Here, I think there's seven different shower heads in here. So you're getting blasted by seven at once. Would that be a PR? Yeah, that'd be a PR for me. The showers were like many personalized water parks. Much different than LA Fitness. They also have a sauna and some amazing food, which I can't wait to try. We're having breakfast now. I'm currently sipping on a smoothie with five grams of creatine in here, which is great because I didn't pack it. So the food here is from a fine dining chef. So it's going to be amazing. And we're going to build our own scramble. If there's a possible way to make egg whites look fine dining, this is it. Like this presentation is quite beautiful. And I have been craving toast of the bread variety for so long, and this sourdough looks on point. You got to spread me before you eat me. Mmm. So good. There's so much flavor in this. Honestly, for the price that it is so far, it's so worth it. I feel like they could charge so much more, and I'd probably still join. This is like a place that you want to be. Like I would actually come here for the full entirety. Possibly sleep here. And hide and do what I know. After breakfast, I'm actually getting a facial. It's not my first one. I've got a face. It's not my first one I've brought to the gym, but it's the second one that I'm paying for. And let's just hope that they can do something with the entire thing. Actually, before the facial, I ended up getting a glutathione booster shot. And what is glutathione? Glutathione is a powerful antioxidant that helps to with muscle recovery, inflammation, detoxing, the liver, and then added bonus is also pigment on the skin. Okay. I should have a clear injection site in my shoulder. I'm just kidding. I don't do steroids. That's just a joke. How big is the needle? You want to know now or? One, two, three. Oh. Oh. I know. You have all done. It's a big muscle. Oh, that one hurt. And it's a thick, it's a viscous thick shot. Oh, thank you. I know. You won't necessarily feel anything. You know, kind of like a rush or anything like that. You'll just kind of notice that perhaps your muscles recover faster after your workouts. You feel a little less inflamed. Your skin is glowing a little bit. Oh, okay. Yeah. Thank you so much. And in combination with the facial, it'll be perfect. It's facial time. Time to get beautiful. At least try to. 40 minutes, express facial. Excited. This facial was so relaxing. I completely fell into the deepest sleep. I think I've ever had. I'm so relaxed right now. I feel so yummy. I feel beautiful. I feel like I just went from a solid two to a three and a half, potentially a four. I'm feeling great. I'm feeling on top of the world right now. I just experienced five levels of gyms, also different in their own ways. At the end of the day, it really doesn't matter what level of gym you have access to. The only thing that truly matters is you get into the gym a few days a week, but some gyms have amenities that are way too good to pass up on.