 this is Diamond. He's 6'8", has 3.1 million followers on Instagram and a jewelry collection worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. He's what we call a high school super athlete. The top .01% of teenagers blessed with freakish height, elite speed, and strength. They're built like Marvel characters, except they're very much real and they have math class at 10am. And then there's me, down here. This was me in high school. Today I'm going to be spending the day with Diamond and other high school athletes to see what it takes to be the best and if I can fit in. We made it to OTE. I got my basketball shoes on. I have no idea why I own these, but this facility costs $100 million to make. And looking at it, it looks like a barn or just like a really sick driving range for indoor golf, but it's what's on the inside that counts. Let's go. If there's a day to be self-conscious about my height, it's going to be today. I feel like I'm going to be looking up like this all day. My neck's going to hurt quite a bit. So we made our way inside and met up with Sam, editor-in-chief at OTE. See what I'm saying? I'm six seven. Yeah. Yeah. So what is OTE? So OTE is the world's best high school basketball league. So the best players from actually not only all around the US, all around the world come here. So it's not actually a high school. It's not a high school. Oh no, the players do go to school here. They go to school here. Yeah. So it's not, it's not, it's like it is partly a high school and it's accredited all that stuff. So yeah, so you leave your high school, you come here, you learn here, you go, you train here, you eat here, all that stuff. I'm already violating probation being in a high school. Yeah, I know, I know. We have to pull a lot of strings together in here. At all times we're filming, there's recording going on. So your privacy just goes out the window when you come here pretty much? Yeah, pretty much. Okay. So kind of a go-pros in the bathroom and stuff. Not quite. Oh, this is sick. So this is where all the players walk through on game days. We have a photographer every day. Oh, the every day? Oh yeah. Yeah, okay. Just walking down the first hallway of this facility, you can already tell this place is unlike anywhere else in the world to develop young athletes. It's a breeding ground for future NBA stars. What separates OTE from other basketball programs? Well, first of all, you'll see like, there's no other facility like this in the world. I've been in the wayroom when like NBA guys are here and then be like, damn, this is better than what we have. Something that no one else even offers close to us is the best like branding, because we start as a media company. So we know how to like take a player in and if you if they want to grow their brand, we can help you do that and blow it up to a huge proportion. So there's actually like a tangible connection between, oh, can I build my brand in high school and then how much more money can I make in college? I mean, this looks like the entrance to Hogwarts for the vertically gifted man. So this is fricking sick. The vertically gifted. Yeah. That's a man of star Thompson. They were two of the first players to join OTE. They ended up being drafted fourth and fifth. Fourth and fifth overall? Yes, and then they draft. This is Don Barlow as proud we are the twins were probably equally as proud of Don Barlow because he actually came to OTE. He was like, he didn't have any D one offers or anything like that. He came to OTE the first year it started before anything was proven. He was the hardest working guy, him and the twins probably. He didn't get drafted. He signed a two way contract. He's been in the league for three years now. Later last night or two nights ago, 14 real he's been starting for the Sixers. We've all heard of the six seven mean it doesn't it doesn't mean anything. But apparently it was originated by one of the players here, TK with this tick talk. Yeah, he's one of the top top 15 ranked guys in the country going to Kansas next year. Then he started his own water brand six seven water, which we can test later. Ooh, I'm excited for that. That might make you taller and jump higher actually. pH level six seven, pH level six seven, and it might make you go to six seven and we're gonna get the vertical up. I mean, today you're going to be getting the full like, we're going to make you into a real hoop around the time. Hey man, height doesn't measure heart. No, it definitely doesn't. Also one thing one thing I want to mention, new team this year phase plan, say like the gamer plan. Yes. So they they are the new team this year. So they're like kind of sponsoring associated with the team. And we also have fear of God. You know that brand, like Jerry Lorenzo. Yeah, that's pretty sick. Yeah. So those are two of those jerseys. Those would be sick. We can work on that. Here's our championship trophy. Have you heard of icebox? No, it's like one of the most famous jewelry places in the country. It's in Atlanta. So they make our championship trophy. Wow. It's heavy. Don't know if we can lift it. I could lift that. I think you could definitely lift it. But we might I don't know how to get in the box. Okay, so this is the practice courts. Just practice courts. These are just the practice courts. Okay. This is even the best we have. All of our teams are up there. The Drifty Dreamer. So okay, I like that one. That's actually our women's basketball league. How much to sponsor a team? For you, I'll give you a good deal. Like 10 E donuts, big dripping Boston cream in the center. We'll give you a special deal. Yeah. Basically, we keep track of who's taking practice shots. So in October, Payton took 6,000 shots. So he's on top of the board in one month. Yeah. I mean, that's like 200 per day, right? For 30 days. That's not even including practice or games, right? Yeah, this is just like in their personal time. Yeah. So for Peyton, ball really is life. Definitely. Yeah. But it's really to hype up the guys that are in the gym, getting the most shots. I think I did like 600 in a month. Yeah, I got seven, but my laptop broke. We'll get you on the board later. I think hopefully we can get you to a couple hundred today. Yeah, I think so. This is like the basketball equivalent to a powerlifting total. Yes. The charts. Yes, it really is. All right. So yeah, this is the wall where we just kind of show a lot of the alumni. So we got Dom, John plays overseas, Sean plays at Cincinnati, Kansas, Auburn, like you can just see all the guys Ian played at UNC, then he just transferred to St. John's. It's hard to update these because the guys transfer a lot. But the point is we have a lot of guys currently playing college. This kind of looks like he would just go right through me. He's huge. He's huge. He's like six, 11, 17 feet. He put me through a lot of things. He would dunk on you. Yeah. We have a Gatorade bar here. So if you want anything, Gatorades, protein shakes, all that type of stuff. You can come make a shake if you want. Along with the basics, the facility also has some pretty unique features like their very own barbershop. No bad game days, no bad hair days. No, look good, play good. Yeah, I can't rock a fade. Oh my God, dude. Yeah. So, man, the lighting system here must cost a fortune. Yes, I mean, it costs a lot to operate this, but it's worth it. Easily the nicest high school gym I've ever seen. I'm talking MBA level lighting, cameras everywhere, full broadcast setup. There's so much tech in here that our wireless audio literally started cutting out. This is a guy, like, yeah. No, no. So the only other arenas in the world that have this LED system are crypto and Barclays. How do you go about trying out for a team? Or is it no tryouts? For the teams in Atlanta, we have scouts that literally travel the country looking for the top players. It's a mix of top players, but also like culture fit, right? Because you want to build a culture. Oh, look. What? Read the LED. Oh, thank you. Austin directing with fans is kind of at the core of the league, right? It's like something that none of the other, no other leagues in baseball, soccer, basketball, none of them can really do what we do. So what we do is every year we post an online link to try out for OT. This year we got 20,000 applicants. We go through every single applicant and then we invite 20 of them down to OT to try out for one spot. So we fly them down all expenses paid. It's basically like a basketball vacation for these kids. We fly you down and then we do tryouts for three days and we choose one player to join the league. So actually we walk past them downstairs, but Tray none won this year and he's playing for a phase. Wow. The odds, the odds forever being your favorite. Yeah. 220,000? 220,000. Damn. Yeah. So you can try out next year. I'm a little bit old though. It was technically no age limit. Yeah. There's no age limit? Yeah. Oh, wow. Dream tryouts here I come. This definitely has to be the nicest high school basketball facility I have ever seen. The lighting systems, the media room over there. They really have these cameras everywhere. So you get every single angle of the game. Section four, we got section five and then section six, seven. This is the actual player locker room. Right. And you should see your name on one right over here. Oh yeah. Look at that. Everything in the locker room is for you. Your training is all set. You have all the gear you need. So. You're in there? Yeah. Here, open it up. Oh, dude. Oh my. Adidas sent those specifically. They knew you were coming to shoot this video. So they sent, those are brand new. Like I don't know, those are released yet. Hopefully I can rock these, man. What? I hope they pull them off. You can pull them off. Really? You think so? Yeah. So it was finally time to get ready and really become one of these super athletes for the day. These are the brand new Adidas Hardin Volume 10s, which right now are retailing for $210, along with a fully stocked locker with custom Adidas outfits for on court and off court training. I feel like no matter how well it fits, it just looks unnatural on me. You know what it is? Hooper's probably wouldn't wear shorts that tight. I feel like I look like a guy who like, like had like a weird like make a wish granted or something. Like I want a contest to be here. All right, what next, man? Let's go eat. Oh, I can do that. Better than anyone here. I guarantee it. Oh man. So there's the menu. We've got fried chicken, asparagus, rice. I'll get everything. I gotta hit my threes today. So I'll do three servings of everything. Okay. You said three servings of everything? Yeah. For real? Yeah. I gotta hit my threes. Okay. Yeah. I don't know what they mean, but. Yeah. Oh, it's okay. Yeah. I was just trying to be funny. Thank you. What? That's dense. Yeah. I mean, the guys are like working out every day, playing every day. So we gotta make sure that they're, you know, eating healthy. Yeah. This is amazing so far. This is like gourmet freaking food. All right. So we have a lot of food here. We have salmon, rice, pasta, fried chicken and asparagus. So this is, I'm eating the meal of a six, five plus high school basketball super athlete. And I'm a 31 year old under six foot guy. So this is like going straight to my hips. That's for sure. Let's give it a shot. There's seasoning on here. I think the high school kids don't even appreciate that. Oh wow. Restaurant quality. Mmm. The rice is spice. Super nice. Super carb heavy. Actually pretty calorie heavy. But when you're training as much as them on the court in the weight room, you need the calories. They're also super tall. So they're like basal metabolic rates, but with like 6,000 calories or something crazy like that. Fried chicken. Closest look at to a dunk all day. Oh my God. Bro. Yeah. As you can tell from the food on my face and the constant facial expressions, this is ridiculously high quality cafeteria food. You can tell there's a lot of care that goes into it with a rotating menu every day. These kids are getting all the nutrition they need to be training for hours a day. A little sparrigus. Mmm. Gotta make my piece now. That's all right. This seems like they go above and beyond at a bunch of seasoning. It's not just boring. Plain chicken, plain salmon. That's my Cajun spice there. So like, you know what they're trying? They want to make the kids enjoy the healthier foods, which is good. So along with the food over there, there's also the snack area here, where these, these apple cinnamon, like organic, mushed up apple sauce kind of things look really good. Wow. That looks really good. Then there's these soft and chewy granola bars, popcorners, a healthier chip alternative, which is nice. Got another protein bar, Pringles, jerky, muscle milks, Gatorade nutrition shakes. And then over here, what's in here? What is this? Mini pizzas? Look at this mini pizzas. 290 a pot. Uncrustables. I've never had an uncrustable before. Can I have an uncrustable? Yeah. You just eat it frozen? Yeah, you just eat it like that. Oh, I should wait a minute. I think maybe you pop that in the thing. No, go wrong, man. Really? Yeah, let's go wrong. Good. That was good. It's good without. I've actually never had one. So far from what I've seen from the court, the food, and even the gear, I just had to know, how much does it cost players to even be here? So all the players are here on scholarship. We have 31 players in the building. Like they're all here for, for basketball, obviously in the academic school, but like, yeah, none of them pay any money. Wow. And like all their like housing is paid for and everything too? Yeah, everything's paid for. The league is, makes money through like sponsorship. So it's sponsored by Gatorade, State Farm, Adidas, all that stuff. So that's how we make money. And then we were able to provide everything else for free for the players. Next up on the to-do list was to visit the weight room. Wow. This gym is so sick. Everything's custom. So you got OTE up there. And then even OTE on the plates right there. Again, it's a lot more of an athletic performance gym. There's not a lot of machines. So in terms of machines, we got a leg press. Don't know what that is. The dumbbells actually go to 125. Dumbbells to 125 at a high school is crazy. I don't think I've ever seen a high schooler lift those. So I wonder who would be lifting the 125s. It ain't about just basketball. Yes, it is. Then we got this, which I'm imagining is to like test your reflexes. So we got a bunch of the different balls here. So you go like... And then each rack comes with a belt for weighted pull-ups. You got a trap bar here. You got some bumper plates on the side. So again, a lot of explosive movements, a lot of functional movements, and not a lot of bodybuilding because you don't really need to be jacked to be a good basketball player. But they're all jacked for some reason, I guess. Like look at LeBron. LeBron definitely does a push-pull leg split. 100%. It's a sick gym. I love the colors. I love the light blue and the orange. It's not my ideal gym, but it does its purpose, obviously. They're building some crazy athletes here, and this is all that you need. You don't need anything fancy. For today's Off-Court Workout, I'm joining TK, one of the top prospects in the entire country. Head Performance coach James is going to be taking us through a workout starting with something very unfamiliar to me. They locked in. I'll be bringing planks to you until you feel like it's too many plates. It's a competition between the two of us. Oh man. So what is basketball training like? Because it's not that much obviously bodybuilding. It's more like functional. We lift. We lift. You can split squat almost 300 pounds. Split squat? Yeah. Three plates. Yeah. That's not that. Three plates is more than 300. That's 315, man. Pretty crazy to think at 17 he can split squat 315 pounds. That's elite level strength. It just goes to show the training is ultra specialized to the sport. I mean, I'm used to 200 on me, man. So I can't. I don't feel like I do that. You don't flex those glutes, man. I need this pretty fast. It's one like that now. You're tapping out already. You need to topple it up. Oh, come on. James, come on. Put it on, man. Let's go. Let's do it. Let's do it. Another. I like it. You're going to cook me on the court. So let's talk to him. He got it. Okay, Rick. That's it. That's it. One more. One more. Yeah, go. One more. One more. You do it as well. You got it. Yeah. And you just lay down. Yeah. Next, we did a quick race with the sleds on the turf. Well, that was a cheap start, you think. There you go. Switch it. Oh, no. No. You have, you have this in red. Make it look good. This one is red. There you go. There you go, man. Couldn't find the hole on the other side. Yeah, I couldn't either. Oh, what's happened? After losing the sled race, all I knew is I need to start doing cardio. I was way too gasped for just being one lap. Do I, Tommy? Oh, I just got out of breath. So, six, seven. What is it? I don't know what that is. It's nothing. It was a part of the song. I said it. And that's how it, that's how it took off? It will. Because you won't, this will, no. Hey, good. I know. No. Oh, man. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. Hang out there. How are we going to hold this for? Hey, we'll see who taps out first. He got it. Oh my goodness. And the players, is there like a fitness test that they do in pass? We do yo-yos. We do three runs, three rep maxes on everything. Three? Three rep maxes. Why is that? Just because one, like I'm dealing with a lot of guys who haven't lifted before, two rep max is just, I think this is a much better introduction to it than I'm trying to just say go as heavy as you can. Yeah, right away. All right, next one. The wider your feet, the easier it is. Try to get kind of narrow, big push, and you have to reach down, touch the floor, and touch. Touch the floor, and touch. Come on, man. Compete. Compete. Oh, man. That's hard. Just you first to five. First to five. First to five. Go. There you go. There you go. Go. Yeah. Oh, wow. That just made me realize how horrible my right side is. I'm like right side dominant, I thought. So how often are players training? Four times a week. Okay. All year long. Okay. Is it like a full body split? Yeah. Okay. We'll do six reps. It's the max max number of reps that we'll do. Something for lower body, something for upper body every day. We do some core work every day, and we do a lot of movement stuff. So, you know, lots of jumping and changing direction. So, yeah. We're going to get hang. Got to hang on the big bone wall. That's girthy. Three, two, one. Go. You know my head. You can't be already. Come on, man. Let's go. Come on. Get back to the ground. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. At the end of the workout, I was feeling a bit coffee with how well I did. So, I wanted to see how I'd stack up against TK in a vertical jump 1v1. I'll 1v1 you right now. Like, I mean, that's what I'm talking about. I got nothing to lose. Only he has everything to lose. This is like J. Paul versus AJ right now. I got nothing to lose. You're going first. Me? Yeah. Because I got to see your form. Okay. I built for lateral. It's not perfect. Go. 15-5. I don't know. I think I need to get the pocket ruler for that one. That's pretty low. Stand still. Go. 16-8. Go. That's 13. 16-8. Very consistent. Very consistent. Okay. You better go get that one-on-one game. Redeem yourself. I made my first shot of the day. I beat his vertical. Is it possible I beat the best high school player in the country on the court? Who do you model your game after? Tyrese Mackey. Who? Tyrese Mackey? Okay. I'm like airbugs. Do you want to know airbugs? Nah. The game is first to three and it was quite possibly the fastest game of 1v1 ever. I'm going to stick to the weight room. With the off-court training done for the day, it was time for the on-court training where I'll be joining high school's most famous athlete, Diamond. So I'm on the court now with Diamond and speaking of that, you have a pretty legit jewelry collection. Wait a little bit. I just got a reach from really two days ago. I have no idea what that is. So I saw you have 3.1 million followers on Instagram. So like for being a high schooler, like your DMs must be crazy. A little bit. Like even if you peaked in high school, that's a flex. A little bit. Like I would have dropped out of 1 million I think. So what do you like about OT? For me as a basketball player, you got all the tools that you need. You got amazing NBA facilities, high-fetched coaches. Every day the gym is open 24-7. A lot of exposure. Camera is on this 24-7. So me knowing how important is social media for a player, not only for exposure but for the relief that you can get to send over to coaches to get some reviews, you are at the right place. So we're on the court now. Shoot. Plus me. I'm surprised. Trader. After making those two shots, I can feel it. I'm starting to heat up. So hopefully that's little glimpse of what's to come during my session with head coach Corey Frazier. First thing we started with for warm-up is some ball handling drills. Only using your right hand on the way up the court and then your left hand on the way back. Then we did these things which clearly I was struggling a lot with. You see diamond? This is dribbling. It looks simple. It's not. It takes coordination, timing, rhythm. None of which showed up with me today. Forever. With that stuff out of the way, it was finally time to start putting the ball in the net. Starting with a layup drill. Good. I would love to be able to dunk like that, but I just can't and I'm blaming genetics. Good. There you go. And that's all I have in it. And we did this similar type of drill at all areas of the court shooting from many different spots. Right there in front of the ground. Hopefully. You're going to be here after some basketballs. You're going to be using your legs to push through my hands. Make sense? No. You're going to be using your legs and trying to walk. Damn. Crazy hand out for the nation. There were so many drills we had to do where we were confined to only using one hand, training the both to be equally as dominant so we have no weak points. This drill that you're seeing where I pass the ball to diamond, then Corey gives me the ball for the shot was something we ran for a very long time. Corey wouldn't let us move on until I made a shot and I wasn't making anything. That was a five time. Then we worked on our threes from behind the line. I'm going to get two in a row. Oh, you think you make two more? Make two. Those three. There you go. Hold it out, man. One more. One more. One for the road. To finish off this workout, Corey had a little surprise for us. Right hand down left hand back. You got to finish with a free throw. Then it's got to be a switch to get out to drips. Okay. Switch. All right. Go. Right hand down. You've seen him, bro. You're a free throw switch. No. You're up almost. No. Why does it have to be a switch? That's the best way to finish. I'm not like a rim job. No. You might like it. I don't think I can say that. I'm going to use that. Finger in the rim. Remember? Q? Yeah. There it is. Yes. Yeah. Got the chair for me. Yes. Longy one. First three. Yeah. I'm out. Of course my, no, no, it's my ball. Come on. What's on the line here? I guess I'm a jewelry. I get your necklace. I get your new necklace. Yeah. Oh, that's you. All right. The other day. She better. No. Let's get down. It looks like it's zero. So yeah. I was impressed about your level. Really? Bro. You told me about the you super strong. Yeah. You think it was me too coordinated? Yeah. So people not so close to you all the time. I was surprised. Really? Yeah. I think if I had like a year, I'd be okay. Can I play in the league? Actually, in the league, I don't know. I think. Yeah. It's just maybe two years. I think I can rebound pretty hard. Pretty hard. Yeah. I think so. And you're strong. People don't like strong people. We don't like to find so much basketball. Oh, you don't? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I asked you. I do. Yeah. I don't like it though. How many shots a day you take? I'll say about a thousand. A thousand a day? Yeah. You got a shooting machine right there. Yeah. Whenever we don't shoot every day because of the how many practice we have. I think you're captain, bro. No, no. Yeah. Because why are you on that list? I am. I'm different. No, you're not. You're a pro. Payton's up there, man. Right here. 20, dude. Come on. I was top three last week. I got proof. I'll fill up my phone right now. I got proof. Chat GPT. Make it look like I got 8,000 shots. Look, I was here top two. He's down the truth. Was it ever a challenge? Like with all the publicity and the followers? Like to let it get to your head and like take over your game in any way? I don't think so. No. Because in France it was really a polemic kind of. Like me being so exposed at a young age. My coach is like, my main thing was sharing my lifestyle as a basketball player and my coach would let me do a TikTok in the gym. So I had to sneak in and do it. I was like, my coach here never seen me do a TikTok. So I kind of got that trauma from like doing my stuff on my side whenever I got some free time. Yeah. Where I never mix both. All right. So we're doing some recovery with Cam. Yes, sir. How old are you? I'm 16 years old. What the f... How tall are you? Well, she was on? Oh, six six. Six six. Yeah. So you're not probably six five. So besides being a teenager, what do you guys do for recovery? Coat, tub, hot tub. And like I say, you can go to a trainer and then they'll stretch you do mobility with you. All that stuff. Okay. Nice. I don't think I've ever done these before. You've never done them? No. I'll just grab. Yeah. You can grab any one. All right. I need three of them. Subtle flux. I can barely wrap this around my quad. The button's right here. You turn it on. And then depending on how much time you want to do, we can probably do what? We can do 15. 15, yeah. Yeah. You cook at the 15th. Oh, it's just got a good vibration to it. Kind of want to... Do you feel like out of place when you're showing about all this talent? I play better when I'm playing with or against so much more better people. I just thought my game elevates as the time going with those good people. If I'm playing down to my competition, I feel like I'm going to play down to my competition. I won't play as good. So I feel like that's not the greatest mindset to have. But like, based on like my life so far, that's just what it's been. So when I do play against really good people, I just get better. You know, this stuff does work. I will say that. But I do like cryo and cold punch a lot more. I don't do that. You don't do cryo and cold punch? Anti-cold. Really? What's that? Anti-cold? Oh, you don't? You no-cold at all? Oh, okay. I can't afford any more shrinkage. Well, Norma Tech, like, all it does is just... It really like... It's really just a blood... This is a blood flow, getting a blood flow there. And then... Fizzing mom's warm embrace. Yeah, that's the best fact. I miss my mom a lot. This stuff being away from home when down here, I do live with my dad. Oh, okay. And then the apartment over here. You know, you gotta miss mom's cooking, right? Yeah. Yeah. What she cook up for you? She cooks anything. My mom has a food truck. No way. No way. That's where she has a food truck. She's got food. She does like... She mainly does like sofas. So that's like fried chicken, mac and cheese. Yo, shut her out. What's her food truck name? Her food truck is a little taste of soul. She don't go nowhere. It's like she's just since Natty, Ohio. Yeah. Go check it out. Fiviting back to basketball here. Do you have a life outside of basketball? Or is basketball your life? Everybody here would be... We're so tired after like these three days and sometimes four days you can wake up early in the morning. So like resting is the best thing. So like when I'm sitting in the house and I'm not really doing much, I watch basketball a lot. So like my whole life's basketball. Yeah. Like I said, I've been doing this since I was three. Not at the highest level, of course. I've already wasn't the greatest when I was three. The Fisher-Pryde Snats, bro. You're just for precision. What do you think separates OTE from other basketball programs? Just a amount of time that we have in the gym. We go to school for like four hours. So I would think like shortening your school days, I think is better. Yeah. Going to school for like seven hours, I think is kind of crazy. I feel like you're not going to take as much stuff. You're not going to learn as much stuff. Like I'm not going to use this in the real world, in my opinion. Some of the stuff you'll use in the real world, but majority of it, you're kind of just being babysitted in my opinion.  we use all that excess time, that extra three hours, we're using that here, we're moving that to the core. So, kind of like time management, I think that's what separates OT. Recovery session with Cam was so much fun. What blew me away was not only his mindset, but also how well-spoken he was for just being 16 years old. Other recovery options include a full physiotherapy area to get all kinds of work done, no matter the issue, as well as a massive hot tub and cold tub. We just finished the recovery, now it's time to refuel. Do this, you just come, take as many as you want. This place truly feels like it's an NBA team facility. It's actually insane that these high school kids have access to this for no cost at all. Like, free muscle milks is even worth it then. I still prefer Powered, but I think we can all agree that water sucks. There's even this room, which you literally do not see unless you're a pro athlete, and that is when you just come and sit with your team and you watch game film from the last game, and you have your coach up there, you look at like past plays, what do you wanna do next game? So this is like a really cool thing to learn going into the next game. And then right next door, you have this studio, green screen, the white infinity wall over there, another thing over there. So every single player gets a media day where they do the headshots, video, just like a professional athlete, which is incredible. The amount of money and time they spend on each individual player is unlike anything I've ever seen before. So I came to my locker, opened it, and there's a new Fear of God Adidas basketball shoes just sitting here waiting for me, and I didn't even ask for them. Oh, look at those. Those are clean. Look at that, on the back in the red, Fear of God. This is just a regular day for these athletes. They just come to their locker, boom, a new pair of shoes. I don't even know how much these are, probably a lot. So they're treated like pro athletes early on from like 14, 15 years old, all the way up until when they get drafted, they wanna play college, which I think is actually beneficial. Like if you're treated like this now, and you feel like there's all this pressure, you've accessed all these things, the adjustment to the next level is not that bad. It feels the exact same. So they're getting them ready early, they do media training for them, so they know exactly what they need to do, what they need to say, how they say it, learn to be respectful. So they're setting all these kids up for insane success and spoiling them while they do it. The last stop of the day, surprisingly, isn't another workout. It's actually media training. For 15 to 20 minutes, a few times a week, players are put in situations to get them comfortable talking in front of cameras and answering questions. Today I'm joined with Anderson for a mini podcast. Anderson, if you were to look at Will right now. Yeah. Where do you see him fitting in on a basketball court? What position do you think you play? The water boy. He wants to say it, I know he does. He's like the one, no he's not. He's strong, he might be the one. You call me the one? Yeah, he would have to be the one. Oh, thank you. Six, seven water. Tastes good. 67 minerals. What's the first thing you would fix in a basketball player's diet? Oh man. I guess Anderson told him like, yeah, I don't know what he eats. I just, I saw him crushing jolly ranchers, bro. I'm not, it's terrible. We'll go from what I ate today. Sure. Yeah, I barely ate today. Oh, candy, snacks, eatery, I was eating, eatery. Probably chicken and spaghetti though. Listening to Anderson list off his meal plan for the day, I mean, it just, it made me feel really old and it was also very painful hearing how little protein he's consuming, which made me think of only one thing. We just finished the podcast with Anderson and it's pretty crazy to hear his diet of just candy, juice and fried chicken. It could definitely be better. So we're looking at the snacks right now. I am starving. They got the protein bars here, 190 calories, 10 grams protein, could it be better? Absolutely. That's why I always bring with me wherever I go a David protein bar, 150 calories, 28 grams of protein. So less calories and really tripping. Triple the protein of another protein bar. It tastes delicious. I even think Anderson would eat this. He just likes candy. He would love this. It just treats like straight up cookie dough. So this is the highest protein to calorie ratio protein bar on the planet. You can only get protein to calorie ratio like this in cod. And I'm not breaking cod with me on the planet anyway. If that's just disgusting. It's so good. The texture is unbeatable. So this is one of my favorite flavors, the chocolate chip cookie dough flavor. If you guys want to try them out, first link in the description, you will not be disappointed. I got to spend the day with some of the best high school athletes in the entire world, full of raw talent. But now it's time to go back to real life. My 31 year old self, but still taking shots because prime or not, shooters gotta shoot. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self.