Energy drinks are bad for you straight up. But some are so bad they even have a kill count attached to them. Over the next week, I'm going to be testing banned drinks to see how dangerous they really are. Now, I'm going to be rating each drink based off these three criteria. One, energy. Am I just going to get a little energy boost or am I going to cross the line to anxietyfilled heart palpitations? Hopefully, at least one of them puts me in the sweet spot between the two. Two, taste. If I'm going to be risking my life, I should at least be enjoying it. And last but not least, crash. What kind of crash am I going to be hit with? Am I just going to be needing a nap or am I going to be slammed by an 18-wheeler? All right, let's get started. Drink one. Spike shooter. Shooter. Hardly know her. made in Colorado Springs and ironically banned a high school in Colorado Springs. After sending kids to a hospital and even putting one kid in a wheelchair, which eventually caused 7-Eleven stores to pull them off their shelves? My stomach started to cramp up and I started vomiting. So, you're telling me a bunch of high school kids couldn't handle 350 millig of caffeine? I'm no doctor, so the only thing I can say is their football team probably sucks. On top of the caffeine, there's 800 milligs of beta-alanine in here and 41,670% of my daily vitamin B12. That is some generational wealth, my friends. Quite honestly, let's just hope that's a typo. I got the strawberry lemonade flavor. I think the kids love it. So, overall, it looks great to fuel [music] my day and possibly my last words. Now, online, the reviews of this are actually pretty good. 4.3 stars overall. Chuck out my boy Joe B. The man has on reoccurring purchases. It's a coffee substitute. Joe, no, it's not. And judging by his face, [music] is he being held at gunpoint or are we witnessing one of the side effects of a B12 overdose? We'll never know. I'm just taking in right now this massive phone number on the can. Is this for the kids lawyers to call? I have not been this nervous since doing absence body shots in Amsterdam. smells alcoholic. The scary thing, it tastes like a regular energy drink, but Ted Bundy seemed like a regular guy, you know, and then you find out, well, you don't find out. You just, it's just too late. It's actually very good. I was expecting it to taste like very medicinal or just like kind of something you'd like repair your boat with because of all the stuff that's inside it, but it's very fruity. I think the only redeeming quality about this drink is that it's 15 calories. But we have a big leg day today and we're going to see if this helps me out. What I'm really interested to see is the zero crash they promote on the website. But that could be because in death you can't crash from caffeine. Look at this. Boba is just so worried about me. Clearly, he's so cute. I'm literally here packing up my stuff before the gym and my heart rate's already at 107 and I'm I'm just I'm just standing still. I'm not even at the gym yet. That's That's pretty high. [snorts] Oh my gosh. 107. Please go down. [sighs and gasps] My heart was beating fast and it was still in the high 90s just standing in the elevator. Holy [\h__\h] I mist time this drink so bad. Usually when I take stuff like this, I'm like, do I feel anything? I actually feel everything right now. It I can't even listen to my pre-workout music cuz I feel like I just get too amped up and my heart would explode. I was genuinely surprised just how much I felt this drink. I'm someone who drinks energy drinks because I get tired of water sometimes and usually I don't feel anything. I take back everything I said about the football team. I'm sorry because I'd be the quarterback. This energy drink is absolutely wrecking me. In terms of energy, I have a ton of energy, but it's an energy that I kind of never want to get. It's like a more of a nervous energy. I feel like there's like a guy, like a predator, watching me from afar while Elmo is tickling me because of the bait alanine, which is a combination that I do not desire. I will say though, and I was not expecting it, I do feel a lot of focus, like a tunnel vision focus. like I feel in the zone which I was not expecting. I didn't see anything about focus on the can. During the first two exercises, I was maintaining a heart rate in the 130s and for not being very taxing exercises, it's kind of concerning. I'm actually feeling very strong today. Super happy with all my sets so far. It's taking me like five times as long to catch my breath after my set. So, I was going online and I was like, "What are some of the side effects of a B12 overdose? They include headache, nausea, and vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue or weakness, tingling sensation, and hands and feet. I think I'm feeling at least three or five of those, but uh it's a good workout, so could be worth it. This is my heart rate after a set. I don't think I've ever seen it quite this high." Even though I was feeling strong, I started to feel some of the negative effects of this drink. Oh my god, I'm starting to feel very nauseous. It had me kind of nervous if I could handle the final drink of this video, which causes the most amount of hospitalizations and deaths than any energy drink in the entire world. I came to the gym so amped up. But I was like, am I here to lift weights or start a mosh pit? And now by the end of the workout, I'm really not feeling good. It's taking me a long time to start my sets. Just feeling pretty sick. That sick feeling that I had, it didn't get any better and I felt horrible for the rest of the day. Spike shooter drink two, cocaine. Reason for ban, high caffeine content and glorification of illegal drug. I want some cocaine. Please give me some. Just a little bit. Cocaine is what's really firing people up these days, but you might not be familiar with it because it's banned in states like Texas for sending the wrong message to kids. Cocaine, anyone? Me? The fact that this has been banned in states like Texas is saying a whole lot because they just don't have rules there. And I just love the marketing of this thing. It's just very in-your-face. It's polarizing. It's like calling a pizza place heroin. I'd go Some of you guys might remember that I've had a sip of this in a past video, and just that one sip made my throat burn like I was Satan's sidepiece. The thought of having an entire can is mortifying. There's 280 millig of caffeine in here, 90 calories, 22 g of carbs, 19 g of sugar, only 600% of our B12. So, that's nothing compared to yesterday. [music] And it just has to say naturally flavored. Like, if you're getting this, I don't think you necessarily care it's naturally flavored. Like, look at Christopher. Does he look worried? Quite the opposite, actually. Just smelling it. [clears throat] Just smelling it. I'm getting amped. Oh man, it tastes very offensive. It tastes like a panic attack with spice. I don't think it's like intended to drink to be honest with you. It more so just tastes like it's a prop. Like you just have this on the table somewhere to make you look like you are hard. It tastes like cough syrup with like sweetener and like fizz. So medicinal, dog. By the [clears throat] time I get to the end of this, I'm going to be drinking my tears. You're never going to see me take this long to drink anything. [clears throat] I feel it in my lungs. You want to see my tongue? [music] That's just straight red 40. Let's go train. Current heart rate before starting my workout is 91 beats per minute. 95 beats per minute. First set moved really well. In terms of energy, I'm not feeling it quite as much as yesterday. But what I am feeling is my airways are a lot more clear. Like you know when you get sick sometimes you put like that kind of like Vix rub on your chest and then everything kind of opens up. Kind of feels like I just did that. which feels actually very nice during a workout. Now, I thought this energy drink was going to make me feel happy, confident, high energy, risk-taking, slightly anxious, just how normal cocaine would. I don't want to say it too loud, but uh overall, I just feel very mellow, like just kind of normal energy surprisingly with all that caffeine. Just good focus. It just feels like a normal day. Heart rate was maintaining between 110 to 120 the entire workout, even during my breaks between sets. Other than that, nothing. Not even a nose bleed. I was thinking for today's chest workout, it was going to be more heart focused than pec. But this workout has been so unfortunately uneventful. If this thing should be banned, it should just be banned for illegal marketing because this stuff is pretty damn weak. But I do think the big events when I'm home on the toilet cuz I feel like it's going to hurt coming out just like I did going in. I'm just on the second half of my workout now doing back and I feel nothing. It's crazy. I didn't even notice the drink taper off which is a good thing I guess in terms of crash. The rest of my workout just felt normal as if I had a cup of coffee on the way to the gym. I really don't think this drink should be banned at all. I think it's just because of the name. Let the kids have their fun. Let them think they're doing something illegal. You know, it's all in it's all in good fun. But as of right now, this is some weak stuff. It's like I just had a regular monster cocaine. [music] Drink three, Panera's charged lemonade. Reason for ban, insane caffeine content causing the drink to be linked to at least two deaths and a ton of lawsuits. The lawsuit claims that 21-year-old Sarah Catz died after consuming the drink. Last December, a Fleming Island family sued Panera after a 46-year-old man died from a heart attack after drinking the caffeinated lemonade. I thought Panera was a place for old folks to express their love for Bread Bowl soup. Turns out it's an option for their final resting place. How ironic. Catching a charge for making charge lemonade. So ironic. Do you think he'll ever bring the charge lemonade back? No. Young lady, I think she drink too much and she get something because the high blood pressure, right? It's discontinued, but they still celebrate it. Crazy. I think the most dangerous thing of the Charge Lemonade was that it was available for free refills just up there like that [music] sugary liquid MDMA. As much as you'd like. That is America's most dangerous open bar, my friends. [music] That is like serving free edibles at a movie theater. Something is bound to happen. Like seriously. So, I have something legal from Panera. Obviously, the charge lemonade is illegal, but I found the recipe online and we're going to make it at home. I'm excited, guys. I feel like Walter White right now. And this recipe is actually very simple. We need frozen strawberries, lemonade, guarina powder, which apparently is 22% caffeine [music] by weight. Sometimes so am I, and clearly so were Panera's victims. Only 1 g of this thing is 220 mg of caffeine, which is terrifying. And then last but not least, we need some green coffee extract. First thing that we need to do is put 1/3 of a teaspoon of the guanauta powder and 1/3 of a teaspoon of the coffee extract into some water and dissolve it. Looks like doodoo. After that, I added some water and some frozen strawberries to the blender and blended it until smooth. Then we added our lemonade. And last but not least, the stuff that causes all the damage, the guana green tea mixture. At home, Panera charged lemonade. Caffeine content in here. I have no idea. I feel like it's better that way to be honest. Here we go. First sip. Wow. That is straight candy. Yo. [snorts] M. It tastes like a lemonade but with like a foundation to it. Like a spiked lemonade. I kind of want to open up my own lemonade stand of this. Unregulated. There's going to be no tax. And a zerocalorie lemonade. It's pretty macroofriendly. It's a good drink right here if you're on a diet or something. I was worried I was going to taste that guana extract. You can't even taste it at all. But I'm also worried that this guana extract or this guana powder is this like another level of caffeine that I'm not used to and it's going to completely end me. I was just reading online and apparently the 20 oz Panera drink had 260 milligrams of caffeine, which is four times the caffeine of an espresso and more than three Red Bulls. And then the larger one, the 30 oz drink is 390 mg of caffeine. I got the larger one. People are thinking that the 390 millig of caffeine stated is actually all made up. What? And that's because the FDA states the daily recommended intake is 400 millig. And once you get over that, you're going to start to notice some dangerous side effects. I've had around I've had this much of the drink so far and I'm feeling it a a lot. Like a lot. Like my heart rate, it's high for a resting heart rate, but it's not like super high like the other drink I had. But I'm feeling so much more. more like I feel shortness of breath. I feel very tingly, [music] jittery even, and just kind of like I feel very anxious. [music] Yep. And that's the guana powder, which I know I'm saying completely wrong. Now, guarina apparently consuming doses greater than 250 to 300 millig have been linked to a number of side effects, which include every single one that I mentioned. The fact that people drink [music] this fast enough to have a refill and not feel it. I find this have to be super fast acting. When I got home, I was curious just how much of this powder did I use. So, I simulated the exact same scoop I put in my drink and it came out to 2 g, which is 440 millig of caffeine. I feel so good right now. Like, I feel like I definitely did something illegal. Like, it's actually insane how much energy I feel that I have. Like I don't need a spotter. I need a leash just to keep me from doing every machine in this gym. Like I feel like I could take over the world right now. Like I was in the change room. This guy got too close to me. I wanted to wrestle him. It turned out it was my own shadow. Like I'm just ready for everything. And it's unfortunate it's a shoulder day cuz shoulders is like the easiest thing to do. [music] If only it was like a leg. I might even do legs. Oh my god. I feel happy now. That's not good. [music] I really did feel invincible and incredibly strong. I also just couldn't sit still. I had to pace back and forth between my sets. As weird as this is about to sound, it feels like every set there's more of an [music] importance to the set more than just a set. It feels like my life is on the line in some way. Like I'm doing it for like a deeper purpose to save someone. I think we're going to max it out right now. I had such a good workout. It was super enjoyable. And ever since stepping foot in the gym, I've had nothing negative to say about this drink. Too easy. [music] This is like I think the closest I'm going to feel to being on gear. I have a lot more focus than normal. I'm able to contract my muscles a whole lot better. I feel like my muscles have more endurance, but I feel like because I'm on a super high right now that the low is going to be pretty insane. [music] Guys, I just realized I haven't been listening to music this entire time. I had no idea. I'm actually doing some cardio post-workout cuz I have so much extra energy. That was probably the best shoulder workout I've had in such a long time. And with the way that I performed, the way that I felt in the gym, I don't think it should be banned. I think it should just be brought back just behind the counter. So, you can't just keep on going back up to refill. But, I think it's a great pre-workout if they had a sugar-free option. But overall, best one so far. I was worried because the high was so good that the crash must be pretty bad. And to my surprise, it tapered off very nicely. Charge the lemonade. Free the lemonade. Free me. Let the lemonade free. Drink four. Monster Java 300. Reason for ban caffeine content. A coffee trying to be seen as an energy drink. Literally everybody in 2024 is having an identity crisis. [music] Now in Canada, you cannot have a drink that's above 180 millig of caffeine. Yet here we have this 300 millig of caffeine. And I got it on Amazon.ca. Jeff Bezos is truly above the law. This is a triple shot seriously strong coffee and cream. And the truly monstrous part about this drink is that it's 200 calories and 32 g of sugar. Another thing that's kind of weird about this is that the reviews are quite inconsistent. My girl Alpha Jodie, she absolutely loves it, but Kim, not so much. Shake gently. I swear if I have chunks in mine, I'm going to throw up everywhere. Oh god, I got some on the lens. Sh. H. It tastes like pond water with a hint of vanilla. It tastes like a clogged coffee shop sink. Like it's just very watered down coffee and then you get the creamer a little bit and being a triple load. [music] I was expecting it to be much thicker that I need like a at least like a safe word to swallow it. But it's [music] like actually quite thin. And the no carbonation is throwing me off quite a lot. It's like straight coffee for a bit and then when you swallow you get all like the chemically that an energy drink [music] provides. This drink is going to be replacing my morning coffee. And today is actually an off day from the gym. So, we're going to see how this fuels the rest of my day without being too destructive. Let's go. First thing on my to-do list was getting some work done. And it didn't take long for me to start noticing something. It's been like 20 minutes since I've had the drink. And I think I actually feel pretty good. It could be just from the sugar because I don't have that much sugar overall, but my brain my brain's feeling something. It feels like it's being marinated [music] in caffeine. But while I'm doing my work, I do feel a lot more focused than if I just had regular coffee. So, it's probably the other additives in the drink. 83. So, I mean, nothing to really worry about, but I mean, that's still high for just doing laptop work. Next thing on my list was some daily cardio. Typically do 25 to 30 minutes incline treadmill five times a week. Usually when you have an energy drink and then you work out, your heart rate just gets out of hand, which in return gives you like shortness of breath, maybe a little bit of anxiety, but I'm not getting any of that. Heart rate seems to be quite normal. Nothing just out of the ordinary, which is actually pretty nice. After that, I took my son out for a walk, which requires a lot more energy than people think. Bro walks so fast, it's ridiculous. Like, look at his legs move. That's his base pace, everybody. I have to jog sometimes just to keep up with him. Overall, I had good energy and the walk was great and Bobo was pleased with my performance. It is the end of the day and unfortunately very uneventful. No additional energy, maybe slight cognitive boost the first hour or two and that just like slowly dwindled away as the day went on. So, no crash at all, which is a good thing. But there was no really fun. Heart was contained. So I don't think they they shouldn't ban it. 300 milligrams caffeine. Shouldn't ban that. Monster Java drink five. The most dangerous drink of them all. 5hour energy. The FDA is investigating 92 reports of adverse events from the drink, including 33 hospitalizations and 13 deaths. The crazy thing is it's not banned, which is why I could walk right into the gas station to get it. The first thing I did was get a blue Power Raid because I love Blue Power Raid. Then I looked for the stash of 5Hour Energy and there it was right up at the front by the cashier, which I'm assuming is because they want to monitor who's buying them. I was just blown away by the amount of flavors. They had maple syrup because we're in Canada. There's grape. There's tidal twist, which weirdly looks like Tide Pod flavor. And they were [music] all just so expensive. I tried talking to the lady at the cash register to get some intel on this stuff and it did not go as planned. Do a lot [snorts] of kids buy those? Do a lot of kids [music] buy those? Do a lot of kids buy those? Do a lot of kids. So, the reason why this stuff is not banned is because it's called a health shot, not an energy drink. The only shot that this is healthier than is a 45 caliber bullet. But the CEO stands by his product and he says, "I would not sell a product that my family wouldn't use." Come on, bro. I was pretty blown away by the amount of different flavors they had. I didn't even know they offer an extra strength version. I I think that's just crystal meth at that point. I got the tropical burst, which is not [music] hopefully a metaphor for my brain, but we're going to give it a go. I found a video of this little kid showing us how [music] we're supposed to properly drink one of these things. And this kid looks like he's using his mom's iPhone to record this thing. He just looks so young, buddy. Like, he should be smashing PS5 controllers, not 5 hour energy. Kids are just straight up doomed. 3 2 1 Oh, even the sound effect. Oh, there's 200 millig of caffeine in here. And there's so many other things. I also can barely read it. And I don't need glasses. It's just so damn small, which is probably on purpose. B12 500 mcgs, which seems not so bad. The one that's not banned, I'm by far the most nervous for. I don't know what kind of tropical bursts they're thinking of. It smells more like [music] nail polish remover. Oh, I have not violated my tongue like that for a long time. Whoa. It tastes like an extract from a science experiment now. I'm like 5 minutes away from my gym. Apparently, this stuff is supposed to hit a lot faster than a typical energy drink. So, let's go. Just as I suspected, I felt it instantly. I feel like I was being followed to the gym. I also couldn't blink at all. Like look at me. I was trying to as well. I thought the stress response was supposed to happen at the gym, not on the way to it. I tried reading my heart rate and it just it wouldn't even register a number with how I feel right now. That little boy ran through his wall like the Kool-Aid man. And I also think I just hit a heart PR while I was on the toilet. There's absolutely no reason why my heart rate should have been 113 sitting on the toilet unless I had a 72 oz ribeye the night before. Like it makes no sense. I'm jittery. I literally cannot blink. I strategically placed this drink on my hardest upper body workout of the week. And we're going to see if I can break through and we're going to see if I can break through some plateaus and possibly learn some English again. I've been stuck with this weight on this machine for at least 3 weeks now for three sets of 12. So, I've just done two sets of 12. I can get 12 here. Five out energy is going to earn some stars. That's three sets of 12. Oh my god, it's really hard to catch my breath. Heart rate is currently 126 right now. And similar to the spike shooter, my heart rate is beating so fast that it's it's actually like hard to concentrate during my sets. Even though I feel extremely energetic, like the lemonade, everything felt just lighter than normal. I actually had to add 5 kg per side to one of my lifts, which is a massive jump, and it still felt easy. However, it wasn't long until I started to notice some of the negative effects of this drink. I have some good news and I have some bad news. The good news is I don't think I've been this strong in a very long time. I feel great. It's PR after PR after PR. It could be because I slept amazing last night or it could be because of the 5-hour energy. We'll never really know. The bad news is my head is killing me. The headache is pretty insane right now. It feels like someone is just squeezing my head as hard as they possibly can. It just it feels like a migraine. It's super uncomfortable. I can't believe I'm saying this, but I'm already feeling the crash. I'm feeling so tired. I have no more motivation to train. I'm feeling dizzy. And I'm feeling sick. I feel like I'm actually going to throw up. And I really don't want to finish my workout right now. But we only have two things left. Uh it's crazy how I started at such a high and then just as fast, I'm like feeling rock bottom right now. What started out as a decent workout quickly [music] became worse and worse and it got to the point I was just ready to leave. Oh my god, my head hurts. Like at the back of my head. I was just so out of the zone by the end and I just went through the motions to complete my workout. Even though I was strong at the beginning and my pump was really, really good, the negatives and the crash during my workout made this the worst experience of the video so far. 5hour energy. I don't need to be the one to tell you, but we don't need energy drinks. The best cocktail we can have is equal parts a nutritious diet, lots of water, and some good quality sleep. Bye-bye.