I'm locking myself inside this gym and I can't leave until I lift 1 million pounds. >> Yeah, that's a lot of weight. That's like four blue whales, 42 school buses, or 3,846 Dwayne Johnson's. No bed, no kitchen, no privacy. This gym is my new home. >> It's time to completely overstay my welcome. Once I officially open these doors, I ain't leaving. >> So, I began looking for what is going to be my base camp. And already the thought of constant fluorescent lights is scaring me. >> This could be a pretty good area, but it's still like right near all the action. >> Even right here is not bad, but a lot of windows. Not much privacy. >> I wasn't finding anything I loved until I realized they had an upstairs. >> Yeah, this is it. We get a great view of the gym here because I know with camping you want to be on higher ground so you can see bears and stuff coming, but I I guess the closest thing to a bear would be an IFBB Pro in my case. And they're allowed in my tent and me. The closest I've come to camping is the tent that I pitch every morning. Like imagine Yoda walking a Victoria Secret Runway. That's how far out of my element I am right now. But I got this tent off Amazon. I've watched Survivor once, so how hard could it be? The tent has been built and I am low-key proud of myself right now. Here's a quick little tent tour. There it is. That's that's literally it. There's nothing more to it than it's pretty crazy to think that my workout today is someone's entire training block. I think the ideal strategy is to take every set to like around an RP7, nowhere near failure, cuz if I go to failure, I'm going to crash and burn very, very quickly. Now, I also have no idea how long this is going to take me. I'm terrified. I always expect an early finish, but this is the first time I'm actually hoping for one. So, I have 135 lbs loaded up on the bar. We're going to start with barbell rows. So, time to become a millionaire in my favorite currency. Start time 11:44 a.m. Here's how this is going to work. I have 135 lbs on the bar, which means every rep gets me 135 lbs closer to my goal of 1 million. For this challenge, there are three rules. One, obviously, I can't step foot outside the gym until I'm done. Two, I can't lift after 11 p.m. That's when the gym closes. And three, I can only count weight added to the machine, not the weight of the machine itself. I'm about to start my fourth set here and I think I'm going to start using straps. My hands aren't tired yet, but I think it's just the smart thing to do. This is a long game and I feel like this is going to help me right now. I just finished five sets of barbell rows and for this entire challenge, I'm going to be tracking all my lifts and weights in this ledger right here. This is like the only math I was ever meant to do. So, we're going to tally up and and see where we're at. We have lifted 11,025 lbs so far. This gym has so many different amazing machines, it was hard to pick what to do next. But I think I found the perfect one. This road machine is absolutely perfect for my mission because I can change where I want peak resistance. So when I fatigue some spot, I can just switch the weight on one of these pillars here and it completely changes where most of the tension is. So I can get a ton of tonnage on here. I put the tension on the end range which definitely allowed me to crank out a ton of reps. I was stacking plate after plate and I was becoming increasingly more confident. Now I've lifted 100,000 lbs before and that only took me an hour and 36 minutes, but I didn't have to repeat that nine more times. Just accumulated a total of 13,400 lb on the seated row. >> Since it was my first time at this gym, I thought the best strategy would be to ask members which machines would give me the biggest bang for my buck. >> If you're counting that in pounds, you know, the stack would be like 200. So you could say 400 each rep if you max it out. Let's just say >> Oh, that's >> Yeah. So >> that's smart thinking. Okay. Thank you, man. Appreciate it. He just showed me this machine right here and said it's basically a cheat code because there is two stacks on this lap pull down and it's in kilog. So I think I I feel like it's going to add up really really quick. He wasn't wrong. This is me moving 59 kg per handle, which is 130 lb. And I just kept adding more and more weight each set. Seriously, make sure to comment down below. We love you, John Luca. I only did five sets of these pull downs, but I probably should have done more, and you'll see why later. I'm going to be using the trap bar to help me get out of this trap that I'm calling the gym. Trap bar is a great way to accumulate tonnage. It's also probably one of the more fatiguing things I could possibly do in the gym. So, I have to be careful with the weight that I'm pushing here. So, I searched on Chachi BT how much does a hex bar weigh because I had no idea. And apparently there's a bunch of different hex bars, but it says a standard one is 45 pounds. So I'm going to count this one as a standard one. I'm going to rack as much weight as possible. And basically I'm going to lift until I reach 100,000 lb and then we're going to go from there. Call me Pablo lifts everybody cuz I'm moving weight rather quickly. I'm like a freaking human forklift. So I'm 50 reps in with the trap bar deadlift. Taking a quick break by the exit sign for some motivation and to remind myself that there's actually an outside world that I'm striving to be released into. Even doing the trap bar deadlifts with the straps, it's still very taxing on my hands. Like, my hands have not gone through this much since 15-year-old me learned how to clear a freaking browser history. You know what I'm saying? So, I definitely don't think I'm going to hit 100,000 lbs with this. I'm going to do as much as I can, strive for 100 reps, and then probably move on to some of the leg stuff. Might be here a long time. I didn't realize that if I wanted to get my total up to 100,000 lb, I needed to lift this 225 lb trap bar 250 times. >> Well, that was 100 reps with this thing. Quickly, I made myself some electrolytes, which is going to be incredibly important to help me with hydration, fatigue, and preventing muscle cramps. The next thing that I want to do is the hack squat. And there are so many different options of squat machines here. I don't know what to pick. I'm kind of overwhelmed. I feel like I'm the bachelor and it's the row ceremony right now. But what I'm going to do is probably what every bachelor wishes that they could do. I'm going to hit them all. First one is the Atlantis hack squat. It was so smooth. I absolutely loved it. I'm going to give the Atlantis an A tier. Next one is Watson or Atson. I don't know if that's just a cool logo beside it. It had this neat lever on the back that allows you to change the angle of the squat. I loved this one. It was beautiful on the knees. S tier. Third one was the Prime Machine. I also loved it, but not as much as the one before. A tier. New tech. This one was by far the easiest to move two plates per side. I did 25 reps, but I didn't love it as much as the other three. B tier. Then onto the more old school one, the Cybex. This one was extremely humbling. Like way harder than the rest because of that C tier. Natella's hack squad I would also give a C tier. >> Well, I hit them all and there's at least four of them that I want to bring back to the tent with me. I just finished three sets of the Cybex leg press. 8,100 lb total per set. Volume right now is reaching Dragon Ball Z training montage levels. It's getting insane. Like the chances of me getting an overuse injury is as likely as me getting caught looking in the gym class showers. But with all that said, we are now at over 100,000 lb. Every 100,000 lb is just going to feel like a mile marker in a marathon through hell. Like it's 226. This is taking me a long time. So this is a battle between me and gravity. Gravity is starting to win. So, I'm going to take a little bit of a break and then we'll start on the next training block. >> So, we have an entire fridge full of energy drinks. I'm going to call this the nurse's office. And I'm a sick sick boy. Oh. Okay. So, meal one, we have beef lasagna, which is apparently 450 calories, which I'm calling cap on. Look at all that cheese. But I'm just going to believe it for now. Caffeine is going to hit lethal levels. I know it. But I absolutely need it. I got a raw protein shake because going to swallow a little bit of seabbum to give me some extra push in this next training block here. So good. The fact that this is like macroofriendly lasagna is ridiculous, man. It tastes like it failed the background check the calories, which is a very big compliment. Now, in an ideal world, I hit 333,000 lb today minimum. Spread that over 3 days, that's basically a million pounds. I don't want to be here 3 days. That's just like my minimum goal today. 333 lb. I feel like we can do it. I'm striving for 400,000. It sounds terrifying, but hopefully after this meal, we get a second wind. And I got some tricks up my sleeve coming up. Some very clever ones. After my meal, I didn't want to waste any time while digesting my food. So, I found some cal machines and did 100 reps of each with 140 lbs. Now, I didn't want to do too much volume because I don't want them to get too big. I mean, look at them. >> I found this leg press machine, and the cool thing is it's signed by Chris Bumstead. And apparently this is the leg extension he used for prepping for his sixth Olympia. So when I do this, I feel like the only chance I ever have at signing something with like a special meaning like this is like signing somebody's like cheat day crispy cream box. To think that Seabbum has been on here sweating and moaning in agony from the doms that leg extensions gives you is giving me hella motivation right now. Pretty cool. I'm using the same machine as the goat, which makes us officially anabolic Eskimo Bros. I definitely took it a bit too far with this leg extension, and I'm starting to pay the price. >> What I'm going to do, biceps, then do triceps, biceps, triceps. Hopefully by the time the arms are done, I can go back to doing things like leg press and stuff. But right now, I know that if I push it, I'm going to like puke. Oh. So, I did a bunch of sets with this preacher curl, and while I was doing them, I realized I was running into a pretty big problem. >> All right, guys. I found myself in a little bit of a pickle because there's pros and cons to doing what I'm doing. The pros are I'm recovering. I'm starting to feel better. Oh, and also my pump is getting pretty gnarly. The cons are because the weights are way lighter, I have to push the sets way closer to failure to actually get some respectable tonnage to add to my total here, which is starting to fatigue me. I just did the prime creature curl. Four sets, only 7,650 lb. That is not time efficient, my friends. That is not time efficient. So, I I I really underestimated this challenge and I'm starting to get really scared. Okay. Well, that was 25 reps. Felt pretty good. So, we're going to set up shop here for a little bit and uh get to 200,000. And setup shop I did. These dips were game changer. Each set of 25 gives me 5,000 lb to add to my total. I thought I was winning, but little did I know this was a monumental mistake that would hold me back later on. After the dips, I did some more curls before I had a genius idea. >> I found another Chris Bumstead machine that he used for his Olympia prep. Now, I have a really stupid idea that's potentially going to be my downfall for this challenge, but I feel like the outcome could be so cool, I'm going to do it anyways. I'm going to do 300 reps and we're going to compare the pump every 100 reps and we'll see my my delts blow up. This might be the only way the naughties can get big shoulders. Who knows? Oh yeah, this is easy. Oh [\h__\h] Oh, so we got a long 300 reps. Okay, 100 reps in. How we looking? It's pretty crazy so far. 200 reps in and I can barely hold this camera up right now. I'm also feeling a little bit homesick. So hopefully homesickness is a is a symptom of hypertrophy. Oh yeah. This is by far the most doritoshaped I've ever been in my life. That was just a 30 rep set. You know what they say sometimes, confuse the muscle to get it to grow. I think my shoulders are like past confused. They're just straight up pissed right now. But 70 more. Oh my god. This is like some David Gogggin shoulder workout [\h__\h] man. Freaking going to puke from laterals. What the [\h__\h] This plate loaded incline press machine by Newekch is wonderful. It's like the best incline chest press machine I've ever used in my entire life. Like, I have not had a mind muscle connection like this since the week I hit puberty. It is like, you have to try this thing. And you can load a lot of weight. My eye is starting to twitch. >> Eye twitching during a workout is usually a temporary and harmless condition. Thank God. Often caused by fatigue, stress, eye strain, or dehydration from exercise. All the ways to alleviate it, I'm avoiding, which is why it gets so much worse later on. My triceps are absolutely fried from all the dips. So, I can't push my chest anywhere near as hard as I'd want to or I could normally do because my my triceps are just so fatigued. They are fatiguing before my chest actually gives out, which is really holding me back right now. So, the tricep dips, although great in the moment, that was that was a huge mistake. I don't know if you can see this, but my arm is cramping so bad. Like, it hurts to extend. Like, if I just curl, I instantly cramp. After four sets of the pec fly, we are officially a quarter of the way finished this challenge. With that, I can actually picture myself actually doing this. The chest pump is absolutely insane. Hopefully, it has more staying power than my dad. But what we're going to do right now is take a break. Again, this is a marathon, not a sprint, and then we reconvene. Just chilling in the tent right now, having 150 calories or a scoop and a half worth of straight carb powder. And you guys know me, I don't I don't drink my calories. I think that should be illegal. But this is a do or die situation. This is all about survival. This is camping, my friends. It has to be done. And the amount of people who have just been like, "Will, what are you doing here for so long? What's your split?" And I'm just like, "My split is I'm training everything until my body literally splits in half." And then they just stare at me like, "It's the biggest gym flex of all time." Now, ever since 11:30 in the morning, I've just been hearing things get absolutely slammed by sweaty dudes. So, I'm pretty sure I know the direction tonight's dreams will be taking me. But in other news, we're quarter of the way there. I think we are going to surpass my goal of 333,000 lb. I think we're going to pass like 400,000. So, what I got going to do right now is take a longer break than I want to. A break so long it might actually scare me so we can go out there and crush it later. cuz right now I'm I'm cramping all over the place. So, I just got to chill, regroup, get some food, and then we go back out and crush it. Here's a quick clip of me chilling. For food, I really didn't want gym food anymore, so I looked out the window and I locked eyes with Popeyes. So, I decided to order it. And bless him, manufact. All right, we got our Popeyes. I feel like this is the first time in my life where I actually deserve fast food. So, one thing I got which I never knew they had tempura battered cauliflower. Give it a dip and put it to my lip. Oh man. The next thing I got the blackened chicken sandwich in hopes of manifesting the next meat that I get to enjoy in this gym. I love a pickle between my buns. Having fast food in a gym is a vibe, man. It's time for the final stint of the day. I'm just going to absolutely crush legs. I feel like that's the best thing to do right now. I'm feeling extra nervous for my central nervous system. But hey, screw it. What you're about to see is what I like to call the prey and press method. The trick is to treat every rep like it could be the last rep of your life because it could very well be for me right now. To annihilate my legs, I decided to revisit the Cybex leg press and the new tech hack squat thing because you remember that mystery rule I mentioned? Well, that rule is come tomorrow, I can't use any of the same machines I use today. So, I wanted to make the most of these. Just like any other round two in life, the load has diminished from sixth place to five. But I'm lasting longer. So, last time I did five sets, hoping to get minimum six here, which will set me up good for the next thing. Last set. I just want to be in a room that doesn't have fluorescent freaking lights on my face. Yeah, that is it for legs today. I don't know if centralized rabdo is a thing, but if it is, I'm definitely going to get it in my legs. But one thing that I haven't thought about, which I don't know how I haven't, is shrugs. Ton of weight. Very short range of motion. Let's go spam those. Time to get that Channing Tatum neck. Yeah, I'm going to be here for a bit. I was eventually able to add five plates per side, which would give me 9,000 lb per set. I swear every single piece of machinery that I use is like my favorite thing in the moment. Like I have a favorite thing, try a new thing. It's my favorite thing. The machines just feel amazing. Men are only as loyal as their options. >> The lap pull down was amazing. And after that, I found a prime chest press. And then after that, I laid on the floor and contemplated my entire life. >> Okay. Um, after the chest press, I'm currently at 368,000 lb. That's supposed to be my last one, but I'm so close to 400. So, I just I think I got to just keep on going. Man, I absolutely adore Chat GPT. So, I asked Chat GPT if there's any gym hacks to help me accumulate more tonnage as fast as possible. And then they recommended farmers carries. And I'm like, how the heck did I not think about this? Every single step counts as a rep. So, I brought 100 lb dumbbells, which is 200 lb in total. It took me 45 steps to get here. 200 * 45 is 9,000. 9,000 lb. So, I'm just going to walk around as much as possible with these things and then we should be we should be good. This was quite possibly the best decision I have ever made, not just in this challenge, but in my entire life. Tonnage was adding up so quickly, but every pro has its cons, and that was it was destroying my hands, which is certainly going to affect me tomorrow. Look at my hands. They're looking like when I was a kid during the Halo 3 launch. Oh, I know I can't do these tomorrow, so I I got to keep doing them. 82. Look at those premium weak hands. Wow. The farmer's carries alone gave us a total tonnage lifted of 83,200 lb, which is insane. Which brings the total day 1 tonnage lifted to 451,693.4 lb, which is way above the goal. I'm absolutely stoked right now. Like, holy [\h__\h] we're doing this. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to release the files. I got nothing to hide. So, I'm going to put screenshots on the screen of everything in this ledger right now so you can see everything. You can track along if you guys are doing this from the comfort of your own homes and you can see everything that I've done. So, taking a much needed break now, a much needed shower. And it's time to just wind down. Walk to the shower area with the three legs showing. So much room in the shower area. I would rather see a lot more showerheads with way less curtains. But anyway, it was time to clean up. >> I have never felt so deserving of a shower in my entire life. >> I wanted to wash my hair so bad, but my shoulders were like, "Nope. Too bad, buddy." >> I got my jammies on and I'm officially the last person in the gym. I'm like extra paranoid right now. But watch. Tonight is the night the treadmill just starts moving on its own. I got to go pee. It's a bit of a scary journey. So, I want you guys to come with me. I've always wanted to do something like this as a kid growing up, but in a Pizza Hut, of course. Yay. Okay, let's go. I can already tell based off the floor that I'm sleeping on that my back is going to be so messed up tomorrow. It's going to be like I spent the night with the rock after a very tense day on set. I was planning to set an alarm for tomorrow morning, but I don't think I need to because the gym opens at 5:00 a.m. and I feel like the stampede of Cardio bunnies are going to wake me up. Like the music's going to be lasting if I sleep through that. That would be that'd be an issue. So, good night. Yeah, there is no way I'm sleeping right now. I kind of thought of going down and doing bench press, but I think it'd be kind of terrifying. Imagine getting pinned under the bar at 2:00 a.m. in the dark. I don't think so. But what I think I'm going to go do is do some pull-ups. Let's go. I weigh 195 lbs. I'm going to do 10 sets of 10 pull-ups, totaling 100 pull-ups. 19,500 added to our total. Let's begin. >> Doing pull-ups in the late hours of the night in an empty gym is something every meathead should do once in their lives. It's a pretty amazing feeling. >> I have transcended gym rat status. I am the gym. I am part of its very foundation. With the amount of working out that I've done today, I probably need 3 g of protein per pound of body weight just to stay anabolic. I also just remembered when it comes to camping, you always have to have s'mores. I obviously can't do that in a gym because I don't want to set the building on fire. But what I can have is a David's Bar. 150 calories, 28 g of protein, and tastes just as good as a s'more. It's a 62 g bar, which is bigger than most protein bars on the market and 50 calories less. It nobrainer. I have the fudge brownie flavor. One of my favorites. David just delivers every time. I'm going to eat this and then I actually have to get to bed or else tomorrow I'm absolutely screwed. Good night. It'S4:47 in the morning. I don't think I slept. I think I I blacked out from discomfort to be quite honest. I'm also so sore. Like I I Oh. Oh my god, I look so rough. And as long as I have a great pump, I don't mind looking rough. I fear if I sneeze, my body will crumble. It hurts to just make a fist. and my feet are numb. So things are not looking good right now. But you know when someone gets really hung over and they say the best cure is more alcohol, maybe for me the best cure is getting under some more weight. I highly doubt it. I feel like I'm going to vomit, but we're going to get it done. I made my way down the stairs slowly and got started with my morning routine, which is very simple. I put on some deodorant and then I brushed my teeth. Unfortunately, there was no old man beside me who feels like he needed to be naked while shaving his face. Then I went to the front and got some caffeine and a light snack to give me some fuel to get started. Saying good morning to the staff was probably one of the weirdest experiences of my entire life. Good morning. You good? >> They probably think I'm going through like the craziest divorce right now. And also, this gym, it's starting to feel a lot like home. I'm feeling like an anabolic orphan. Having something light because I want to get out there as soon as possible because I'm starting to feel like the moaning myrtle of fitness, like I'm never going to leave this place. And I also I do moan a little bit more, but I have this Greek yogurt bar. It's all natural ingredients. I could go for like the protein bars, the shakes, all that other stuff, but I don't I don't want to turn into like a vending machine by the end of this thing. So, this is overall pretty healthy. 277 calories. Even opening this hurts. It's really cool to see people who have real jobs coming into the gym so early in the morning to get their lift in before they go to work. It's 5:30. The place is actually pretty busy right now. Today, I'm going to be lifting for survival, spiritually spotting myself. But one thing is absolutely for sure. I am not spending another night here. So, we are crushing it today. The first thing I'm going to do is sled drags. The sled itself is 87 lb. I've added weight to it, and I think we're I think we're going to do some damage here. So, let's get started. And if I pass out, tell my mom I died doing something stupid, but also cool. >> Was such a good call. Even she thought so, too. And I'm just happy I'm not doing this alone. >> Did 832 steps, but 222 lb on the sled. So, I moved a total of 184,74 lb. So, we are now officially well over halfway, 655,000 lbs. Next thing I'm going to do, leg press, cal raises, super set with push-ups. So, for the push-ups, I know it's not fair to count my entire body weight. So, what I'm going to do is only count 65% of my body weight. That's what they say you should do online. So, that comes out to 126 lb for me. Heat. This is going to be a race to the end. Will I hit a million pounds or rock bottom first? I also don't know why I'm wasting my time with calves. I should probably choose a muscle group that will actually grow when I train it. With the sled and now the cal raises and push-ups, we are making progress way quicker than I expected. My dream about not spending another night here might actually come true. I searched symptoms of early Rabdo and pretty much all of the symptoms apply to me right now. Muscle aches and pains, weakness, fatigue, just not dark urine. Urine that is red or brown resembling tea or cola. I'm just grateful my pee does not look like a freaking fountain drink. But all these other ones are definitely applying to me. I will say though, this is the first time this challenge other than literally the first set where I feel like I had momentum right now. It's just taken me 10,000 reps of crippling self-doubt to get here. But we're here and I found a Prime lateral raise machine that I think I can load up. Let's get it. I loaded the Prime lateral raise machine for only three sets because yesterday killed me. Then I moved on to this chest press machine, which was decently easy. I was doing sets of 15 with 180 lb, which ended up giving me 10,800 lb in total. Not bad. >> As much as I don't want to, I feel like I have to do big, heavy, compound movements because it's just the weights are not adding up fast enough. I'm feeling like such [\h__\h] and I need to get this finished. So, just like paying taxes, we don't want to do it, but sometimes you you just have to do it. So, here I am on the pit shark and we're going to see how this goes. This is starting to feel like a hostage situation with weights. Oh, [\h__\h] No. I can't do it. >> I just couldn't do it. Only three reps and I needed to stop. I'm a lot closer to the end goal than I thought, but I'm so fatigued. I don't know if I'll ever make it. At this point of the challenge, I was genuinely terrified about how long this would take me. But very quickly after, I found an amazing super set of this preacher curl and this dip machine. Right here, I'm doing 225 lbs for an easy 30 reps. The pump was getting crazy. >> I was feeling so down from the pitch shark, but this superset right here instantly is making me feel better. We are over 750,000 lb into this challenge. And for me, threequarters of the way in is usually my happy place. We only have 250,000 pounds left to go, which doesn't sound like a lot, but when you think about it, it's pretty much someone's entire training block. And right now, I have learned that my muscles are bilingual because they are they are screaming at me in multiple different languages to just please stop. But I I can't. Even getting mashed potato to mouth is challenging. It's also 8 a.m. Why am I eating mashed potatoes and braze beef? I think I'm going to take a break until like at least 9. I think I need that full hour to just decompress because I I didn't even I barely slept last night. So, I'm going to chill and then once we step back on that gym floor, that is the last time we're stepping on that gym floor. >> I've lifted 766,277.4 lb. It's time to dig deep and finish strong. >> I am surprisingly going to start with legs. I know I said I probably couldn't do it anymore, but this machine looks a little less scary because the weight's not coming down this way. It's going this way. So, I I feel I feel good about it. Definitely manageable. >> So, I did a bunch of sets and reps here, and thankfully, it wasn't too taxing on my legs. I'm not even warming up at this point. I'm just loading everything up to save on some time. >> Got to fasten your seat belt. >> Holy [\h__\h] I couldn't load up the hip thrust like I thought I could, so I only ended up doing four sets of 12 reps. Hey, that beats my typical one rep. Okay, so I just finished four sets of a really good super set of seated back row and an ab crunch. So total tonnage is a little over 813,000, which is pretty good. Also, super super weird. People who I saw leave yesterday are now coming back in because it's a new day, which is super trippy. Also, if you guys are building a home gym, you need equipment recommendations, ask me. I've tried literally every piece of machinery that exists. The form is starting to get a little bit questionable. I think if someone saw me for the first time in the gym here without knowing what I'm up to, they'd be like, "This guy is the biggest ego lifter of all time." This is A-50 lb sandbag, and we're going to do some walking lunges. This is going to be horrible. I feel like I get at least a threemonth hall pass to skip legs and it's not even an excuse. I I think I deserve it. I know it looks like I'm crying, but I'm not. I don't think at least. 200 reps on the walking lunges. That was like half an hour straight of just walking lunges. So, 49,000 lbs added to the total. My glutes right now are on fire. You would think that I was like a prop at a frat team building exercise or something like that. After the lunges, I made my way over while admiring my pump. Look at it. Beautiful and hopefully permanent. to the next exercise, which was revisiting the tricep dip machine to do four sets of 30 reps with 225 lbs. Because that would allow me to say >> we have officially hit 900,000 lb lifted. A little over. So, we have a little under 100,000 lb to go. >> For the last 100,000 lb, I did three sets of 25 reps on this leg press, which was disgustingly painful. you. I then did five sets of 20 with this chest press. The last few sets were the longest cluster sets of all time. After I moved on to four sets of 25 with dumbbell shrugs, which all led me to the final exercise. It has literally all come down to this. So, the current lifting total is 975,947.4. If I get 67 reps with the Pit Shark RDL, that will be a million pounds. I'm going to try to spread that out between three sets. Let's do it. I'm almost going to cry. I'm so emotional. I'm so happy. Set one. 25 reps. Set two, 25 reps. All right. Well, here we go. The last set of the challenge. 17 reps. Nearly 25 hours, 41 exercises, and 156 sets is what it took me to get here. And it all came down to these last 10 reps. Thank you. One more. Oh my god. I almost want to cry. Total weightlifted 1 million 67.4 lb. It hurts to even have my eyes open right now. I can't believe I just did that. That is by far the hardest video I've ever shot. Holy sh Yeah. Nothing comes close. Nothing. I just want to get the hell out of here now. I feel so good though, but also so bad. It's the most confusing thing. I I don't even know what to think right now. I'm just in shock. But I do know one thing. I want to get the hell out of here. So, I packed up my things and made my way to the exit to finally be released to the outside world. >> Are you kidding me? I guess I'm just going to wait in the gym for a little bit longer. But I never recommend that you ever do this. However, I am going to challenge some of my reckless friends. Jesse, Stan, 1 million lb, you're up next. We'll see you guys do it. And uh also remember, we are on the road to 5 million subscribers. I want to do it as fast as possible. So, make sure you subscribe. I just lifted a million pounds. Come on, please help me out. Love you all. Bye.