 I'm, i'm locking myself inside this gym, i'm locking myself inside this gym, and i can't leave until i lift 1 million pounds. Yeah, that's a lot of weight. That's like 4 blue whales, 42 school buses, or 3,846 Dwayne Johnson's. No bed, no kitchen, no privacy, this gym is my new home. It's time to completely overstay my welcome. Once I officially open these doors, I ain't leaving. So I began looking for what is going to be my base camp, and already the thought of constant fluorescent lights, is scaring me. This could be a pretty good area, but it's still like, right near all the action. Even right here is not bad, but a lot of windows. Not much privacy. I wasn't finding anything I loved, until I realized they had an upstairs. Yeah, this is it. We get a great view of the gym here, because I know with camping, you want to be on higher ground, so you can see bears and stuff coming. But I guess the closest thing to a bear would be an IFBB Pro, in my case. And they're allowed in my tent. And me. The closest I've come to camping is the tent that I pitch every morning. Like, imagine Yoda walking a Victoria's Secret runway. That's how far out of my element I am right now. But, I got this tent off Amazon. I've watched Survivor once. So, how hard could it be? The tent has been built, and I am low-key proud of myself right now. Here's a quick little tent tour. There it is. That's literally it. There's nothing more to it. It's crazy to think that my workout today is someone's entire training block. I think the ideal strategy is to take every set to like around an RPE 7. Nowhere near failure. Because if I go to failure, I'm going to crash and burn very, very quickly. Now, I also have no idea how long this is going to take me. I'm terrified. I always expect an early finish, but this is the first time I'm actually hoping for one. So, I have 135 pounds loaded up on the bar. We're going to start with barbell rows. So, time to become a millionaire in my favorite currency. Start time, 1144 AM. Here's how this is going to work. I have 135 pounds on the bar, which means every rep gets me 135 pounds closer to my goal of 1 million pounds. For this challenge, there are three rules. One, obviously, I can't step foot outside the gym until I'm done. Two, I can't lift after 11 PM. That's when the gym closes. And three, I can only count weight added to the machine, not the weight of the machine itself. I'm about to start my fourth set here, and I think I'm going to start using straps. My hands aren't tired yet, but I think it's just the smart thing to do. This is a long game, and I feel like this is going to help me right now. I just finished five sets of barbell rows, and for this entire challenge, I'm going to be tracking all my lifts and weights. In this ledger right here. This is like the only math I was ever meant to do. So we're going to tally up and see where we're at. We have lifted 11,025 pounds so far. This gym has so many different amazing machines, it was hard to pick what to do next. But I think I found the perfect one. This row machine is absolutely perfect for my mission because I can change where I want peak resistance. So when I fatigue some spot, I can just switch the weight on one of these pillars here, and it completely changes where most of the tension is. So I can get a ton of tonnage on here. I put the tension on the end range, which definitely allowed me to crank out a ton of reps. I was stacking plate after plate, and I was becoming increasingly more confident. Now I've lifted 100,000 pounds before, and that only took me an hour and 36 minutes. But I didn't have to repeat that nine more times. Just accumulated a total of 13,400 pounds on the seated row. Since it was my first time at this gym, I thought the best strategy would be to ask members which machines would give me the biggest bang for my buck. If you're counting in pounds, you know, the stack would be like 200. So we could say 400 each rip. If you max it all, let's just say. Oh, that's smart thinking. Okay. Thank you, man. Appreciate it. He just showed me this machine right here and said it's basically a cheat code because there's two stacks on this lap hold down. And it's in kilograms. So I feel like it's going to add up really, really quick. He wasn't wrong. This is me moving 59 kilograms per handle, which is 130 pounds. And I just kept adding more and more weight each set. Seriously, make sure to comment down below. We love you, John Luca. I only did five sets of these pull downs, but I probably should have done more. And you'll see why later. I'm going to be using the trap bar to help me get out of this trap that I'm calling the gym. Trap bar is a great way to accumulate tonnage. It's also probably one of the more fatiguing things I could possibly do in the gym. So I have to be careful with the weight that I'm pushing here. So I searched on ChatGPT how much does a hex bar weigh because I had no idea. And apparently there's a bunch of different hex bars, but it says a standard one is 45 pounds. So I'm going to count this one as a standard one. I'm going to rack as much weight as possible. And basically I'm going to lift until I reach 100,000 pounds. And then we're going to go from there. Call me Pablo Lyscobar everybody. Because I'm moving weight rather quickly. I'm like a freaking human forklift. So I'm 50 reps in with the trap bar deadlift. Taking a quick break by the exit sign for some motivation and to remind myself that there's actually an outside world that I'm striving to be released into. Even doing the trap bar deadlifts with the straps, it's still very taxing on my hands. Like my hands have not gone through this much since 15 year old me learned how to clear a fricking browser history. You know what I'm saying? So I definitely don't think I'm going to hit 100,000 pounds with this. I'm going to do as much as I can. Strive for 100 reps. And then probably move on to some of the leg stuff. I might be here a long time. I didn't realize that if I wanted to get my total up to 100,000 pounds, I needed to lift this 225 pound trap bar 250 times. Well that was 100 reps with this thing. Quickly, I made myself some electrolytes, which is going to be incredibly important to help me with hydration, fatigue and preventing muscle cramps. The next thing that I want to do is the hack squat. And there are so many different options of squat machines here. I don't know what to pick. I'm kind of overwhelmed. I feel like I'm the bachelor and it's the row ceremony right now. But what I'm going to do is probably what every bachelor wishes that they could do. I'm going to hit them all. First one is the Atlantis hack squat. It was so smooth. I absolutely loved it. I'm going to give the Atlantis an A tier. Next one is Watson or Atsin. I don't know if that's just a cool logo beside it. It had this neat lever on the back that allows you to change the angle of the squat. I loved this one. It was beautiful on the knees. S tier. Third one was the prime machine. I also loved it, but not as much as the one before. A tier. New tech. This one was by far the easiest to move two plates per side. I did 25 reps, but I didn't love it as much as the other three. B tier. Then onto the more old school one, the Cybex. This one was extremely humbling. Like way harder than the rest. Because of that, C tier. Nautilus hack squat, I would also give a C tier. Well, I hit them all and there's at least four of them that I want to bring back to the tent with me. I just finished three sets of the Cybex leg press. 8,100 pounds total per set. Volume right now is reaching Dragon Ball Z training montage levels. It's getting insane. Like the chances of me getting an overuse injury is as likely as me getting caught looking in the gym class showers. But with all that said, we are now at over 100,000 pounds. Every 100,000 pounds is just going to feel like a mile marker in a marathon through hell. Like it's 226. This is taking me a long time. So this is a battle between me and gravity. Gravity is starting to win. So I'm going to take a little bit of a break and then we'll start on the next training block. So we have an entire fridge full of energy drinks. I'm going to call this the nurse's office. And I'm a sick, sick boy. Oh, f**k. Okay, so meal one. We have beef lasagna, which is apparently 450 calories, which I'm calling cap on. Look at all that cheese, but I'm just going to believe it for now. Caffeine is going to hit lethal levels. I know it, but I absolutely need it. I got a raw protein shake because I'm going to swallow a little bit of C-bomb to give me some extra push in this next training block here. Oh, that's so good. The fact that this is like macro friendly lasagna is ridiculous, man. It tastes like it failed the background check, the calories, which is a very big compliment. Now in an ideal world, I hit 333,000 pounds today. Minimum spread that over three days. That's basically a million pounds. I don't want to be here three days. That's just like my minimum goal today. 333 pounds. I feel like we can do it. I'm striving for 400,000. It sounds terrifying. But hopefully after this meal, we get a second wind. And I got some tricks up my sleeve coming up. Some very clever ones. After my meal, I didn't want to waste any time while digesting my food. So I found some cab machines and did 100 reps of each with 140 pounds. Now, I didn't want to do too much volume because I don't want them to get too big. I mean, look at them. I found this leg press machine and the cool thing is it's signed by Chris Bumstead. And apparently this is the leg extension he used for prepping for his sixth Olympia. So when I do this, I feel like the only chance I ever have at signing something with like a special meaning like this is like signing somebody's like cheat day, crispy cream box. To think that C-Bum has been on here sweating and moaning in agony from the DOMS that leg extensions gives you is giving me hella motivation right now. Pretty cool. I'm using the same machine as the goat, which makes us officially anabolic Eskimo bros. I definitely took it a bit too far with this leg extension and I'm starting to pay the price. What I'm going to do biceps, then do triceps, biceps, triceps. Hopefully by the time that arms are done, I can go back to doing things like leg press and stuff. But right now I know that if I push it, I'm going to like puke. Oh, so I did a bunch of sets with this preacher curl. And while I was doing them, I realized I was running into a pretty big problem. All right, guys, I found myself in a little bit of a pickle because there's pros and cons to doing what I'm doing. The pros are I'm recovering. I'm starting to feel better. Oh, and also my pump is getting pretty gnarly. The cons are because the weights are way lighter. I have to push the sets way closer to failure to actually get some respectable tonnage to add to my total here, which is starting to fatigue me. I just did the prime preacher curl. Four sets, only 7,650 pounds. That is not time efficient, my friends. That is not time efficient. So, I really underestimated this challenge and I'm starting to get really scared. Okay, well, that was 25 reps. Felt pretty good. So we're going to set up shop here for a little bit and get to 200,000. And set up shop I did. These dips were game changer. Each set of 25 gives me 5,000 pounds to add to my total. I thought I was winning, but little did I know this was a monumental mistake that would hold me back later on. After the dips, I did some more curls before I had a genius idea. I found another Chris Bumstead machine that I used for his Olympia prep. Now, I have a really stupid idea that's potentially going to be my downfall for this challenge, but I feel like the outcome could be so cool. I'm going to do it anyways. I'm going to do 300 reps and we're going to compare the pump every 100 reps and we'll see my delts blow up. This might be the only way the natties can get big shoulders. Who knows? Oh yeah, this is easy. Oh fuck. Fancy. Oh, this is going to be a long 300 reps. Okay, 100 reps in. How are we looking? It's pretty crazy so far. 200 reps in and I can barely hold this camera up right now. I'm also feeling a little bit homesick. So hopefully homesickness is a symptom of hypertrophy. Oh yeah, this is by far the most Dorito shaped I've ever been in my life. That was just a 30 rep set. You know what they say sometimes? Confuse the muscle to get it to grow. I think my shoulders are like past confused. They're just straight up pissed right now. But 70 more. Oh my God, this is like some David Goggins shoulder workout shit man. Freaking going to puke from laterals. What the fuck? This plate loaded incline press machine by New Tech is wonderful. It's like the best incline chest press machine I've ever used in my entire life. Like I have not had a mind muscle connection like this since the week I hit puberty. It is like you have to try this thing and you can load a lot of weight. My eyes starting to twitch. Eye twitching during a workout is usually a temporary and harmless condition. Thank God. Often caused by fatigue, stress, eye strain or dehydration from exercise. All the ways to alleviate it I'm avoiding, which is why it gets so much worse later on. My triceps are absolutely fried from all the dips. So I can't push my chest anywhere near as hard as I'd want to or I could normally do. Because my triceps are just so fatigued. They are fatiguing before my chest actually gives out. Which is really holding me back right now. So the tricep dips, although great in the moment, that was a huge mistake. I don't know if you can see this when my arm is cramping so bad. Like it hurts to extend. Like if I just curl, I instantly cramp. After four sets of the PECDEC fly, we are officially a quarter of the way finished this challenge. With that I can actually picture myself actually doing this. The chest pump is absolutely insane. Hopefully it has more staying power than my dad. But what we're going to do right now is take a break. Again, this is a marathon, not a sprint. And then we reconvene. Just chilling in the tent right now having 150 calories or a scoop and a half worth of straight carb powder. And you guys know me. I don't drink my calories. I think that should be illegal. But this is a do or die situation. This is all about survival. This is camping, my friends. It has to be done. And the amount of people who have just been like, Will, what are you doing here for so long? What's your split? And I'm just like, my split is I'm training everything until my body literally splits in half. And then they just stare at me like, It's the biggest gym flex of all time. Now ever since 1130 in the morning, I've just been hearing things get absolutely slammed by sweaty dudes. So I'm pretty sure I know the direction. Tonight's dreams will be taking me. But in other news, we're a quarter of the way there. I think we are going to surpass my goal of 333,000 pounds. I think we're going to pass like 400,000. So what I got to do right now is take a longer break than I want to. A break so long it might actually scare me. So we can go out there and crush it later. Because right now I'm cramping all over the place. So let's go chill, regroup, get some food. And then we go back out and crush it. Here's a quick clip of me chilling. For food, I really didn't want gym food anymore. So I looked out the window and I locked eyes with Popeyes. So I decided to order it and bless the Manchu with the easiest Uber Eats drop off of all time. Oh, thank you so much. Appreciate it, man. All right, we got our Popeyes. I feel like this is the first time in my life where I actually deserve fast food. So one thing I got, which I never knew they had, tempura battered cauliflower. Give it a dip and put it to my lip. Oh, man. The next thing I got, the blackened chicken sandwich in hopes of manifesting the next meat that I get to enjoy in this gym. I love a pickle between my buns. Having fast food in a gym is a vibe, man. It's time for the final stint of the day. I'm just going to absolutely crush legs. I feel like that's the best thing to do right now. I'm feeling extra nervous for my central nervous system. But hey, screw it. What you're about to see is what I like to call the pray and press method. The trick is to treat every rep like it could be the last rep of your life. Because it could very well be for me right now. To annihilate my legs, I decided to revisit the Cybex leg press and the NewTek hack squat thing because you remember that mystery rule I mentioned? Well, that rule is, come tomorrow, I can't use any of the same machines I use today. So I wanted to make the most of these. Just like any other round two in life, the load has diminished from six plates to five, but I'm lasting longer. So last time I did five sets, hoping to get minimum six here, which will set me up good for the next thing. Last set. I just want to be in a room that doesn't have fluorescent fricking lights on my face. And five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five I don't know if centralized rhabdo is a thing, but if it is, I'm definitely going to get it in my legs. But one thing that I haven't thought about, which I don't know how I haven't, is shrugs. Ton of weight. Very short range of motion. Let's go spam those. Time to get that Channing Tatum neck. Yeah, I'm going to be here for a bit. I was eventually able to add five plates per side, which would give me 9,000 pounds per set. I swear, every single piece of machinery that I use is like my favorite thing in the moment. Like I have a favorite thing, try a new thing, it's my favorite thing. The machines just feel amazing. Men are only as loyal as their options. The lat pulldown was amazing, and after that I found a prime chest press. And then after that, I laid on the floor and contemplated my entire life. Okay, after the chest press, I'm currently at 368,000 pounds. That was supposed to be my last one, but I'm so close to 400, so I just, I think I gotta just keep on going. Man, I absolutely adore ChatGPT. ChatGPT. So I asked ChatGPT if there's any gym hacks to help me accumulate more tonnage as fast as possible. And then they recommended farmer's carries. And I'm like, how the heck did I not think about this? Every single step counts as a rep. So I brought 100-pound dumbbells, which is 200 pounds in total. It took me 45 steps to get here. 200 times 45 is 9,000. 9,000 pounds. So I'm just gonna walk around as much as possible with these things. And then we should be, we should be good. This was quite possibly the best decision I've ever made. Not just in this challenge, but in my entire life. Tonnage was adding up so quickly. But every pro has its cons. And that was, it was destroying my hands. Which is certainly gonna affect me tomorrow. Look at my hands. They're looking like when I was a kid during the Halo 3 launch. Oh. I know I can't do these tomorrow. So I, I gotta keep doing them. 82. Look at those freemium weak hands. Wow. The farmer's carries alone gave us a total tonnage lifted of 83,200 pounds. Which is insane. Which brings the total day one tonnage lifted to 451,693.4 pounds. Which is way above the goal. I'm absolutely stoked right now. Like, holy shit. We're doing this. Now, what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna release the files. I got nothing to hide. So I'm gonna put screenshots on the screen of everything in this ledger. Right now. So you can see everything. You can track along. If you guys are doing this from the comfort of your own homes. And you can see everything that I've done. So, taking a much needed break now. A much needed shower. And it's time to just wind down. Walked to the shower area with the three legs showing. So much room in the shower area. I would rather see a lot more shower heads with way less curtains. But anyway, it was time to clean up. I have never felt so deserving of a shower in my entire life. I wanted to wash my hair so raftery. But my shoulders were like, nope. Too bad, buddy. I got my jammies on. And I'm officially the last person in the gym. I'm like extra paranoid right now. But. Watch. Tonight is the night. The treadmill just starts moving on its own. I gotta go pee. It's a bit of a scary journey. So. I want you guys to come with me. I've always wanted to do something like this as a kid growing up. But in a pizza hut. Of course. Yay. Okay. Let's go. I can already tell based off the floor that I'm sleeping on. That. My back is gonna be so messed up tomorrow. It's gonna be like I spent the night with The Rock. After a very tense day on set. I was planning to set an alarm for tomorrow morning. But I don't think I need to. Because the gym opens at 5am. And I feel like the stampede of cardio bunnies. Are gonna wake me up. Like the music's gonna be blasting. If I sleep through that. That would be. That'd be an issue. So. Goodnight. Yeah. There is no way I'm sleeping right now. I kind of thought of going down and doing bench press. But. I think it'd be kind of terrifying. Imagine getting pinned under the bar. At 2am. In the dark. I don't think so. But. What I think I'm gonna go do. Is do some pull-ups. Let's go. I weigh 195 pounds. I'm gonna do 10 sets of 10 pull-ups. Totaling 100 pull-ups. 19,500. Added to our total. Let's begin. Doing pull-ups in the late hours of the night. In an empty gym. Is something every meathead should do. Once in their lives. It's a pretty amazing feeling. I have transcended. Gym rat status. I am the gym. I am part of its very foundation. With the amount of working out. That I've done today. I probably need. 3 grams of protein. Per pound of body weight. Just to stay anabolic. I also just remembered. When it comes to camping. You always have to have s'mores. I obviously can't. Do that in a gym. Because I don't want to. Set the building on fire. But what I can have. Is a David's bar. 150 calories. 28 grams of protein. And tastes just as good as a s'more. It's a 62 gram bar. Which is bigger than most protein bars on the market. And 50 calories less. It. No brainer. I have the fudge brownie flavor. One of my favorites. David just delivers every time. I'm going to eat this. And then I actually have to get to bed. Or else tomorrow I'm absolutely screwed. Good night. It'S4.47 in the morning. I don't think I slept. I think I blacked out from discomfort. To be quite honest. I'm also so sore. Like I. Oh. Oh my god. I look so rough. As long as I have a great pump. I don't mind looking rough. I fear if I sneeze. My body will crumble. It hurts. To just. Make a fist. And my feet. Are numb. So. Things are not looking good right now. But. You know when someone gets. Really hung over. And they say. The best cure is more alcohol. Maybe for me. The best cure is getting under some more weight. I highly doubt it. I feel like I'm going to vomit. But. We're going to get it done. I made my way down the stairs. Slowly. And got started with my morning routine. Which is very simple. I put on some deodorant. And then I brushed my teeth. Unfortunately. There was no old man beside me. Who feels like he needed to be naked. While shaving his face. Then I went to the front. And got some caffeine. And a light snack. To give me some fuel. To get started. Saying good morning. To the staff. Was probably one of the weirdest experiences. Of my entire life. Good morning. You good? They probably think I'm going through. Like. The craziest divorce right now. And also. This gym. It's starting to feel. A lot like home. I'm feeling like an anabolic orphan. Having something light. Because. I want to get out there. As soon as possible. Because. I'm starting to feel. Like the moaning myrtle. Of fitness. Like I'm never going to leave this place. And I also. I do moan a little bit more. But. I have this. Greek yogurt bar. It's all natural ingredients. I could go for like the protein bars. The shakes. All the other stuff. But I don't. I don't want to turn into like a vending machine. By the end of this thing. So this is overall. Pretty healthy. 277 calories. Even opening. This hurts. It's really cool. To see people. Who have real jobs. Coming into the gym. So early in the morning. To get their lift in. Before they go to work. It's 530. The place is actually pretty busy right now. Today. I'm going to be lifting for survival. Spiritually spotting myself. But one thing. Is absolutely for sure. I am not spending. Another night here. So we are crushing it. Today. The first thing I'm going to do. Is sled drags. The sled itself. Is 87 pounds. I've added weight to it. And I think we're. I think we're going to do some damage here. So. Let's get started. And if I pass out. Tell my mom I died. Doing something. Stupid. But also cool. It was such a good call. Even she thought so too. And I'm just happy. I'm not doing this alone. Did 832 steps. But 222 pounds on the sled. So I moved a total of 184,704 pounds. So we are now officially. Well over. Halfway. 655,000 pounds. Next thing I'm going to do. Leg press. Calv raises. Superset. With pushups. So for the pushups. I know it's not fair to count. My entire body weight. So what I'm going to do. Is only count. 65% of my body weight. That's what they say you should do online. So that comes out to 126 pounds. For me. And five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five This is going to be a race to the end. Will I hit a million pounds or rock bottom first? I also don't know why I'm wasting my time with calves. I should probably choose a muscle group that will actually grow when I train it. With the sled and now the calf raises and push-ups, we are making progress way quicker than I expected. My dream about not spending another night here might actually come true. I searched symptoms of early rhabdo, and pretty much all of the symptoms apply to me right now. Muscle aches and pains, weakness, fatigue, just not dark urine. Urine that is red or brown, resembling tea or cola. I'm just grateful my pee does not look like a freaking fountain drink. But all these other ones are definitely applying to me. I will say though, this is the first time, this challenge, other than literally the first set, where I feel like I have momentum right now. It's just taken me 10,000 reps of crippling self-doubt to get here. But we're here, and I found a prime lateral raise machine that I think I can load up. Let's get it. I loaded the prime lateral raise machine for only three sets because yesterday killed me. Then I moved on to this chest press machine, which was decently easy. I was doing sets of 15 with 180 pounds, which ended up giving me 10,800 pounds in total. Not bad. As much as I don't want to, I feel like I have to do big, heavy compound movements because it's just the weights are not adding up fast enough. I'm feeling like such shit, and I need to get this finished. So just like paying taxes, we don't want to do it. But sometimes you just have to do it. So here I am on the pitch shark. And we're going to see how this goes. This is starting to feel like a hostage situation with weights. Oh, fuck. No. I can't do it. I just couldn't do it. Only three reps, and I needed to stop. I'm a lot closer to the end goal than I thought, but I'm so fatigued, I don't know if I'll ever make it. At this point of the challenge, I was genuinely terrified about how long this would take me, but very quickly after, I found an amazing superset of this preacher curl and this dip machine. Right here, I'm doing 225 pounds for an easy 30 reps. The pump was getting crazy. I was feeling so down from the pitch shark, but this superset right here instantly is making me feel better. We are over 750,000 pounds into this challenge. And for me, three quarters of the way in is usually my happy place. We only have 250,000 pounds left to go, which doesn't sound like a lot, but when you think about it, it's pretty much someone's entire training block. And right now, I have learned that my muscles are bilingual because they are screaming at me in multiple different languages to just, please stop. But I can't. Even getting mashed potato to mouth is challenging. It's also 8 a.m. Why am I eating mashed potatoes and braised beef? I think I'm going to take a break until like at least nine. I think I need that full hour to just decompress because I didn't even, I barely slept last night. So I'm going to chill. And then once we step back on that gym floor, that is the last time we're stepping on that gym floor. I've lifted 766,277.4 pounds. It's time to dig deep and finish strong. I am surprisingly going to start with legs. I know I said I probably couldn't do it anymore, but this machine looks a little less scary because the weight's not coming down this way. It's going this way. So I feel, I feel good about it. Definitely manageable. So I did a bunch of sets and reps here and thankfully it wasn't too taxing on my legs. I'm not even warming up at this point. I'm just loading everything up to save on some time. Got to fasten your seatbelt. Holy shit. I couldn't load up the hip thrust like I thought I could. So I only ended up doing four sets of 12 reps. Hey, that beats my typical one rep. Okay. So I just finished four sets of a really good superset of seated back row and an ab crunch. So total tonnage is a little over 813,000, which is pretty good. Also super, super weird. People who I saw leave yesterday are now coming back in because it's a new day, which is super trippy. Also, if you guys are building a home gym and you need equipment recommendations, ask me. I've tried literally every piece of machinery that exists. The form is starting to get a little bit questionable. I think if someone saw me for the first time in the gym here without knowing what I'm up to, they'd be like, this guy is the biggest ego lifter of all time. This is A-50 pound sandbag. And we're going to do some walking lunges. This is going to be horrible. I feel like I get at least a three month haul pass to skip legs. And it's not even an excuse. I think I deserve it. I know it looks like I'm crying, but I'm not. I don't think at least. 200 reps on the walking lunges. That was like half an hour straight of just walking lunges. So 49,000 pounds added to the total. My glutes right now are on fire. You would think that I was like a prop at a frat team building exercise or something like that. After the lunges, I made my way over while admiring my pump. Look at it. Beautiful and hopefully permanent. To the next exercise, which was revisiting the tricep dip machine to do four sets of 30 reps with 225 pounds. Because that would allow me to say. We have officially hit 900,000 pounds lifted. A little over. So we have a little under 100,000 pounds to go. For the last 100,000 pounds, I did three sets of 25 reps on this leg press, which was disgustingly painful. F*** you. I then did five sets of 20 with this chest press. The last few sets were the longest cluster sets of all time. After I moved on to four sets of 25 with dumbbell shrugs, which all led me to the final exercise. It has literally all come down to this. So the current lifting total is 975,947.4. If I get 67 reps with the Pit Shark RDL, that will be a million pounds. I'm going to try to spread that out between three sets. Let's do it. I'm almost going to cry. I'm so emotional. I'm so happy. Set one, 25 reps. Pull. Set two, 25 reps. All right, well, here we go. The last set of the challenge, 17 reps. Nearly 25 hours, 41 exercises, and 156 sets is what it took me to get here. And it all came down to these last 10 reps. What? I'm like the one to take here. I'm like the one to take here. And five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five five Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. I just want to cry. Total weight lifted, 1,067.4 pounds. It hurts to even have my eyes open right now. I can't believe I just did that. That is by far the hardest video I've ever shot. Holy shit. Yeah, nothing comes close. Nothing. I just want to get the hell out of here now. I feel so good though, but also so bad. It's the most confusing thing. I don't even know what to think right now. I'm just in shock. I do know one thing. I want to get the hell out of here. So I packed up my things and made my way to the exit to finally be released to the outside world. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? I guess I'm just going to wait in the gym for a little bit longer, but I never recommend that you ever do this. However, I am going to challenge some of my reckless friends, Jesse, Stan, 1 million pounds. You're up next. We'll see you guys do it. And also remember we are on the road to 5 million subscribers. I want to do it as fast as possible. So make sure you subscribe. I just lifted a million pounds. Come on, please help me out. Love you all.