

=== FILE: I Built a TEMU Only Gym [tus_LcysuJ4].txt ===

 Home Gyms can range from cheap to ridiculously expensive. And now that I own my own home, I've decided it's time to build the ultimate home gym. But there's just one slight problem. I spent all my money on the house. So in order to build this home gym, I'm turning to the cheapest place on the internet. T-MU. It's time to become a budget bodybuilder. I don't know what that is. Here goes nothing. It goes to the... The budget for this gym is max $2,000. I don't want to go over that. I think that's reasonable. I think it's totally doable using T-MU. Now, you got to be very careful picking things online because sometimes they show up at your door with a baby. They claim it's yours. Let's get shopping. As if child labor wasn't bad enough. At these prices, do they even get paid? Now, this thing looks pretty cool. It's triceps, biceps. I think I'd have to be Spider-Man to figure out how to do chin-ups on here. There's five stars, four reviews, zero humans, I bet. There's only six left, so we better hack quick. Probably only six ever made. Let's add that to cart. You will never convince me anyone has ever paid full price for this. 88% off? That isn't a sale. They are offloading stolen product. But I think for a home gym, it is important to get multi-purpose things so it doesn't take up a lot of space. And this looks pretty legit. So we have a preacher pad. We have a leg extension. It does all of our shoulder pressing, our bench pressing. It says it's sturdy. It looks like it has the structural integrity of a breadstick and apparently it holds a thousand pounds, which I'm going to be very excited to test out. We'll see about that. A wealth of postures awaits your personal unlocking. That just sounds like a fortune cookie you'd find in a Shanghai brothel. Let's add this to cart. I think this is great. Oh, okay. This one looks good. The chest press machine here. It's again a multi-purpose thing. We got bench press. We got incline bench press. I'm not really understanding the mechanics of that shoulder press and then the photo of the sit-ups both confuses and scares me. But I think this looks pretty good and of course it's on sale. If you buy anything full price on Timu, I think you should just get an automatic bang fraud alert or something like that. It has five stars, nearly 4,000 sold with zero reviews. That can't be right, can it? How is that possible? And the cool thing is this is also black and red again, just like our tricep and bicep machine. So I think we just found our gym colors. This one looks legit, but the price feels cheap and it's not actually on sale for once. So now I'm just kind of confused about how I'm going to get screwed on this one. Add to cart. Obviously every gym needs a squat rack and I just found one here for only $140. That's terrifying. So I'm going to need a spotter for the actual rack instead of the lifter. Curling in the squat rack in the first photo is obnoxious. 66% off, 100% is going in my cart. I would love to meet whoever came up with that. Super creative. Dumbbells into a barbell? Count me in. In terms of cardio machines, we don't really need much. I have stairs going down to my basement, so that should really make up the bulk of it. But I do think having something in the gym for cardio would be a good touch. Now I found this. Check out that discount. 82% off. I mean, maybe if we just wait another couple weeks, they'll just be giving it away. Use half an hour a day and it's equivalent to all of these things here. 4.4 stars is usually a pretty good review, but on TeamU that just means that people were pissed. I kept browsing for a bit and ended up adding one more piece that's really going to bring the gym together, bringing our total gym spend to $1,696.59. Everything has been ordered and I'm just realizing now that I'm going to have to build everything. Yeah. Let's hope everything shows up. Holy crap. I ordered eight things from TeamU and I'll be happy if I get five of them and ecstatic if two of those are actually functional. How did the guy just deliver that? Part of me was worried I missed some sort of fine print and ordered miniature gym equipment instead, but all the stuff, as you can see, is actually huge and extremely heavy. Alright, well this is either the TeamU barbell or the final piece to my life-size Shack Mannequin. Okay, well that was the last of it, so everything showed up. I lied. It turns out the barbell isn't actually here yet. But this is where the gym is going to be. It's very spacious. I don't know what I'm getting myself into here. It's like I created my own TeamU escape room that I need to build my way out of. But if I can build this, I can do anything except return it. I'm for sure going to need a therapist after this. We do not have much time to waste because in just three days, the biggest home gym reviewer in the entire world is flying all the way here to come to this gym and review it. Let's get drowned in an Allen keys. Also this is just like really not a good sign before I even open the box. I have not built anything. Like I don't know how to build, so this is going to be interesting. When I was little, I remember watching my dad build things, and the first thing he would do is just take everything out and lay it all over the floor, like put everything on the floor. So that's exactly what I'm going to do. Babe, do we have tape? Oh God. I really don't know what happened there. I swear I put zero effort into that. The paper just kind of gave up on its own. If this is foreshadowing the quality of my gym equipment, I'm in danger. Step one done. Yeah. That was easy, man. What the heck is a nut? I have aged three years, but I have built the bench. This bench was advertised as being able to hold a thousand pounds, so let's test that right now. Okay. It feels sturdy. Oh, this is actually a nice bench. It feels really good. I feel so confident right now, like I cannot be stopped. Holy. Understanding the instructions is going about as well as playing charades with Helen Keller. They somehow made gym equipment instructions look like a quantum physics dissertation. I'm not qualified for this. I grew up on Lego instructions. This to me just looks like hieroglyphics. I'm a big fan of how each step has 13 mini steps within it. I love that. I'm just going to freestyle it and hope for the best here. Yeah, there's no shot. This thing is going to be built by me. So I'm going to call on some help now. Help is here and they're good. They're really good. They're super fast. Like, look, they've already finished making the chest press machine. So I'm up here. I'm the owner of the gym. So I'm doing some admin work right now because I'm just trying to make myself useful. The gym is called the budget barbell. Take a look at that logo I just made with the red and the black to match the machines. Things are coming along. The next thing I'm doing is coming up with something that Timu has probably already made me secretly sign. And that is a liability waiver because people are going to be using this gym other than myself. And I the likelihood of injury is probably very high. So I just put it into chat GPT and it's all done. It just saved me $5,000 in legal fees there. Okay, I should probably really go help build right now. Right now we're putting together the squat rack, which is important. This is the crown jewel of budget barbell. It's literally the focal point. I actually messaged the gym reviewer ahead of time for some intel and he said that equipment wise a squat rack isn't obvious. Yeah, so obvious. It only took three men, three hours, two YouTube tutorials and one minor mental breakdown. The squat rack's done. Good job guys. I just got some really bad news. I got an email saying that our barbell is running late. And I just feel like that piece is going to bring this gym to another level. It's not a crazy machine, but I feel like our gym reviewer would appreciate it because it's just such a unique piece. And I really hope it shows up, but I'm not feeling that confident. Yeah, we're running out of time. Anyways, I got back to work tightening bolts, lining up pieces and pretending I fully understood the instructions. I was doing as much as I could trying to look productive while on the back of my mind, constantly anticipating the doorbell for my barbell. Day number two in the books and it's coming along. I'm not going to lie. It looks like the newest final destination set. Like there's just so many ways you could probably die in here. Like you could not pay me to hang off that bar, but you actually probably could pay me to hang off that bar. Even though the gym is looking amazing, I am getting extremely concerned that it's not going to be finished in time. Like we spent half the day on the lap hold-down machine and it's not even done yet. We also haven't even started the biggest machine, which is the last thing I got. And I know that's also going to be a full day thing. So I'm really hoping our gym reviewer is not flying all the way here for absolutely nothing because that would just be mean. So this is going to go all the way to the wire. I don't know why. I don't know why I cut it this close. Good morning, everybody. We have one more long day of building. Let's get it done. This is the last thing that we need to build. It's huge. For reference, I'm just about 6'3". So it's going to be a nightmare. Look at the instructions I'm dealing with right now. Attach part 22, number 30 to part number 21 using two part number 2 M10 75 volts. Please help me. Guys, I cannot believe I am saying this, but the gym is done. I am so tired. You have no idea. I smell. I haven't showered in two days. I haven't cooked a meal either. But luckily, David has been here to hold my hands to make sure that I hit my protein every single day. David protein, of course. This is actually my fourth today. Here's proof. David is the highest protein to calorie ratio protein bar in the entire world. 150 calories, 28 grams of protein. And did I mention zero sugar? Yeah, zero sugar. Texture is unbeatable. Now, if you've never had them before and you're at the store, I recommend you reach for the cinnamon roll flavor. That is my personal favorite. That is what I'm having right now. It's like they microdosed a Cinnabon in here. If you guys want to pick up some David protein, use the first link in the description and you will not be disappointed. And just as I was finishing up my fourth David protein, this happened. I literally cannot believe this made it just in time. Let's go down and finish this gym. To finish the gym, I got what every gym needs. This sick five foot running Pullman poster for $13. And this Arnold poster for $22. That was actually 82% off. Budget Barbell is looking better than I could have ever imagined. And I can't wait to show you all in the morning. Everybody, welcome to Budget Barbell. All the hard work has been done and now it's time to just try everything out. So on the surface, this looks phenomenal, but so did Ted Bundy. So I mean, you're not supposed to judge a book by its cover, but I'm really hoping it matches. So the first thing we're going to try out is the squat rack right here. And this was like $158. So my expectations are like down here. This thing is supposed to hold 350 pounds and I'm terrified to put 45 on right now. Okay. Best case scenario today. I get an incredible pump. Worst case, I get carried into an ambulance with a decent pump. The tripping hazard here is pretty insane for the squats. That's not ideal. Okay, here we go. Time to rack it. So we tested 135 pounds. Now I'm going to do some pull ups with 200 pounds and hope for the best. Oh, that didn't sound good. Oh, not going to lie. Every single rep feels like there's A-50-50 chance that I'm going to pull this thing down instead of meet up. But it's nice. I like it. Next thing we have our bench here, which is also a preacher curve. And then they marketed it as a leg extension. And as you can see, a budget barbell not only is leg day skipped, it's just canceled entirely. I mean, it offers very little resistance. They should give me an attachment just so I can isolate my pinky. That is way too shaky for comfort. I'm going to do a little bit of a push-up. I'm going to do a push-up. I'm going to do a push-up. Thank you for comfort. Really nice. A nice fat pad at the back. So you have a nice back stability. Let's test out the preacher curl now. Nice. You got to hold this for stability. It's actually a very nice piece. Minus the leg extension. So the thing I was most excited to try, the barbell. Was supposed to hold any kind of dumbbell that you had. It doesn't fit my dumbbell. The barbell was like $86. Doesn't seem to be usable. Maybe if I go to like a Star Wars convention, I could just be like a jacked guy's lightsaber or something. That is the one downside so far of budget barbell. There is no barbells. The next thing we're trying is the lat pull-down machine, which was by far the hardest one to build. There was a lot of different small parts. Hopefully they are all still intact. Oh, that does not. That does not sound good. That sounds as sturdy as a canoe and a tsunami. This actually feels pretty good. The nice thing is this seat isn't so far back. So what it does is it kind of forces you to maintain perfect form the entire time. Not cheat it because if you cheat, you're just going to fly off. Head's going to hit the wall. Concussion. Then if you sit down, we've got a rowing machine. Then we've got the abs. This thing is a three-in-one machine. So we've got the lat pull-down and the abs and the rower. It does three things, not all three things incredibly well, but decent. The lat pull-down was by far the best of the three. Now we're going to move on to the chest press machine. Not going to lie, T-Move kind of cooked with this one. This one looks incredible. I cannot wait to try it. This was $360, which is kind of, I don't know how it was that. Maybe I missed the fine print where that's like my first installment of the payment. That's a really good price because this looks like a machine that you probably find at a commercial gym. Oh, what the heck? Oh, it's not even. The handles are not even. It has a nice convergence at the top. But once you get to the bottom, you feel you're just going to tear your pack. You can actually adjust the handles here. So your range of motion is extremely good. This was also advertised as being a chest press machine and a shoulder press machine. I mean, this is probably the worst shoulder press I have ever used. This machine also looks great, but just because it looks good as we've learned doesn't mean it's actually going to be good. First, we're going to do the tricep dip. That's a really annoying sound. Now, the cool thing about this one is if we go around back, we have ourselves a mini bar here to do some curls. Now, I can't fully stand up and do it because if I do that, I'm going to hit the floor and my wife's going to get mad. So we're going to have to do... I'm going to have to push it out of it and I have to get on my knees. Biceps are not usually what I'm working from here. There's a preacher curl. I'm calling this one the altar boy curl. Yeah, I mean, the way that this one was built, I got a question. Team is engineers here. Last piece, we have a team functional trainer. It's supposed to be bolted to the wall, but as you can see, it's not at all because they didn't give us bolts to the wall. What's great about this is that we can do lateral raises with it. We can do barbell curls with it. I probably wear a helmet when I do this. Let it chase you a little bit. It's like a fun game of tag while you curl. Say, come on this way. Let's go. And then we got ourselves... Maybe next time. Overall opinions on this gym for $1,600. It's pretty good. I mean, I can hit everything effectively. That's up for debate. I see budget equipment kind of like vegan food. If it kind of can mimic what it's supposed to be to some degree, I would say it's an overall success. So in terms of a score out of like 10, I'm going to give it a... I'm going to give it a six and a half. But that's just my opinion. I think we need an expert's opinion. Oh, and that's him right now. Will, daddy's home. I want to see the gym. This right here is Cooper Mitchell, owner of Bra's Gym Reviews, the largest gym review resource in the world. Nobody knows home setups and equipment like him. And he's about to give me a brutally honest rating of the gym I put together. Before you see this gym, I have to blindfold you. Okay. Don't be worried. It's standard procedure. Oh, these are actually comfy. As you can see right there, all the boxes and all like the stuff. I can't see anything. Now this entire gym cost me $1,696. And 59 cents. The whole thing. The whole thing. What's your thoughts on T-MU before you take that off? T-MU is great if you're balling on a budget, but there's a lot of crap on T-MU. Okay. Take off your blindfold. Okay. Yes. How much did you say? $1,696. Oh my goodness. This is incredible. Save money here spending on... Did you come up with this? I did, yeah. That's beautiful. Honestly, that rack looks like a death trap. That's motivating. I may die if I lose this rep. But the thing that's weird about it is that you're looking at Ronnie Coleman's squat 800 pounds on a rack that you can't ego lift with. That's true. Also, I don't know what these are for, but I've never done dips this wide. Yeah. So I mean, there's definitely a few like engineering flaws with it. Sure. It could also be my building. The building. It is your building. Yeah, probably. These go on the other side. Yeah. I'm thinking because it's a home gym, you want it to be very compact. Yeah. So you can just go... Oh, it folds. It folds. Yeah. That's a... No. That's actually sick. How much do you think this was? $150. $158. That's incredible. Coop is going to give each piece an individual score out of 10. And at the end of the tour, he'll add it all up and reveal to me my gym's total score. What's the most important criteria for like a piece? Well, safety is number one because if you die... I've blamed you. You do what's the most scarce resource outside of some people. Money, it's real estate. It's like I don't have a lot of space. Right. Moving on here. This sucks. Guess the original price. Original price. Yeah. Retail. Retail. You won't guess it. $100. $2,000. $888. I got it 88% off. Deal, dude. It was supposed to be a leg extension, but it doesn't... It doesn't extend. Well, you know... Let me introduce you to leg extension, sir. See, the problem here is the fulcrum point is really far up the... Back pad? Yeah. Well, when you're pressing, where is all the weight? It's right here. Right there. So... I got... Yeah, you could get it. Yeah, you know, that creek of that plywood. You mind if I... Go for it, yeah. Do you lift in kilos or pounds? Pounds. Okay. Is that normal for... I don't know. I'm not usually normal. I'm not getting any... Careful. This sits too fast. It does. Oh! It does. All right, Cooper, you might be on a viral work of video right now. You lean back and snap. My head is off the pad. Very uncomfortable. Not ideal. What's the average height in China, though? That's a good... Yeah. So I've never calculated that. Yeah. The other thing to mention on this, which you can't tell right now, this pad gap... Watch this. I mean... Oh, yeah. That's uncomfortable. Yeah. You don't want a grand canyon in between your pads. We judge it by finger lengths. That's three fingers. What should it be? It's no go. It's always zero gap. Oh, that was always two. One of the things I was most excited about... It's not the flashiest piece here. Yeah. It was this. Oh, I know what this is. You do? Oh, yeah. You put dumbbells in it. Yeah. Those ones don't fit, though. Oh, yeah. Dang. Oh, wow. That was a scribble. The barbell can't fit, but I can think of something else that can. Yeah. I can't. This one, lap pull down machine. Yeah. It was by far the hardest one to build. It's kind of scarring. This... This is a unique pulley location. Yeah. This is the ab pulley location. This is for the ab channel. Oh, yeah. Is that hard for you? Yeah, it was really hard. Typically, these are on two to one ratios. Okay. So you go along your cable travel. Yeah. And it'll basically have the weight. You're getting whatever weights there at that pulley. So all 50 pounds plus the trolley weight. That's why it feels heavy. And then the back row, which I actually liked this one the best. The location for the pulley is pretty low. A lot of cheaper ones will be lower. But... I did not know I did that. Oh, yeah. You gotta be worried about a sink tipping. But for like upright stuff. Okay. And the curls. So you can do upright rows. Yeah. You can do curls. Oh, that's pretty heavy. It's showing off now, man. I do want to say the fact that you color matched every piece of equipment. I know. That's actually impressive. Yeah. I was not expecting it. And it just kind of happened that way. Even the shade of the red. It's almost like it's all made in the same factory or something. How much? 222. 222. Yeah. And 10 cents. What was the retail? This was actually the only one that was not on sale. Now we have this piece. I thought it felt strange. Okay. I did feel like it kind of went too far on the way down. I thought I was like tearing my pack away. Yeah. Yeah. You can see the eight handles are kind of angled. And the other thing, I don't know if this has it, but did you do this? I did not know that. Bro. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That feels good. Okay. This was the most expensive piece as well. $360. Was it? Yeah. Oh, you got hosed. Did I? Oh, yeah. We've reviewed the GMWD for 199 bucks, baby. The other thing it's supposed to do, there's two other things technically. Shoulder press. Shoulder press. It's like so bad. Like what? I know. Yeah. No. Yeah. It's worthless. This pad does fold all the way up though. So you can get it out of the way. Oh. And if you wanted to. Oh, shh. You know, you could do some trap stuff here. Oh, I'm sick. Honestly, budget gym. People that want to build a budget gym, if you want to do high-perch fee stuff, this is one of my top picks. Really? And then also right underneath you. This is the cardio at budget barbell. This is the cardio set. Yes. Next piece. I was excited about this one because again, kind of like the chest press, it looks nice. It looks like an arsenal of strength piece. Okay. There. There you go. There's something going on, babe. Yeah, you always thought. I'll tell you. If you stand and curl. Yep. You're going to hit the floor. Oh, right. So you have to go down? Uh, yep. I said, I call this one the altar boy curl now. So you go down. Well, I could help you with the reps really easily. Oh, like, yeah. Like, you're in. You know. Come on. Yeah. Good job. Yes. Did you get those pants from Tima? Gym shark, man. Come on. Gym shark? Gym shark. Those are cool. I don't, I don't care. All you're trying to like, roast me or something. No, I think. They're cool. 200, 250, somewhere around there. $248. That's, that's good. This was the, the team of the functional trainer. So it's a one sided thing. It is. It's supposed to be bolted to the wall, but they did not give me bolts for the wall because the thing moves with you while you curl it. Okay. So you go. Oh yeah. I like that. It feels good. Yep. The multi-poly game changer. That's 10 pounds right there. But if you want to quickly go heavy, say you're super setting. All you do is you bring them together. And now you're pulling the entire weight. Right. Oh man, if you saw what was behind me just now, yeah. Yeah. Price. No, this could be worth it to you. Oh. My guess is it's probably more around 150, but I think for how much you can do with cable, I'd go 300. It's 262. Okay. Yeah. It's not bad. Oh yeah. And this has actual guide rods way smoother than what you got on there. Yeah. And you didn't oil them up. You should have bought some WD-40 or something. Actually, three in one oil. I got lube. Is that fine? No, that won't work. Absolutely not. Heading into budget barbell, I was not expecting a lot. Not going to lie. Coming in though, you've pleasantly surprised me. Really? Yes. Yes. First impressions are most important. The fact that you got a sign saying the name of your gym matters a lot. I also got some pieces that truly the versatility as well as the foldability matters a lot. Right. You know, the real estate you're taking up and I think you could build incredible physique someday. The score I would give your gym is 5.5 out of 10. No. What? I thought it was like, it sounded like it was going well. It was? You leave me all that. Pull down. Four. A four? Dude, it was so expensive. I was going to bring this. It was a bench as a two. Oh. Negative. Yeah. I'm sorry, man. The tri-set machine, seven. Seven? Okay. Cable machine, eight. Eight? Eight. Okay. Cable machine is great. Dumbbell bar, six. The chest machine, a nine. I gave this gym 6.5. That's, yeah. That's not that bad. All right, man. Thanks so much. Appreciate you coming. See you, bro. See you, bro. Yeah. I'm going to give you a half out of 10 for my Timu gym. A pill that's hard to swallow with all the work that was put into it. But that's okay because the score is going to be nothing compared to when he sees the real home gym that's being built real soon. Hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you did, make sure to watch this one right here. Bye-bye. See you next time.

=== FILE: I Investigated The World’s Unhealthiest Job [s9ek4YM36RY].txt ===

 nearly 70% of long-haul truck drivers are obese. This isn't just a job. It's one of the most dangerous lifestyles in the modern world. They survive on fast food, no movement, no sleep, and relentless stress. They result in a life expectancy 16 years below the national average. And I want to try it. I'm somewhere in Seattle right now, and tomorrow morning, I'm getting picked up by truck driver Mike, who agreed to take me on the road to experience two days of the world's unhealthiest job. He's picking me up at 4 AM. I gotta get to bed. Here we go. Mike, hello. Oh, hey. What's up, man? What's up? How are you? Pretty good. How are you? Everybody meet Mike. He's going to be leading this road trip for the next few days. So, Mike, I wasn't expecting Mike and wife. Yeah, no. Well, Mike, other co-drivers. One of them kind of got fired. Yeah. And the other one went to Mexico to take care of my dad, so she decided to step up, get her CDL, and take over for them. What am I in store for for the next two days? A lot of sitting, a lot of shaking. You're going to hear a lot of stuff falling around the truck because... What, shaking? Oh, yeah. The truck just kind of vibrates a lot. The road's kind of crappy some places. What about healthy food? No. No. I really cannot believe that this is going to be my home for the next two days. Is it? So, Becca is going to be the first driver. How long is this... Oh, whoa. Yeah. Look at our beds back there. Those are our beds. Bunk beds. And who's that? Tucker. Tucker. Everybody say hi, Tucker. Hi, Tucker. Wow, this place is like a little home. Yeah. And your bed is right up there. I'm top bunk. Yeah, you're top bunk. Wait a second. Are those... Are those dumbbells I see? Oh, yeah, I'm upgraded. Are we getting to lift it? Are we? Sure. Am I getting to lift it? I don't know. We'll see. And we're off. Are we there yet? Okay, so what's like the total driving time? About 10 hours. 10 hours of driving today? Yeah. Yeah, so I can't drive more than 11 hours in a shift. Is this right here? How many driving hours you have left? Yes. So I can't exceed the legal amount of hours in a day. Okay. I mean, you only have 7 hours and 47 minutes of driving left. There's nothing. Yeah, well, once I take a break, it'll add another 3. I can always pop into if you guys need me. Right. Our journey starts in Fife, Washington, and today our goal is to make it all the way to Boise, Idaho. But first, we need gas. This is a big draw. I'll go do that. Oh! My back's already gone. You gotta remind you, don't drive hungry. See? They just want to make truck drivers fat. So you've been truck driving for, what, 10 years? No, I've had 11, actually. 11? Okay. Yeah. Started when I was 21. So how many total... Like, what's your total distance driven in your career, you think? About 2.5 million miles. 2.5 million miles? Yeah. Well, you can't. How does that make you feel when you hear that? Kinda feel like I've wasted a lot of my life just driving. I mean, he said it on me. As we hit the road again, I wanted to find out whether Mike and Becca knew the real health consequences tied to this line of work. Were you guys aware that truck driving is considered the world's unhealthiest job? Definitely. Oh, yeah. I knew way before getting into it. That's personally why, like, I was hesitant to get into it, but if my mom needed me to, so I did. I was about 100 pounds less before I started driving a truck. I used to work out all the time. Used to work late at night that goes straight to the gym. And that kind of just all went down the drain. And I started truck driving. I did solo driving for a little bit, but even then, like after a 10-hour shift, I had to sleep 10 hours and then leave for essentially, I think, my mother's on time. So that only gives me 10 hours to go to the gym, exercise and eat food, relax, kind of wind down. Yeah. And by the time I'm done doing all that, I only have like six hours, five hours to say. Yeah. Which sometimes is just enough. So truck drivers are the most prone job, too. Obesity, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, chronic back pain, depression, blood plots, substance abuse, and irregular sleep patterns. That's a lot. Yeah. Not a check south, though. A check south for sure. He has chronic back pain, I would say. Back pain. I get a lot of like leg swelling, especially like at the end of a shift, because like, you know, blood goes down if you're not moving at all. So my... She hasn't been doing this nearly as long as I have. Yeah. I've only been doing this for a few months, so... Symptoms of driving. What was crazy wasn't the list I just read. It was how unfazed they were by it. With so much on the line, you have to wonder, what keeps them going? Money. Money. Just money. Yeah, just money. The pay is good. So we're about to arrive at our first truck stop of this trip. And is there anything I should like watch out for? What should I expect for my first truck stop visit? You might run into a lot lizard here. A what? A lot lizard. What's that? That is a woman of the night. They like to get in your truck and you pay them for their time. Are you warning me or my wallet? My guy. We've been on the road for a little over four hours now and haven't gotten any activity at all. Like I think I've burnt probably zero calories. Like the only time my heart rate's been like remotely elevated is when cars get a little too close to the truck and literally every single lane change. It's terrifying. We are currently at Jubit's truck stop in Portland and is known as the classiest truck stop in America. I mean, it doesn't look too bad. There is a hotel. They have a cinema probably with a bunch of lizards lining the back row. But we're going to go inside and see what a truck stop has to offer. Let's get it. A whole bunch of junk food right there. A bunch of TV dinners. How much is the fruit? $4.99 for that much pineapple is absurd. This is just the convenience store part of the truck stop to grab snacks with every unhealthy option you could possibly imagine. And then some. My nose is bleeding already. Columbia room. What's that? I feel like the bar here is so low that I'm going to say if it's under a heat lamp, it's technically fresh. $22 for that. Yeah, no. Mike, what do you just get? I got Fran's donuts, gingerbread. I love gingerbread and Fran's originated in Portland. Mike, come on. Mike, can you grab an energy drink? Yeah. Yeah? You don't like when he has energy drinks, right? As long as it's not too much. It's the responsible thing to do because you don't want to fall asleep at the wheel. No, for sure. Yeah. For sure. You need to have the caffeine. Like water keeps you alive. It doesn't make you feel alive. Yeah. No, I need to feel alive. I need to feel alive, not be alive. All right? Come and have breakfast at Mo's. Get yourself a breakfast pizza. And then for lunch, just have a regular pizza. We are at drostanolone in Jubits waiting to order breakfast. But while we wait, me and Mike are going splitsies on a Mo's deli bulldog pizza. Looks so good. Yeah. Oh my god. You pick a slice, man. Can I have a slice with the Mo's shit on it? Hopefully it's not Mo's deli, Mo problems. And home food. Yeah. We'll find out if we can get the wrongs on the road. Mo's harpern. So this is the signature slice, the bulldog. Place on a tear of assholes, anyone? Pizza hits at 9 AM. Oh, it does. I feel like when you're a truck driver, time doesn't really matter. Mm-hmm. You'll be ending your shift at 4 in the morning, starting at 2 PM, you know, breakfast and lunches whenever you want it to be. Mo's deli pizza, 3, 2, 1, 6. 7.5. 7.5? 7.5. Yeah. 7.5. I got the veggie omelette to be healthy, but I think that amount of cheese that they put on it overrode my decision here. A lot of cheddar cheese, but it looks really good. You want to waffle with your whipped cream? Nope. Mike, you need some protein, man. There's no protein in it that way. The omelette was pretty fire, I will say, but probably a lot more calories than I think. I love Mike, but if I had his breakfast, I don't think I'd feel too great on the road. We are back on the road for another eight hours today? Yep. Another eight hours today, and so far, it's been great. I'm riding shotgun, shotgun energy drinks, living the passenger princess life right now. I also bought a ton of snacks that is supposed to last me for the duration of the day, but realistically, it's going to last me probably the next seven minutes because for me, boredom is my diet's greatest threat, so I'm probably just going to be eating this road trip just to feel something. It was time to eat my snacks immediately after breakfast. On the road, I can do anything. The donut, it hit like I knew it would. Oh, Mike, you want to try it? I'm doing. Oh, yeah. Next, the apple fritter. Probably better than we got there earlier so it wasn't like super old. Oh, my God. Then Mike started sharing his donuts back, the start of a true brotherhood. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It is a cake donut, which I don't like as much. Yeah. That's still very good. Honestly, being a truck driver, it's like just having a cheat day on wheels. There's two basic rules. When the truck is moving, the calories don't count that you consume, and then rule number two is if you have to fart, you open the window. I'm looking at you, Mike. Great food, great company. So far, this trip has been so much fun. Little did I know, dead man's past is four hours away. But in the meantime, I enjoyed the beautiful scenery. Mountains, trees, waterfall, Tucker. We even started playing games. Black eye. When you don't move out of the fueling. A truck with a headlight out. Oh, okay. These are things that you guys should know. We don't do that. We make sure our things are working. Okay, easy one. Hammer lane. Hammer lane, okay. Hammer lane's the best lane. There you go. There we go. I know that one. Okay, toothpicks. Oh, uh, trucks. Drugs. No, a lumber load. A lumber load? Yeah. You know, though, how you're talking about like, truck drivers are prone to like, substance abuse. There are the bad truckers that they like, dip toothpicks in like, the mean water basically. Oh. They're gonna like suck on those to stay awake. Have you guys tried that? No. You get randomly drug tested. Oh, do you? I'm having a good idea. Would a guest get randomly drug tested? Like, would I get randomly drug tested? Oh, no, no, no. Okay, thank God. Good. Okay. Becca. What would you say is the most exciting thing about the job? Uh, I don't know. That's kind of like that really long road trip to Disneyland, except for you never get to Disneyland. Because you can only see like, what you can see from the highways. It's not like you can't drive your semi anywhere you want to. You can't park at all the pool places and the museums or whatever you want to see. That's kind of sad. What was once a happy truck where time was flying by, and it was a happy truck, what was once a happy truck where time was flying by, all of a sudden took a drastic turn. We were both feeling it. Look at me and Becca. Mike has passed out back there too. But we needed to wake up quickly because you see that mountain? That's Dead Man's Past. We need to make it over that mountain before it gets dark or else bad things are going to happen, Mike said. They call it Dead Man's Past because it's a notoriously steep and dangerous stretch of interstate in Oregon, known for its challenging 6% grade, frequent accidents and losses of life. But first, truck stop two. We are at our next truck stop or should I say a McTruck stop? Because there's a McDonald's here. There's also a casino across the street so you can lose your money and your health all in one convenient location. The morale was high early on, but right now, I'm convinced that time is moving backwards. I am. I think my Apple Watch thinks I died back in Portland because it's not registering anything. I don't even know if it's registering a pulse right now. Like, Brian Johnson wants to live forever. He should become a truck driver because today has felt like a week. There is no way that it's only 3pm in the afternoon. There's just no way. There can't be. The crazy thing is, we've been sitting all day and all I want to do is just lie down. I don't want to stand. I don't want to walk. I just want to lie down and go to bed. It's very tiring doing nothing. Seriously. I don't even know how to explain it. But we're at this truck stop. I have no idea where we are. We're just going into P. We might get food. Who knows? We might get food. I feel like getting food is the only thing that's giving me some sort of life. So we might get something. Who knows? We don't know what's inside. Let's go. I was going into this stop hoping it may be different from the first one for some reason, but it wasn't. We're going to have some pretty cool snacks though. Look at this donut flavored pretzels. They also had this three quarter pound burrito, but I'd never do that to Becca and Mike. The truck would smell. We have the fruit cups right here right beside the cookie dough chunks just in case you want to pick between the two. You know you're in a dietary danger zone when McDonald's seems like I might be actually the best option here. All pastries here. I think if I ate this poor boy Hogi, I would make the truck smell like a burning man porta potty. Like that would just give me crazy gas. Why is it like this? Those are some girthy dogs. I'll check this out. We have a pizza that's probably microwaved fresh today. I kind of have a feeling that all truck stops are going to be the same, just different walls, but this one has literally no protein snacks, no protein shakes, literally nothing. You can get cheese. You can get a sandwich. You can get a fruit cup. That's pretty much it. This bear claw is not even that big, not even that thick. And it is 290 calories for half of it. I could probably eat that in 30 seconds. I bet you haven't heard of candy salad. Now you have. I didn't end up getting any food because I'm sitting all day, so my calorie needs are substantially less. So I just can't get food every station. Otherwise that is when you just gain all that weight. But I did get the dead man's pass blend coffee. Just in honor of what we're about to endure right now. So hopefully we're survived. We're all kind of unsure. It's Becca's first time driving the dead man's pass, which is, I mean, kind of terrifying for the first time. It's worth going down the mountain. It is? Okay, let's give this a try. Tastes like human ashes. The time has come. You see me? I'm almost pooping my pants as we enter dead man's pass. Mike is playing Pokemon Go. Look how narrow these roads are. It's also so slippery. One wrong turn and look how far the journey down is. Either Becca made it look too easy, or dead man's pass is just... is not dead man's pass. It's just a road. I think it's just a road overhyped. I think I've become officially one with my seat. I think it's now part of me. The crazy thing is, I've been in the truck when the sun was down. I've been in the truck when the sun came up. And now I'm still in the truck when the sun's going back down. And now that I'm thinking about that, you're pretty much in the truck 26 days of the month. Yeah, pretty much. It's like, you have freedom for days. Yeah. So it's a lot of time, like I mean, even just for me, like I'm just like sitting in my own thoughts. So like, do you find like a lot of negative thoughts come up? And like, do you feel like any sort of like, have you heard anything about like mental health issues with truck drivers? I mean, you definitely see it. There's no social interaction. You're missing any like family events. I feel like you're literally, it's like you cannot have a relationship. Because if you're away, so like, you can't just come back home for one day. Yeah. And then expect to have like a healthy relationship. And then you have to leave again. Yeah, I feel like it's extra hard probably, if you're single out, you're trying to find anybody to have a relationship with. Because also a lot of people, I mean, even if they've been married and they, you know, start, one of them starts truck driving, a lot of people can't handle having a significant other that, you know, has gone 90% of the month, or even the week. There's also the aspect of, you know, the nutrition is terrible. And like, you know, nutrition definitely plays a part in it. And then if you're depressed, then you're going to eat your feelings. Mental health with truck drivers is a serious issue. As staggering 22% of truck drivers in America report being diagnosed with depression. Due to the nature of the job, it can worsen mental health problems that already exist, as well as create new problems over time. It's just kind of like the perfect storm for being lonely and depressed. And you definitely hear about, you know, truck drivers every once in a while, you'll see the truck that just didn't move for a few days. There's a nice having me here on my third wheeling, an 18-wheeler. Yeah, because otherwise he'd be back there sleeping probably. Yeah, up here with my thoughts. If you guys ever want to have a kiss or anything, I can look away. Tomorrow is our four-year anniversary. Is it really? Yeah. I'm sharing among the anniversary. I saw him at the Portland Truck Stop. There's a lot of him to share. And after driving for a few more hours, we finally made it to our destination. The boys are in Boise! I was saying, I've been wanting to do that all day. So we finally made it to Boise, the final stop of the day. And this just so happens to be also our campsite for the night. We were staying in this truck stop tonight. Yep. T.A. Truck Stop. Hell yeah. I'm tired. We're both tired. We both want to go to bed. But before we go to bed, there are a few things that we need to do. Starting with a workout. Somehow this 30-pound dumbbell felt like a max effort lift. Not because I'm weaker, but because after a full day of sitting, my joints forgot how to be joints. Blood wasn't moving, and my nervous system was asleep. I mean, 10 hours in the truck can now work out. At 8 p.m. at night, I don't even think the ghost of Greg Plitt can motivate me right now. Be honest, how often do you use these? Not often, is it? You don't use it? No? No, I think in the last two weeks, I've probably done it once. Come on, Mike. Go ahead and get the pump. You gotta earn alpha status in the showers tonight. Get it. Oh man, my back is hurting. And I don't think the bed's gonna help. Are the beds bad? Oh, they're not very comfortable. I mean, the fact that we got anything in is just a huge W. Get it. Blood. Oh, how? How about that? Get it. Next, dinner time. So what's for dinner tonight? We are eating some beef lasagna mountain house meals. We're gonna steam it up with a Becca's little steamer pot. And it's gonna be delicious. See the answer? Oh, it does smell good. Here are the macros of what I'm about to eat, and I ended up having two cups dry measure. Oh, that smells good. Oh, they all look like crackers. Mmm. That's bomb. I approve it. So is it hard to like pack like fresh food on the road? We've had a lot of bad luck with the fridges. There were so many times where he brought like cheese sticks or something, and then you bring it out and say, oh, it's bloated. It's like, yeah, don't eat it. Also, when it comes to like fresh fruits and vegetables and stuff, the constant shaking will just bruise it really bad. Yeah, you'll have jam by the end. So just the most reliable to have something like this. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, because even if the like trickle in here stops working or something, or the truck just doesn't want to work. Yeah, it's still fine. Nothing goes bad. Well, even if we can't use that, truck stops always have free hot water. Dinner was absolutely delicious. Chef Becca and Chef Mike killed it. My lower back is killing. My knees are killing. My neck is hurting. And I'm kind of just realizing I have not had any fresh food today. I'm not proud of that, but I'm full. So I mean, that's really all that matters. The next thing on the to-do list is a truck stop shower, which is apparently a right passage for a truck driver. Yeah, sure. So this is where I kill any innocence that I thought I might have left. Hope you brought a blacklight. Don't bring a blacklight. The shower cost $17. Are we bathing in San Pellegrino? My body might leave clean, but I'm afraid my soul won't. Like I was expecting like a two-star hotel shower. This has given me like haunted car wash vibes. Like I think I'd rather bathe in a dog pound, but this is all we got. At least they have soap in there. I didn't bring any soap. So we're going to shower and brush teeth, moisturize the face. Let's get it. Shower shoes and absolute must. Otherwise, a de-warming prescription would be a must. If these walls could talk, it definitely would be. I can't even imagine how many of the positives have been made in there. I'm not going to lie, this shower was epic. Probably the highlight of my day. The pressure of the water was incredible. The body soap was hand soap, though. For sure, guaranteed. Well, I just popped my truck stock shower cherry. I feel cleaner. I'm slightly violated. Then I put on my deodorant, moisturize my face, and brush my teeth. Feeling so much better after the shower and getting all cleaned up. All cozy in bed right now on the top bunk. And I'm kind of terrified because I move around a lot. And if I fall, it's quite the drop. It's a big drop. But the fact that we have to do this entire day again tomorrow, with actually a little bit more driving, is crazy. Like, I don't understand how they do it every single day. Because I'm ready to go home and never drive for at least a month. But I'm dead. I am so tired and I can't wait to go to bed. See you in the morning. Even though I was excited for bed, I wasn't expecting a very good sleep. According to a study, long haul truck drivers in the U.S. averaged just 4.78 hours of sleep over a 24-hour period. Good night, Mike. Good night. Good night, Becca. Good night. Good night, Tucker. Good morning, sleepyhead. I'm telling y'all, I'm going to need something much stronger than an energy drink to get me going today. Because there are bad sleeps, and then there are the sleeps that I just had. Like, I think I would have had a better sleep being Hannibal Lecter's Little Spoon. Like, check out my readiness score. I don't think I'm ready for anything today. I don't think I'm ready to even be a passenger. Like, look at that sleep index. That is in the toilet. There should never be that much red on your sleep score ever. Never that much red. Do you guys hear the trucks just idling? Well, they've been idling all night. Because if they want to keep the temperature of the truck how they want it, the car just has to stay on. So try sleeping in this. Also, I feel like there must be no claustrophobic truck drivers. Because that was a very tight, confined environment in there. It was just an all-around experience I just don't want to have again. And I think the thing that's actually much worse than even the diet is the stress the drivers go through to, like, hit deliveries and deadlines and stuff. But mainly the sleep environment. It just kills them. Like, if your sleep suffers, everything else does. And that is definitely, like, the main thing that is putting their health in the trash. But the day must go on with another long day on the road. But first, truck driver morning routine. First, repeat. I held it so long last night. Then Mike and I brushed our teeth together. We might even start sharing a brush soon. 7.49 a.m. Hawaiian pizza. Diabolical, bro. Next, it was time to get caffeine. I got Mike a sugar-free Red Bull. Happy anniversary. Thank you. It's sugar-free, though. Oh, no. To get you on that. Small changes, Mike. This should definitely help fix my readiness score today. My sleep floor was in the toilet. It was. Yeah. How was it on your back? My back's blown out. Then we got gas. Then we took Tucker for a pee. And then we made our first delivery. Just making a drop off right now. You probably want to know what we're dropping off. Don't worry about it. Just a couple boys and boysy. Am I saying that too much? No. No? No. Boys and boysy. Boys and boysy. She fits in there perfectly. Oh, yeah. I sanded it. Perfect. You slept it right in. Oh, yeah. I'm the best at backing. With the sunrise in back there. Beautiful. Even more beautiful. Mike. So what's the plan today? The plan after this is we're going to the Oasis. It's a very pretty truck. Stuff that actually just rebuilt it. Then after that, we're going to go all the way to Wyoming to get some nice home comfort food. And there's a truck stop work out area there. So what's the final destination? Tonight we're going to get to Brighton, Colorado. And that's where, well, I'll be doing my middle delivery, but your last delivery. And this is where we part ways. Yep. I'll never see Tucker. Don't say that. Come on now. We made the drop and are now on our way to our first stop, the Oasis. That's only 124 miles away. We finally made it to the Oasis truck stop that for some reason, they call the Garden of Eden. And do you guys see the restaurants that they offer there at the Garden of Eden? Like what? Like calling this the Garden of Eden is as accurate as calling my high school bedroom the maternity ward. Like if this is the Garden of Eden, then the devil must be the landscaper. But it's one o'clock in the afternoon. We have yet to eat. So we're going to go inside right now and break the fast. All right, Mike. So I'm just going to fully give into the experience of being a truck driver. And I'm just going to think of exactly what you're getting. You're going to do the exact same thing? The exact same thing. Mike decided he wants to do Sonic for breakfast. I'm getting the double. I removed the lettuce because that should taste awful. And it's vegetables, right? I don't like onions. Remove the ketchup. You're going to remove the beef too? Oh, no, no, no. So, so far we've removed all the vegetables from the burger and we've added bacon. Thank you for that. Thank you. So this is a 44 ounce drink and there's nerds candy inside of it. This right here is how a man becomes a statistic. Like this is just the amount of sugar in this. We tell you open it up and see what's inside. I'm going to do one of those sugars in the room. Oh, wow. Not as much strawberries as I thought they'd be. No lettuce. No onions. Add bacon. How much sugar is in this? 167 grams of sugar and 630 calories. Okay, here we go. Why do you tell them? Oh. Don't mind me? Did you get a nerd in there? Yeah. There's like enough sugar to kill a moose. Twice if it respond. Like, holy shh. You're taking my Sonic progenity. Yep. Popping that Sonic cherry. A lot of people stick you on this road. Yeah. No better way to break the fast. It's actually really good. I'm going to need to have a juice cleanse after this. And a lavender soak. That'd be smart. Yeah. I feel like this is how a lot of truckers start their day. One thing that I'm noticing at every truck stop is that they are incapable of grilling foods. Everything is fried. And you're just surrounded with creative unique ways to kill you. Like we are in a food court with a Sonic, a Pizza Hut, a Taco Time, a Fried Chicken Place. And then right behind us, there's a place called Sinful Delights in the Garden of Eden. I am in absolute shambles right now. I am full. My stomach hurts. My brain is not operating. The brain is not fully engaged today. I'm so tired. I'm aching everywhere. I feel like I'm a phone at 3% battery. And I lost the charger. And I'm about to fade away. My question is out of everything that trucking encompasses, what is something that you struggle with the most? I'm just honing to eat anything healthy. It's like you get addicted to it.  and sugar and salt. So when I'm home, it's she that shows my wife's cooking and grilled chicken or vegetable or something. It's kind of, I'm craving. You know what it all means by? Yeah, yeah, I just want more salt and sugar. I think a pretty shocking thing to me was, I would have assumed that the company that hires you, gives you guys some sort of a daily allowance that's right on the food, to let you guys have the option to get healthier things, but you guys are paying out of pocket for everything on this trip, right? Yeah, usually that is crazy. Definitely. Day two started to feel a lot harder than day one. Just sitting with yourself in your thoughts for hours on end is actually very difficult. We were driving through some incredible scenery and I couldn't appreciate any of it. I just woke up from a pretty long nap and it feels like no time has passed. Every single minute and hour, just all feels like they're like bleeding together. It just feels like it's never gonna end. I'm really not feeling well. I was extremely overtired. I just haven't had any good quality food. I just feel like I'm just getting a little bit car sick now. This is hard. I don't know how they do this. On top of that, I had a really bad headache because I wasn't drinking any water, so we didn't have to stop multiple times. Again, the day turned into night and we finally made it to Wyoming for our next stop. I am never taking the outside and fresh air for granted ever again. Like I'm just craving any form of movement right now. But I can barely walk because my body is so stiff. Like I feel so much older than I should. But hey, we're in Little America. This place is really cute, super wholesome looking. I like it. So this is the workout area in Little America. Like what am I supposed to do here? Like freaking Tai Chi? Like there's no squat rack, there's no barbell, there's no dumbbells. We have this thing. Just I don't know if it's the climate or whatever. But then we have, oh my God, my back. We got battle ropes. If you're gonna be a trucker and then you come to a rest stop to do battle ropes, you're an actual psychopath. So I'm not doing battle ropes. And then if we go over this way, this is actually a pretty neat thing. It's got calisthenics all in one thing. We've got some dips, push-ups, pull-ups. And yeah, that's pretty much it. Not the most motivating atmosphere, but I mean, that's why it's empty. So like no one uses it, but that's the workout area. Let's go inside, it's cold. We all just ordered food at this barbecue spot in the gas station. And I've watched enough Guy Fieri, diners, drive-ins and dives, to be pretty optimistic about the food I'm about to get. Like this could be a hidden gem. I got myself a full chicken, a full family meal. Just for me. Food looks, some food looks good. Some food looks a bit questionable. My rotisserie chicken has seen better days, I think. I think that's more bread than shrimp. Yeah, that's definitely more bread than shrimp. And you're having your second burger of the day, man. I am. Truck drivers track their miles. They track the hours they drive. But what they should be tracking the most is the calories that they consume. And that's why I recommend they use the Macro Factor app. It's the quickest and easiest way to track your calories. Yeah, they definitely never show you what's in it. Like they're not gonna tell you how many calories are in there. Macro Factor has an AI tracking thing, so all you do is look at this. I'm gonna hover this over, and I take a picture of your meal, boom. And it's uploading. Okay, so there it goes. It says you have chicken breast, grilled steak, fried shrimp, you have the cocktail sauce. So it says the meal is 959 calories, 97 grams of protein on the plate. Clothed protein. Yeah. Not terrible. Fried parts probably not great, but. Yeah. Would you guys start tracking your calories? Oh, for sure. Yeah. I mean, we probably should. It would help. Yeah, it would help a lot. So having Macro Factor is like having your own personal nutrition coach in your pocket at all times. So if you're on the truck sitting all day or you're working out seven days a week, the app is gonna tell you exactly what you need to eat to reach your goals. So if you guys wanna try it out, use Code Will for a two week free trial. Do you guys like driving? Like if you guys are not working, do you guys just like to go drive? I don't mind it. I don't. He really says that he hates driving. I've never. You hate driving? Really cared. I feel like, I feel like that helps me drive careful. I hate it so much because I don't wanna get an accident again. Like, well, I got an accident when I was 16. And then from there on, I was just kind of terrified of driving. So I think that has made me a more careful and a cautious driver. Have you ever heard the saying, do something you love and you never work a day in your life? You're doing the complete opposite, man. But I'm with the person I love, so. That's cute. Yeah. Damn. A truck driver that hates driving. So we're heading back to the car for the last hurrah, right? This is like the last stand. The last one. The last one. And you're free. Over the past 50 hours, we drove 1,371 miles. We barely moved, barely slept, and completely abandoned the idea of a normal diet. I'm gonna miss my crew, especially Tucker. But now, it's time to go home. Drive safe. We crewed. Yeah, you too. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh, I have heartburn right now. That was a rough two days. I am in desperate need of a massage, a plate of fruit and some sleep. Yeah, I'm going to bed. See you in the next one.

=== FILE: I Trained With High School Super Athletes [G7C_z83QzI4].txt ===

 this is Diamond. He's 6'8", has 3.1 million followers on Instagram and a jewelry collection worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. He's what we call a high school super athlete. The top .01% of teenagers blessed with freakish height, elite speed, and strength. They're built like Marvel characters, except they're very much real and they have math class at 10am. And then there's me, down here. This was me in high school. Today I'm going to be spending the day with Diamond and other high school athletes to see what it takes to be the best and if I can fit in. We made it to OTE. I got my basketball shoes on. I have no idea why I own these, but this facility costs $100 million to make. And looking at it, it looks like a barn or just like a really sick driving range for indoor golf, but it's what's on the inside that counts. Let's go. If there's a day to be self-conscious about my height, it's going to be today. I feel like I'm going to be looking up like this all day. My neck's going to hurt quite a bit. So we made our way inside and met up with Sam, editor-in-chief at OTE. See what I'm saying? I'm six seven. Yeah. Yeah. So what is OTE? So OTE is the world's best high school basketball league. So the best players from actually not only all around the US, all around the world come here. So it's not actually a high school. It's not a high school. Oh no, the players do go to school here. They go to school here. Yeah. So it's not, it's not, it's like it is partly a high school and it's accredited all that stuff. So yeah, so you leave your high school, you come here, you learn here, you go, you train here, you eat here, all that stuff. I'm already violating probation being in a high school. Yeah, I know, I know. We have to pull a lot of strings together in here. At all times we're filming, there's recording going on. So your privacy just goes out the window when you come here pretty much? Yeah, pretty much. Okay. So kind of a go-pros in the bathroom and stuff. Not quite. Oh, this is sick. So this is where all the players walk through on game days. We have a photographer every day. Oh, the every day? Oh yeah. Yeah, okay. Just walking down the first hallway of this facility, you can already tell this place is unlike anywhere else in the world to develop young athletes. It's a breeding ground for future NBA stars. What separates OTE from other basketball programs? Well, first of all, you'll see like, there's no other facility like this in the world. I've been in the wayroom when like NBA guys are here and then be like, damn, this is better than what we have. Something that no one else even offers close to us is the best like branding, because we start as a media company. So we know how to like take a player in and if you if they want to grow their brand, we can help you do that and blow it up to a huge proportion. So there's actually like a tangible connection between, oh, can I build my brand in high school and then how much more money can I make in college? I mean, this looks like the entrance to Hogwarts for the vertically gifted man. So this is fricking sick. The vertically gifted. Yeah. That's a man of star Thompson. They were two of the first players to join OTE. They ended up being drafted fourth and fifth. Fourth and fifth overall? Yes, and then they draft. This is Don Barlow as proud we are the twins were probably equally as proud of Don Barlow because he actually came to OTE. He was like, he didn't have any D one offers or anything like that. He came to OTE the first year it started before anything was proven. He was the hardest working guy, him and the twins probably. He didn't get drafted. He signed a two way contract. He's been in the league for three years now. Later last night or two nights ago, 14 real he's been starting for the Sixers. We've all heard of the six seven mean it doesn't it doesn't mean anything. But apparently it was originated by one of the players here, TK with this tick talk. Yeah, he's one of the top top 15 ranked guys in the country going to Kansas next year. Then he started his own water brand six seven water, which we can test later. Ooh, I'm excited for that. That might make you taller and jump higher actually. pH level six seven, pH level six seven, and it might make you go to six seven and we're gonna get the vertical up. I mean, today you're going to be getting the full like, we're going to make you into a real hoop around the time. Hey man, height doesn't measure heart. No, it definitely doesn't. Also one thing one thing I want to mention, new team this year phase plan, say like the gamer plan. Yes. So they they are the new team this year. So they're like kind of sponsoring associated with the team. And we also have fear of God. You know that brand, like Jerry Lorenzo. Yeah, that's pretty sick. Yeah. So those are two of those jerseys. Those would be sick. We can work on that. Here's our championship trophy. Have you heard of icebox? No, it's like one of the most famous jewelry places in the country. It's in Atlanta. So they make our championship trophy. Wow. It's heavy. Don't know if we can lift it. I could lift that. I think you could definitely lift it. But we might I don't know how to get in the box. Okay, so this is the practice courts. Just practice courts. These are just the practice courts. Okay. This is even the best we have. All of our teams are up there. The Drifty Dreamer. So okay, I like that one. That's actually our women's basketball league. How much to sponsor a team? For you, I'll give you a good deal. Like 10 E donuts, big dripping Boston cream in the center. We'll give you a special deal. Yeah. Basically, we keep track of who's taking practice shots. So in October, Payton took 6,000 shots. So he's on top of the board in one month. Yeah. I mean, that's like 200 per day, right? For 30 days. That's not even including practice or games, right? Yeah, this is just like in their personal time. Yeah. So for Peyton, ball really is life. Definitely. Yeah. But it's really to hype up the guys that are in the gym, getting the most shots. I think I did like 600 in a month. Yeah, I got seven, but my laptop broke. We'll get you on the board later. I think hopefully we can get you to a couple hundred today. Yeah, I think so. This is like the basketball equivalent to a powerlifting total. Yes. The charts. Yes, it really is. All right. So yeah, this is the wall where we just kind of show a lot of the alumni. So we got Dom, John plays overseas, Sean plays at Cincinnati, Kansas, Auburn, like you can just see all the guys Ian played at UNC, then he just transferred to St. John's. It's hard to update these because the guys transfer a lot. But the point is we have a lot of guys currently playing college. This kind of looks like he would just go right through me. He's huge. He's huge. He's like six, 11, 17 feet. He put me through a lot of things. He would dunk on you. Yeah. We have a Gatorade bar here. So if you want anything, Gatorades, protein shakes, all that type of stuff. You can come make a shake if you want. Along with the basics, the facility also has some pretty unique features like their very own barbershop. No bad game days, no bad hair days. No, look good, play good. Yeah, I can't rock a fade. Oh my God, dude. Yeah. So, man, the lighting system here must cost a fortune. Yes, I mean, it costs a lot to operate this, but it's worth it. Easily the nicest high school gym I've ever seen. I'm talking MBA level lighting, cameras everywhere, full broadcast setup. There's so much tech in here that our wireless audio literally started cutting out. This is a guy, like, yeah. No, no. So the only other arenas in the world that have this LED system are crypto and Barclays. How do you go about trying out for a team? Or is it no tryouts? For the teams in Atlanta, we have scouts that literally travel the country looking for the top players. It's a mix of top players, but also like culture fit, right? Because you want to build a culture. Oh, look. What? Read the LED. Oh, thank you. Austin directing with fans is kind of at the core of the league, right? It's like something that none of the other, no other leagues in baseball, soccer, basketball, none of them can really do what we do. So what we do is every year we post an online link to try out for OT. This year we got 20,000 applicants. We go through every single applicant and then we invite 20 of them down to OT to try out for one spot. So we fly them down all expenses paid. It's basically like a basketball vacation for these kids. We fly you down and then we do tryouts for three days and we choose one player to join the league. So actually we walk past them downstairs, but Tray none won this year and he's playing for a phase. Wow. The odds, the odds forever being your favorite. Yeah. 220,000? 220,000. Damn. Yeah. So you can try out next year. I'm a little bit old though. It was technically no age limit. Yeah. There's no age limit? Yeah. Oh, wow. Dream tryouts here I come. This definitely has to be the nicest high school basketball facility I have ever seen. The lighting systems, the media room over there. They really have these cameras everywhere. So you get every single angle of the game. Section four, we got section five and then section six, seven. This is the actual player locker room. Right. And you should see your name on one right over here. Oh yeah. Look at that. Everything in the locker room is for you. Your training is all set. You have all the gear you need. So. You're in there? Yeah. Here, open it up. Oh, dude. Oh my. Adidas sent those specifically. They knew you were coming to shoot this video. So they sent, those are brand new. Like I don't know, those are released yet. Hopefully I can rock these, man. What? I hope they pull them off. You can pull them off. Really? You think so? Yeah. So it was finally time to get ready and really become one of these super athletes for the day. These are the brand new Adidas Hardin Volume 10s, which right now are retailing for $210, along with a fully stocked locker with custom Adidas outfits for on court and off court training. I feel like no matter how well it fits, it just looks unnatural on me. You know what it is? Hooper's probably wouldn't wear shorts that tight. I feel like I look like a guy who like, like had like a weird like make a wish granted or something. Like I want a contest to be here. All right, what next, man? Let's go eat. Oh, I can do that. Better than anyone here. I guarantee it. Oh man. So there's the menu. We've got fried chicken, asparagus, rice. I'll get everything. I gotta hit my threes today. So I'll do three servings of everything. Okay. You said three servings of everything? Yeah. For real? Yeah. I gotta hit my threes. Okay. Yeah. I don't know what they mean, but. Yeah. Oh, it's okay. Yeah. I was just trying to be funny. Thank you. What? That's dense. Yeah. I mean, the guys are like working out every day, playing every day. So we gotta make sure that they're, you know, eating healthy. Yeah. This is amazing so far. This is like gourmet freaking food. All right. So we have a lot of food here. We have salmon, rice, pasta, fried chicken and asparagus. So this is, I'm eating the meal of a six, five plus high school basketball super athlete. And I'm a 31 year old under six foot guy. So this is like going straight to my hips. That's for sure. Let's give it a shot. There's seasoning on here. I think the high school kids don't even appreciate that. Oh wow. Restaurant quality. Mmm. The rice is spice. Super nice. Super carb heavy. Actually pretty calorie heavy. But when you're training as much as them on the court in the weight room, you need the calories. They're also super tall. So they're like basal metabolic rates, but with like 6,000 calories or something crazy like that. Fried chicken. Closest look at to a dunk all day. Oh my God. Bro. Yeah. As you can tell from the food on my face and the constant facial expressions, this is ridiculously high quality cafeteria food. You can tell there's a lot of care that goes into it with a rotating menu every day. These kids are getting all the nutrition they need to be training for hours a day. A little sparrigus. Mmm. Gotta make my piece now. That's all right. This seems like they go above and beyond at a bunch of seasoning. It's not just boring. Plain chicken, plain salmon. That's my Cajun spice there. So like, you know what they're trying? They want to make the kids enjoy the healthier foods, which is good. So along with the food over there, there's also the snack area here, where these, these apple cinnamon, like organic, mushed up apple sauce kind of things look really good. Wow. That looks really good. Then there's these soft and chewy granola bars, popcorners, a healthier chip alternative, which is nice. Got another protein bar, Pringles, jerky, muscle milks, Gatorade nutrition shakes. And then over here, what's in here? What is this? Mini pizzas? Look at this mini pizzas. 290 a pot. Uncrustables. I've never had an uncrustable before. Can I have an uncrustable? Yeah. You just eat it frozen? Yeah, you just eat it like that. Oh, I should wait a minute. I think maybe you pop that in the thing. No, go wrong, man. Really? Yeah, let's go wrong. Good. That was good. It's good without. I've actually never had one. So far from what I've seen from the court, the food, and even the gear, I just had to know, how much does it cost players to even be here? So all the players are here on scholarship. We have 31 players in the building. Like they're all here for, for basketball, obviously in the academic school, but like, yeah, none of them pay any money. Wow. And like all their like housing is paid for and everything too? Yeah, everything's paid for. The league is, makes money through like sponsorship. So it's sponsored by Gatorade, State Farm, Adidas, all that stuff. So that's how we make money. And then we were able to provide everything else for free for the players. Next up on the to-do list was to visit the weight room. Wow. This gym is so sick. Everything's custom. So you got OTE up there. And then even OTE on the plates right there. Again, it's a lot more of an athletic performance gym. There's not a lot of machines. So in terms of machines, we got a leg press. Don't know what that is. The dumbbells actually go to 125. Dumbbells to 125 at a high school is crazy. I don't think I've ever seen a high schooler lift those. So I wonder who would be lifting the 125s. It ain't about just basketball. Yes, it is. Then we got this, which I'm imagining is to like test your reflexes. So we got a bunch of the different balls here. So you go like... And then each rack comes with a belt for weighted pull-ups. You got a trap bar here. You got some bumper plates on the side. So again, a lot of explosive movements, a lot of functional movements, and not a lot of bodybuilding because you don't really need to be jacked to be a good basketball player. But they're all jacked for some reason, I guess. Like look at LeBron. LeBron definitely does a push-pull leg split. 100%. It's a sick gym. I love the colors. I love the light blue and the orange. It's not my ideal gym, but it does its purpose, obviously. They're building some crazy athletes here, and this is all that you need. You don't need anything fancy. For today's Off-Court Workout, I'm joining TK, one of the top prospects in the entire country. Head Performance coach James is going to be taking us through a workout starting with something very unfamiliar to me. They locked in. I'll be bringing planks to you until you feel like it's too many plates. It's a competition between the two of us. Oh man. So what is basketball training like? Because it's not that much obviously bodybuilding. It's more like functional. We lift. We lift. You can split squat almost 300 pounds. Split squat? Yeah. Three plates. Yeah. That's not that. Three plates is more than 300. That's 315, man. Pretty crazy to think at 17 he can split squat 315 pounds. That's elite level strength. It just goes to show the training is ultra specialized to the sport. I mean, I'm used to 200 on me, man. So I can't. I don't feel like I do that. You don't flex those glutes, man. I need this pretty fast. It's one like that now. You're tapping out already. You need to topple it up. Oh, come on. James, come on. Put it on, man. Let's go. Let's do it. Let's do it. Another. I like it. You're going to cook me on the court. So let's talk to him. He got it. Okay, Rick. That's it. That's it. One more. One more. Yeah, go. One more. One more. You do it as well. You got it. Yeah. And you just lay down. Yeah. Next, we did a quick race with the sleds on the turf. Well, that was a cheap start, you think. There you go. Switch it. Oh, no. No. You have, you have this in red. Make it look good. This one is red. There you go. There you go, man. Couldn't find the hole on the other side. Yeah, I couldn't either. Oh, what's happened? After losing the sled race, all I knew is I need to start doing cardio. I was way too gasped for just being one lap. Do I, Tommy? Oh, I just got out of breath. So, six, seven. What is it? I don't know what that is. It's nothing. It was a part of the song. I said it. And that's how it, that's how it took off? It will. Because you won't, this will, no. Hey, good. I know. No. Oh, man. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. Hang out there. How are we going to hold this for? Hey, we'll see who taps out first. He got it. Oh my goodness. And the players, is there like a fitness test that they do in pass? We do yo-yos. We do three runs, three rep maxes on everything. Three? Three rep maxes. Why is that? Just because one, like I'm dealing with a lot of guys who haven't lifted before, two rep max is just, I think this is a much better introduction to it than I'm trying to just say go as heavy as you can. Yeah, right away. All right, next one. The wider your feet, the easier it is. Try to get kind of narrow, big push, and you have to reach down, touch the floor, and touch. Touch the floor, and touch. Come on, man. Compete. Compete. Oh, man. That's hard. Just you first to five. First to five. First to five. Go. There you go. There you go. Go. Yeah. Oh, wow. That just made me realize how horrible my right side is. I'm like right side dominant, I thought. So how often are players training? Four times a week. Okay. All year long. Okay. Is it like a full body split? Yeah. Okay. We'll do six reps. It's the max max number of reps that we'll do. Something for lower body, something for upper body every day. We do some core work every day, and we do a lot of movement stuff. So, you know, lots of jumping and changing direction. So, yeah. We're going to get hang. Got to hang on the big bone wall. That's girthy. Three, two, one. Go. You know my head. You can't be already. Come on, man. Let's go. Come on. Get back to the ground. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. At the end of the workout, I was feeling a bit coffee with how well I did. So, I wanted to see how I'd stack up against TK in a vertical jump 1v1. I'll 1v1 you right now. Like, I mean, that's what I'm talking about. I got nothing to lose. Only he has everything to lose. This is like J. Paul versus AJ right now. I got nothing to lose. You're going first. Me? Yeah. Because I got to see your form. Okay. I built for lateral. It's not perfect. Go. 15-5. I don't know. I think I need to get the pocket ruler for that one. That's pretty low. Stand still. Go. 16-8. Go. That's 13. 16-8. Very consistent. Very consistent. Okay. You better go get that one-on-one game. Redeem yourself. I made my first shot of the day. I beat his vertical. Is it possible I beat the best high school player in the country on the court? Who do you model your game after? Tyrese Mackey. Who? Tyrese Mackey? Okay. I'm like airbugs. Do you want to know airbugs? Nah. The game is first to three and it was quite possibly the fastest game of 1v1 ever. I'm going to stick to the weight room. With the off-court training done for the day, it was time for the on-court training where I'll be joining high school's most famous athlete, Diamond. So I'm on the court now with Diamond and speaking of that, you have a pretty legit jewelry collection. Wait a little bit. I just got a reach from really two days ago. I have no idea what that is. So I saw you have 3.1 million followers on Instagram. So like for being a high schooler, like your DMs must be crazy. A little bit. Like even if you peaked in high school, that's a flex. A little bit. Like I would have dropped out of 1 million I think. So what do you like about OT? For me as a basketball player, you got all the tools that you need. You got amazing NBA facilities, high-fetched coaches. Every day the gym is open 24-7. A lot of exposure. Camera is on this 24-7. So me knowing how important is social media for a player, not only for exposure but for the relief that you can get to send over to coaches to get some reviews, you are at the right place. So we're on the court now. Shoot. Plus me. I'm surprised. Trader. After making those two shots, I can feel it. I'm starting to heat up. So hopefully that's little glimpse of what's to come during my session with head coach Corey Frazier. First thing we started with for warm-up is some ball handling drills. Only using your right hand on the way up the court and then your left hand on the way back. Then we did these things which clearly I was struggling a lot with. You see diamond? This is dribbling. It looks simple. It's not. It takes coordination, timing, rhythm. None of which showed up with me today. Forever. With that stuff out of the way, it was finally time to start putting the ball in the net. Starting with a layup drill. Good. I would love to be able to dunk like that, but I just can't and I'm blaming genetics. Good. There you go. And that's all I have in it. And we did this similar type of drill at all areas of the court shooting from many different spots. Right there in front of the ground. Hopefully. You're going to be here after some basketballs. You're going to be using your legs to push through my hands. Make sense? No. You're going to be using your legs and trying to walk. Damn. Crazy hand out for the nation. There were so many drills we had to do where we were confined to only using one hand, training the both to be equally as dominant so we have no weak points. This drill that you're seeing where I pass the ball to diamond, then Corey gives me the ball for the shot was something we ran for a very long time. Corey wouldn't let us move on until I made a shot and I wasn't making anything. That was a five time. Then we worked on our threes from behind the line. I'm going to get two in a row. Oh, you think you make two more? Make two. Those three. There you go. Hold it out, man. One more. One more. One for the road. To finish off this workout, Corey had a little surprise for us. Right hand down left hand back. You got to finish with a free throw. Then it's got to be a switch to get out to drips. Okay. Switch. All right. Go. Right hand down. You've seen him, bro. You're a free throw switch. No. You're up almost. No. Why does it have to be a switch? That's the best way to finish. I'm not like a rim job. No. You might like it. I don't think I can say that. I'm going to use that. Finger in the rim. Remember? Q? Yeah. There it is. Yes. Yeah. Got the chair for me. Yes. Longy one. First three. Yeah. I'm out. Of course my, no, no, it's my ball. Come on. What's on the line here? I guess I'm a jewelry. I get your necklace. I get your new necklace. Yeah. Oh, that's you. All right. The other day. She better. No. Let's get down. It looks like it's zero. So yeah. I was impressed about your level. Really? Bro. You told me about the you super strong. Yeah. You think it was me too coordinated? Yeah. So people not so close to you all the time. I was surprised. Really? Yeah. I think if I had like a year, I'd be okay. Can I play in the league? Actually, in the league, I don't know. I think. Yeah. It's just maybe two years. I think I can rebound pretty hard. Pretty hard. Yeah. I think so. And you're strong. People don't like strong people. We don't like to find so much basketball. Oh, you don't? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I asked you. I do. Yeah. I don't like it though. How many shots a day you take? I'll say about a thousand. A thousand a day? Yeah. You got a shooting machine right there. Yeah. Whenever we don't shoot every day because of the how many practice we have. I think you're captain, bro. No, no. Yeah. Because why are you on that list? I am. I'm different. No, you're not. You're a pro. Payton's up there, man. Right here. 20, dude. Come on. I was top three last week. I got proof. I'll fill up my phone right now. I got proof. Chat GPT. Make it look like I got 8,000 shots. Look, I was here top two. He's down the truth. Was it ever a challenge? Like with all the publicity and the followers? Like to let it get to your head and like take over your game in any way? I don't think so. No. Because in France it was really a polemic kind of. Like me being so exposed at a young age. My coach is like, my main thing was sharing my lifestyle as a basketball player and my coach would let me do a TikTok in the gym. So I had to sneak in and do it. I was like, my coach here never seen me do a TikTok. So I kind of got that trauma from like doing my stuff on my side whenever I got some free time. Yeah. Where I never mix both. All right. So we're doing some recovery with Cam. Yes, sir. How old are you? I'm 16 years old. What the f... How tall are you? Well, she was on? Oh, six six. Six six. Yeah. So you're not probably six five. So besides being a teenager, what do you guys do for recovery? Coat, tub, hot tub. And like I say, you can go to a trainer and then they'll stretch you do mobility with you. All that stuff. Okay. Nice. I don't think I've ever done these before. You've never done them? No. I'll just grab. Yeah. You can grab any one. All right. I need three of them. Subtle flux. I can barely wrap this around my quad. The button's right here. You turn it on. And then depending on how much time you want to do, we can probably do what? We can do 15. 15, yeah. Yeah. You cook at the 15th. Oh, it's just got a good vibration to it. Kind of want to... Do you feel like out of place when you're showing about all this talent? I play better when I'm playing with or against so much more better people. I just thought my game elevates as the time going with those good people. If I'm playing down to my competition, I feel like I'm going to play down to my competition. I won't play as good. So I feel like that's not the greatest mindset to have. But like, based on like my life so far, that's just what it's been. So when I do play against really good people, I just get better. You know, this stuff does work. I will say that. But I do like cryo and cold punch a lot more. I don't do that. You don't do cryo and cold punch? Anti-cold. Really? What's that? Anti-cold? Oh, you don't? You no-cold at all? Oh, okay. I can't afford any more shrinkage. Well, Norma Tech, like, all it does is just... It really like... It's really just a blood... This is a blood flow, getting a blood flow there. And then... Fizzing mom's warm embrace. Yeah, that's the best fact. I miss my mom a lot. This stuff being away from home when down here, I do live with my dad. Oh, okay. And then the apartment over here. You know, you gotta miss mom's cooking, right? Yeah. Yeah. What she cook up for you? She cooks anything. My mom has a food truck. No way. No way. That's where she has a food truck. She's got food. She does like... She mainly does like sofas. So that's like fried chicken, mac and cheese. Yo, shut her out. What's her food truck name? Her food truck is a little taste of soul. She don't go nowhere. It's like she's just since Natty, Ohio. Yeah. Go check it out. Fiviting back to basketball here. Do you have a life outside of basketball? Or is basketball your life? Everybody here would be... We're so tired after like these three days and sometimes four days you can wake up early in the morning. So like resting is the best thing. So like when I'm sitting in the house and I'm not really doing much, I watch basketball a lot. So like my whole life's basketball. Yeah. Like I said, I've been doing this since I was three. Not at the highest level, of course. I've already wasn't the greatest when I was three. The Fisher-Pryde Snats, bro. You're just for precision. What do you think separates OTE from other basketball programs? Just a amount of time that we have in the gym. We go to school for like four hours. So I would think like shortening your school days, I think is better. Yeah. Going to school for like seven hours, I think is kind of crazy. I feel like you're not going to take as much stuff. You're not going to learn as much stuff. Like I'm not going to use this in the real world, in my opinion. Some of the stuff you'll use in the real world, but majority of it, you're kind of just being babysitted in my opinion.  we use all that excess time, that extra three hours, we're using that here, we're moving that to the core. So, kind of like time management, I think that's what separates OT. Recovery session with Cam was so much fun. What blew me away was not only his mindset, but also how well-spoken he was for just being 16 years old. Other recovery options include a full physiotherapy area to get all kinds of work done, no matter the issue, as well as a massive hot tub and cold tub. We just finished the recovery, now it's time to refuel. Do this, you just come, take as many as you want. This place truly feels like it's an NBA team facility. It's actually insane that these high school kids have access to this for no cost at all. Like, free muscle milks is even worth it then. I still prefer Powered, but I think we can all agree that water sucks. There's even this room, which you literally do not see unless you're a pro athlete, and that is when you just come and sit with your team and you watch game film from the last game, and you have your coach up there, you look at like past plays, what do you wanna do next game? So this is like a really cool thing to learn going into the next game. And then right next door, you have this studio, green screen, the white infinity wall over there, another thing over there. So every single player gets a media day where they do the headshots, video, just like a professional athlete, which is incredible. The amount of money and time they spend on each individual player is unlike anything I've ever seen before. So I came to my locker, opened it, and there's a new Fear of God Adidas basketball shoes just sitting here waiting for me, and I didn't even ask for them. Oh, look at those. Those are clean. Look at that, on the back in the red, Fear of God. This is just a regular day for these athletes. They just come to their locker, boom, a new pair of shoes. I don't even know how much these are, probably a lot. So they're treated like pro athletes early on from like 14, 15 years old, all the way up until when they get drafted, they wanna play college, which I think is actually beneficial. Like if you're treated like this now, and you feel like there's all this pressure, you've accessed all these things, the adjustment to the next level is not that bad. It feels the exact same. So they're getting them ready early, they do media training for them, so they know exactly what they need to do, what they need to say, how they say it, learn to be respectful. So they're setting all these kids up for insane success and spoiling them while they do it. The last stop of the day, surprisingly, isn't another workout. It's actually media training. For 15 to 20 minutes, a few times a week, players are put in situations to get them comfortable talking in front of cameras and answering questions. Today I'm joined with Anderson for a mini podcast. Anderson, if you were to look at Will right now. Yeah. Where do you see him fitting in on a basketball court? What position do you think you play? The water boy. He wants to say it, I know he does. He's like the one, no he's not. He's strong, he might be the one. You call me the one? Yeah, he would have to be the one. Oh, thank you. Six, seven water. Tastes good. 67 minerals. What's the first thing you would fix in a basketball player's diet? Oh man. I guess Anderson told him like, yeah, I don't know what he eats. I just, I saw him crushing jolly ranchers, bro. I'm not, it's terrible. We'll go from what I ate today. Sure. Yeah, I barely ate today. Oh, candy, snacks, eatery, I was eating, eatery. Probably chicken and spaghetti though. Listening to Anderson list off his meal plan for the day, I mean, it just, it made me feel really old and it was also very painful hearing how little protein he's consuming, which made me think of only one thing. We just finished the podcast with Anderson and it's pretty crazy to hear his diet of just candy, juice and fried chicken. It could definitely be better. So we're looking at the snacks right now. I am starving. They got the protein bars here, 190 calories, 10 grams protein, could it be better? Absolutely. That's why I always bring with me wherever I go a David protein bar, 150 calories, 28 grams of protein. So less calories and really tripping. Triple the protein of another protein bar. It tastes delicious. I even think Anderson would eat this. He just likes candy. He would love this. It just treats like straight up cookie dough. So this is the highest protein to calorie ratio protein bar on the planet. You can only get protein to calorie ratio like this in cod. And I'm not breaking cod with me on the planet anyway. If that's just disgusting. It's so good. The texture is unbeatable. So this is one of my favorite flavors, the chocolate chip cookie dough flavor. If you guys want to try them out, first link in the description, you will not be disappointed. I got to spend the day with some of the best high school athletes in the entire world, full of raw talent. But now it's time to go back to real life. My 31 year old self, but still taking shots because prime or not, shooters gotta shoot. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self. I'm gonna go back to my 30 year old self.

=== FILE: I Tried 5 Levels Of Gyms [9eDLUELE-BM].txt ===

 the other day I saw an article of a gym that has a sushi bar on the gym floor. That is what I like to call heaven, but also a level 5 gym. It can't get much better than that, and I'm going. But before I go, I want to experience every level of gym before that, so I can truly appreciate just how special level 5 is. So it's time to go all the way down to level 1. It can't get much worse than this. Like, this is a step above doing endless push-up variations in your mom's basement. So in Chicago, they have a fitness center in all the parks, and we're at Chase Park, the cheapest one in the entire city. It's only $10 a month, so I don't think it's possible that I get let down in here. But we're going to find out. Yeah, this gym is small, man. Vibes in here, $10 vibes. Now this place is government funded, and what this is telling me is that the people in Chicago are good at tax evasion, man, because there's not a lot of going on in here. Like, we literally have, like, one of everything. We have this arm machine, which looks super cool. Never seen anything like it. It's kind of like a super set thing, so you do like a tricep push down, and then you can go right into a bicep curl, which is a very interesting handle choice here. And then we go over here. We have dumbbells up to 50, which is pretty much like a standard hotel dumbbell rack, and these are pretty neat. Well, these are filled with water. They're water dumbbells, 10 pound water dumbbells. Well, that grip is really nice. I'm forgetting to put in their nails in there, though. There's always two treadmills. There's always more treadmills than there are weights. So we got the treadmills. We got the bike over here. Got the AC, which is not currently working. We got a TV, which is also not currently working. Leg press. I love this leg press because it's a lot easier on your knees. It doesn't have been greased in a while. Well, that's very nice. We got one Smith machine, so I feel like during peak hours, it's probably a long line here. The cool thing about this Smith machine is that it kind of mimics a regular barbell, because when you unwrap it, you can kind of walk it out like a regular thing. It doesn't just stay in a fixed position. Well, that's trippy. Then we also have a cable machine. I feel like a cable machine is like a staple in all gyms because there's so many different exercises that you can do on it. Lateral raises, chest flies, curls, push downs, pull ups. Then here, a really nice chest press machine, which I feel like the depth could be incredible here. So far, for $10 a month, it's actually a lot better than I thought. It's really not that bad. Obviously, the dumbbells could be a bit better, but you really have most things that you need to build a pretty good physique. I've been coming for about two months. Okay, so what do you think? I mean, hey, it's got the basics. It's got everything you need. You know what I mean? If you're no thrills and just trying to get in and get out, this is the spot to be. It's really quiet in here. You get your occasional senior citizen doing their walk-in, trying to get their steps in and stuff like that, but otherwise, I don't know, a Smith machine, a LAP machine, everything's usually open. Obviously, it's not the best ambiance. I wish I had a better view instead of just a little apartment building, but hey, I've still got everything I need. From level one to five, what would you put this gym? I'd say 3.5. So basically, if the bench was taken, they have this. See what I'm saying? If you become a member at this gym, your biggest muscle becomes your creativity. I mean, realistically, coming into a $10 a month gym, I think the only chance I ever had of getting let down here is if I finally saw my dad and then he just left again, spotting me mid-lift or something. You know? All right. The one thing about this gym is that it is so small. You can't eavesdrop here. You're just automatically a part of every conversation. Also, if a buddy rips one behind me, all of a sudden, my set of leg extensions takes an altitude training twist. And then if you're into functional fitness, there's a functional fitness area for you know, get downs and get ups. Like that. We also have a ball. Second best thing I bounced on all week. Now for a gym to be considered level five, they have to have a lot of great machines, but also a lot of amazing amenities. So for every gym, we're checking out the amenities. And for this one, I don't, I don't think, I don't think there's really many. Yeah, that's the AC. There's a clock. We can tell the time. This right here is the cue for the Smith machine during peak hours. We come down this way. We have men's washrooms, women's washrooms. We have a water fountain. Very nice pressure. And then over here in this very nice, like ominous setting, we had a punching bag with a Muhammad Ali quote. You don't lose it if you get knocked down. You lose it if you don't. You don't lose it if you get knocked down. You lose if you stay down. Whoa now. Whoa now. It's a pays animal. I will say it would be nice to have the windows like not painted to get some natural light in here. I feel like that would do wonders for this space. Because right now this is just a little bit like it's too grungy. I just like, I'd like some nice lights coming in the fall leaves and cute stuff like that. But maybe that's just me. I don't know. Although definitely not for the advanced lifter, this gym does cover quite a bit of the basics. It has some decent machines. And if it's usually this quiet, you can't go wrong for the price. Time to make my way to level two. Welcome to level two. So as if a commercial gym wasn't already bad enough, we are at the worst rated LA fitness in the entire city. Some people call this LA fitness the yard because convicts go here. One guy in particular said that the bathroom is the worst place on the planet. What happened in the bathroom, bro? I mean, it is called Piper's Alley. And all I know is I packed extra slippery soap to my post-workout shower. There is literally no LA fitness sign anywhere. Along with investigating the men's locker room, other very common complaints revolve around missing equipment and the gym being so hot. This has seen other members collapse from the heat. I don't know if this is very Canadian of me, but I've never seen a gym with metal detectors at the entrance. It's going hand in hand with the yard. Getting a little bit nervous right now. I don't think there's any other way to put it, but LA fitness is a portal to sadness. Like, there's just something about like the ambiance here. Like every day at LA fitness is a cloudy Monday. Even the machines look like they don't even want to be here. We are currently in the dumbbell area, and it's exactly what you'd expect. Like literally everything's missing. Like everything is gone. It's like a kid playing with Legos. It's just like scattered all over the gym. Like what is even happening right now? I think someone is slowly stealing the dumbbells to build their own at home LA fitness. That has to be what it is. It has to be. Also, this has definitely seen some better days. Unlike level one where the dumbbells went to 50, these ones go all the way to 150s. And you'll notice that dumbbells 105 pounds and up are all still here. Because if you're stealing the 150s, that is certainly a theft PR. This is also motivation to get strong. So you'll always know your dumbbells are here waiting for you. All the guys are like, this is my yard. My yard. In terms of the machine area, you're not going to find any unicorn items here, meaning like must hit items. But it's actually not that bad. Like I like hoist because it actually moves with you during the motion, which feels super nice and super natural. So this entire row is all hoist machines. And then on that side, it's like techno gym, which is like a big no-no. But right here, not too bad. So on this back machine, this handle, I don't know what happened to it. It's completely worn off. This side's fine. And everything is a little bit rusty, which adds an interesting resistance curve. I feel like science-based lifters would find that kind of cool. It just adds a little bit of a different element to the movement. But I think the wear and tear is because it's a commercial gym. So many people are coming in and out. And that's what you get. That's why it's level two. That's what you're paying for. There's always going to be things out of service, always things a little bit lower quality because there's so many people coming in. And a lot of those people don't really care about the space. In terms of convicts, there's no one here that I would say looks like a convict. Although like you never really know. I'd be one if I was ever caught. And in terms of the AC collapsing from the heat, I don't need to yet. So I'm going to keep on trying. So far overall, it's a decent experience. Everything I kind of expect from an LA fitness. Walking around this gym, it was very clear on multiple occasions that it's not very well maintained. This place is like a frat house. Everything's dirty. It smells strange and dudes are leaving loads wherever they want. This is a pretty neat form of cardio. We got rock climbing here, which I mean, I fear if I get to the top and I see an eagle eye view of this gym, I might want to jump. Based off the machines, I don't even want to look at how rusty those bolts are. Like I think like the change room might be safer than doing this. There's also a ton of cardio equipment as well as a basketball court and even a pool, which looked more like a crime scene if anything. Bro, that is crazy. Oh my God. I think I got to go. I've made my way through the entirety of the gym and now it's time for my last task. Taking a shower in the men's locker room. What's your experience been like in the change rooms? I try to avoid them as much as I can. I'm showering there after. Godspeed brother. I try not to really go down there. It smells kind of weird and it just has, it's like very musky inside. Like the sauna is like the whole thing. I'm showering now. Oh here? Yeah. Oh God. Good luck. Okay. The locker room was described as being musky and smelling heavily of urine, which is definitely correct. It did. I'm kind of scared, but also really excited for some reason. As I entered the shower area, fortunately it was quiet, but almost too quiet. Definitely the only gains I'm making here are fungal. I don't even think my flip-flops want to touch the floor right now. It smells so bad in here. I feel like there's like a new weird random aquatic bed bug breed being made here. I hung up my towel and removed my boxers and felt more vulnerable than ever. Surprisingly the water pressure was great and it got hot pretty quickly. Overall there wasn't much to complain about. I survived the shower, but let's hope level three is significantly better. Level three. Quad's gym. $88 a month. This is an iconic gym. A lot of the greats have come here and if there's one place where they're going to notice that you skip leg day, it's right here. The gym for men and women. Sounds a bit outdated if I do say so myself, but like looking at the stuff on the walls, I can already tell you I'm going to have the greatest lift of all time. I love the old school vibe. Right here, the largest freeway gym in the city, 40,000 square feet, which is pretty crazy because it's a very unassuming place. You wouldn't think it's that big, but 40,000 square feet is no joke. And it's also, what? Yes, when the outside is very deceiving. I've been to since 1999. 1999. November of 1999. Best gym in the city? Oh no, not in the city. I'm just stating. I will say this is the number one gym in the US. These are the first people in a serious about their workouts. None fancy. You want that foofoo stuff? Go to foofoo place. I mean if the expectations weren't already here, they're now up here. And also, voted top 10 gym in America by muscle and fitness? We're in for a treat. If you're a bodybuilder and you walk into this gym, your program for the day is not happening because there are so many things that I want to try. It's so overwhelming. Good thing I know how to get around. When there's a gym that has the old photos, you just know you will never ever be the biggest guy in the gym. I have never seen a back row that looks like this. I feel like a fat kid in the food court. I'm like, do I want to go here or do I want to go there? I'm so overwhelmed. We have all the different bars here all the way down to here. It's like a fricking anabolic armory. They come pick your fricking barbell, man. I think if I was a member here, all of my muscles would be bigger. Every single one, even my calves. This is a treat, man. I can't stop saying that. It's a treat. Not a lot of gyms are strongman friendly, but I've seen a lot of strongman things so far. So powerlifters and bodybuilders, strongman, even crossfitters may be welcome in here. We never know. Probably not. Here is the cardio area. Tons of insane machines. Look at this. We have a treadmill where you can pretend to be holding grocery bags for your next Costco grocery haul. Oh, what the heck? How do you do this? Oh, what's an on? I think I'm like Magna's Mipo here. And I only burnt two calories. Oh, there we go. I can't flow state. That's fine, man. That makes cardio fun. I've also never heard of sports art fitness. And this leg extension might be the best leg extension I've ever used. Like the mind muscle connection, I thought I could only achieve with my right hand. But this one, you can get so far back without hitting the end of the machine. The stretch is incredible. This place is like a fricking panabolic carnival. There's so much fun stuff to do. I could actually live here. I'm going to say it. This is the best bodybuilding gym I have ever been to in my life so far. And we're just getting started. There are so many machines I have never seen before and will probably never see again. And this is only the first floor of this massive gym. All right, so now we're heading up to floor two for more of the same thing. I'm so excited. One of the staff showed us this chest press machine that is so customizable, you can hit your chest at any angle. He then showed us a three in one shoulder machine where you can do upright row, then into shoulder press, and then lateral raises. Are these like one of a kind pieces at this gym? Yeah, this one. Is this the only one to exist? This company is out of business. You don't find this anymore. The best way to describe this place is it's a lifting museum, but you actually get to touch and use everything. Everything that you see is first generation hammer strength. The best of the best. We're in the next room right now and there's these machines which look so old. They look like they're created by the founding fathers of hypertrophy. What is going on here? So I think that this is a curl. Wow. And then there's this here. Look at that machinery on that thing. These machines right here that I just tried, they've probably been banned for being too effective. What? Oh my. What the heck is this? What? And then from the chest you go right into a fly. This is for real the anabolic red light district because I want to hit everything. If you don't like these dumbbells, that's okay because there's also these ones, these ones, and these ones which are actually my personal favorite. Bruh. This is crazy. Look how much bars are going on here. Holy. Wow. Who is using this bar? Like look at this. This is a girth that is both frightening but very tempting. But we're going to do some incline bench right now and I picked this one out. It has like the slight curvature for extra range of motion. It's absolutely beautiful. Incredible. You feel the chest pump right away. You guys want to see the little fun thing? Look at this. I lie down and I can see myself in the mirror above. You know what that means. Chest days get freaky after hours. Kind of unexpected that they had a boxing room as well. Really cool spot. You're like in a Muhammad Ali Bikaki here. We're just being completely surrounded by him. Poster, picture, picture, picture. Just Muhammad Ali is everywhere. I had to do it. Flex the quads at quads. I'm going to get a post-workout snack so they have a ton of energy drinks and they also have a nice amount of bars and stuff here. Whenever there's an option of bars, you know I'm picking a David's bar. 150 calories, 28 grams of protein, zero sugar. It dwarfs all of the other options on the table. It keeps me full. It keeps me lean. Or not lean. Leaner. And I highly recommend them. They taste delicious. So if you want to pick them up, actually have the link in the description, check them out. You will not regret it. In a lot of ways, this is a level five gym. Like 100%. It was such a privilege to lift there. If you are a bodybuilding fan and you come here, you just gain such an appreciation for bodybuilding. It's just, it's incredible. And I just, I cannot wait to come back. Level three was epic. Now let's see if level four can do better. Level four, Chicago Sports and Fitness Club. Now this membership is only $1 more per month than quads gym. But just like an inch, every dollar counts. And the outside looks, it looks like a mall. Anomalic. I really wonder why they need that much space. Let's go find out. We're on the first floor of the gym right now. All of this is upper body stuff. And right away, it's a lot more of a clean aesthetic than quads. A lot more modern, which means we're not going to find any like crazy unicorn rare items here. A lot of kind of things that you'd expect. So I see prime. I see life fitness. I see hammer strength. I see matrix. I see arsenal. All still really good machines. This machine is cool because it counts your reps and the time of the set. This is kind of cool. It's like an actual gamified ab machine. I could see this like in an anabolic McDonald's play place or something. So you just grab the ball. Down. Boom. Bowzei. Down. Boom. Dip. I'll try. Boom. Money shot after money shot. Dumbbells only up to 50 pounds is surprising and also kind of concerning. So hopefully we do find heavier ones elsewhere here. This place is huge, by the way. Floor one was really nice, but it did seem slightly under equipped. But little did I know what was to come when I went downstairs. Now we're in the basement gym and this feels a lot more hardcore than upstairs. These walls have heard some deep grunts. We have a lock going on. So it's a mixture of upper body and then it looks like lower bodies all in the far corner over there. I think the whole entire basement is almost all arsenal. Arsenal. Arsenal. Arsenal. Really good arsenal chest press right there. We got dumbbells up to 120, which is respectable. That's okay. Very rarely do you need to go more than that. This I would say is a pretty rare piece of the gym at the seal row machine. They are incredible for your back. So it has the gap in the middle so you can get the full range of motion. We're in the leg area now. Some incredible machines. This one right here is amazing. You can get so low, so effortlessly, and it's so easy on your knees. You just hold right here. Oh, so nice. And then right beside a pendulum squat, one of the goats for the quads. Then we got a pitch shark over here. A hack squat. And then an insanely heavy duty leg press that I must try. This is kind of terrifying. Oh, that feels good. This place is extremely overwhelming. There's so many different rooms and stuff going on. I feel like if I just press on this wall, it's going to open into a smoothie, speakeasy underground thing. But so far, really cool. And it's about to get even more overwhelming because there are so many more areas to explore, starting with the leg dungeon. They call it the leg dungeon, but looking at the wall, I would just call this like the patriotism pit. Like, I'm not getting leg dungeons. It's like a giant soaring eagle with an American flag. Eagles don't have big legs. Have you guys seen eagle's legs? They have big talons. That's it. And then this room is called the powerlifting room. It's all just like barbells in here. Look at this pretty sweet custom bench here. I love the fact that powerlifters don't have to be in the same area as bodybuilders. You know, like you wouldn't put a lion in the same cage as a gorilla, although I'd love to see it. But you can kind of be whoever you want to be at this gym. Like if you're a powerlifter, you come in here, bodybuilder, you go out there. It's great. And look at the amount of writing all over the walls. It's pretty clear which type of lifter is more literate. And then right next door to the powerlifting room, we have the squat deadlift studio. The difference between the squat deadlift studio to the powerlifting studio remains unknown, but this is pretty sweet. Very interesting that we have a Muhammad Ali quote in the powerlifting room. He's a boxer if you didn't know. Very cool vibes in here. Very like grungy dungeon vibes with like the kind of like the horror hands marks on the wall from the chalk. This is a cool. This is a cool rack too. This platform is taken and beating man. This is clearly the boxing area, which is super nice. It's a mixture of like a modern boxing gym and then an old school boxing gym. It's like if Rocky trained with Sylvester Stallone's money. That's when I thought this gym couldn't get any better. What? There's a full outdoor gym. We got dumbbells again up to a hundred and then we walk outside and you got like tire flips and stuff. What? Oh, yo. This is a vibe. Like this is hard to beat. We have like everything. We have upper body. You got lower body over here. We've got a deadlift platform over there. Deadlifts outside in the summer is going to hit. The art on the wall is really sick too. You kind of feel like you're training in a prison yard. You kind of fulfill that fantasy if you ever had that. I have. I'm really interested. Comment down below. Do you prefer Quad's gym or this gym? I feel like it's going to be a toss up for a lot of people because these gyms both have some very unique things to offer. So which one would you pick? Comment down below. Basically what makes this gym a level four is obviously the amount of incredible equipment they have, but also the amenities. So we have a ping pong table here. It'd be so nice to just absolutely pound some balls between workouts. And we walk around this way. And then right here we have a basketball court. The hoops here are a bit small. Kind of like those like carnival scams. And then right here we have a pool which I would actually go in. It looks very nice and very well kept. Okay. We've got tanning beds in here. We've got a tanning bed. A really nice feature of this gym is that they have a women's only area that's called the booty lab that you can only access through the women's change room. We access it with complete permission and everything. So don't worry about that. Even though it's called the booty lab, it has everything that you need. You can train chest, shoulders, and of course your boots. So I mean, I feel like for women, this is a really good thing because I think a lot of times women are very intimidated in a big gym with a lot of guys staring, you know, so this is a good safe zone. I think if my Greek mythology was correct, that is Medusa. And she's known for making guys rock solid. I think that's what she's known for, right? Which now it makes sense given the name. Yeah. And now that I think about it, the booty lab, it's kind of racist towards women. It's not all they care about, you know? They care about other things. If you're finding your way around this gym is not already considered functional fitness, they have a functional fitness area with the turf, a bunch of balls down there, and then there's also Thera guns on deck. How do you operate this thing? We're in the posing area right now, and I've never seen this before in my life. And it's the down light that you can actually move with you. Look at that. The lighting is sick. Damn. I don't know. Can level five meet this gym? I'm not sure. I'm really not sure. Let's see. Welcome to the level five gym beyond. This is one of the most luxurious wellness facilities in America. It's expensive. I feel significantly underdressed. I feel like I need to be wearing Saint Laurent just to be accepted inside. But we'll see if they'll take me. This place is not cheap. It's not cheap at all. And beyond in Vietnamese means mysterious, secret, which makes a lot of sense because I have a lot of questions. So let's go to infinity and beyond. The entrance is incredibly beautiful. It's kind of cultish. I feel like I'm going to have to eat like a child's heart or something when I go inside. But here we go. Oh. Cut it for a sec. Oh, wow, man. Definitely not a gym where you're going to see Arnold on the wall, maybe like Gwyneth Paltrow or something. But you feel like you're like in a five star hotel right now. There's lots of plants everywhere, which I'm assuming they're going to tell me very soon that they're all real. This bar, this bar is just not energy drinks and pre-workout. Maybe I can do an apparel spritz to pair well with my leg day today. I've been to a lot of luxury gyms across America and this one has to be the most beautiful one I've seen so far. Every inch of this space looks really carefully thought out. It also just smells amazing in here. I want whatever they're cooking. It just smells like a freaking Thanksgiving dinner. I met up with co-founder Mar and she walked me over to the co-working space of the club. Yeah, some people say it's the most productive workplace that they've ever had because they just have to walk down the hallway to get to their fitness center or class, their acupuncture treatment, their physical therapy. One of those things about physical therapy and chiropractic is those are the easiest things to just kind of ignore because it's very inconvenient to do. Same with seeing your doctor for something that might seem small. So we made that really possible that you can just walk down the hallway and get any of those things taken care of every day. That's so cool. So you can basically do it all here. We are currently in the co-working space where members can just come chill, get coffee, get on their laptop, do a bunch of work. Then you can just walk up here and grab some water. So they got the orange water. If you don't like orange water, they got lemon water. If you don't like lemon water, they just have regular water. If you're a child or something like that, then you walk down this way and then you got the self-serve coffee, which I would be fully taking advantage of my full membership. I'd be making my money to just some coffee. They have cream and then they have almond, but they even have self-serve oat milk. That's when you know you're at a place with a lot of money because you never see self-serve oat milk. Oh, wow. Where does this lead to? This leads to the gym. Ooh. Yes. So we'll head on down. The post leg day steps wouldn't be so bad on here. This is the most beautiful stairwell I've ever seen. And at the bottom of the stairwell waiting for me lies the sushi bar. Okay, so I need to know the story of the sushi bar because this is the most epic gym and melody I've ever seen. Formerly, this was known as Japane in Chicago, which was one of the most well-known sushi restaurants in Chicago.  catalgo. Then my partner, Kevin Bame, of Bokeh Restaurant Group, has a really beautiful restaurant that has some of the best fish quality, so we were able to think about what would be that unique spin on having a beautiful dining experience and that additive. It's ran upstairs to any of the spaces for lunch, dinner, you name it. Can you do, like, a sushi super-set? Like, can I go from, like, spa rack to- You can! I think that's actually really good protein play. It's the shime-set. That's what you should call it. Yeah. Yeah. Just see me in squat. Yes. Time to take a look at the gym space. We got the cardio here. We got treadmills, treadmills. We got some ellipticals. We got some bikes over there. And we walk over here and then there's a really nice turf with this like insane jungle gym thing. Like it's actually beautiful. Like there's so much going on in here. Like the amount of different handles. Like you could do like some sort of like luxurious physical 100 with all the members here. Oh, that's so fun. Wow. Got a wall of balls over there of all different sizes. It's wonderful. And then the dumbbells we have up to 80 pounds and they're rogue dumbbells, which I've actually never used, but rogue is always really high quality, which is great. We got kettlebells, dip bar, like this thing is like you can do so much on here, three squat racks. And then there's also in house physiotherapy. So you can come train and then come over here, get all fixed up. So there's not a lot of machines at all, which I can kind of overlook because the space is so beautiful. Like there's basically just squat racks, dumbbells, kettlebells and benches. So it's forcing you to do the basic compound movements, which is also not bad at all. I think if they had a quads gym machine in here, members would actually be kind of scared. They'd look at it and be like, this setup of this gym is definitely for more functional athletic training, but you can still get super jacked here. It may not be a bodybuilder paradise, but that's not really the demographic here. Whenever I see these things, it just makes me realize how good some salesmen are out there. So I think apparently I'm burning fat right now, burning tons of calories. Three, two, one. Oh, that's a hard set. All right, we're going to do the in body here. If I'm paying a premium price to be a member here, they better round down my body fat by at least 3%. All right, so I am currently a hundred and 98 pounds on the dot. Okay, face your heels on the sole. Grab the hat. Place your nose on the elbow. Eight point four percent body fat. I think they call us for two rolls of sushi, man. I'm under 10%. I'm printing that. Hey, hey, hey. And then we got the sushi bar, which I think is again, I keep on saying it. Like this is, this is why we're here really. Like it opens at 11 a.m. We're going to get a roll of sushi a hundred percent. Like I kind of want to, like how much would it cost you to bench press a tuna? I kind of want to bench press a tuna. I wonder if they'd let me do that. You really don't feel like you're like in the middle of a really busy city. Like everything just kind of just feels so relaxed. You feel like you're at like a resort in Mexico or something. It was now time to take a look at the amenities right at the gym. They have a nice water here and the water here. I don't know if it's tap water. It doesn't taste like it or I'm just thinking that it's at the on or something. It's such good water. This is also an extremely random but cool room. It's like a music room with all these like vinyls here. Look at this. Look at that. There's also a full spa side to the gym with these comfy couches, which I'm not sure if you're allowed to nap on or not. But if not, don't worry. They have a nap room. So this is a steam room and then this is also the ice bath. So you get the hot and then you go into the cold. Oh yeah, that turned into a baby carrot in there. That is cold. But such a beautiful ambiance in here. Everything is beautiful here and everything just smells so nice. Every single room is like, oh, that's a nice smell. Lavender, rosemary, Thanksgiving feast. It's just, it's amazing. It doesn't smell like urine. I get LA Fitness. What the fuck? Look at the shower. What is going on in here? Like there's a seat there. There's a seat here. There's a mirror here. Like you have a lot of fun in here. Like and how many different heads are in here? Like I think this is a full one. Here, I think there's seven different shower heads in here. So you're getting blasted by seven at once. Would that be a PR? Yeah, that'd be a PR for me. The showers were like many personalized water parks. Much different than LA Fitness. They also have a sauna and some amazing food, which I can't wait to try. We're having breakfast now. I'm currently sipping on a smoothie with five grams of creatine in here, which is great because I didn't pack it. So the food here is from a fine dining chef. So it's going to be amazing. And we're going to build our own scramble. If there's a possible way to make egg whites look fine dining, this is it. Like this presentation is quite beautiful. And I have been craving toast of the bread variety for so long, and this sourdough looks on point. You got to spread me before you eat me. Mmm. So good. There's so much flavor in this. Honestly, for the price that it is so far, it's so worth it. I feel like they could charge so much more, and I'd probably still join. This is like a place that you want to be. Like I would actually come here for the full entirety. Possibly sleep here. And hide and do what I know. After breakfast, I'm actually getting a facial. It's not my first one. I've got a face. It's not my first one I've brought to the gym, but it's the second one that I'm paying for. And let's just hope that they can do something with the entire thing. Actually, before the facial, I ended up getting a glutathione booster shot. And what is glutathione? Glutathione is a powerful antioxidant that helps to with muscle recovery, inflammation, detoxing, the liver, and then added bonus is also pigment on the skin. Okay. I should have a clear injection site in my shoulder. I'm just kidding. I don't do steroids. That's just a joke. How big is the needle? You want to know now or? One, two, three. Oh. Oh. I know. You have all done. It's a big muscle. Oh, that one hurt. And it's a thick, it's a viscous thick shot. Oh, thank you. I know. You won't necessarily feel anything. You know, kind of like a rush or anything like that. You'll just kind of notice that perhaps your muscles recover faster after your workouts. You feel a little less inflamed. Your skin is glowing a little bit. Oh, okay. Yeah. Thank you so much. And in combination with the facial, it'll be perfect. It's facial time. Time to get beautiful. At least try to. 40 minutes, express facial. Excited. This facial was so relaxing. I completely fell into the deepest sleep. I think I've ever had. I'm so relaxed right now. I feel so yummy. I feel beautiful. I feel like I just went from a solid two to a three and a half, potentially a four. I'm feeling great. I'm feeling on top of the world right now. I just experienced five levels of gyms, also different in their own ways. At the end of the day, it really doesn't matter what level of gym you have access to. The only thing that truly matters is you get into the gym a few days a week, but some gyms have amenities that are way too good to pass up on.

=== FILE: I Tried 7 Levels Of Performance Enhancers [ns8EWtBSYqg].txt ===

 The first pre-workout dropped 43 years ago, and ever since then, humans have just been taking things way too far. We don't just drink it anymore, we inhale it, we pack it, we even smoke it. I'd call it an addiction, but then that would just be me calling myself out. But it made me wonder, how far can people really push it? And at what point does performance enhancement cross the line from helpful to just flat out dangerous? Well, I'm gonna find that out. I built seven levels of performance enhancers, each level getting more extreme and reckless than the last. Level seven literally warns you to take it in total isolation, and I'm gonna try them all. I don't- have you ever taken something that significant in a video? I don't think so. No. Level one, oxygen. We got oxygen in a can. Sky juice, essentially. Fun little fact, this company was on Shark Tank, and they got a deal. So thank you for convincing billionaires that air needs to be bought and sold. Buying air is crazy. People would be buying depression if it weren't so free. On the back of the can, it says oxygen is the most important and immediate fuel source for the body and mind. So this should help us with endurance and recover quicker between our sets. I feel like I gotta be in a ravine to get the proper hit here. They used to call me the cream reaper in high school because I could milk anything at anyone, especially a bong. Whoa. It's like I just inhaled God's perfect farts. That was kind of amazing. Almost artisanal. I could imagine a Cinnabon scented collab would go crazy. And I don't know if it's just me, but oxygen deprivation makes me feel the most alive. Call me old fashioned, but I like to be held down by the neck. Lovingly, of course. But we're gonna go inside with this and see how effective it is. Nothing makes me gasp for air quite like my old college roommate and hack squats. So we're gonna warm up slowly and then see how this helps. I'm gonna be ranking each of these enhancers on the two most important criteria. One, effectiveness. Of course, it has to work. Two, enjoyment. If I'm gonna risk my life, I should at least enjoy it. Got a lot of weight on the machine right now. This is weight that by the end of the set, I'm usually suffocating from exertion. I've also never gotten 10 reps with this, so I'm gonna be able to do it. So let's hope for the best here. I'm gonna take a hit before the set and then right after the set. This is kind of like work out biohacking in a way. Okay, here we go. Whoa. You know after when you finish a really hard set, there's like 30 seconds of like very intense deep breathing just to kind of catch your breath? Right when you do this, it kind of eliminates that entire 30 seconds. So it's like an instant recovery thing, which felt super strange. I was like gasping for air and then I just shot it and I just felt calm. Heart rate instantly went down and it almost feels like you have more rest time for the next set. I still didn't get 10 reps though. I was determined to get 10 reps and I realized on the back of the canisters inhale three to five times and on the first set, I only did one. I ended up getting 10. I'm also able to make a whole sentence immediately after a hack squat set, which I don't think I've ever done before. From there, I moved on to leg press and hit exactly what I needed to hit. Once that was done, I decided to test it in an area that I think would be most useful. Normally I super set leg extensions with lateral raises. So we're going to see if it helps my performance. I can catch my breath by the time I walk over to the lateral raises. Ah. Yeah, I could totally see this becoming a trend. Dudes are just stealing the grandma's oxygen tanks for gains. I wouldn't put a pass Jim Bros. This stuff was definitely helping me catch my breath between exercises so I can make the most of every single set. If you do circuit style training, this stuff would be absolutely game changer. If you just do like traditional bodybuilding, it makes like a bit of a difference, but nothing really major. It's also nice. It's just oxygen. It's the only thing in this video without any caffeine. And I would say overall it's completely safe. Unlike the other stuff we're about to get into. Like in level six, when I take adrenaline in a bottle where it literally makes my hair stand. So immediately after the set, my heart rate is 158 beats per minute. All right, so now we're going to do one puff of this. Maybe two. And it instantly dropped to 139, 135 beats per minute. Oxygen, three stars. Cinebonclaw please. Level two, caffeine pouches. I am excited for this stuff. It has crazy reviews. 4.7 stars with over 37,000 reviews. Well, my brain just got flash banged by the dumbest shit ever. I don't even understand the direction they were trying to go with that. But based off this video and some of the wording on their website, this stuff sounds incredibly epic. It sounds like a bond gadget. We have quickest hit around, dialed in all day, unlock a new level of function. And the funny thing is this stuff only has 50 milligrams of caffeine. Like I remember the days when I was caffeine sensitive for this, you know, back when I was three or four. At best this helps a preteen wake up. Not a dopamine degenerate like me. But they do say that this stuff hits a lot harder than a traditional energy drink. It hits faster, cleaner. It hits just everything way more efficiently. So we'll see about that. Okay, let's open this thing up. It says don't be afraid to double dip, which I will do. I love taking two at once. And I just think I'm going to need the extra caffeine. One. And two. The pouches are in and once all the flavor is gone, that means the energy is absorbed. Let's go to the gym. I am feeling this heavily right now. I have the craziest head rush. My brain feels like it's throbbing and bleeding. And I just feel so locked in and focused right now. My heart rate is at a heart rate that should never be had while you're just sitting and driving, unless you're in a car chase with the cops. Seriously, like, wow. If a soccer mom was doing this, I can do it. I will say enjoyment factor is incredibly high. I could see someone like myself getting extremely addicted to these. Flavor wise, I was expecting it to be kind of mint, but low key. This shit is mango magic. It's so good. Like, I don't know if you guys have ever had mango lube. It's very similar to that. As much as I'm excited for a crazy workout, I was also kind of terrified if this is only level two. How am I supposed to survive the other five levels? Two pouches is only 100 milligrams of caffeine. In order to understand why I'm feeling it this much, I asked someone who knows a thing or two about stimulants. Even though you might have 200 milligrams via a drink. If it's dragged out over a longer time horizon, you kind of like feel the buildup in a more gradual manner. If you're absorbing it through a pouch, you know, I would expect a more aggressive effect just because it's in your blood faster and it's going to hit harder, essentially. Even at a lower dose, it's going to just peak much quicker. Each pouch should give me one to two hours of energy. So if my math is correct, because I had two, that's two to four hours of energy. One thing that I will say is not great about it is that I haven't been drinking any water pre-workout because I'm just afraid of the mango flavor leaving. But it's time to take these things out. That's our cautioner. I feel very good right now. Typically, I don't take pre-workout because it gives me that anxious energy, which I don't like, but I'm not getting that at all. This just feels like a much more natural energy, like I had like the perfect sleep the night before. And it's making me feel very motivated and strong. So I have 290 on the bar for two sets of paused 6 to 8 reps. I think I can do it. I think I can. For the first set, I got this really cute girl to give me a spot. To show off, maybe I can marry her someday. I got 7.5 reps. The second set, I got 6, which I was extremely happy about. At this point, I believe if you ain't packing, you're slacking. I'm feeling very strange right now. I think typically with a lot of energy drinks pre-workouts, you get so much energy. You almost get very distracted easily. Or this one, it's like I'm almost getting too focused that it's kind of distracting me. It's making me feel extremely weird. I could just like look at something and I'd lock in on it. And it's the weirdest feeling ever. But up next, we have incline dumbbell press. And for this lift, I'm going to be channeling that barber swagger. Let's get it. Whoa. There's like a speck on the ceiling. And I just stare through its soul. I just automatically locked into it. And when you're that focused during a set, it feels actually really good. All the signs were leading to these pouches getting an incredible score until it took a super unexpected and quick turn. I really don't know what's going on. I literally just did a complete shift from one exercise to the next. I've been so focused that now I actually feel so tired. Like I can go to sleep. I have no more energy. Even though I still feel super, super locked in, I again, I could feel like I could just fall over and go to bed. The second half of the workout, I just couldn't wait for it to finish. I was completely checked out and could not stop yawning. The caffeine is going to stimulate dopamine release, catecholamines, like adrenaline, noregrenal, etc. And often when you have a pre-workout, it's going to have a bunch of other stuff in it, like amino acids that support the backfilling of the body. Of those neurotransmitters. And if you're just having a pouch that's just caffeine because it can't really fit a whole bunch of ingredients in it, you're missing a lot of those building blocks that you might have otherwise been pulling at. So it's possible that not only are you getting a more aggressive effect from the drug faster, but when you pull those resources, you're not actually replenishing them in the same way you might have with a drink that has multiple ingredients. Coming into this workout, I felt like a lightning bolt. Now, I'm like a flickering lamp at best. They advertise no crash, but I didn't just crash. I took down the whole server. Like, I'm done. So although it was fun, it was tasty to take. I don't think I'm going to be taking it again. Caffeine pouches, 2.75 stars. Level three, pre-workout vape. Smoking pre-workout instead of drinking it. Never underestimate humanity's ability to create solutions for problems that don't exist. It makes you also wonder why snorting things is so frowned upon. I'm talking about coke, but we're going to be trying two different forms of smoking because I have two lungs and it just makes, it just makes a lot of sense. The first one we are trying is the world's first inhalable pre-workout device. It's a pre-workout vape. It's essentially a jewel for Jim Bros. Now, surprisingly with this product, there are not too many red flags. The first one is on Instagram, they have like a little under 3,000 followers, which just means it's a new company and I'm basically a lab rat, which I'm kind of okay with. The second one is on the website, they have this chart, which is highly concerning. Like, I don't know anything about science. I'm just kind of an idiot, but just looking at it, they're suggesting that the bioavailability of ingredients when inhaled is like thousands of times greater than when drinking it. And I'm not so sure about that. So, false marketing, we'll find out. So we have a choice between blue razz, sour green apple, mint and rainbow ice. Rainbow ice. Three, three second inhalations equates to one serving, which apparently equals an energy drink or a scoop of pre-workout. So, nine seconds for a serving, me and the vape have something in common. Whoa. Look how cool that looks. Forget dry scooping, I'm sky scooping. This is like an anabolic hookah. Three second inhalation. Wow. Oh my God. This is a flavor that kids are going to love, which is already a massive issue. Like, there is more smoke in high school bathrooms than Snoop Dogg's tour bus. Like, this is the last thing we need, but oh man, I can see myself getting addicted to this. I'm not a smoker, but we usually when you start coughing, during the smoke, that's a sign. That is going to hit. And if I'm going to smoke something, I'm not coughing up a lung for a damp placebo pump. I better be hitting some PRs today. Last hit. And just like that, boom. We've had an energy drink or a scoop of pre-workout. It smells like a snow cone that's been out in the sun way too long. It's like childhood joy and adult regret at equal measure. Whoa. I'm definitely feeling something in my head right outside the gym. Let's go train. My mouth tastes like I went down on a Skittle. It has like this like crazy, like aftertaste right now. And I feel equal parts motivated and medically concerned because I feel so strange. Like I feel like my brain feels like somebody is tickling my brain. And it, I feel wired. I feel ready to go, but I also feel incredibly, incredibly off. I just hit a 10 pound PR on the barbell row. I am strong today. Barbells feeling like a bull noodle. My brain feels like it's literally floating in the sky. Like I almost had no emotion. Like my dopamine receptors are not accepting right now. That said, I have like endless energy. I feel like I could superset every single set with the elliptical right now with how I feel. Like I feel so calm, but also so beast mode at the same time. The one negative thing I've been noticing, it's very hard to breathe right now. And after my set, it's very hard to catch my breath. Like my chest is pounding right now. I'm starting to feel a little bit dizzy now during the workout. Also slightly nauseous. And I'm not sure if that's because I've never smoked anything before and this is the first time I'm doing it or the pre-workout itself. I don't really know. But what I do know is that this is definitely something that I would not be taking consistently because I can feel that. That is not good for me and my lungs and my insides. That's for sure. It almost feels like it's like blocking my other senses. Like it's hard for me to think about anything else other than what I'm doing, which I guess in theory for a workout, that's a great thing. But it's just, it's also just kind of a concerning weird thing that probably not necessary. Imagine eating a salad covered in ranch dressing. That's kind of how I feel right now. You feel good about the salad. Like I feel good about my list today, but then I feel bad about the ranch dressing and I feel bad about how I'm feeling right now. It's a weird trade-off. As much as I felt the pros, I did feel the cons. My lungs were in a lot of pain. I do think healthy lungs are more important than bigger biceps, but you can be the judge of that. I really don't know how much of this workout was because of the vape. It was a fantastic workout, but maybe it was just me. Maybe I can just thank myself. I'm not, I don't really know. I will say that I feel the same right now as I did 45 minutes ago when I took the vape. So the consistency of this stuff is kind of terrifying. And I can't say that for the, for the pouches I took. So. Pre-workout vape, 3.5 stars. Level four, pre-workout cigarette. The next one we're trying is Puffy Air. This one's kind of sketchy because it has 4.8 stars out of supposedly 1,356 reviews, yet I only see 18 reviews. And this might be surprising to a lot of people out there, but I want at least some like baseline honesty before I'm sticking something in my mouth. Also, that Photoshop job is the craziest thing I've ever seen. She is not holding Puffy Air. She is holding, I don't know, like a pregnancy test or something. Enjoy a soothing blend of premium herbal ingredients. Herbal is usually code for, it's not going to work at all, but we will definitely see. Serving size 10 uses, it gives us 200 milligrams of caffeine, coming from Guarana extract. Guarana. Is stronger than coffee and other caffeine sources because it contains a significantly higher concentration of caffeine over anything else, making it extremely dangerous if overdosed. I feel like Harry Potter and this is my wand. All right, don't ask questions, just blow. No way is it lighting up. That is the cutest thing ever. Are you A plus for the experience? Oh my God, that tastes good. It says a serving size is 10 uses. It didn't specify the length of the poll that you take. I think I pull harder than the average person. So maybe my serving might be 600 milligrams, not 200 milligrams. Natural caffeine too, which in reality, it doesn't mean anything. Remember heroin is also natural. We're going peppermint, green tea. I definitely am getting peppermint. And I've definitely lost track of how many puffs I've taken. My family's looking at me outside and I'm like, I need some equal aside for a smoke. Boys wanted to say that. Heart rate right now is at 99. And I haven't even started the workout yet. I'm literally just sitting on my couch. Does that say 113? Puffy air, more like puffy pounding my cheeks. Like this pre-workout hit me like it caught me with its mama. Like I have not been this affected yet in this video. My heart rate cannot get below 100. And I haven't even started the workout yet. This is the first one with caffeine that I've taken where I just feel an immense amount of energy. Like I don't feel anything in my brain, which I'm happy about. I like this. I just feel incredibly hyper. And I actually, I can't even blink right now. I just feel so hyper. And I'm very thankful that I'm training here at home because I think I just start spotting people at the gym that didn't even ask. I literally feel like I'm moving at like a thousand miles per hour right now. Usually for movements, I do two to three sets. If I'm feeling good on a day, I'll push it and do a third set. I'm doing three sets for everything so far. This is my heart rate after a set of seated cable lateral raises. That's pretty high to me. This stuff hits so much harder than the vape and I'm not sure why. Maybe I did inhale a lot more than the recommended serving size. Taking this entire workout so far, I just realized I'm not listening to any music. Listen to the gym right now. And I didn't have any idea. I was so hyper during this workout, I could literally not sit still between sets. Pump was insane. I literally feel like I could take over the world right now. If only today was leg day. Today was just shoulders and arms. Don't ask me what's going on here, but these were scattered all over the place. And then I just had like the deepest desire to just organize them in a straight line like that. And I have no idea why I had to do that. Pre-workout cigarette, 4.25 stars. Level five, the world's strongest pre-workout. Welcome to the portion of the video that should never be repeated. So just sit back and enjoy. We have possessed the world's most powerful pre-workout. And it must be true because you can't argue with those reviews. Now, I am never going to accuse a company of fake reviews, but what I will say is that some of them are just, they're not convincingly human. I've seen this company many times and they have the most out of control marketing I've ever seen. Like Bro takes one dose and all of a sudden he turns into a creature from the dark forest. I know some of you guys remember this thing. I'm not going to call it a human, it's not a human. That thing uses possessed as milk in his morning cereal. Genuine since 1977? That's a red flag. That's something a married man would tell you to convince you that he hasn't been cheating. Now the biggest red flag is, it's a strongest and safest pre-workout on the market. Safest by whom? Like, it can't be the FDA. Calling this safe, it just sounds like they're confident we're not going to find the bodies. Like this is trust me Bro levels of safe. Like if it was safe, they wouldn't have a massive warning sign on the website, which I mean I do appreciate. So I'm so nervous to take this. So one scoop is the beginner dosage, which is 200 milligrams of caffeine. Full force is three scoops, which is 600 milligrams of caffeine. I mean, if you're going to be buying possessed, you're not taking one scoop. That's like buying a pair of shoes and only wearing one of them. So we're going to go three and call upon the strongest demons to take over my body. Another insanely big red flag is that the percentage daily value for three scoops is just completely blank. There's just stars. Does that mean infinity? I don't really know. I'm not heap scooping this. It smells like a berry that survived the nuclear apocalypse, which is kind of what I expected. So one, that's for the beginners, the losers, two, and three. I definitely should have asked my CNS for consent before doing this. All right, here we go. Yeah, that tastes like freaking human horsepower. That tastes like sour gasoline, like something that you would use to repair your boat. I'm going to head to the gym and sip it on the way there, and hopefully it doesn't kick in while I'm in the car. But if I get into a car chase and I get pulled over, I just saw the cops. I was possessed. I'm calling this flavor tragic berry because it's definitely not tropical. Once I finished it, as expected, I immediately felt it. My ears feel like they're sweating. And the tingles right now are out of control. I did not realize there was beta-alanine in it. There's like four and a half grams of beta-alanine in it. It feels like there's like a red ant farm on my face. It's four and a half grams of beta-alanine a lot. I don't even know. Heart rate was in the high 80s to low 90s, just driving to the gym. Not only was I feeling wired, I was also starting to feel increasingly more paranoid, as you can tell by my face. My eyes are watering and my face is a lot more red. It was even hard for me to sit still. I have never felt more sketched out in my entire life. Like I'm looking at people at the gym like they're my enemy. Like I wanted a gym simulator, not a panic attack simulator. I feel like I'm in an elementary school tickle fight. While the freaking clown from it is chasing me, trying to harvest my soul. I also cannot stop robbing my ears and my face. If I'm going to be taking something this strong, you better believe like I'm expecting PRs, like left, right and center. Like PRs practically handed to me on a silver plate. I just wrapped up the seated hamstring curl and that felt incredible. I was so strong. I just feel obligated to hit a PR on every single thing that I do right now. How I feel as a person, as a human being, horrible, like terrible. The entire time, I just feel like I'm getting away with a crime. And the funny thing is, the only possible crime here is my own murder. The next thing we are doing, which is going to be a true test, is the pendulum squat. Three sets of 10 pause reps with some heavy weights. So if this goes well, I mean, it might be worth it. Going into this set, I feel like I could PR or pass out. There is really no in between. Fortunately, but also unfortunately, the set felt amazing. I was able to bust through a plateau I've been stuck at for three weeks. So maybe this stuff does need to stay in my pre-workout rotation. It's crazy when you're doing the sets. You kind of feel like your life is on the line. And it's not like you're just at the gym. Like if you don't complete the set, you might get shot. Which, I mean, I guess, mission accomplished. Like I'm getting the, I'm getting the, I'm hitting the weight. But do I feel okay? Not really. But maybe it's like a colonoscopy. It's supposed to be effective, but it's not exactly supposed to be fun. Every set just keeps on getting better too. And I don't know if that's motivation or mild possession, but take it. My heart rate, this entire workout would fluctuate from the mid 140s to high 150s the entire time. And the scary thing was even between exercises, it wouldn't really go down. I would love to see a Zen monk trying to control themselves on this. I don't think it's possible. That said, though, the symptoms of the beginning of the workout are starting to fade. And now I'm feeling just pure energy, which is quite nice. Caffeine causes your body to increase the level of dopamine in your brain, which is the chemical that causes you to feel happy, which is exactly what I'm experiencing at insane amounts. I don't just have a good energy. I have really good focus and I have superb endurance. The one thing that's just kind of making me feel a bit weird is that I feel extremely happy. And when I feel happy, I get like, it just can't be good. You know what I mean? I feel like there's something has got to give. So I think whatever happened at the beginning to now, I'm just kind of worried about what the crash is going to be like. Because when it hits you hard, I think I feel like the crash just has to be even harder. Workout finished. I am definitely not taking this stuff ever again, because I feel like long term I'd grow like a second tail or something like that. But I will say this was the most effective thing so far. It's been like three hours since I worked out and my head is pounding. I'm feeling aggressively nauseous. Even just having my eyes open right now is straining my head. So I'm just lying in bed right now. It's awful. But I saw it coming. I knew it was coming. It sucks. Just as I suspected, the harder the caffeine hits, the harder and more intense the crash. World's strongest pre-workout, two stars. Level six, Yo-Him Bean or Yo-Him-Bin. I'm not really sure. Apparently Yo-Him Bean is much more powerful than caffeine, which would probably explain why it's banned in a lot of countries, including Canada, the country I currently live. The FDA has actually had it on its unsafe herb list since 1977, due to its potential side effects like heart problems and seizures. So if that's not alarming, wait till you hear some of these reviews. Thomas apparently got the Hershey Scorts. It's exactly what you think it means. I've been on the John more times than I've had women over, and it's getting kind of crazy. First of all, Thomas is not making that comparison unless he absolutely pulls. So good for you, Thomas. The poops have been insane, but good product. What? Like, that's confusing. Wooper gives it five stars and says, Bro, all capitals. I've done from Fentermene to blank. It rhymes with Bane. And this stuff gives me more energy than both of those. I've been drinking coffee since kindergarten. So pretty much my entire life, and this shit is intense. Dude, who are your parents? Holy, I feel bad for you, man. Brock says, anxiety through the roof. I didn't know you could feel so bad mentally and feel dialed in at the same time. Focus was okay, but anxiety was too...  lumumche to handle. See how it doesn't matter? 5 stars and says makes me shiver and then just wrote yes. And Jordan, 3 stars, good but. Stuff is strong but gave me a skin rash all over he had to quit. So needless to say this stuff is pretty intense so hopefully I don't shit myself like Thomas or get a skin rash like Jordan. Alright well it says to take one capsule on an empty stomach 30 minutes before your workout so I mean here we go. And let level 6 commence. Derek describes this one as adrenaline in a bottle and I was feeling those effects within minutes of taking it. I was getting goosebumps and my hair was standing all over and before even making it to the gym I had to pull over immediately. Thomas was right a common side effect of yo-han being is diarrhea so hopefully this is my only visit. I finally made it to the gym and started my lift and you wouldn't believe what I felt. I'm not feeling anything right now like nothing. I feel good but I don't feel like I'm on anything. I don't know if it's because I've been taking stimulants every single day this week. My body sees yo-han being as a vitamin if that's the case that's extremely concerning but luckily I have felt none of the side effects of anxiety no rashes. I did have to her she squirt but just the one time. Other than that I feel really good. Lift has been great and I'm feeling really really strong. Maybe the scary thing about yo-han being is that it's convincing me that how I feel right now is my new piece. Maybe I don't have a normal anymore. Maybe I just have stimmed or more stimmed. The rest of my workout I had nothing crazy to report no anxiety no rashes no shivers and thankfully no more her she squirts. I just felt normal and normal doesn't mean bad at all. Even though I feel completely normal supposedly this is surprisingly the best I've felt this entire week. It's kind of like if you go to the bar every single week and you always drink and get hammered and then the one time you go you decide to stay sober and not drink and you feel amazing it's kind of like that. So I'm feeling the least right now but I'm feeling the best if that makes any sense. On paper I was expecting that supplement to rock me like Tesla stock after an Elon tweet but I'm surprised didn't really feel much but it definitely eliminated my appetite like obliterated it. It is currently 237 and I'm having my first meal of the day and I really don't even need it I just kind of want to have it right now. Do you guys want to know what level infinity performance enhancer is? It's simple it's food tracking your calories and your macros. It is the most important thing that you can do if you're looking to build muscle lose fat or make progress on the gym so that is why I always recommend that you use the macro factor app. When I try calories the most important thing to me is accuracy. The entire macro factor database is completely verified so you can trust everything that you're logging and if you have no idea how to track calories they have a smart nutrition coaching feature which will do everything for you. So you just sit back and the apple automatically adjusts based off your goals based off your weigh ins it just does everything for you. So if you guys want to try it out make sure to use code will for a two week free trial. Yo him being 1.5 stars level 7 coffee what I am not sniffing snorting or inhaling this pre but this one this one's scaring me the most. There is 728 milligrams of caffeine in a 12 ounce cup of this coffee. If you are buying this coffee anything that happens is your fault. Actually opening this bag is the liability waiver. The name literally communicates clear warning and expectation of what's possibly to come and also where are you getting 728 milligram of caffeine beans the fresh fertile land of Chernobyl but with all that said the coffee is fair trade and organic so people harvesting it are all good but the people drinking it different story. It's time to make a cup of coffee. This makes the pre-workout we took seem like iced tea. Flavor notes are supposed to be strong dark and rich which makes me want to marry it. Massey's review is incredibly concerning. It's Adderall in a cup according to Massey that we think Massey's review is concerning. Just look at Matthews it's so much worse. Matthew was just happy to have found what he's been truly looking for a literal death wish. I have never weighed coffee until right now but I think this is critical. I'm going to be taking this coffee black. I think that this is the final boss of taking anything black. I fear if I put like milk or sugar in it it would literally disintegrate into nothing. I am currently sitting in my bathroom because they recommend that you take your first cup in total isolation and I don't know if that's like a marketing thing even though it's so strong and so cool but I'm taking that stuff pretty seriously so I'm locked in my bathroom about to have my first cup and this is so dark. Perhaps a reflection of my soul. Here we go. Cheers. It tastes like I'm drinking Voldemort's ashes. Very bitter coffee. Extremely strong. Like French press is probably the strongest way that you can make coffee so I wouldn't even be surprised if this is over 728 milligrams. Also if I don't feel this this is going to be a clear sign to me to chill the F out on my caffeine. This might be what I'll look like once I'm done this cup. The more I drank this coffee the more I began to like it. Maybe it's the dark lord taking over my body or something but it was not too bad and it didn't take too long for it to kick in while I was drinking it. I'm three quarters of the way done and I am I'm not only feeling it. I feel like the caffeine has already hijacked my body because if you think about it I've already had like over two large coffees. Alright last jug. This is for sure the worst I have ever felt taking any sort of stimulant. I really did not feel like myself. I am trying to calm myself down as hard as possible right now but I definitely do not feel like I took something legal. My cheeks are like tingling and I feel like I'm in a game of Mario Kart. I'm not going to drive that way of course. The best way to describe this feeling right now is my body is a vessel and like a caffeine demon has just taken it over. I'm like 99% caffeine, 1% self-control. If I put on like any pre-workout music it would end me. Like I'd just be too hyped up and I'd be done. But I kind of feel like I'm watching myself drive. I know what everything is going on around me. I know my blind spots. It's in front of me, what's behind me. I'm like literally driving the speed limit to the T right now which is I don't speed. I go like five to eight over but this is pretty good. I feel like I could just keep on talking forever right now when no one else is in the car but I'm just gonna stop. I am usually a pretty dramatic guy because I'm a YouTuber it's just part of who I am but right now I'm being honest with you with how I feel. It's insane. I actually kind of forget the drive here. I feel like I teleported to the gym. One of my biggest fears with like really strong coffee in general is shitting myself. With this stuff I fear like I already have or it's just gonna come so unexpectedly. But thankfully it's not leg day. I never thought I could potentially die in a gym toilet stall but I wouldn't be surprised to see it on my bingo card. I feel like I just blinked and boom I just did three sets. Every single rep feels like I'm trying to outrun my own heartbeat. It's like the most uncomfortable feeling ever. They call this death wish coffee so I mean if the wish comes true, at least I'm gonna die doing something I love. I am blowing through this workout in record time. Like I am just destroying it and hitting all the weights that I need to which is great. But there's a lot of my friends here who I normally talk to and I would love to talk to them and it's not because I don't want to. I just feel like I don't have the capacity to. I don't have the capacity for meaningful conversations. Also weirdly the yellow wall right there I feel like I can smell it. It's crazy to think that this is just a cup of coffee. People drink coffee and then go to work. There are some people on this planet that drink the coffee that I just had and then go and do their desk job. Like I can't even imagine. I feel like it could be like a cage match against Microsoft Word. Like those people must be insane. I need to meet them. I just dusted back in 30 minutes. My set time I feel good. I feel really good. I do not feel like myself. I just want to smile. I don't smile a lot. The one thing that is just really bad is that the anxiety is just it's through the roof. I feel like I've done something bad and gotten away with it. You know when you go to Chipotle and you ask for double meat and they give you double meat then they give you like that little plastic thing beside your bowl to show you had the double meat. But sometimes they forget and then you're like oh my god they forgot. And then you try to see if you get away with it. But then you don't know if later on they're going to realize they gave you double meat and they're going to ask you why you didn't tell them. It's kind of like that times a thousand. But then once you kind of embrace the fact that it's just an artificial anxiety you can kind of just live with it. There is a reason why this was level seven. This is the hardest. I felt it and am currently feeling it this entire video. It was also the most effective thing by far. It feels like a performance enhancer. Kind of like the point of the video. One thing to remember is you can get carried away with these things but the thing is you'll eventually acclimatize to the dosage and guess what you're going to have to continue to up it every single time. So the best strategy don't take any of it. Sleep, water and good quality food because you can always get more of that right. Hopefully I can get back into my body soon. I'm really not okay. I don't know if I'm showing it or not. I'm just I'm really not okay. With coffee, four stars. Babe, what are you doing? You want to be put done? No. So, no, level eight, level eight, level eight.

=== FILE: I Tried EVERY Viral Workout [Rgtw6HwvLYA].txt ===

 I love training and I try to hit my entire body, but some muscles always get neglected, like my neck, my calves, even my forearm training is pretty one-sided, and I want to change that. So for the next seven days, I'm going to be testing every viral workout that I can find, tracking soreness, strength, pump, and actual muscle growth, all to answer the question, does more views actually mean more games? Starting with rice bucket training. This has gone viral for building superhuman forearm wrist, hand, and finger strength, let's be honest, having strong forearms is an alpha feature, assuming both are the same size. Check out my bro. Bro turned that apple into applesauce. He made that apple look like a freaking boba pearl. If I could do that, I would not stop talking about it. I would be bringing an apple everywhere I go. So I tried it, and it didn't go as planned. But we are going to get there because all we have to do is trust the grains and earn the gains. So first we're just going to go like that, just a little, well that feels nice, feels natural, and now we're going inward. I never thought I'd make it the second base with carbs. I usually jump right to home. Rice bucket training didn't start in a gym, it started out of necessity. Monks and martial artists train their hands and buckets of rice to strengthen tendons, protect joints, and build grip that wouldn't fail. Fast forward to today, the same ancient method is now exploding online with people chasing iron grip. Apparently the resistance increases the deeper you go. That used to be the case for me too, but hopefully after seven days that resistance goes away. Now we're going like this, little circles, always feel a little bit of a tricep cramp too. You'd think putting your hands in a bucket of rice would be easy, but it wasn't. Within seconds it started to burn, lighting up muscles I didn't even know existed. Oh you immediately feel it all the way up here, it's like shooting up into my elbow. Call me Aladdin because I'm deep in this jasmine. Oh I'm feeling that burn. So we did this, now we're going like that. I think the trick, become one with the rice and the pump will fall. That's this side done. I can't make a fist which is cool, that means it worked. Now we do this hand. I'm going to be doing this workout every day for the next week on top of all the other workouts. It doesn't sound like a lot of time, but according to the comments, one week is all it takes to see results. I don't know if you guys can see, but my hands are literally shaking right now. I'm not sure exactly what I just did, but it feels like it worked. It definitely feels like it worked, but I think I'm feeling like a glycogen pump right now. Mid workout, just go. Viral workout number two is neck training. We all want that Channing Tatum girthy neck, don't we? We see F1 drivers do it all the time. Having a resilient neck is critical for contact sports, car accidents, whiplash, slips, falls, date nights, so many different things. And I know I have a very skinny neck. I could probably use my mom's bracelets as a choker, but I'm going to change that. So we're going to be doing neck training every single day for the next week, and we'll see what happens. That hurts in a very specific way, shooting down my spine. As you can see, neck training is very new territory for me. I was convinced that less than 10 pounds was going to end my career. So today wasn't about weight, it was about reps moving my neck in every direction imaginable. Something about this feels very therapeutic, weirdly, but I feel like tomorrow is not going to feel like that. That's for sure. We're using the band attachment now, 20 pound resistance on these things right here. So it's not light. I'm going to back up, let me go. No. I feel like neck training is all about the mind-muscle connection. Like you really have to think about what you're doing. If you just aimlessly do it, you might never walk again. For all the exercises today, I feel like it's very critical. I just go out at light for day one, kind of just build up some kind of rhythm to it. And then the next day's coming up, we just hammer it with all this forearm training, all this neck training. I'm not like a freaking anime villain by day seven. As this mini workout progressed, so did my confidence. All I know is, by the end of this week, I'm going to be a mountain goat, unreal neck strength, zero fear, and ready to return some pretty strong head. Neck training done, feeling like a bobble head that's seen things. But let's move on to iron fist training. This is an old martial arts conditioning method used to toughen the hands, fingers, wrists, and forearms by repeatedly striking or digging into a bucket filled with sand. I'm also going to be using dog paw medicine to make my hands even more resilient. If anything goes wrong, I'm going to the vet. I might even start howling soon. I don't really know how or why this works, but I was inspired by this dude I saw on Instagram who has a whole account of him just punching things, which I would like to call severe anger management issues. Regardless, it's freaking sick. And I want to be able to do that. Like he can literally punch your head off off your shoulders. Like it's just insane his punching power. So I guess we have to let this dry a little bit. And then we are going to strike this sand. I'm not much of a puncher. I'm more of a little I'm more of a tickler. So this is going to be interesting. That's not soft. Just like the bucket of rice, I thought striking sand wouldn't hurt. I was wrong. Again, we've got a long way to go here. I'm fighting the freaking beach and the sand is winning right now. And then you go here and do the backslaps. If you hit it repeatedly, eventually it's going to open up for you. And then we go this way. Get the bad girls. Now we're going to go sideways. Look like I just gave a geo to the prostate exam. Look at that. Moving on to this side. My God, this is humbling. You just think sand is soft and it would just kind of absorb. You know what I'm showing you? It's a boss. So if I remember stranded in the desert, I know I can beat the stand up as I die of dehydration. Definitely if I can get micro fractures in here. Okay, for this one, we're going to stand up and we are going to strike with our fingers. Just boom, boom, boom, boom. This is probably the one that requires the most amount of energy so far. We've been at it for little over five minutes. We're going to do this for 10 minutes and hopefully every single day I start to acclimatize and get a little bit better at this. It's crazy how sand actually feels like many razor blades in the bucket. It is just out of this world how painful that is. Here, deeper. Yep, yep. Iron fist training actually works a lot like lifting weights. It's all about progressive adaptation. You apply micro stress to the hands causing tiny damage to the skin, bone and connect to tissue. Then you recover letting everything repair and thicken and over time that leads to adaptation. Stronger knuckles, denser bones and tougher skin. Workout is complete and we drew just a very tiny little bit of blood right there and right there which is really kind of cool. I enjoyed that one and for some reason I already know I'm going to go upstairs and shower and I'm going to have sand between my cheeks. That's just how it always is when I go to the beach. How does the sand get there? But I'm excited to see how I progress on this. It's going to be good. It's going to be good. Moving on. Next up, height-maxing. I have a confession to make. Whenever I talk about my height, I'm lying about my height. On a good day, my wife, Katie, is taller than me and she has a lot of good days so I find myself looking at her a lot, depending on the room. So over the next week we're going to be trying two height-maxing techniques and the goal is to ascend to a raw six-footer without shoes and I think we can do it because I have found the most viral height-maxing workouts on the internet that are guaranteed to work. To see what my true height is on day one, I bought this height-measuring thing that I found on Amazon. Touching my head as you can see. All right, what am I? 180.1 centimeters. So 511, not six foot, but like I said, at the end of this week we will be six feet and the first technique we are doing is the Maasai jumps. The Maasai tribe of East Africa are famous for these jumps, straight up, over and over on hard ground. There's a long-standing belief that this kind of impact can actually make you taller. The idea is that bone grows under pressure when you repeatedly jump in land and put stress through the legs, creating tiny micro fractures in the bone. Over time, the body repairs that damage by rebuilding denser, stronger bone, sometimes slightly longer. Creating micro fractures in my legs sounds so dangerous, but they make it look really easy. They literally look like they're jumping on invisible pogo sticks. So I feel like I can do this. I feel like when Katie says she's taking like an extra long shower, she's secretly doing the Maasai jumps. Like she has to be. So I'm no stranger bouncing for an extra inch. So I'm just bouncing until something busts without being my leg bones. I'm going to be doing four sets, 25 reps for 100 Maasai jumps every single day for the next seven days. All right, here we go. Oh, you can definitely feel the tension build up right here. They look like freaking like dolphins in the air. And I feel like I just look like an office worker with like a really bad calf grant or something. You would think at one point, momentum would kick in. It does not. So I'm only doing 100 today. I'll probably add, you know, 50, 25 to 50 every single day, leading up to the last day. Not the most comfortable thing, but if it makes me taller, I'll literally do anything. The next one we are doing is a five minute height maxing routine to grow one inch taller. We all have five minutes in a day. And this one has over eight million views. So it has to work. The routine consists of dead hangs, stretches for the hips and spine, as well as even working some muscles in the neck. Now, whether these methods actually make you taller is still up for debate. So we'll see if it works, which reminds me, I ran a full fitness test to lock in my starting point and see what changes I can make over the next week. These tests include four measurements with my left being 12.8 inches. And my right, of course, being a little bigger at 13.1 inches. My neck measurement coming in at 15.1 inches. Then I did a dead hang, but with towels, the hardest variation possible, which I was able to hold for a surprising 22 seconds. Next, I tested my grip strength where I got 152.4 on my right and 161 on my left. Then of course, the apple break, which we all know how that went. And lastly, board breaks. Oh man. I'm more of a tickler. It really, it really hurt. I, it really hurt. No, that's not happening. With these results locked in, we'll see what improvements I can make in just seven days. Next up, eye color shifting. I'm not six foot five. I'm not in finance and I don't have blue eyes. So I pretty much have nothing going for me other than the fact that I can eat a lot of food. But apparently I can actually change my eye color naturally with eye color shifting. So I found this viral video online called how to change eye color naturally. And based off the comments, this thing works. Literally the top comment. Somebody noticed slight change and visible change within seven days. So I had been known for my eye color to change mostly to pink, but if I can get blue eyes, I just feel like a lot of doors are going to open for me. Like I want to look like a fricking, I want eyes so blue, I look like like a half, half an avatar or something like that. I just got to lie down for two minutes, close my eyes and visualize the eye color that I want to the specific music. And that's it. With stuff like this, you got to believe it to achieve it or psychedelics, but we're just going to try to believe it here. I'm visualizing a husky right now. I want to look like a husky. This one definitely takes the least amount of effort. All I have to do is listen to music for two minutes and visualize the color I want my eyes to be the best I can. I want a blue couch, blue carpet, blue balls. If anything, if it doesn't work, at least I'm going to get like two minutes of a meditative grounding experience every day that I need anyway. So I think it's just a win-win situation, but hopefully it works. I think it's a little fun kind of side hustle, not really a workout, but a fun one nonetheless to see what happens. Last workout of the day, and the one that I have the highest hopes for is the viral grip strength trainers. Now the combination of doing this with the rice, with the sand and the dog paw medicine, my handshakes are going to be firm and fatal. Like I'll be able to finish anybody. Like I don't know if you guys can see how inflamed my knuckles are from the dog paw stuff and the punching. It's just, it's, it's going to bruise, but it is time to just grip it and rip it. And let's just see where we're at. So we have grip strength trainers from 50 pounds all the way up to 200 pounds starting with the 50. That's easy. Super easy. 100 pounds. Okay, that's easy. Thought it would be easy. 125. Oh, that one was a little bit... How much? I'm a lot weaker than I thought I am. The 125 pound gripper was surprisingly throwing me for a loop, which is kind of concerning because grip strength is super important. It's a shockingly good health marker. It's linked to lower all cause mortality, better cardio health and better aging outcomes. Okay, so I mean, obviously over the course of the next week, my goal is to make it as far of the way down this list as possible. Like I don't know if I'm going to be getting to this, like this gripping this would take like a premium hub membership. Like there's, I don't think I'm going to be able to touch that, but we're going to try our best. Like I'm hoping to get, at least get to the black. So I think right now the best method would be to start with the 100 pounder and do maybe like 25 reps per hand and over the days work our way up. So that's what I did. Started with the 100 pound gripper with the ultimate goal of being able to squeeze the 175 pound gripper, which seems like a very ambitious goal in just a week. It's crazy how immediately forearm training feels so personal. All this forearm training to be able to crush an apple, but can you bust a nut right now with how my hands feel? I think that even just holding a spoon would feel like a compound movement. Like my hands are just going through it right now, like pain that I've never felt before. Like it just feels hot from my fingers all the way up. To like right around here just passing my elbow, which is super interesting. So what I've learned about all these exercises is that they are humbling. They're very affordable. Like all this stuff is cheap and they're traumatic. Like the pain is just, it's just ridiculous. So this week is going to be interesting. With all the training I've done so far, I couldn't stop dreaming about crushing apples. I'm more determined than ever to make one explode by the end of this video. My forearms are cooked right now. Like even holding this mic, it's harder than you think. Like you would think I spent the past week volunteering at the sperm bank, but hopefully the thing that makes my forearms feel better is just to train them even more. So let's go finger bang some rice. I'm doing this in my bedroom. If this bucket spills, I'm going to be sending a fist through my wall instead. I've been at this for nearly 10 minutes. Check out that pump. I'm ready for any IV drip. 98 beats per minute heart rate. Playing around with some rice. I'd say that's pretty intense. That apple is mine. You know how I said my forearms are sore? My neck though, my neck, I feel like I slept in a suitcase last night or I went to like a one-star chiropractor or something like that. Like if I sneeze, my life will flash before my eyes. But doing some band work and then the goal is to add five pounds today from yesterday. I keep on having to remind myself that I should not be treating this like a leg extension. I just want to take this to absolute failure and feel the burn, but like I'm forgetting it's my freaking neck and not my quads. Neck training done. It really feels like I've gone back to like my first few days in the gym with how my body feels right now. Like I am so sore and I kind of love it. All right, well now it's time to punch some sand. I don't know if I'm emotionally ready for this one right now. All right, let's get to work. The iron fist training is by far the one I'm most excited to get strong at because punching through wood would just be sick. I'd be like Bruce Lee. That said, I'm struggling to put any real force into this bucket. I'm not sure if it's psychological or if my hands are just objectively weak. I honestly have no idea how this is all that I'm bleeding on both of my hands, just on that one knuckle. Like my hands feel like they're dripping with blood and they are burning and they are stinging. So that dog paw medicine, that stuff must really work. Later that day, I did my height maxing, doing dead hangs in positions that were way harder to hold. So I could suffer and train my grip at the same time. Then I worked my grip directly with the grip trainer. The 125 pound gripper is already feeling much easier now. And lastly, my quest for blue eyes. Morning of day three was more or less the same. I woke up in the forearm dojo. It feels weird calling my bedroom that again. Did my rice bucket training. Then I went downstairs and trained my neck with coach Boba. He thinks I'm doing a good job. After that, I made some breakfast to fuel my gains that are to come. As you can see, I just finished punching sand repeatedly for like 20 minutes. And I mean, I might not look like it, but I am really enjoying this one. Like I am somebody who likes to turn pain into pleasure as often as I can. And this has just been great. I will say, though, I think I've lost feeling in my hands probably permanently. Something could be broken. I don't even know. But I've lost feeling I've gained character, you know, out of all the things, I think I've improved the most with this one. I'm striking the bucket harder and with more confidence. So I already know the difference from day one to day eight is going to be crazy. That board is mine. Made it to the gym in one piece. I could barely check my blind spot on the way here. So I think I might have to Uber here tomorrow. But as much as I'm training my neck and my forearms, I'm still trying to train the rest of my body and the workouts at the gym are taking a hit. Like I literally cannot hold a barbell. I cannot hold a dumbbell. So I'm pretty limited to just the machines and I can't really go that heavy because my grip just gives out. So hoping that goes away soon, because I want to make gains here. But I don't want to lose it. Who else? The struggle of this type of training wasn't only at the gym, but also in places I didn't expect. My hands are stinging so badly under the water. You guys remember on day one when I was struggling with the 125? Well, I bring this thing wherever I go. I bring it to the gym between sets. I use it in the drive-through. I even I bring it to the grocery store for motivation. So now it's super easy. It literally feels like nothing. Look at that. I do it all day. I think it's time to level up. 150. We're already touching that. I can hold it. Check out the vascularity. I just did 25 reps per hand with the 150 gripper. Check out that forearm pump. All the lines are out to play. Look at that definition. I'm about to turn a nice to meet your handshake into a threat. I kind of have this feeling that the eye thing is potentially a scam. Like I don't like see a difference at all yet. I mean, it's only day three. I'm going to do it for the remainder of the days, but yeah, I don't know. Like maybe I'm not listening to the music hard enough. Maybe I'm going to try harder tomorrow. I have been trying my best with all of these workouts today, but this hand is giving me problems. Like I have to pull back. It isn't so much pain. Like take a look at the bruising from using the gripper so often. Here's the other hand for reference. Look at that. It's a black and blue and then this knuckle in particular is killing me. I cannot punch the sand. So I have to rest it. I have to ice it. I'm hoping it's better by tomorrow. And if it's not, then literally all this entire video is for nothing. I just started this morning and I'm already so deep. I'm like tickling the buckets eyeballs just for me to feel anything. Because if I'm too shallow, I feel nothing. I'm going deeper and I'm going longer in the bucket. My form strength and stamina has increased drastically. I did not expect this much of a change so soon. I think I'm still the same height. I think my eye color is the same and even my skin color still matches the rice, but I'm not going to say it's genetics yet. As far as the jumps go, they're really fun. But I mean, if I was part of the tribe, I definitely would not be known for my vertical. That's for sure. So just in case these things don't work at all, I have a backup plan. I'm just going to sabotage my wife. So earlier on, I put little weights in her winter coat to give her bad posture over time so she shrinks. Then I went into our room and I threw out all of her high heels. I kept one for personal reasons, but yeah, so I mean, we'll see what happens. Day number five and things have been pretty weird this morning. Yeah. Forget crushing an apple. I'm going to be fricking crushing the laws of physics soon with these paws. Like I had been noticing such a difference in pretty much everything that I'm doing. My hand and form strength is just through the roof right now. The one thing that I'm really noticing is that I have usually really bad elbow tendonitis and it is almost completely gone. So I think it's just from doing the constant forearm work, working on the stabilizer muscles around the elbow that it pretty much is just gone and has been an issue for the past like at least six months. So that's really, really good. But we're only going to really know if there's a big difference on the day of the final test. Day six, which means we only have a few days left to get ready for the final fitness test. So it's time to turn it up. My forearm is killing me and I just saw that we have unlocked a new bruise right here. I don't even know how that would have happened actually, but the theme of this entire week is to just ignore the pain and keep going. So we're not going to stop now. The longest I have, oh my God, hurting, holding this hurts. The longest that I have held a single movement without stopping is 56 seconds. Today, a minute and 23 seconds. Huge improvement. So I am making improvements daily, which is making all this so much fun. I'm actually enjoying this more than the actual gym right now because I'm getting my new gains again. I've made significant progress with the rice bucket, but I really don't think it compares to the punching power and hand resilience I've been able to build up. Today was the first day I actually decided to listen to music while punching the sand. And I think I went a little bit too passionately and completely cut this knuckle wide open. So it looks painful, but I'm not even feeling it. It doesn't even hurt anymore. You don't want to get caught in an alleyway with me. Boom. On day one, I could only use one band. Now I can use both and I can do more reps, go longer, and it doesn't burn nearly as bad. The 150 pound gripper has lasted me about a day and then it got so easy that it's time to level up to the black one, which it does feel the most natural in my hands. So this is 175 pound resistance. And on day one, I said my goal was to be able to do this one by the end of the video. So if I can do this today, we're just really ahead of schedule. So let's see. Oh, no. Gonna pop a blood vessel there. We were close. We got some work to do. Oh my god, I'm like headed. Wow. It is crazy how something so small can cause me so much damage. I haven't had something like that happen since I choked on a Skittle. That was almost the last rainbow I ever tasted. But we're going to work on this one and maybe by tomorrow. Who knows, we might get the red one. I ended up bringing the grip trainer with me to the gym, which was a really bad idea because it was just super distracted. I was determined to get the black one. And then finally, this time. Yes. Oh my god. I finally got it. 175. Did you get it? How the fuck did you get that? Oh, yeah. With the black one conquered, that only left one gripper in my way. The red one. Is it possible my forearm strength nearly doubled in six days? Dripping this would take like a premium pod membership because I don't think I'm going to touch that. I couldn't quite lock out the red one regardless though. You don't want to be forgetting the safe word around me anymore. You don't. I also completely forgot to actually do my workout today and absolutely destroyed my hands in the process here. Day seven is all about recovery for the final fitness test, resting my extremely beat up hands for optimal performance, even intimidating my opponent the best way I know how by putting them in my mouth. To track this apple pie, I'm using macro factor. It's by far the quickest and easiest way to track your food. The entire database is verified so you can trust what you're logging. I know a lot of people get sketched out about AI tracking features, but this one, I'm telling you, it's legit. After scanning this slice, it's only three calories off the nutrition label on the back of the box. So if you want to try out the macro factor app, go to the Google Play Store or App Store and use code will for a two week free trial. Today is the day, the day of the final fitness test. And I think that I have made a lot of progress and it's only been seven days. So imagine after 30 days, I would be considered armed and dangerous, literally like I don't even think I'd be allowed through airport security with these things. So let's see the progress that I made starting with measurements. So on day one, I had a little imbalance. My right was bigger than my left. So this entire week, I even went southpaw on top of all my training, but it did feel like I was training somebody else's form. Oh shit, 13.1. We evened it out. Or did we 13.3? I mean, it is going to be a little bit harder to slip at a handcuffs now, but hey, I have strong enough to just break out of money way. Now we have the neck. I'm not expecting a whole lot. I feel like I'm just born with a small neck, like they say in Alabama. You really can't beat your own genetics. So not expecting much here. You're like 15.5. You went up to 15. No, holy, holy, take back whatever I said about genetics. I'm gonna keep on going, Channing Tatum. I'm not a freaking neck out here. I'm coming for you, man. Next test is the towel dead hang. And on day one, I held it for 22 seconds. And we're going to see if we can beat that. So I have my timer down here. I'm going to start it and then I'm going to start hanging when it gets to 10 seconds and we're going to see. It does feel a lot easier than day one, that's for sure. I'm not struggling nearly as much as day one either. Well, I'm just acting a lot better. Oh, my little tushy. So we held it.  for 39.37 seconds, which is like a huge increase in day one, so pretty happy about that. I'm two for two right now, but what about my height? So six feet tall is 182.88 centimeters, and over the past week, I have done more mobility training and posture work than I have in my entire life, so I do feel like I'm standing much taller and like my natural self, so I feel like this is going to be my real true height right now. 181 flat. Oh my god. 0.9 centimeters in seven days. You're basically just over 5'11 now. I mean I didn't make it to six foot, but hey, I feel like because I'm just over 5'11 now, I can just say it. You know, I mean I'm not, I didn't hit my goal. I'll need to do surgery to get that, but that's pretty sick. I mean 0.9 centimeters in seven days just by doing a five minute stretch and the jumping. The jumping really did it. The microfaction is not really, you know. Next test, grip strength. This is something I think I really improved on and perhaps a big indicator on if I can crush the apple waiting for me. Starting with my right hand, with the Squarta B being 152.4. Oh it shot off literally. Oh my god. I'm like Eddie Hall. I erred it. Oh no, it just took everything out of me. I'm like, hey too. Alright. 1.38.4. I don't know if this is a case of me just being completely over trained with my forearms or what, but wow, I was not expecting that. 1.38.4. Crazy to think I actually got weaker. Perhaps it's a case of my hands being fatigued from a week of constant training. But what about my left side? Okay. 162.2, which I mean 1.2 pound difference on the left. I thought it would be more, but I mean at least it's something. I definitely didn't score like I thought I would on this test, but I know for a fact that my punch got stronger for the board break. Between the rice and the sand, what I've learned this week is that people who do martial arts are psychopaths. Complete psychopaths. But out of all the things this week, the iron fist training was by far my favorite and the one that I think that I made the most improvements on. So on day one, that was probably the first time I ever hesitated in front of wood. So it's time to redeem myself. Let's see if we can make this wood explode. My striking confidence is way higher than before. Didn't even feel it. That was like punching a rice cracker. Holy shit, I just did that. On day one, I couldn't even make a dent in the board, but today that was pretty neat. One was easy. Let's see if I can do two. We're gonna put them together now, so I can finish two at once. Ooh, that one stung a little bit. Call me a beaver, because damn, I'm stacking broken wood right now. Oh my god. I kinda wanna call Jay Paolo now. Jay Paolo, are you at? That jaw needs to be broken again. Man, come on, come here, you're at. I couldn't believe I broke them both. Just from the constant impact training in the sand, I was approaching the wood with much more speed and confidence than day one. I punched through two. How about three? Time to crash this threesome. This was the first time so far, where I really doubted if I could do it. We got a blood stain there. We cracked through this one. We made it to this one too. And this one's kind of unfazed. Look at that. From day one, to not even be able to break through one to this. And my hands are completely fine now. I mean, I have that, but that's nothing new this week. That's nothing new. I have the power of the fricking Kool-Aid man in the palm of my hands. I can make anybody scream. Woodbreak was a big success, but before we get to the final test, did my eyes change any color? We just did the after shot for my eye color, and I'm looking at the photos right now, and I'm trying to convince myself that I see a difference, but realistically, I do not. So, moral of the story is, you can change your outlook, but you can't change the eyes that you look out of. Yeah, I think most of us knew that it would probably be a fail. But now, it's time to face the apple. All I want, just once, is to make one explode like a grapefruit can make me. It's all I thought about this week. I've trained for this. I've dreamt of this. It's time to make this apple detonate. Oh my God! Yeah! What? No way! Oh my God! Did you go? It just come... Oh my God, I was not expecting it to be like that. Oh! That is empowering! Damn! Oh! That rice tastes really weird.

=== FILE: I Tried EVERY Way To Lose Weight [7lRJLKb8H3Q].txt ===

 Ever since my bodybuilding show back in May, I've been putting on weight. Like a lot of weight. So that's why I'm gonna be spending the next week trying every weight loss method I can find, from lasers that literally melt fat, to hypnosis that makes my favorite junk food taste like shit, but it all starts with one of the most famous ways to lose weight. Oh, mad. One meal a day. My life is pretty much just a waiting game until the next meal. So this is gonna be a long wait. I'm already hungry. I already want to cracker open behind me. And I can't eat until 6pm. So time to go an entire day without thinking about food. While I was waiting, I wanted to check my starting weight, which was 197.5 pounds. Unfortunately, oh mad doesn't stand for only me and donuts. So breakfast is looking like this. Nothing. Luckily, I can have black coffee. I got this fancy new machine where I have to do this now. Look at me. I'm a barista. I think with the coffee, I actually feel pretty confident this shouldn't be too bad. I also had a lot of work to do and I just recently moved into a new house, so food wasn't on the top of my mind. I can't believe I'm saying this right now, but fasting is kind of nice. I feel like I'm getting a lot done. I'm sharper with my tasks and it's also almost one o'clock. So time is literally flying by right now. When you're busy, you don't think about food. It's just simple. So make it to 6pm. Easy. As much as I felt confident that time was flying, it eventually didn't. At 3pm, things got weird. Really weird. I had thoughts that I wasn't proud of. The hunger became so overwhelming, it was hard to push off. I just thought of the most genius fasting hack. Check this out. So we have an original pack of Oreos here and all you have to do is replace the entire pack with ice cubes. 21 hours fasted right now and it is getting so hard, which is why I'm out of the house. I just can't be near the kitchen right now. All that I'm thinking about is food and ways in which I can break my fast. Very creative ways. I did not even know my imagination could go that far and none of those ways are healthy. So very, very bingey mindset, which I do not like. At the grocery store right now, I'm about to go in and get supplies for my feed. I can't imagine this going well. This is going to be like taking a recovering alcoholic on a wine tour. I am one mood swing away from cannibalism, so I better not be tested in there. Better not be. Let's go. They have no filled donuts left, but that's alright because where you may see a flaw, I see opportunity. The fat kid in me just wants to get some chips, candy, frozen pizza, ice cream and go to town. But then the bodybuilder in me wants to put that fat kid in a headlock and is like, no, get your chicken and veggies. Cheese. I'm not going to lie. I do also suffer from premature celebration and I did sneak a piece of potato before 6pm. I was just so hungry. But look at this. Look at this freaking feast right now. I mean, it's kind of overkill, but the way I see it is this isn't just dinner. This is avenging 23 hours of starvation and speaking of that, the entire day suffering, starving and now looking down at this spread, it kind of makes it all worth it. It's like coming back home to Katie after a long work trip. And speaking of Katie, she better get home soon because I only get so long in my eating window. Alright, let's see if my stomach still remembers how to do this. Whoa, I just doused the potatoes with coconut oil. I don't normally do that. But because I have the calories, I can eat a lot more nutrient dense than I normally would. Like I got two avocados in here. Let's dig into these thighs. Feeling super primal right now. I'm just going into a whole piece of chicken like this. I told myself I'd eat slowly, mindfully, like a civilized human, but I absolutely hosed this meal. I'm pretty sure at one point I actually blacked out. I am so full right now. It is so uncomfortable, but I love it. On a diet, this feeling is hard to come by. So that's a big plus for OMAD. It's definitely a diet that you'd get used to. But I feel like once you get used to it, it's quite sustainable for a lot of people. But if you're going to use this diet to just eat junk food, it's not for you. So if you focus on whole foods, focus on nutrients and protein, then I feel like the OMAD diet is really good. OMAD 7.5 out of 10. Electric fork. I'm being serious. This fork literally electrocutes you if you eat too fast. I mean, a vibrating toy, definitely at my alley. Now you might be wondering, why do they even make things like this? Well, there's tons of studies showing that the slower you eat, the less you eat, and thus you lose more weight. So this is kind of just reinforcing to take your time with your meal. Now I can't pace myself with anything really, so this is going to be interesting. I have six pieces of French toast in front of me. Yesterday I had the exact same meal, ate it as I normally would, and that took me three minutes and 26 seconds, which is a huge wake-up call. I have to slow down and come up for air every now and then. But we are going to see how much longer it takes me to eat the French toast with the electrical fork. How this thing works is pretty simple. It's like a squid game, red-legged green light, but except it's my cutlery that can eliminate me. Basically, I do not eat when it's flashing red. When it stops, I get to eat. If I eat while it's flashing red, I get eliminated, a.k.a. I get vibrated. So it's flashing. If I go for a bite... Oh, okay, that has a vibration power that intrigues me, but also spurs my creativity. Okay, time to start the clock and see how long this takes. Okay, we're good to go. Oh. I got vibrated. Huh? Now we wait. Okay, we're good. I don't think I've ever been this present with French toast. I think I'm giving it more attention than I give most people. Oh! Why are you busting me? I didn't even get a bite! Why are you busting me? I didn't even get a bite! I'm not even halfway done, and we're already over what it took me yesterday to finish. This is kind of weird. I don't know if I'm no longer hungry or if I'm just getting frustrated, but we have two and a bit pieces left, and I'm kind of feeling full right now. I kind of feel like I did yesterday when I finished the meal. Huh! I think it's kind of like drinking alcohol. You pound a bunch of shots really fast, you don't feel drunk right away, but then it kicks in in a bit. And you're like, whoa, what did I do? It's kind of the same thing with eating. If you take your time, you let the food kind of settle in your stomach, and you're kind of like, oh yeah, I don't really need to have six pieces. I could have just had four. Took me eight minutes and nine seconds to eat the French toast, which is a lot longer than last time. I was full after four pieces, but I had all six because I need to finish all the food that's in front of me, regardless of how I feel, which is a separate issue that I'm going to face another time. But in terms of the fork, I think it's great. If you're a fast eater like me, it teaches you to slow down. Then eventually you can use a regular fork that won't zap you, and you'll just automatically eat a lot slower, eat less, and then over time the weight just sheds off. So I think this is actually really good. Electric fork, seven out of ten. Next up, a treadmill, sort of. You'll see. I think the first thing that people think about when trying to lose weight is that they're never ever going to see pizza again, but also treadmills. I hate them so much. Like, if Satan had a gym, it would just all be treadmills. Maybe a cab machine. I hate them. But that might all change today. Because we're about to try a treadmill sauna, and saying that out loud sounds extremely dangerous, like something straight out of an anabolic saw movie. But apparently it burns 65% more calories than a regular treadmill, which is significant. And here it is. Like, look at this thing. It's like NASA meets weight watchers. Like, this is so futuristic. Like, this is crazy. Before I started my run, I had to put this cute skirt on. This is what's going to trap the hot air in the treadmill. So how many calories if I'm going to do like 20 to 30 minutes? 700,000 calories. A thousand calories? Why are you burning 65% more calories in this? So the lophatic drainage that's happening is also when it decompresses the air as well inside there, and then the infrared that you have on the side that lamps as well. Okay. All right. I look like I'm being birthed by the treadmill. I'm going to be a born again cardio bunny. But already my legs are super hot. It's a very weird sensation right now. So I'm going to do a 20 minute run, which I have no idea how I'm going to last that long in such a tight space. But we're going to try our best. And we're going to start the Apple watch to see what the calorie burns are going to look like. Three, two, one. All right, let's go. I'm really curious to compare the calorie burn on this treadmill to my Apple watch. My watch is what I rely on day to day. So if this thing pushes the numbers higher, almost something's actually happening. We've only been going for a minute and 20 seconds, and I already feel sweat starting to develop right now. He said it burns a thousand calories in 30 minutes. So I'm expecting this thing to literally cook fat off my body. I could see Elon Musk using this to build his revenge body after a breakup or something. Coming into this, I was convinced it was a gimmick. But the moment the heat kicked in, it was obvious this is significantly harder than a normal treadmill. My heart rate was climbing faster, my breathing got heavier, and the effort level was way higher than what I'm used to at the same speed. If that's the case, the increased calorie burn might actually be legit. All right, we're going to adjust the sauna heat. Let's crank this bad boy up. We're currently seven minutes in, and it says we have burnt 247 calories. And that calorie total is just ticking up every second. They look so fast that number is going up. That's insane. One thing I do really appreciate about the treadmill is that it still requires you to work out and put effort in. It's not something that claims you can lie on a table and obliterate fat like some of the other things we're trying later in the video. I'm going to do cardio, so I'm building on my cardio tolerance and my sauna tolerance. And right now, I think I'm struggling more with the heat than the actual cardio itself, which is a really weird feeling. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, seven. Okay, we just finished 20 minutes, and here it says I burned 635 calories in 20 minutes, which is exactly in line with the prediction of 750 to 1,000 in half an hour, if not more. The interesting thing is, on my Apple Watch, it only says I burnt 179 calories. So is that caloric inflation to get me hooked onto this? Could be, but it certainly feels like I went harder than 179 calories. I think my soul is still in there. That wasn't exercise. That was an exercise to me. My legs, oh, what they look glistening. Honestly, it feels like I just did an hour of cardio. So I mean, if that caloric total is correct, this is a no brainer. Like 635 calories in 20 minutes is sick. I also feel like these are very hard to find, unless you live in LA or something. But if you can find these and it's accurate, bro, it's game changer, game changer. But why do I feel like this is more right? Because I'm still very skeptical of its accuracy, I have to give this on a treadmill a four and a half out of 10. Up next, hypnosis. Dieting didn't work, exercise didn't work. So naturally the next step is hypnosis, just like swinging to save a marriage. But sometimes we do need other people to tell us that we're not hungry. And I don't really know much about hypnosis, but what I would gather is people who go to hypnosis, their self control is just, it's in the toilet. Like it just can't be worse than that. But there's a lot of studies showing that this works. And hey, I'm excited. They angle something in front of my face and I'll do whatever they say to the best of my ability or flexibility. So I walked in a little unsure of what to expect and met with owner Luke. He's going to be the one to perform this session on me. All right, Will. So I understand that you're here for healthier eating habits. Is that correct? Okay. And I understand that your greatest vice is sweets. Is it pig's treats? Donuts. Okay. And ideally you'd be eating instead of donuts. You'd be eating fruit. Okay. Okay. Fantastic. So hypnosis essentially works through verbal suggestion. That's a fancy way to say I'm going to be talking almost nonstop. And the content of my speech is going to be how someone might think ideally to go for the fruit and not for the donut. Can you make me like, fear donuts or like make a donut? It's like in my mind taste, not that great. Probably. But it's not necessary. Whenever you're ready, you can close your eyes, take a deep breath in, fill your lungs all the way up and breathe out. In every breath you're breathing. Notice how perfectly your body listens to your request for deep breaths. Now that's your mind-body connection in action. Your body listens faithfully to whatever you ask of it. And if you start thinking of fruits, for example, as delicious. If you start thinking of them as top tier foods, God tier foods, then your body listens. Your body starts to want the real thing and will not settle for anything fake or factory made or ultra processed. Luke's voice is soothing like a lullaby to the beast that is my stomach. Your body deserves quality, nutritious foods packed full of moisture and fiber and vitamins and minerals. And your body simply doesn't deserve what we literally call junk. As he guided me deeper into hypnosis, he started painting this picture where donuts were out of my life and fruit was suddenly the most irresistible thing. I'll continue to speak ideas that cause relaxation, that cause a sense of self-love and self-appreciation. And that allow you to gravitate toward what you already know to be good and healthy. And probably out of a sense of self-love and self-respect, you might actually gravitate away from everything you already understand to be not good for you at all. Probably not even good enough for you to feed to a dog. I didn't love the disrespect towards donuts, but I was so relaxed I almost accepted it. The way he described fruit made it feel more desirable than anything I've ever craved. And honestly, lying there, I felt completely open to whatever Luke said next. Even when you have a sweet tooth, even when you crave sugar, your body's telling you go find a fruit bearing tree, go find a patch of berries. It's not telling you, go find a donut shop. This future where stuff extruded from machines is beneath your notice. This future is a good one. He wasn't saying anything I didn't already know. Just the usual warnings about donuts. But in that hypnotized state, the obvious suddenly felt powerful. I could feel my desire for them slipping away, or shall I say, becoming beneath my notice. There are delicate natural flavors that even the most brilliant food scientists cannot hope to replicate on a factory floor. As all of this sinks in, then open your eyes to return fully back to the room out here. How do you feel? Wow man. It was a trip, eh? Yeah. I thought you were like inside me the whole time. It's an altered state of consciousness. And yeah, I appreciate that you permitted yourself to immerse yourself in that experience. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. I'm either healed or deeply gaslit. Time will tell. So, I mean, I'm hoping I don't have a mysterious fear of donuts and start barking when I see chips. So we're gonna go test that right now. For test one, I was curious to see if my experience eating a donut would be any different. Usually I look at donuts with lust. Now all I'm seeing are red flags. When Will goes into the donut shop, I would guess that a lot of what I said when he was in the chair today is going to come back to mind. Probably not as precise words, probably as a feeling. I will be honest, I'm not as enthusiastic about this donut in front of me, which is kind of strange. Because like looking at it, I just see the grease. I see the artificialness to it. Things that I never really thought beforehand. I usually just used to look at it as like the apex food. Now it's just like kind of garbage. Luke was right. Everything was still fresh in my head and it made my donut experience genuinely less desirable. It's not hidden the same. It's not hidden the same. I almost feared multiple sessions would make me completely forget them. It's way more sweet than normal. And I just feel like I don't need to have more. Wow. That's kind of sad. It's kind of an end of an era. For test two, I went to a grocery store to see what my behavior is like. What do I notice? What do I crave? What do I not want? I'm a lot more excited about being in the produce section because all I'm thinking about right now is Luke telling me nature's harvest. I'm creating a grapefruit, not in my usual way. Like the juiciness is exciting. Looking around the produce section, I felt that I had a deeper sense of excitement toward the fruit and veggies. I noticed the beautiful colors a lot more. When you're talking about berries, his strawberry talk hit. I thought I might have to get some strawberries. Probably he's fixated enough on what he wants, which is going to be the fruits and the berries and the vegetables. That the bakery section is, if not beneath his notice, much less on his radar, much less compelling. It's not nearly as exciting right now because now I'm thinking about the produce section with all the colors. It's very one note here now. It kind of just seems like meh. Normally I'd look at this and be like, oh my god, I want this so bad. But now all I'm doing is looking at this being like, I cannot put this in my body. My body needs this. Being in this section, all I can think about is Luke, which is awakening a different kind of hunger. Alright, here we go. It tastes sweeter than I remember strawberries to taste. It tastes more like candy, nature's candy. That is very enjoyable. It's so juicy. I could taste the fiber. I could taste the vitamins and minerals. My idea of hypnosis has completely changed. I thought hypnosis was taking over my body. All it was doing was making me realize the obvious things that I don't want donuts. They're not good for me. They're processed. You want the high quality foods. And then when you just start to believe that, it's kind of what you actually want. So I think hypnosis works. With the fruit, I noticed the complete opposite experience that I had with the donut. I noticed everything about what I was eating, and it was super enjoyable. Look at that. It's nature's Hershey's kiss. Hypnosis, 7 out of 10. Next up, IV drip. I am currently being penetrated by a weight loss metabolism booster IV. And all I'm saying is that IV drip up there, there must be a new strain of COVID in it to get me to stop eating. And just like astrology, I have no idea if IVs are a scam or not, but I seem to keep doing them. And I feel like I have no right to be skeptical because I did get successfully hypnotized to hate donuts. So, anything can help, I guess. Here's what's in the drip. I haven't heard of anything other than triptophan, which is in Turkey. So if this can give me Thanksgiving level fullness without the shame or calories, I'll be truly unstoppable. Drip, drop, drip, drop. Every drip, my appetite drops. I'm not even hungry anymore. Another ingredient that's pretty cool is the freamine, which is an amino acid blend to ensure nutrients are sufficient so the body doesn't crave food as much. It's been like 10 minutes and I taste Cheerios in my mouth. I don't know why, but I do. And I haven't had Cheerios, so if I feel like I've had Cheerios and I haven't, things are looking good. What's up, bro? What are you doing? You are so cute. You're lucky I'm not hungry because I would eat you up. As the IV drip bag got smaller and smaller, I started to feel weird. Not bad, just different. Wow. It's all inside me now, so hopefully it gives me the appetite and metabolism of a toddler. That'd be so sweet. It's been like five minutes since I finished the IV drip and I feel amazing. I feel happier, I feel calmer, I feel like I've had a light breakfast and I haven't eaten anything yet. So I'm very curious to see how the rest of the day goes. And my first stop is, of course, the gym. I can't remember the last time I did a completely fasted workout, so I was interested to see how I'd perform. Fasted workout is going amazing so far and I feel a lot more focused than normal, maybe because I'm counting reps instead of seconds to my next meal. But if my muscles are screaming for more fuel, I'm definitely not hearing them right now. The only hunger I feel right now is the hunger to lift heavy s***. My appetite is locked in the basement like a neglected stepchild because where is it? I don't know where it is. I thought only the memory of walking in on my parents could suppress my appetite, but here we are. That ingredient, free amine, the one that's supposed to prevent my body from craving food, I think it's working because I've driven past the McDonald's, a Krispy Kreme, and Tim Hortons without even emotionally cheating on my diet. And I'd never do that. Next, it was time to get some work done. I'm getting work done right now and I haven't thought about food at all, which is honestly suspicious, especially because I'm doing work in the kitchen 20 feet from the fridge, which is pretty unusual. I literally cannot stop fidgeting, which is probably making me burn more calories, which is helping me lose more fat. It's a little after 3 o'clock. I'm having my first meal of the day and I'm not even eating this because of hunger. I'm eating this out of pure responsibility to my muscles. I easily could have pushed my first meal even later, but I don't know why I would. I don't have anything to prove to anybody. So we have an egg white omelet. Normally I would have toast with it. I just didn't even think that I needed it, so I just have the omelet here, a little bit of cheese in it, and we will see maybe the IV drip gets me fuller sooner. This is kind of weird. I'm already feeling satisfied. I'm halfway done the omelet. Yeah, like if the omelet was done, I'd be okay with it. And usually I don't want it to end. You better believe I'm still going to finish it anyway. It is very obvious the IV drip works. However, I did notice some side effects and I don't know how sustainable it is. Like I don't think you can be injecting yourself very regularly. Your arm would literally look like a junkie. To be fair, a wellness junkie, but still. Like I don't think it's sustainable because of those things that is definitely going to influence my score. IV drip, 5 out of 10. Mono diet. When I hear mono, I just think about high school where everyone was missing so much school for hooking up with each other, but not me. Mono means one, so I'm only going to be having one kind of food today, nothing else. So only having one food is supposed to make things easier, and when you have no selection, you're just less likely to binge and overeat. Although the health score for this kind of diet is extremely bad. It's like 0.58 out of 5. So not good. Not good at all. The most common mono diet food is watermelon because it's high in volume and it's very hydrating. So I went to the store this morning and I got so much watermelon. A lot of watermelon. And everyone was looking at me like they knew exactly what I was doing. So I'm going to be eating a lot of watermelon today. Meal won 585 calories of watermelon and this is a big bowl. Look at that. I can almost not even hold this up. Huge. And because I'm having all 13 servings, I am getting a whopping 13 grams of protein in there, which is awesome. It just so happens that watermelon is my favorite fruit. So this is probably going to be pretty easy. I can only tell why this was 50% off. But I can't pass up a deal. I feel like a damn gorilla. A very small part of me feels like this diet is like saying I love you in high school. Like at first it's exciting, but then I feel like I'm going to be feeling trapped really soon. Midway through the very first meal, the thing I was afraid of finally happened. I broke the seal and once it starts, there's no going back. I could not finish 585 calories of watermelon. Normally a meal with that calorie total, I would smoke it easily. So maybe this is a good thing. Here is meal number two. Mono is like monogamy, like a monogamous relationship, but it's not like I can put syrup on this. Almond butter, whipped cream, you know, it's just all just doing it raw. And I'm so tired of getting up to pee. I can't even do work. This is also going to be my pre-workout meal. So I feel like because of all the hydration, the pump is going to be incredible. But I do feel actually a lot more hungry than I did even when I was fasting, which is kind of weird. Like I'm starving, but somehow I feel bloated right now. Strength has been good. Pump has been amazing. A couple downsides. I am distractingly hungry. It's crazy how you go from being so full after a meal to being starving 5 minutes later. And that's because there's pretty much no nutrients in watermelon. So it's just going right through me. Also, after every single set, this is happening. So annoying. Post-workout meal prep. I will hand it to the mono diet. It is extremely easy and time efficient. And after this, I think I'm going to be well over a thousand calories in melon. I am definitely going to be an ass man after this. I want to just make it with a wall right now because it's dry. I kind of also want to cry. But if I cry, I'm afraid that I'm going to freaking flood my car with all the fluids in me. I don't know what else to say here other than I was absolutely miserable. My one's favorite fruit has now become my greatest enemy. But even though I'd rather have anything else in the world in my mouth right now, the show must go on. Did you see that? This one's a squirt or a man. The best one's squirt when you eat them. The juiciness is making me kind of nauseous. It's making me kind of sick right now. I'm so over it. I did not think a fruit could emotionally break me. But here we are. I can't do it. I just, ugh. If I put another piece of watermelon in my mouth, it is not going to end well. I think with the mono diet, it makes eating too much of a chore. You don't get excited about your diet, which you should be.  even when you're losing weight. And when you're not excited about your food, I guess you just don't want to eat, which I guess would technically make you lose weight, but it's not very sustainable. This is not a very sustainable diet. So, yeah, I can't do it anymore. And I'm also super low on my protein. I really have to catch up. I really need to catch up with my protein. Here I am, just a boy desperate for protein, willing to do anything. And I know exactly who to open wide for. David. I took out some of my favorite flavors, fudge chocolate, chocolate chip cookie dough, and blueberry pie. If you want to see my David protein will flavor ranking, here it is, just pause it really quick. First was fudge chocolate, and this David hits a bit deeper than the rest. I love the chocolate chunks. It's amazing. Next was cookie dough. It actually looks like cookie dough. There's just no Pillsbury dough boy trying to kill you. You really can't beat these macros. Sorry, it's a fact you can't. 150 calories, 28 grams of protein per bar, making it the highest protein to calorie ratio bar on the planet. Lastly, blueberry pie. Look how pretty it looks. Usually fruit flavor bars are a bit sketchy, but this one tastes like an actual slice of pie, almost like tasting grandma. Oh, I feel good now. I just had 84 grams of protein, 450 calories, and zero grams of sugar in like two minutes. Try doing that with anything else. Try doing that with chicken breast. You couldn't. You would choke and you would die. That would be awful. I would not wish that upon anybody. So if you guys want to try David protein first, like in the description, I guarantee you're going to love him. Mono diet, I'm giving it a two. Last but not least, laser therapy. It does not get much more intense than this. We are lasering fat off my body. You'll match this thing out. I want smoke coming off my ribs. Here's what it looks like before the treatment, and I'm curious to see if I'll notice any difference immediately. One thing's for sure. The weight loss will be at least cinematic, if not effective. I'm being transported to a slimmer dimension. Is there supposed to feel like any like burning or anything or like heat or nothing? It's a non-fermal laser. So you're not going to feel anything. Next contest prep. Just see me in here. Laser is the failure. I kind of hope that something goes wrong. Because I feel like this is the kind of thing. If something goes wrong, I become a Marvel villain. You know? It just gives me that kind of Dr. Evil kind of vibe. I will say you can really feel the heat from the lasers, which is making me believe I'm finally about to win the game of hide and seek. I've been playing with my abs all my life. Does laser suck up the game of hide and seek? The larger than? No? No, you need shockwave. Okay. Here's how this thing works. The laser creates small transitory pores for the fatty liquids in the fat cells to seep out. The fatty liquids are then naturally flushed out through the lymphatic system. The result is that the fat cells shrink instead of being killed. When this happens, the shrunken fat cells begin to act and function like healthy lean cells. Whoa, workout complete. It feels hot. Really hot. That's great. Yeah. Comparing the before and after photos, you can clearly see a visible difference in the ab area. Typically, you're supposed to do 7 to 10 sessions for maximum results. However, I'm not convinced these changes aren't just temporary. Because of that, I'm giving the lasers a 4 out of 10. Across 7 days and 7 different methods, some stood out, others fell flat, and a few, they're better off forgotten. But every now and then, you try something that lingers, something that stays with you in ways you didn't expect. Donuts could even be so far beneath your notice that you barely even think of them.

=== FILE: I Tried Fast Foods Unhealthiest Items [Wtx3rb2ij8I].txt ===

 Whenever I hit the drive-thru, I'm the guy that always gets the healthy fast-food option. And honestly, it's boring. It sucks. I feel like I'm missing out on what everyone else is actually here for. But today, that ends. I'm going to every single fast-food spot and ordering the unhealthiest item that they have. Here are the rules. One, it has to be the highest calorie menu item. Two, I can't make any modifications. And three, I have to use everything the meal comes with. Dips, sauces, everything. First stop, McDonald's. I literally flew all the way to America to come to McDonald's because this menu item is not available where I'm from. Thank God I'm married. Could you imagine going on a first date and telling the person that your big business trip was to a McDonald's? As you can see, I am wearing all white, which is a bold choice, a very bold choice given the topic of this video because we are going to be having some messy food. But I'm curious to see if I can make it to the end completely stain-free. That's going to be very interesting because I'm a really messy eater. So that's... I'm very curious myself. The menu item we're going in for is the Big Breakfast with Hot Cakes. 1,340 calories, 36 grams of protein, 158 grams of carbs, and 63 grams of fat. That is some unhealthy hall of fame numbers, my friends. Let's go have breakfast. So I made my way into McDonald's and ordered the Big Breakfast, which of course is labeled as a popular item, and after rounding up for charity, the meal only came to $7, which is actually ridiculous. Big Breakfast with Hot Cakes has arrived, and when it comes to McDonald's between breakfast, lunch, and dinner, I think they come through the most at breakfast time, so this could very well be worth it. This just looks like the downfall of humanity, but more importantly, my physique on a plate. And if you're starting your day with this, it's not going to be a very productive one. I'm going to say that. So many people are watching me feel so awkward right now. They gave me so much honey on the side, like do they think I'm winning the poo or something? Like what am I going to do with that much honey? Since I had to use everything on the plate, I began to butter my pancakes. Now normally I would use maple syrup, so I was kind of confused about the honey, but I just ended up pouring it over my biscuit. The more that I look at it, the more it just looks like a deconstructed McGrittle with a side of pancakes and a side of a hash brown. Let's start with the sausage. It's not fancy, it's Naguarmé, but that sausage pits. Serotonin a lot. But one very on-brand complaint is that the sausage just isn't thick enough. I've never had scrambled eggs at McDonald's either. It actually tastes real. I thought I was going to be questioning science and nature before 9 a.m., but that seems like a real egg. So I believe that this is what you're supposed to do here. That's actually very good. That honey though does not taste like it came from a beehive. More like a frickin' factory pipe. For having big in the name, big breakfast, it's not really big. So maybe they're referring to the guilt that I'm going to feel afterwards because I'm already feeling a little bit guilty and kind of gross right now. Hot cake time. It has the texture of a memory that I don't want back. If you've never had pancakes before, you might like it, but it's not a very good pancake. You know when you get hugged by someone that you know doesn't like you? That's the feeling I have right now while I'm eating this. Like there's like this small piece of like comfort and a small part of me feels good, but the overwhelming majority of me just feels really bad and I feel like there's a hidden agenda. And when it comes to this, that hidden agenda is growing my waistline. The star of the show, McDonald's hash brown, one thing that we cannot take away from McDonald's is that they're the goat at cooking potatoes. Mmm. It reminds me when I used to be fat as a kid. I love it. I ate the rest of this meal with such intense detail so I could accurately determine whether or not it's worth it. The meal started pretty fire, but the pancakes, they were really letting the team down. I'm not sure if even the hash brown or biscuit sandwich could redeem it. In my opinion, I would only ever seek this meal out if I was drunk. But if you are a diehard McDonald's lover, then I feel like this could be worth it for like a once a year glucose overdose relapse. But this should not be a regular occurrence order. I just don't think it's worth it. Along with our rules, I'm also going to be ranking every item on the will worth it scale from would do it again all the way to instant regret. McDonald's big breakfast with hotcakes once was enough. We are now at Burger King and we are going in for the Roadhouse King. And just looking at this photo, I'm going to need a priest and a defibrillator. Like this thing is a buffet stacked vertically. It's 1430 calories, which is a lot. Like that is more than my powerlifting total. It's 81 grams of carbs, 78 grams of protein and 89 grams of fat. Like if you're making a sandwich with over 70 grams of protein and the fat is still out doing it, you are no longer trying to feed me. You're simply trying to defeat me. This is also extremely high risk territory for my white shirt. So could I do the Roadhouse King please? Uh, just the sandwich. Just the sandwich came to $11.75. We are back in Canadian currency now, so take that as you will. This thing is insanely heavy. Who is getting this with fries? The same type of person who tosses fireworks in the house fire, I bet. But the wrapper is even wet. It's ready for me. And I didn't have to do anything. Wow, that looks messy. I think this is Burger King's attempt at population control. I think we could also call this the widow maker. Oh my, there is some heft to this. I said the same thing looking up at Shaq. Something this substantial should not fit in my hands this easily. Here we go. It definitely did not look like the ad, not even close, but in terms of the taste, flavor profile, mostly beef. The barbecue sauce is really good. The scary thing is, bacon is usually very intense. It's like the loudest ingredient in the room. Right now, it's playing hide and seek. I don't even taste the bacon. Slightly concerning. The onion rings are more of a deep fried question mark, if anything. They're not very good, not very crispy. Kind of a waste. I already feel like I'm starting to sweat. It is so heavy. And there's so much sauce on this. Oh, I feel like they think it's like a multi vitamin in comparison. Each bite, I feel like I'm agreeing to a contract with the devil. But with all that said, it is so good. It definitely needs some sort of freshness, like a tomato, some lettuce. I wouldn't taste it, but more for visual to make me feel a little bit better about myself. It tastes like a cry for help on a sesame BUN, pretty much to recap it. There I was sitting alone in the corner at Burger King, questioning every life choice that led me here. But I'm not leaving until I finish the Roadhouse King. The first few bites were incredible, but halfway through, it was pure chaos in a BUN. There was too many flavors, too much sauce, and somehow even too much meat. Not only does this taste unsafe, it even feels unsafe. It smells like heaven though. And my future cardiologist, New Maserati. But there's something about it that I just keep coming back to. It's like a culinary Stockholm syndrome. They're going to be crying in the car after this. Look how much this burger is inflaming my face. Wow. This burger definitely looked a lot better than it tastes. Did it? Did it though? I don't think it's worth the calories at all. Not at all. Burger King, Roadhouse King, questionable decisions were made. Next up, Subway. I'm going in for the Beast, a 1460 calorie sub featuring half a pound of meat with five premium deli meats, double provolone cheese, fresh lettuce, tomatoes, red onions, and of course, mayo. When I asked for the Beast, he just looked at me concerned. So I went in a little closer and said it again. The Beast? His eyes popped and he knew exactly what to do. He started stacking literally every meat they had in the store on my sandwich, and it was actually starting to look scary, especially when he put all the cheese on top. And then all the veggies went on and then it was finished with the money shot of mayo. Sadri was a wonderful sandwich artist and I can't wait to try his work. The Beast came out to $16.21. 1460 calories for a sub is crazy work. And when I ordered this, he just looked at me. He's like, this guy must have lost a bet or his self-respect. And I didn't lose a bet. The first order of business that we got to do, of course, we got to measure it. People lie. So we got to see. And that looks to be right on the money. Okay. We literally have every meat in the store, just not Sadri's. But he could slip in. I wouldn't complain. If you went to Subway within a five day range, I would know. It's just such a distinct smell. Look at that thing. We got some salami dripping off the side. It's showing off a little bit. Calling this just a sub is like saying the Mona Lisa is just a painting. I feel like this is going to be delicious. I have no idea what I just tasted, but it's great. Each bite, my brain physics is trying to solve a puzzle that it doesn't understand. But somehow it really works. Like the spiciness of the salami, the cheesiness. If you're a vegan and want to become a born again meat eater, this right here is your baptism. And this is like the Noah's Ark of deli animals. It's really nice that through all the meat, you still taste the tomato, the lettuce, the onions that brings the freshness that we've been missing this entire video. So this is really nice. This is definitely going to give me that classic post foot long limp. But I think the biggest question is, can I taste all five meats? No, not really. Like, is it going to be any different than if I just got a turkey club sandwich? I don't really think so. Can I distinctly taste the double cheese? I don't think so. So I feel like there's a lot of extra calories that don't really need to be in here. And I think it would just still taste the exact same. I also can't believe I'm saying this, but I'm getting a little bit of meat fatigue right now. There's just, there's a lot of meat going on in here. Within this sub, there's like some very average bites, but then there's also some bites that have a taste that you're never going to forget. So is that worth it? I was fully ready to say once was enough until I had this bite. And thankfully, I caught this in slow mo. I don't know what was happening here, but this was the best bite I've ever had at Subway. It transcends all other Subway experiences I've ever had. All right, guys, I can't believe I'm saying this, but I just hit a pocket. I just hit the most magical bite that makes this sandwich worth it. It's worth it. Subway, I would do it again. Next up on our hit list is Taco Bell, and we're going in for the deluxe box. It's 1,730 calories. This is for somebody who just wants it all. It's basically a less shameful way of ordering the entire menu. So I mean, hopefully my toilet paper back when I'm home is deluxe as well, because I already know I'm not going to be able to trust a fart for the rest of the day. The deluxe box came out to $18.39. Gracias. Thank you. The plan was to totally eat this inside, but there was so many high schoolers in there, and they're intimidating creatures. So I'm eating in the car now. Let's open Pandora's box, shall we? I am probably going to need a whole bunch of Accutane after this. There is a lot going on in here. We have a chalupa, a burrito, a taco, and then I'm just so thankful that we don't only have fries. We have nacho fries because, you know, when I'm eating a taco, I just think I need fries with that. I'm being sarcastic. And then we also have this, which I'm not sure if it's like a cheese sauce or like an orange disgusting, mayo based situation. Regardless, we have to try it. And from my experience with Taco Bell, I feel like everything has the same flavor profile just in different shapes. And for this to be considered worth it, I think at least three of the four things need to be delicious. So let's find that out. Starting with the chalupa. I don't know what the f*** a chalupa is, but let's just pick a side and go to town here. Oh, that's good. Oh, I can't believe I'm saying this, but the flavor profile is actually kind of complex. The beef is seasoned amazingly. I love the veggies in it. The texture is phenomenal. The fried dough is great. This is worth it on its own. We're off to a good start. Things are looking good for the deluxe box. Next, the burrito. We got to give this burrito some viagra here. Holy mo- Why does it taste like this? Oof. That was just a nice little reminder as to why it's not called burrito bell. I don't know if they're practicing like minimalism here or extreme budget cuts with the burritos, but there's not a lot going on in here. Like, if I was at a Mexican restaurant, I would send this back immediately and then I would leave. I don't think I would ever eat this and even the most desperate of times. It's simply horrible. We're tied at one. Next, the taco. I don't think it's possible that they messed up a taco here. All right. Not a lot of meat. However, the flavor is not bad. It tastes very fresh because there's a lot of veggies in here. I mean, the only bad taco is the one that you didn't eat. I think it's really hard to make a bad taco, so I mean, it's not bad. It's not bad. I'll give it a pass. I'll give it a pass. The taco just made it, which means it's all up to the natural fries to determine if this meal is worth it. Look how orange these fries are. They look like they're wearing like a bunch of fake tanner. They should be on Love Island or something. All right, so we're going to dip them into the sauce. Give it a dip. Put it to my lip. They have a very nice spice to them. That cheese sauce is fantastic. It tastes questionable and oddly addictive. Am I going to say Taco Bell is worth it right now? I think I'm going to have to say it. If you can swap out the burrito, that thing is gross. I never thought I'd say this, but Taco Bell Deluxe Box would do it again without the burrito. Also, shirt update, we're still good. I am about to order the highest calorie pizza not only at this place, but the highest calorie fast food chain pizza in existence. And that is the Papa John's Chakarone. 390 calories per slice times eight makes this pizza over 3,000 calories. I love Shaq. My jaw will never forget him. And I also love this out of him. He looks like he's a five year old showing off his kindergarten art project. He just looks so happy and it makes me happy. So let's order this thing. All right, Shaqarone fan favorite. I don't know about that. That sounds like a marketing ploy if I do say so myself. Shaqarone over half a pound of cheese and extra pepperoni on an extra large pizza with eight foldable slices of our fresh, never frozen original dough serve with our special garlic sauce and the pepper and chine. That's gross. That's just, that's gross. Half a pound of cheese. I already want to myself. That just sounds like internal dairy demolition. And why do we need garlic sauce? We don't need garlic sauce with something this substantial. I mean, this is not going to make me Shaq's height. It's certainly going to make me his weight pretty quickly. Let's look at the macros here. We got 15 grams of proteins, not bad. 18 grams of fat per slice is horrendous and 39 grams of carbs. How much is this thing? You got to be, no, I just spent $44 on this pizza. Bro spent so much time in the NBA. He thinks concession prices are normal. This better be good. So it's going to be here in an hour. So we're going to sit, wait and prepare. Thank you so much. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Time to see if John is going from papa to just straight up daddy. Oh baby. That looks delicious. That is some respectable pepperoni coverage. I'm definitely not in Italy, but this is a beautiful looking delivery pizza. This is a pretty good size pizza. And the funny thing is, this probably looks like a personal size beside my boy Shaq. And honestly, it looks a lot less predatory than I thought it would be. It looks more appetizing than menacing. Shaq really did say we need more pepperoni and we need more cheese. And then Papa John's was like, sure thing big fella, because they know that you can't have the competition if you're already dead. Let's just pick a piece here. Oh my, let me go with this one. Oh, there's so much cheese that you literally cannot even almost rip it. Look at that. That's the thing of beauty. Beauty recognizes beauty and in honor of Shaq, open wide and let it slide. Pepperoni has a nice crunch. Yeah. I mean, it's not bad. It's not not bad either. Like I don't think it's possible to make me a pizza that I'm not going to eat. And if you did, you should be shot. All right, let's hit Shaq from the back now. Return the favor a little bit here. It's just pepperoni pizza, just louder about it. There's just a lot more going on. It has the right amount of sauce that I desire. Thin crispy crust. Let's deploy this sauce here. Now I would have thought that the half pound of cheese and extra pepperoni would have had enough grease. And I don't think we need the sauce, but I mean, it's here for a reason. Oh yeah, let's hit it. The pizza is doing its job. Simple, effective, comforting, but that dip. You put that dip on anything and I'm yours, at least temporarily. It instantly transforms a plain crust into a garlic bread heaven. I can normally dominate a full pizza. I feel like with this one, five slices would put me into submission. You actually like completely forget that there's crust. There's just so much cheese and so much pepperoni. So some people might see that as a positive, but for me, a pizza, everything is equally as important. You know, it's sauce, cheese, topping dough. A regular pepperoni pizza at Papa John's is 70 fewer calories of slice. That's a 560 calorie difference for the whole pie. And I'm not sure if Shaq is tasting good enough to be worth it. For me, gluttony is my emotional escape. But with that said, I do think there's like literally too much pepperoni on this pizza. It's like pepperoni peer pressure. Like it's just in my face and it's just there's no relief from it. There's too much. I don't like it. I'm not liking it at all. And it kind of begs the question, is this actually significantly better than just a regular pepperoni pizza? Is it worth the calories? Like I don't think so. I think this is a case of too much of a good thing makes something bad. You know, it's still really good. But like I just don't think that it's that much better than a regular pepperoni pizza, which is why I'm going to say it's not at all worth it. And I'm probably going to finish this whole thing. Why is food so addictive? Papa John's Shaqaroni? Questionable decisions were made. Next on the list, Wendy's. And I'm going straight for the bacon deluxe triple. 1149 of pure chaos. Like look at that beast. It's ridiculous. But I already know it's going to slap. The meat here is fresh, never frozen, and they flex that fact every chance they get. Is this a burger or a real estate investment? Like this thing is tall. I was determined to wrap my jaw around this full thing. We did it and it was so good. It's a delicate dance between beef and cheese, but they executed this to perfection. Also the quality of meat. I'm convinced the Burger King one was freezer burnt now. Just to let you know, if there's ever a triple in the name of your burger, just know it could certainly lead to a triple bypass. Again, I can't taste the bacon at all. I think if I ever craved a fast food burger, this would be it. Wendy's bacon deluxe triple? I do it again. Of course, after that, I needed dessert. So I hit up Dairy Queen to get the large royal Oreo Blizzard filled with fudge, which was $10.38. It looks really unassuming. Guess the calories of this. If you guessed B, you're correct. There is 51 grams of fat and 151 grams of sugar just in this cup. Before I dived in, I had to do the Blizzard test for myself. It only seems right. Yeah, I really just did that. But I still didn't get it on my shirt. I thought that was supposed to work. I mean, usually Dairy Queen Blizzards burn your trust and then they kill you silently. But okay. So this thing is actually filled with fudge in the center. So like a lot of things, we got to go deep and you might just get a little fudge on your spoon. I'm not going to lie. I had to close my eyes after the first bite and just feel. I had to just feel what was happening inside me. Okay, this is the tastiest form of self-destruction I have ever had. The crunchiness of the Oreos, the warm fudge with the cold ice cream. Like you're going to finish this whole entire thing and wish you had it. Every bite hit just as hard as the first and being a massive Oreo fan, this was one of the most enjoyable things I've had this week. But still, I had a hard time wondering if it's worth it. Take a look at this. We just desert mined a full fudge bite. You kidding me? This is less of a dessert. It's more of a life event that I recommend people have at least once in their lifetime. So I'm going to say that this is worth it for a one-time thing. It's worth it. It's so good. Dairy Queen Royal Oreo Blizzard once was enough, unfortunately. Last stop, thankfully, because your boy is starting to break out a little bit, is Starbucks. And I'm joined here with my little sidekick. Well, not little, but the same height. I'm six foot. Yeah. Yeah. I heard him say subway. I heard subway too. We are definitely going out of our comfort zone here because I only ever come to Starbucks to take a black. She comes with a stupid pink drinks. I do not drink a pink drink. I have an ice passion tea. Triggered. That's not a pink drink. It is pink. Hi. Can I get a venti mocha cookie crumble frappuccino? 590 calories for that. What do you think about that? That is high. That's high. But it sounds good. Yeah, it's going to be tasty. Yeah. I take with a drink that high in calories. There needs to be alcohol in it. Whoa. Yeah. Thanks. This is bigger than normal. What's venti? Venti's 20. Is that large? Venti means 20. That's large. Why don't they just say large? Hey, come on now. Can't bring her anywhere. Thank you very much. Thank you. Take a look at that. The bottom has whipped cream. I love a bottom in whipped cream. He does. Oh man. That's actually insane. Holy shit. What the heck? Okay. We have the mocha cookie crumble venti. Whenever I think of the past, it brings up so many memories. And I always think about being a little kid and I loved the caramel frappuccinos. Yeah. Because like when you're 10 years old, frappuccinos are like the greatest thing ever. It's the greatest treat. But now in our 30s, I think it's more of a threat than anything. Why is that? Because it's just going to make us feel really bad after. Oh, I think it's going to make me feel really good. You think so? Yeah. She's still a good heart. You're the chocolate lover. You get the first sip. She's a chocolate lover. I am. I gravitate towards the fruitier side of things. Oh, that's great. Is it? Mm-hmm. That's fabulous. That's nice cookie crumbles. I guess that's why they call it that. The Oreos are really nice touch. Do you think they're real Oreos? I think so. It's Starbucks. It was over $7. I'm having way too much. That's fine. Like it's my channel or something. I'm down with the thickness of it. But it's crazy to think that some people see this as like a drink to go along with their meal. Like this is not coffee, everybody. Like calling this coffee is like calling Mountain Dew green juice. Like this is in no way, shape, or form, a side to a meal. Do you agree? I think you wouldn't agree. I just don't want to come for people. Do you? Come for them. This is the whole point of this. Oh, then yeah, I mean, I wouldn't be drinking that with something else. I already feel bad for how many sips I took. That's fine. I need to keep my hands in my pocket. I can't have anymore. It's childhood obesity in a cup. Like only kids are getting this. So it's only going to make like our hopefully or inner child prediabetic only. Oh, it doesn't count for the adult? No. I think it's like perfect. It has like the right amount of sweetness. There's a bit of coffee in it. There's chocolate. The texture is really nice. And then I'm thinking I went as in Dairy Queen. That's like the same size. And this is like a third of the calories. Ah. So you know, like if you treat this as dessert, it's actually a pretty substantial lower calorie dessert. If you're thinking about it like that, I just had to quickly explain to Katie the will worth it scale where we both came to an agreement. Three, two, one. Worth it. The last few days I chased flavor like it was a sport. Massive burgers, absurd desserts, and more sauce than any human could ever need. And yeah, most of it was incredible. But at some point you realize the real question isn't how good it was. It's how it's going to make you feel later. William. Don't you just wish you could eat whatever you wanted all the time? I have a bunch of shit all over your shirt. Eh. I don't think it'd be so great.

=== FILE: I Tried His 725lbs Diet [BZOW3ii40qA].txt ===

 A lot of you remember Sal, who once weighed 725 pounds, a weight so extreme, it nearly killed him. Every day wasn't about living, it was about surviving. Now, Sal is working his way back to health, step by step, nearly 200 pounds down. But I was curious, what was the diet that got him to his heaviest weight ever? Well today, I'm trying that exact diet. I need this button. So this is the exact department that you lived in when you were 725 pounds? Yeah. I'm going to show you around, but before you do, we have order food. Because you're having 12,000 calories today. 12,000? Yeah. You ready? I would wake up around 9am and then by 11 o'clock I was in Uber Eats Drash. I probably spent an hour there. An hour looking? Yeah. I'm never letting you pick Netflix movie, holy, what, an hour? Yeah. Like it wasn't intentional, it was more so indecisive, everything looks so good. And nothing looked good at the same time. You don't know what you want, but you know what you want a lot of. Yeah. That's a weird place to be. I mean, like lion's take like hours, stalking everyone. It's kind of like the same thing. No, exactly the same. Exactly the same. Stalking every restaurant they see, what do I want? It's like if your stomach could like doon's roll. It did. Yeah. Yeah. It did. I want it to be a surprise, so I'm just going to let you order what you would get, and then I'm just going to close my eyes and just... Cool. I closed my eyes and handed the decision over to Sal, letting him pick one of the breakfasts he relied on the most back then. It's almost 11.30 and we're just ordering your breakfast. So like you basically did intermittent fasting to get north of 700 pounds, which is like incredible. You almost stopped eating until like late, late, late at night. Breakfast was ordered and while we waited for it to arrive, Sal walked me through his old apartment. Memories he wasn't exactly eager to revisit. This fridge is pretty barren, but it looked like that for the whole year I was here, the last year I was here too. Your fridges look like that? Yeah, nothing was there. Wow. So I would just order food every single day and then I'd eat it as fast as I would order it. And then this was probably the biggest shame point. I fell in the bathroom and I broke this sliding door off. You just hold me and it's gone, get it fixed, right? I was too ashamed that I broke it and of how big I was, I just let it sit like on the side of the, whatever, and it would shower with the door open basically. Probably the size part about this apartment is that it has this window here. And I remember I would like, more than one occasion, put open this window in the sliding door and like just peer offside and just think about like, what if? Like there were times probably like, the last six months I was here, this window looked way better than the front door. There's a hospital like right across the way. That's where I spent five days with diabetic kidney oscidosis. My first hospital stay. But you come a long way. I'm doing okay. Yeah, you're doing good. Yeah, well, see how it looks later today. Yeah, I'm excited to see the way in today. Yeah, send me, so am I. I'm hungry right now, but I feel like I'm later on. I'm not going to be saying that maybe. It's probably here. It's probably here. Why don't I go see? Yeah, let's go. So, I love getting on pizza. I love the start of this day. First of all, don't give us four ranches. I usually like eight. Eight? Two for pizza. Dude, I thought four pizzas was the issue. I think the two to one ranch pizza ratio is more of the issue. Wait till later. Oh gosh. Of the four pizzas, two of them were a chicken and waffle pizza, and the other two were a four cheese pizza with a cheese sauce base. Honestly, the fact that this doesn't seem overwhelming to me is a concern. I can see why you did this. Wow. It's very good. I'm pretty sure it's spicy syrup on it. Spicy syrup, yes. Which as a Canadian, I'm kind of offended, but as a human, I'm very turned on by that. You're also really enjoying it too much. Like you're supposed to just be like, it's quick. Of when? It's quick. It's quick. It's like you're enjoying it a lot, which is good. But like also, there you go. How do you feel right now being faced with this? I mean, I definitely want to try some, but also I've got to weigh in later. That goal of like weighing in every single day has really helped rain in like some of that food noise a little bit. I did not think that I was going to be putting up like generational carbon fat macros just at breakfast. Right now I'm like thriving. I think I love my breakfast like this for like maybe four days. And then I hate myself after that. Yeah. For you, were you always hungry? Were you like always like wanting this? Or is it just like? Just like habit, habitual. Okay. It was like you, this is what I have today. Like I wasn't ever hungry around 11 o'clock. My brain starts like, oh, what's the, I'm going to have for dinner today or breakfast or for lunch, whatever. So I start looking on Door Dash Breaks and seeing what's there. Right. And then I look for buy one given free options. And I start purchasing. I think you made a very clever decision though, with the chicken and waffle one with the syrup, because it's like sweet and savory. Yeah. So I see what you did there. Okay. Yeah. Kind of break up like the culinary chaos a bit. Yeah. Mmm. I don't want to enjoy it too much in front of you, but holy shit. But would you, would you eat this like by yourself? Absolutely not, no. Unless it was like my like death roll meal. I'd probably eat two of them out of hunger. Yeah. The third one would be a curiosity. And then the fourth one's just pure ego. How much would you say you spend on food daily? 150 plus. Really? So your yearly bill would be like, 40,000, 50,000. Was it always just about the food, or was the food helping you with something else? The food was safe. One of the times my Door Dash person messaged me. And she's like, I want to, I want to let her know what she was in my class. I know a person who used to be friends. And I was in my apartment when she dropped it off. And I was so ashamed of myself for what I ordered, and that she was delivering it. But I didn't even go out and say hello or talk to her. You left it at the door? And I leave it at the door. Yeah. Like anyone else? Even though she was someone who had been to her house, who spent time with her, I know her parents. She's a very good friend of mine, if I call her, she'll answer. But like, I didn't even go out to look at it. So like the food wasn't like in control, but no one, they didn't talk back to me, and tell me that I was fat, and I'm really in it, and tell me that I was ugly. It just gave me comfort. The first video we shot, when we were around like the chicken, yeah. You were struggling. Yeah. So do you feel like now you're in a much better headspace? Much better headspace, and I have like tools to get me back on track as soon as this video is over. So like, when we're done like doing all this today, I'm going to go back to work out tonight, and I'm going to eat my meal plan tonight, and then tomorrow morning I'm going to wake up and eat my meal plan tomorrow, and then wait until tomorrow night. So like, it's the same thing every single day now. I feel like I hosted like a children's birthday party that no one showed up. So that's what I do to all myself. I'm wiping out an entire pizza bloodline. It's a family right here. Bloodline's a lot of cheese. You're making some headway, not much though. I'm doing this off of research, man. Listen, I was an expert. I'm going to tell you, you got to fold it. So I got to work on this massive breakfast, doing everything I could to get it down. Like Sal said, it wasn't about enjoying it, or even being hungry, which pushed me to some pretty drastic measures, just to keep eating. It's been me a long day. I've gone through a mess for a while. Today we're exploring Sal's past, but what matters even more is the progress he's making now. So after breakfast, we headed to the gym for the most important part of his day, the weigh-in. Weigh-in time. Weigh-in time. So first video, you were 607.4 pounds. You started your journey at 725. Let's see, man. 526.2. It's not good. Good job, man. I'm proud of you, dude. That is insane. Is that your lowest weigh-in yet? Yeah. There's been struggles in the last few months. So I wish it was sooner, but happy that it's at least going the right direction now. What are the struggles? Just mentally. I was burnt out from the holidays and stuff. And then I opened doors to Bucks, until eating off plan too much, and just not following what I needed you to be. It's a guess for long term. So once you're 200 pounds down, you go like, okay, now I need to get the 300 pounds down? Or do you look at it more like, sure? 25 pounds at a time. Because I can't think of it like, 500 pounds is 100 pounds. Even if that's too much, that's too big. So it's always chunked out. 25 pounds at a time. As long as it's going this way, it doesn't matter if it kind of has like little ups and downs. As long as like over time it just goes down, you're in the good spot. You at 200 pounds, you'll be a beast. You're not on muscle, you're probably on your frame right now. Oh man. Everyone should be scared of self. We're trying to see the more he steps on it, the weight will just continue to go down. It's just a new weight loss method, right? If you just keep moving it inch by inch, that will just change. Does it see? Oh, why not? You over age us now. You over ate within that past three seconds, man. After Wans, we moved on to the next meal of the day before training. Sal's going to show me his current lunch versus his lunch from the past. This is pre-workout meal? Yeah, this is pre-workout meal. It is ground venison, rice, and then you can't really see, but some corn, peas, and carrots. Okay, with some G. Hughes on the side? G. Hughes always. All right, I'm assuming I'm not having that. Here's yours. 24 wings, a couple biscuits, and a lot of ranch. There's literally like one, two, three, four, there's five added buttermilk ranches here. Yeah, plus the four that come with the meal. As I was pulling this meal out of the bag, I was becoming increasingly more jealous of Sal's lunch. So at this point of the day, were you like hungry or were you just like, I needed to have lunch? Like what was the next thing? It was just the next meal. Just the next meal. Yeah. I mean, my pizza's still threatening that I can come back right now. No, you'll be fine. Yeah, I don't know about that. What do we have here? We have honey barbecue wings, lemon pepper wings. Lemon pepper wings. Just plain wings. Plain wings. And it's like a buffalo rub wing. So I mean, four different kinds of wings. Yeah. We got the biscuits. So at least I'm not going to get flavor fatigue. Don't watch me eat this. It's a good idea. I swear on my favorite food, is what I'm currently eating. Could you eat this like now? It's too much fried food. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like the first one was like dairy demolition. Yeah. And then this one's just like, there's no relief. There's no relief. Yeah. I would say it's like, like when you play like Russian roulette, but then every chamber has a bullet in it. Yeah. You know, there's like no winning. Give me a bone. And extract all the value from it. The lunch I'm eating has roughly 3,500 calories, versus Sal's 700. So I was curious, does he get excited with his new diet plan, or is he jealous of what's in front of me? I got excited picking up the new bucks and having a fresh new box in front of me. So like, now I don't get excited about this. It's just, it's good. And I know it's like, the San Diego was going to be like feeling like more excited about the scale going down. Yeah. And like, I know that this will help the scale go in the negative direction. I'm actually jealous of you right now. That looks so tasty. Oh, you eat venison? Yeah, of course. Like any meat. Really? Yeah. All meat? All meat. It's all out in. Yeah. Oh, you're nice. Did you ever like crave, crave fruit, ranch covered or not? To me, I don't. Yeah. To me, that's us. People who probably don't know, like, what is food addiction and like, is it like a real thing? Food addiction, I think, is the inability to control impulses related to and around food. So like, for example, if I see like, seeing Popeyes, for me, I'm going to be thinking about Popeyes probably for like another couple of days after this. After this video. Yeah. Okay. Like, I'll be thinking about it, right? Now, I've developed the tools and the habits to not act on set thoughts. But it doesn't mean that doesn't, it's not in my brain for a little bit. Is that improvement? Like, we're used to think about it for like weeks on a week? Weeks, like months. But it's talking to you. I swear I've heard what he's talked before. Wow. Yeah. What does she sound like? I swear to a lady. I've heard Timmy talk too. Timmy? Yeah. Who's Timmy? Cortons. Really? I've heard him talk to you. I haven't even heard that. Really? Yeah. I think I've heard that more than you. The Timbits really speak to me. If you have like kind of like bingey thoughts. Yeah. And then you know tomorrow you're going to do a weigh-in. Yeah. Like, how do you go about that? Because I think it's very similar to like going out and drinking alcohol, right? It's like you're going to go out and enjoy your night. Yeah. But it's kind of like that thing where you're like, enjoying yourself right now will take away from tomorrow's happiness. Yeah. Well, the scale is the most important thing in my head. So like, the scale going down and just getting healthier. I'm trying to save my life is more important than the food. I tell myself that most days, but something is that it doesn't work. And so like I've definitely missed where like, it's been 60, 40, maybe 70, 30. You want it to be like 90, 10, where it's like 90% time I can tell myself that the scale is more important than anything else. Yeah, that 10% to slip. But you know, there are times when that becomes like a 60, 40. You want it 60% telling yourself that the scale is the most important. 40% time you're slipping, you're missing more. And that's okay too. I think that's the whole entire process. When I've had to lose it before, I think I've lost it maybe six months. Right? That's the first and the last. This is not 15 months, almost 16 months into this process. Not easy and it's been quite difficult at times, but showing up every day trying to do better. When you like look back at your habits and like this, do you look back at like anger? I'm just sad. Yeah. Like why were you like so hurt? Why didn't you let people in? Let people care about you? Let people be there for you? That's what I'm more just sad. Just like meal one, the first few bites were great and then it just became a lot. I was really not enjoying any of it. And again, it was simply about getting the food down, which I feel like is going to be the case for all the meals to come. Yes, I push through. Just keep chewing. The range helps a lot. That's why. No. Yeah. This is something I never say. It tastes great, but I can't swallow. With lunch down, it was time to train. Something Sal never skips. Starting with cardio, 10 minutes on the Stairmaster, which just a few months ago, he couldn't do it all. Meanwhile, I was fighting for my life, trying not to revisit my Popeyes on the bike. From there, we did a chest and back workout with maximum intensity. You could tell he was locked in for all of it. He was strong as hell, scary strong. But the best thing of all was you could really tell he was genuinely happy to be there. Once the workout was finished, we went to go check out a place that Sal used to spend majority of his time when he was at his heaviest. Wait, wait, wait. This is the famous bench. No matter what happened, I would walk here, rest for five minutes, and then I would go inside to go right there. Wow. So just like boom, boom, five minutes, catch your breath, and then inside. And inside. So bench to bench. Was that like a psychological thing for you, or is like an actual like, I don't think I'm gonna be able to make it there? No, I couldn't make it. You couldn't make it? No, I couldn't make it. Like a zero percent chance I could make it to the, from my car, to the cash register to get gypsies to get to the table. Wow. Yeah. And did that ever like freak you out, or like how did that make you feel? Ashamed. Yeah. Ashamed. But when the card got my hand, I was like, I felt like a euphoria for a second, and so I was chill. You say like ashamed a lot? Yeah. Did you ever like, were you ever scared within it? Like, did you ever go like, holy shit, like this is my life right now? Or was it kind of just like, you kind of just accepted everything? You kind of felt numb? No, no, no. There were times when like, in the hospital, especially where I was like, this is, this is really, this is really scary, really bad. When I came close to death, I was, I was just afraid. Everything else, I was just like, this really sucks. Yeah. And I should change, but I don't want to change. Or I don't have the strength to change. I think I always want to change. I don't know if I have the strength to change. Yeah. Until the day I don't have the strength to change, I think I'm teaching myself as I go. Yeah, you got it. I can see it. I can see it in the eyes, man. Even for the last time I saw you, you're down a lot of weight. Yeah. Yeah. It's been fun. So you can't say you're not, you don't have the strength that you're 200 pounds down. So yeah. I think that's a, that's a whole average male human you've lost. Yeah. Like, fuck yeah, man. Come on. Appreciate it. Yeah. You're new at strength. Come on. Oh, I'm sorry. All right, man. Where are we right now? Poker Club. So I used to spend probably 30 hours a week working out here right now. Working out. I guess yeah. Working out your mind, I guess. Something like that. Yeah. But you know, I was, I was playing poker 30 hours a week, especially like if I lost my job. It was like the main funder of my life, was poker. Oh, so you, you, you gambled to, for your, for your job? For food. Yeah. For food? For food and my job. So like, I didn't have a job. So I was playing cards professionally, whatever. But like, cards was okay. I went to the casino, I got out of hand. So do you think you also had a gambling addiction along with food addiction? Probably. Yeah. Yeah. And your prime, like how many hours are you spending in here? On an average week, 30 hours. 30 hours a week. On a, on a bad week. Okay. 15 on a good week, 60 hours. Okay. And they guys win in a day? 20,000 dollars. Okay. But the loss is also 18,000. Oh. So this place closes at 2 a.m. Okay. But oftentimes if you pay them enough money, they would stay open till 4, 6, 8. I was always the instigator of like, let's stay late, let's go, let's play late. Because I never wanted to quit playing because I'm a social creature. I need to be outside, extroverted, but not when I realized it was like nine people sitting down and just shooting the shit for what could be 14 hours. Well, now I can be extroverted again. So now it's a safe space for me to come and hang out with friends, be with friends and talk shit. Whatever, whatever. But they don't care about me. They don't ask me how are you doing? How's your family? Okay. They don't notice the subtleties of the win game. Right. I used to spend probably, in a session, if I'm here from like 5 p.m. or 4 p.m. till 4 a.m. at 12 hours, I'm going to probably have 10 bags of chips. No matter how full I am right now, I always have a stomach for chips. I guess the strategy is like new location, new stomach. Yes. Yes. It's the first time here, so the new stomach is ready. The stomach is ready to go. It's interesting that you wanted to hang out with people here, but they're not like your loved ones. Well, I wanted to be around people because I needed, again, I need human interaction, but I didn't want anyone to care about me. It became clear this wasn't just a card room. This was a place Sal would go to escape, from friends, from family, from people who cared about him. He had people to talk to here, familiar faces, casual conversations, but they were surface level. No one really knew what was going on in his life outside these walls. It was a way to not be alone without really being seen. I actually remember one time vividly, it was like 10 PM at night, my mom calls me and she's like, your aunt passed away. And I asked the dealer to deal me in. Like I did not, like I was like, we weren't close, but I was like, okay, thank you. Hung up and put the next hand. Like I didn't miss a hand. Like I was really detached from everything and everyone, because I was ashamed of who I was. So I had gotten to the point where like I was almost immobile, but I didn't care enough to like let them love me, let them care about me, let them. You didn't want to hurt them? I didn't want to hurt them, but I also didn't want to hear like I wasn't ready to change. Right. So I didn't want to, like I knew if I showed up, all I wanted to talk about is like, Sal, you look really bad and we're worried for you. Yeah. I'm like, well, if you don't see me, you can't worry about me. You know how to play cards? No man, you're taking advantage of me now. We sat and played cards for a bit and honestly, the chips are going down pretty effortlessly, considering the stuff I've eaten today. It's scary how many chips you can eat without even realizing it. I kind of forgot that I've eaten today. You forget real fast. I can get lost in that. Yeah, you get mindlessly just eat it. Some of it's like tedious, so it's like, you don't play very many hands. So a lot of the time there's just chit chatting, talking, hanging out with people. So you become friends with folks. So what happened, what ended up happening was I came to the card room to avoid people. I ended up meeting folks and becoming close to them. And that was not on the agenda at all. What made you continue? Was it just purely the food or was there another emotion in yourself? Shame. Shame. Shame. It was the food for sure, but shame was like... Actually, I remember, this is funny, this is not played. I remember Jimmy and I talking. He stopped me one time outside and he was drunk. But he stops me and he says, buddy, I see you here every day. You play basketball once a week. Come out, text me, come out. And then I didn't come back for two months because I felt ashamed that someone noticed that. And I didn't want to be there because I felt so ashamed of myself for being in that situation where someone felt like... Who really didn't know me, but they felt so concerned about my mobile being that I needed to... They wanted to say something. I appreciate him saying something, but it wasn't like I was in the mood to receive it. Same thing with my friends and family. My friends deeply cared about me and I was... For lack of a better word, they're in my life away. And I was content with that until I wasn't. And I had to almost die three times to get there. And just now seeing you and what you're representing online, it's just such a... The shift is just incredible. I appreciate it. I try to just show up. I mean, it's not easy. I feel a lot. I mess up. I make mistakes. But if I can win more days than I lose, that's all I'm trying to do. Yeah. Do you feel like getting... Like if your mom was going to say something to you now, like do you feel like you respond much better to her? Yeah. Do you... Yeah. Respond way better. Like I'm way... I can have tough conversations now. I couldn't have tough conversations back then. Half of life is having really difficult conversations. The good moments are easy. There's a lot of those. But the tough conversations where you have growth, and I was deeply afraid of growing. I got out of the hospital, then I waited like 10 days to make that first video. Because I needed to like... I needed to find the right... Like a right of day basically to make... Okay, I get to sit down. It was like a 7 p.m. We filmed that video for 15 minutes. Yeah. And then I posted it. And then I was like, well, it can't go back now. We just told a bunch of people that we're doing this. Yeah. Right? Because it got like 10,000 views in the first two hours. So I was like, well, we're here. And we'll see what happens. With each bag of chips averaging around 140 calories, that's 1,400 calories in just chips, bringing the day's total to just about 10,000 calories. Sal, what are you doing? I'm ordering some food. All right, man, hit me. What is this? Is this... Wait, do we call these meals at this point? I don't know. Yeah, I mean, like... Next eating... Feeds, feedings, feedings. This third feeding of the day. Next eating adventure. So this is like Indian food. Indian food. Just what I need after playing cards. Indian food at max capacity is like a freaking spiritual challenge. It was like 2 AM. Maybe that's a Hindu concept, though. Non? Yeah. Non-negotiable. What's this? Rice. It's not the rice. Carbs are low today, man. Got a refeed. Two rices. One of them is a goat. One of them is chicken... Butter chicken. Let me grab you a fork. Please. Or a shovel, man. Oh, the smell. Oh man. You're smelling good. This one might put me into submission. Here's a fork. Thank you. Here's your shovel. Thank you. I don't think that Indian food goes with ranch, but why do I feel like I'm testing out here today? Oh, we haven't even out? No ranch? Okay. No ranch. I mean, I will say the butter chicken is giving off ranch energy a little bit. But there are some rules that we just don't break. Now, what I would do is I would pour the butter chicken over the rice. It's crazy how good it tastes, and then how there's like an aftertaste of regret along with it. Oh my gosh, so good. Yeah. Food really is addicting. It is. Oh, I've never had goat. I've had... Oh. It has a huge fat pocket. It's real rich. Yeah. So what is your favorite food? Like, what's like, what is that one food? Probably Middle Eastern Indian food. Indian food? Like this. Uh, so versatile, so much flavorful. Because a lot of times today you've been like, I wasn't necessarily hungry. I was just getting food to get food. I was eating out of shame. So what percentage of like eating was joy at all? I think the Indian food dishes are always like, oh, they're like actually good. That's the way I want. But most of the time it was just kind of like, mindless eating. Right. And the Indian food turned into mindless eating pretty quickly. But for those first, probably 10 bites, full of joy. You might think I wanted the pizza or the wings, or those might be the biggest triggers. This is the one that's like, this looks fire. Yeah. Like... Probably the healthiest one. Maybe. Yeah. White rice. Yeah. Chicken. Rice would spike in blood sugar too much. So I'd only eat one rice. Also you just... Yeah, I would just not eat that one. Okay. So that was my... But then like the naans? Yeah, I would probably eat like half those. Oh. Yeah. And then I would split that up. And so like I may pour my rice into the butter chicken. So it's a little bit more... And then you know, the other half rice wasn't that curried goat. And then the naan would be there. Now like sometimes I would, I would falter. And around like 4 a.m. And you come down and have... I might wake up and have the rest of the rice. It's in the house. It's hard for you to like stop thinking about it. Yeah. Yeah. It's really weird. My eyes are like... Yeah. Yeah. My stomach's like, no. You know. Could you finish this? Like in like if I had a gun to my head behind camera. Yeah. I could have a chip of that. Otherwise like... Brush on. No. I think you could finish it. It's just so oily dude. It's just like so heavy. Like man, like I am craving... Something fresh. Yeah. Like a salad or like vegetables. Like an aside bowl or something. Oh, that was so good. I know. Just looking at that is making the table raise like 2 inches off the ground right now. I feel like I'm like drowning in a ranch filled swamp. Like is the non ranch flavored or am I just losing my mind? Like what? Losing my mind. But it's fire. But you're kind of doing it wrong. The ranch... The non has to be dipped in something. It needs to be dipped in some gravy. There you go. There you go. But it's like kind of addicting too. Yeah. It's like you can't... Like you're full. But you like... Find yourself coming back to it still. It's like I hate myself. But not enough to stop. Yeah. You know. It's so sleepy. Bro. I'm ready to go to bed. So yeah, this was like great because then you could eat and then you'd go to sleep. My sleep is gonna be legendary. Yeah. Even though I was extremely full and feeling very sick, the Indian food was actually delicious. I thought that this was gonna be it for the food, but of course I was wrong. Around one o'clock in the morning I would start ordering this food at the courtroom and we might go till 4 a.m. unexpectedly randomly. So that means there's more food. So I needed to make sure I had extra food just in case. We'd play till 4 a.m. Makes sense. Yep. Yep. So I couldn't risk this being delivered and then not being there. So I'll stop at my home and grab something I'm guaranteed you never had before. You're right man. I've never had this before. It's gonna change your life. We're gonna order 12 original sliders with cheese. And then I need four 1929s. What? 12 plus 4. 16 sliders. Yeah. Okay well these sliders are either really small or I'm really in trouble. You ready? No, this is actually this is disgusting dude. Like this is like I don't know if I should be impressed by you or scared of you. No I'm scared of me. Yeah I'm scared of you. Yeah I'm scared. Yeah it's official. You ready? I mean you really do eat like tomorrow's not guaranteed. Yeah you do. Yeah like wow. We were really pushing every day to the max capacity. Yeah so I mean I've never had white cast before so like how would you describe it? It's great. Yeah it's great. I've heard mixed reviews. It's equally great and horrible. That kind of sums up today actually. Yeah so let's say. But you know what's important is you gotta have a mixture of your ranch. Okay so this meal is 3,910 calories not including the ranch. All right they're extremely cute. They have like their own little casket each individual slider. I'm just so concerned with how cheese is going to smell. Probably like raccoon meat. I didn't even need to use teeth. It's like old people food. The bread. It just like recieves me. Yeah is it a small slider or do I have big hands? It's a small slider. I think you're gonna never eat ranch again after today. You're gonna correct my friend. This is a chicken slider. It's not really much slowing down you're just coming. Yeah so for this we're kind of just going as fast as you possibly can. Yeah this is like 4am. I was trying to eat it before I went to sleep. You want to go to the dark place yet? I've been there for a bit man. How long would it take you to eat something like this? 15 minutes. But you ate bite by bite I would just eat a slider at a time. Oh you python? Yeah just one slider let's go. Wow dude. Sure should we get a fresh one? Yeah. Oh yeah just go. So yeah I do. You gonna make it? No. It was bad. As you can tell this white castle slider was a battle. The first time I ever heard a white castle was in the movie Harold and Kumar go to white castle where they need a serious amount of drugs just to make this  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,

=== FILE: I Tried World's Healthiest vs Unhealthiest Diet [K5CEvF2GbDI].txt ===

 the world's healthiest diet versus the world's unhealthiest diet. One has been proven to add years to your life, the other takes them away, it literally kills you. But because I love food way too much, I'm gonna try them both to see the real difference, and if they actually live up to their name. Let's go eat. I'm in Greece, specifically this cute island called Naxos, to try the Mediterranean diet. The healthiest diet in the world, it is one of the most beautiful places I've ever seen in my entire life. Like, look at it, I feel like I'm living in a Greek yogurt commercial, and I don't really know why, but whenever I think of the Mediterranean and the Mediterranean diet, I just think of Greece, and Greece only. Probably because of all my 300 rewatches. That is such a good movie. I love Greek godfaziks, I love honey, I love honey on Greek godfaziks, I love feta cheese, I love olive oil. The first salad I ever tossed was a Greek one. I miss you Thanos. So it's safe to say I'm super excited. Let's go get coffee. It's time to conquer a full day of the Mediterranean diet, and like I said, it all starts with a cup of coffee. Hi Dwayne. We got into our cute little rental car, we named George, and made our way over to this small town called Chalki, where I ordered a traditional Greek coffee. I got a double, as you can see it says right there. I'm just getting English is right beside it. Greek coffee, check. It looks insanely cool. Probably the coolest looking coffee I've ever gotten in my entire life. Like look at this thing, it looks like a witch's potion. Now what we're going to notice in the Mediterranean is that they like small portions, they like small things in general. So maybe I should stay, I'm really excited to try this. Oh okay, so it didn't come with milk, cream, or sugar. So I guess traditionally they take it strong and black, which is how you should take really everything ideally. Oh, there's some grittiness to it. It is extremely strong. Espresso is like herbal tea in comparison. The coffee is just so yummy, we're off to a great start, and it's about to get even better because breakfast has just arrived. You all knew it was coming. We got ourselves Greek yogurt topped with walnuts and fresh Greek honey. Greek yogurt and grease, I have not been this excited to try something straight from the source since I think Columbia, babe. For someone that has been a die-hard Greek yogurt fan pretty much my entire life, this moment before the first bite was kind of a big deal. You can see the freshness in this yogurt. It has the thickness I desire. I've had birthdays, graduations, and even a wedding, but none of them hit like this moment. This bowl of yogurt was truly an experience. Like it had no right being that good. Usually Greek yogurt I get at Walmart is pretty sour. This is actually like a lot more cheesy, a lot more like cream cheese. They must milk the animals differently here to extract like such a creaminess. I have dreamt about tasting a lot of things and have tasted those things. This is the closest to my dreams. It is that good. I also definitely know I'm going to be hungry after this, but I think it's a lot better than feeling sick after breakfast that I know I will be after the world's unhealthiest diet. You know when they say it's like rude to ask a woman their age? I wonder if it's rude to ask a Greek what percent fat their yogurt is because I'm dying to know. I don't know if that'd be rude. Didn't that be rude? Because like I mean I'm used to zero percent. This tastes like 11%. Now I was doing some research and I saw that the average male macros in the Mediterranean was 183 grams of carbs, 99 grams of fat, and 80 grams of protein. Fat and carbs are doable. The protein however concerning hopefully a typo. If not, we're going to have to go to a toga party later and get some desperation protein. Now if you do all the math that comes out to like a little under 2,000 calories which is extremely low. We're cutting today. Now typically after coffee and breakfast I will go to the gym and get my workout in but here the traditional and most popular way to exercise is just walk around. So we're skipping the gym and it's time to explore. Before we explore there was one thing I needed to find out. This is a question. What percent fat is the yogurt? Two. Only two? Yeah. Oh okay. Two percent of yogurt. Five. Two. Apparently eating a Mediterranean diet may be as beneficial for health as walking an additional 4,000 steps per day which brings our 3,000 total instantly up to 7,000. The streets here are so adorable. Like look at this. Every corner looks straight out of a postcard. There are cats also everywhere that Katie insists on feeding and amazing fresh looking food literally on every block. What kind of meat is that? Fish. Pork. Pork? Yeah. Free sample? They don't find me funny here. Since the diet in Greece is so different from North America I wanted to see how that difference shows up in their grocery stores. By far the biggest section in this grocery store is for dried fruit, mixed nuts and fresh produce. All the processed aisles, the rocks are like really short. Usually in other grocery stores they're like super high. They have the eggs just on the shelf, not in the fridge which is how they should be because when they're fresh eggs you don't need to refrigerate them. I swear the Greeks have the coolest looking language of all time. What the heck does that even say? Bromph? Bromph? Here's like the unhealthy stuff. You really only have a few different kinds of Oreos. There's not like endless Oreo options like there are in America. Typically cereal aisles and grocery stores are like the same size as like the terminal I landed in to get here. But this, this is it. In these kinds of grocery stores you're not overwhelmed by choice. You're seemingly overwhelmed by freshness over there with the produce, the mixed nuts, the dried fruits, and then with this stuff it's very limited. This is eyesight. So when I'm walking this is the stuff I see. The less sugar and then I have to bend down to see the other stuff because they don't want you to get it. I'm trying to eat as authentically as possible today so because of that I'm going to try my best to avoid tourist traps altogether. I always say if a rack of fridge magnets are in view a tourist trap is upon you and we've been seeing a lot of those today. But we just came across this restaurant right here. There's literally a line out the door. There's fresh fish hanging from the walls. It looks like the real deal. It's a family-run tavern. Reviews are insane. So we're going to be going here for lunch. Typically we wouldn't really order appetizers but in the Mediterranean lunchtime is the main meal of the day and if you think about it it's actually healthier that way. If you have a massive dinner and then go to bed you're not going to sleep as well. So having the big meal in the middle of the day is actually the best thing to do. So because of that we have a spread of appetizers coming. We've got some bread, some tzatziki, some fava spread with some beans, the traditional Greek salad with all that feta cheese and then some fried zucchini. Here we go. Easily one of the freshest tomatoes I've ever had. Zucchini chips. Absolutely insane. And if we run out of them I've got someone else to dip in here. When there's like a big table of apps I like black out and I'll regain consciousness a little later. I love it. What I am noticing is the simplicity of everything. They're letting the actual ingredients speak for themselves. There's no crazy mayo sauces. There's nothing that we don't really know what's in it. It's just super clean fresh food and you feel good after you have it even with the fried zucchini. Lunch so far was such a vibe. The wine was good, the appetizers were even better and the staff was amazing. I just love this guy. Opa! For the main we got some sea bream here then we got some shrimp sake and aki with a respectable amount of feta and then on the side we got a salad with some fries and everything looks again very simple. Look at this. There's no sauce on the side. It's just the fish with a piece of lemon so I guess they are somewhat proud of the freshness of this fish. I've actually never had a fish like this. It's kind of intimidating because we can see the whole body here but so here we go. So I guess we just kind of pull the skin back just like a foreskin. Oh my god a lot of bones. That's so good. Wow. You would think that it would taste kind of like like every other fish because there's not a lot going on but again the freshness is insane. It tastes like it just swam right on my plate. I don't even know if you're supposed to eat the bones or not. Obviously. No. Maybe I will. Just swallow and google later. Oh. What if it cuts my ass off. It would have by now. Very shortly after we started eating one of the guys noticed we were struggling hard with the fish so he came and helped debone it for us. He was so locked in on the fish it was crazy. We didn't have another bone. Thank you. I'm going to keep that for like a necklace or something. Oh god. Yeah. You're supposed to eat the head or no. Professional eaters like my mom for example. She loved it and see look there is some meat inside here. What's up with the brain. Yes. You eat it. Open it. Yeah. Make you smarter. That's the best part. You know it. You guys are smart. Joey. Thanks so much. Thank you. You want the head. Oh my god. I can see the teeth. Shrimp, Saganaki. So just grilled shrimp in tomato sauce with feta. Oh. I love to eat. So look at this. The salad that it came with it doesn't even come with any dressing on it but it does not even need the dressing because these again are like the best tomatoes I've ever had in my entire life. Literally candy. Not quite candy but you know what I mean. Everything was incredible. Each bite was like you're getting a forehead kiss from Zeus himself. It is time for a little snack sauce in Naxos. So people in the Mediterranean don't typically snack but they've already taken all my protein away. I'm snacking. My idea of a Mediterranean snack is like an iPad sized piece of feta cheese but I don't think people here see food as their source of daily life's purpose like I do. But I have been seeing these amazing looking bakeries all around town and I am dying to try something. As I was going into the bakery I spotted this poster which made my decision incredibly easy. I also had to get another coffee. Well it'd be like the most traditional Greek iced coffee drink. For this person I will do a Frito espresso. Thank you. Thanks so much. You too. We got a Frito espresso and some Lucamades the traditional Greek donuts. So let's try this out here. Oh that's good. It's kind of like a Starbucks drink but they don't assume that you have the palate of a toddler. Okay so time for the Lucamades now. Warm Greek balls of dripping and honey. Fate finally serves me. Here we go. Oh it smells so good. Oh my god. A little bit crispy, chewy, doughy and then the honey just like releases in your mouth. It really is the perfect snack food. Small, round, dangerously addictive. Just how I like my balls and it's funny because you almost feel a little bit healthier because they're not drowning in white sugar. They're drowning in honey. You know so a little bit better of a choice. This coffee and Lucamades combo is just straight fire. Each bite of these honey cover balls adds another reason why I don't ever want to leave Greece. Like seriously I don't want to go. I swear if I lived in Greece I would single-handedly, me personally, I would skew the longevity and obesity data here. People would be writing papers on how one man beat the Mediterranean paradox. Mark my words. I know it's only been one day but in terms of how I feel right now I feel great. I feel full. My energy levels are constant and my digestion most importantly is beautiful. Usually I have a bit of stomach troubles but I think it's because the diet here is very well balanced. Normally I'm focused on protein all the time, slamming protein shakes, slamming protein bars, having processed stuff but there is none of that here. None. So who would have thought? A healthy, well-balanced diet of whole foods. It just takes your digestion. Before we went for dinner we did some exploring. Look how beautiful this looks. She looks pretty cute too. I had to give her a kiss. We then checked out this ancient Greek temple that was dedicated to the god Apollo and it was constructed in the sixth century BC. That is so old. It was also so windy up here. It was crazy. We are currently having dinner in a place that's in a castle. It's giving me like olive garden on trend vibes and looking at the menu I kind of want to find a study that says dinner was the main meal of the day because there are so many things that I want right now. Let's get to the meal. Phase one appetizers. We got the watermelon salad which looks gorgeous and these fried zucchini fritter things. First thing I tried was the watermelon salad and I didn't know watermelon could actually be this good. That might be the best watermelon I've ever had. It's like infused with mint. Next the zucchini fritters. Look at the face I'm giving Katie. That can only mean one thing. Appies, 10 out of 10. The zucchini balls might be the best thing I've ever eaten in my entire life. I think I'm saying that about everything here today. My favorite food is just whatever I'm currently eating apparently. Phase two main course. Now check out this cool display. It looks so tasty. I asked the guy how they season the chicken here and he laughed and told me that he would have to kill me if he told me. I laughed back as well and and just said okay to not and don't worry about it. Salad, chicken and fries for the second time The chicken sluvaki is a mixture of dark meat and white meat. Oh my god. I don't know if they have death row in Greece but if they do this would be a solid last meal. I'd go out chewing with a smile. I probably can't be taken seriously anymore at this point of the video but this chicken was the best chicken I have ever had. I'm being serious. I think in Greece every single thing here is the best of its kind and nothing can top it. It's also pretty crazy. I've had a few fried things today and it's not been bothering my stomach at all. Normally fried food in general hurts my little tummy. I feel completely fine so they must fry things here differently. I'm not entirely sure but it is interesting how I feel completely fine. After I said this I did what everyone does when they don't know something. I googled it. First of all it turns out naxos is actually famous for their potatoes which is a cool fun fact. In terms of the preparation of these fries in Greece it looks like they fry things in olive oil at a lower temperature so the oil doesn't burn. This method is seen as traditional and a healthier way to fry which could be why my stomach still feels great. My mouth has been through a lot in 30 years. Today has been therapy. Phase three dessert on the house. They brought us a free dessert which looks like a sample from the kitchen if you know what I'm saying. So this and then we got a digestive shot which I have no idea what it is. All right. Oh it's got like a key lime pie. I thought that'd be a little saltier but it really gets a nice little limey custard. Super light and then our digestive shot. That's purell. This is straight purell. It's going through my nose and my eyes. And phase four the actual dessert. Finishing the night off with a traditional dessert of just a bowl of fruit. Fruit for dessert is like doing a crossword together at the end of a romantic date. Like there is there's so many better options than this but fruit is good. Nothing satisfies a sweet tooth quite like a dragon fruit. Whatever that was was past its prime. The f*** was that? It's not the funnest choice but it is the right choice. One thing is for sure the next place in the world that we're going to the dessert is going to look a lot different than this. I can totally see why this is considered the healthiest diet in the world because I pretty much had no processed food today at all. I had good quality fats. I had lean protein. I had vegetables. I had some fruits and everything is locally sourced if that even matters. But the main thing that I think is overlooked and attributes probably more to the longevity and the health than the diet itself is the way of life here. Everything is much slower paced. There's less stress and everything is just a lot calmer. So now it's time to get on a plane and go to the other side of the world and do the complete opposite in America. The average American lifestyle is a complete mess. 70% of the diet is processed food. 10% of disposable income is spent on fast food which is crazy. But it all makes sense because the average American is 17 pounds overweight. We don't have much time to waste. We gotta start eating. Our goal today is to consume 3864 calories which is nearly double the Mediterranean diet. 73% of Americans drink coffee every single day. What are the other 27% doing? The most popular drink is a flavored shot latte. So that's what we're gonna get today. I'm usually a black coffee kind of guy so I'm gonna have to make a couple calls and satisfy that craving elsewhere. That was mine? Yeah. Holy smokes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. You guys see this thing? I'm gonna need a freaking spotter to hold it. Jeez. This is like how the average middle schooler takes their coffee man. We got ourselves a signature iced caramel craze latte. Oh my god that's sweet. That is like melted ice cream. It's like I slit Willy Wonka's throat and he like bled out into my cup. There's a lot of flavors going on in here. It gets old really really fast. It's like the first three sips are incredible and then you're just like by the end of this thing I'm gonna be like drinking my tears. There's so much sugar in this thing. And this is the popular latte. Oh no. Like this is a beverage that a lot of people will like look on the menu and like daydream about getting but never actually get it. The Americans get it. Usually for me drinks anything below 100 calories. There's exceptions. You know who you are. But this has to be at least 450 calories just to start the day. Not even breakfast. We gotta go get some breakfast. It turns out my morning coffee is 530 calories at 17 grams of fat and 74 grams of sugar but 15 grams of protein so that's the thing I'm gonna hold on to the most. This is definitely setting the tone of what's to come for the rest of the day. We are currently at an American diner right now and it does not get much more classic than this place. I'm expecting the server to call me hun and tell me that they have the best pie in town. Yes sir. Can I do the diner Roy Alpus? A classic American breakfast comes with eggs, toast, bacon or sausage and hash brown. I'm no weather man but I am forecasting cloudy with a high chance of heartburn here. I gotta start with the sausage. Whenever sausage is around I can barely concentrate. I need to get it in my mouth. Here we go. We got two sausages, my minimum for a good time. Happiness in a tube. I just had French toast, toast and potato all in one bite. Everyone needs to experience that at least once in their life. These hash browns have the seasoning on it that is so good. I can freaking snort that dust. Yes please. Thank you. Now you may very well be thinking because this breakfast is so massive all the meals afterwards get progressively lighter. No today we are teaching our stomach progressive overload. It's just it's just non-stop heavy food today. I already want to just write out of order on a sticky note and just slap it on my forehead. It's only 11 30 a.m and I am absolutely gassed. Normally I would seem to walk it off but I can't even do that because the average American only walks just over 5,000 steps a day which is not a lot at all. So we're gonna do a little bit of exploring but not much on foot at least. So I quickly did some touristy things checking out some of the most popular landmarks in the area and before I knew it it was lunchtime. McDonald's, America's favorite hitman. I can't possibly make a video about America without going to McDonald's. That would be like me learning Italian with my hands tied behind my back. If I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it right. And don't lie when I said American diet you thought about the last time you had McDonald's fries didn't you? You did. Can I get a Big Mac meal please? For anything? And then can I get a side of the chicken nuggets? The Big Mac meal and fries is the most popular order at McDonald's. I got a side of nuggets because it's the land of the free here and home of the binge. I'm fairly positive that it's well documented that McDonald's is just very bad for you yet the Americans just keep coming back. It's kind of romantic if you think about it. Man do I ever love eating in the car even if my neck does get a little messed up back there. So we got ourselves a Big Mac combo and of course a Diet Coke for the illusion of moderation. Whenever I'm eating fast food alone in my car I feel like I'm filming a documentary about sadness. All right we got the Big Mac. It has been a while since I've had one of these things. Mmm holy moly this thing barely stays together. It's crazy to think my first micronutrient of the day is coming from a Big Mac the pickle and the lettuce. Oh my god they must put nicotine on the absolutely busting. I might look happy right now with the food in front of me but if I was in a video game my health slash energy bar would be going down so fast right now with how I'm feeling. I'm not even done the meal yet and I'm already feeling gross with the fried food whereas in Greece there is actually a good amount of fried food and I felt completely fine. Those are local potatoes. The only chance of these being local is if the guy dropping in the fryer is from here. Who actually knows what's in this? This could not even be potatoes. It might not even be potatoes. My gosh I need a nap but I also can't stop eating. I feel like that's the American way. This meal is actually extremely high cal and I feel completely fine. I feel like I haven't even eaten. I feel like I'm making bottomless pit but that's what happens when you don't have good quality food. It just kind of goes right through you and you feel like shit but then you also feel hungry. It's a weird feeling. I bet you guys are very surprised to see me in the gym aren't you? I'm definitely surprised. The average American works out 17 minutes each day which is either very efficient hit or a very strenuous bathroom visit. What are you supposed to get done in that amount of time? I'm pretty sure the planet circuit is longer than that but I have chest back and biceps and we are going to try our best here. Out of all the times to do a 17 minute workout I think today was the worst day possible because this gym had so many incredible looking machines it was really hard not to use them. For the workout today I just picked one exercise for each thing and did a set or two to complete failure. This chest press machine looked sick. I've never seen it before and it felt so nice. Then I moved on to this machine for my back because it's a mixture of a pull down and a row and I'm trying to be as efficient as possible. It is so weird not warming up between my sets. I paid $25 for this day pass. I'm paying over a dollar a minute for this workout. Lastly I just curled as much as I could until time was up. Maybe 17 minutes is that sweet spot where it's long enough that you can see that you worked out and you're deserving of a snack. post-workout I went to the most famous and recognizable convenience store brand in America 7-Eleven. There were so many options here. 55% consumers have savory snacks like chips to confirm I asked the lady. Excuse me what's the most popular snack? Popular snack? Yeah. Chips? Yeah and breakfast pizza. No shot I'm having 7-Eleven pizza in my current state so I grabbed a bag of sour cream and onion lays. I had to quickly grab Katie a little treat. We don't have this back in Canada and I'm always on husband duty. Now back to me 43% of people have things like cookies and brownies so I got this little Debbie brownie that looks horrible but also kind of good at the same time. Man I feel so down bad right now like you could throw a lipstick on a pig and it'd probably get lucky with me. We got sour cream and onion chips the most popular option at 7-Eleven according to the lady. The serving size may as well just be in Swahili because I don't think anyone here is necessarily reading that but eight servings 160 calories 17 chips. Mmm you know what simple fix would be? Start making sour cream and onion flavor protein powder and everybody in America would be ready for the Mr. Olympia. Next thing we got this little Debbie brownie 510 calories is insane. My gosh there's a very tinted car here that looks kind of alright I'm just gonna eat my brownie. Let's taste little Debbie. Kind of tastes like dog food with cocoa powder. I think it's fair to say that most Americans should not be eating anyone near 3,600 calories but I think most Americans have no idea how to set up their calories that is why they should download the Macro Factor app. The app does everything for you you just implement your height your age your weight and it'll split out all the things and it'll tell you how to adjust your calories from week to week so then they'll know that they hit all their macros at Dunkin Donuts this morning at coffee. If you want to start tracking your calories and macros download the Macro Factor app and use code will for a two week free trial. We are currently in a part of town called Foggy Bottom which actually sounds so cute but it also sounds like a place that people come to after they have Chipotle and I might get pink eye or something. 68% of Americans eat at home five nights a week. I'm actually so proud of those people it's amazing and a very staple meal is meatloaf so we are going to go get meatloaf and for the viewers out there who might get some meat loaf related trauma I'm sorry I don't I'm sorry let's get meatloaf. They are out of the meatloaf so we have to pivot so I went online and I searched common household dinners in America mac and cheese came up fried chicken came up and on the menu they have fried chicken and waffles that also come with seven cheese macaroni that sounds like five too many cheeses for me but I think that's what we got to do. The average American consumes 11 alcoholic beverages a week which is concerning and I'm not sure if I'd rather them space that out evenly during the week or just like party hella hard one night but because of that I got myself an old Cuban mojito oh that's gonna hit me soon. I slipped on my old Cuban as I waited trying to not make it look like it's the first time I ever had alcohol very shortly after my food arrived and this was a hefty meal but it actually looked quite intimidating I'm not gonna lie that chicken is definitely not fried in olive oil even though I'm at a restaurant I feel like I'm at someone's grandma's house I don't know whose grandma it is but I'm at somebody's grandma's house because this just looks like down home good home cooked food man oh my gosh where do I begin the mac and cheese is like 80% cheese 10% noodles this is going to be decadent as hell it's pretty much looks like fondue all right here we go I don't even want to know how much butter is in this as well I'm just here to have fun if I wanted transparency I would have a salad no way look at the butter on my waffles I would have liked to have made that choice you know what's insane to think about I've had three different kinds of potatoes today I've had home fries I've had fries and I've had chips I'm collecting all the potato infinity stones I'm definitely gonna have like high school acne for like a week after this this is truly a masterpiece I shall say the amount of cheese in the macaroni is extremely overwhelming but it makes it kind of fun and the creaminess goes really well with the crunchiness and the fluffiness and then there's the sweetness like texturely this is incredible the difference in how I feel right now at this time of day here compared to Greece I can't even describe the difference it's insane I'm already fading here all right did the best I could with this meal I was trying to visualize a salad while I was eating it which kind of helped but we still weren't done it was time for dessert I got a Gatorade on the way home I had so much sodium I was feeling so dehydrated anyway this will be the final thing that goes into my body for the rest of the day to complete the American diet jammies are on I can't walk I can barely breathe but somehow I'm ready for pie and cookies the two most popular desserts in America are apple pie and chocolate chip cookies and they had them both at drostanolone so I mean I could have I could have just picked one but I decided to bring them both home with me when it comes to dessert I practice polygamy so this is gonna be a little interesting three-way let's start with the chocolate chip cookie I would only get chocolate chip cookies as a kid based off good behavior or my uncle would say performance reviews but I love  love these, just a classic. Oh, it's still a little bit warm, it's soft, it's gooey. Potentially, the scent of my boxers after the first bite. You can literally see with your own eyes that this is gonna taste good. Like the flavor is visible. Apple pie next, they didn't give me a fork, so I'm just, we're gonna pick it up here. I'm in the comfort of my own hotel room. An apple a day keeps the doctor away. Oh, now that is better. This slaps a frickin' fruit bowl that I had in the Mediterranean. Apple pie just brings up the best in me. And I put the best of me into the apple pie. I can totally see why this is the unhealthiest diet in the world. My only source of fruit and vegetables today was like a mint in a mojito, apple in an apple pie, and then the vegetables in a Big Mac. And if that's how you're getting your five a day in, you have to question every single one of your life choices. Do you know what Americans need? They need my cookbook that's available for pre-order. Right now, this instant, link is in the description. Every single thing that I had today is available in my cookbook in a better, healthier, higher protein form. It's even tasting better. You don't need all this stuff. So you don't need to be a 17 pounds overweight. You'll be the perfect weight, heck, even more jacked leaner than ever before, and enjoying all the foods that you love every single day. With the cookbook, it is incredible, 100 recipes. You can't go wrong. Please pre-order it. We want to be a New York Times best seller, and that would mean the world to me. So just please help me out with that, and I'll send you a virtual kiss. I think if this video confirms anything, it's that we need this chicken recipe. Mine just didn't land the same. But also that food is medicine. It influences so much more than whether or not we're full. It's how we feel, how we perform, and how we show up in life. But most importantly, it's about enjoying these foods with family and the people you love.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.477746Z ===
