What is going on guys? Will here. Welcome to the video. So today's just going to be a Q&A. We're going to get right into it. But question number one, who can hold their breath the longest underwater? Will or Olly? All right, Ollie. We're going to go at the count of three. Okay. 1 2 3 Welcome to the video. So, it's a pretty dark, gloomy, and rainy day outside that you probably can't even actually tell by the camera, but it is. And I thought I would do a Q&A, a wet and dry Q&A, but we are going to start off dry first because we got to get excited to get wet. We got to get the juices kind of going. So, let's get into it. So, as you can see, I have a massive package here of 20 lbs of powder in the form of protein this time. So, this is from Blueest Star. You can save yourself 10% using Tenny10. Link in the description. So, we're going to do like just a dry taste test with absolutely no water. But hey, that's what spits for. So, all these questions came from my Instagram. If you didn't have a chance to ask me, make sure to follow me at Willilt Tenny for the next Q&A. So, we have four different flavors of protein here. I'm just going to take a scoop right out of the tub and by the end of these 15 questions I'm about to answer. We're going to rate my favorite to least favorite. So, we're going to start off with the funky monkey. Ooh, that's an interesting sounding one. Smells like banana bread. I mean, I guess the monkeys get a little bit funky when they get their bananas, just like me. All right. M. You know what? Using a banana product, I get kind of worried it's going to taste too artificial. But this tastes like pretty much just like pure banana bread. I can imagine making like my waffles or my pancakes with this. It'd be amazing. Very good. Five out of five for sure. All right, so let's answer some questions here once I get this down my throat. All right, so first question from Dixie Teranav. What do you do when you start getting bored of donuts? I'm going to have to block you for even suggesting that. So, next question from DDP_98. Who is your dream celebrity dinner guest? John Mayor Easily. His uh his favorite food is donuts just like mine. So, we probably skip dinner and just head right into dessert. Question number three from Thomas Bailey 6. What is your least favorite lift that you still regularly do? I'd say easily the barbell row. I I by the time a set is done, I just get so winded. I'm like gassed after one set. And I feel like it's very hard to progress on that lift with consistent form. I feel like every time I try to strive for progressive overload, other than like weight or reps, I end up like jerking the weight. So, I don't know if each week I'm actually like adding volume in a sense. So, if that makes sense, I'd definitely say the barbell row. Question number four from Mihi.vlad 193. What is your favorite vegan source of protein? Uh, I'm probably going to say a natural source of protein. And I'm going to say lentils. Love me some good doll. My grandma makes a killer doll. Question number five from Max Weight. What now? What's now? Max, what was the biggest mental obstacle during your weight loss journey? So, I didn't really have any mental obstacles cuz my obstacle was just to solely lose weight, drop the weight on the scale, and I did successfully achieve that, but obviously in a very unhealthy way. I lost a lot of weight very fast, but I didn't really face any obstacles until like the recovery process where I kind of had to like understand the difference between like that there is no such thing as good or bad food. I had to just not let myself feel guilty when I wanted to go out and enjoy a meal. So, it's just about understanding that you can make anything work with moderation. All right. So, next protein, we are going to go in with some pumpkin spice. We're hitting Thanksgiving in August. Okay. Hello, cinnamon. I can tell you right now, I'm going to try to come up with some sort of a protein pumpkin pie recipe with this thing. Oh, wow. Come on. It's not bad. I mean, I've never had pumpkin pie/ pumpkin spice protein before. Tastes exactly what you expect it to taste like. I'll give it like a three out of five. Yeah, it's not bad. Okay, so question number six from almond.hn. How important is your mindset while trying to achieve your fitness goals? Well, your mindset is absolutely everything. And before I started working out, I had a terrible mindset. I was down on myself all the time. But it wasn't until I started working out and building upon my body that I also changed my mindset. Uh, you know, I'm accountable to something each week. I come into the gym with a program to follow. I want to challenge myself every week to strive for better lifts, progressively overload. And I'm not afraid to fail now. So like some days you're not going to have a good workout. You are going to fail a lift that you got last week, but you got to be okay with that and move on. It's just part of the process. So without a positive mindset, you're not really going to get anywhere with anything. So question number seven from Red November 82. What sparked your love of donuts? And this was a great question. I actually really had to think about this one because I didn't really remember, but then it came to me that I was a Timbit man before the the donut saga. You got you got to teeter before you fly, you know. So, uh, back in elementary school when we were all little kids, uh, everyone would bring a big box of Timbits for their birthday. So, I started to kind of dabble with the Timbits. Uh, but then once I got older, started drinking black coffee. Uh, went into Tim Hortons one day and then was going for the black coffee. Then I just started making eye contact with a maple dip. So, it wasn't even a filled doughut at this point yet. And then it just it just naturally kind of happened. I just ordered one, took a bite, and then it's kind of been history from there. But during that time, I like initially started eating donuts. It was never a filled donut. And it was mainly due to my mom. Mom? Yeah. Why did you never let me eat Boston cream donuts or like filled donuts in general? You know why? Well, it you know what? When I was a kid, like it was like the those were like the gross donuts. Anybody that had anything gross donuts? Yeah. Jelly filled or custard filled. like it was just very unappealing. So, it was never something that I would ever buy. Yeah. So, I never really had Boston creams ever until I'd say probably like a couple years ago. And since then, it's just been like a a weekly thing. Mom, come back for a sec. We want to show them the the Train Your Heart women's stuff. Will tennyson.ca. Show the back. The the barbell donut. Looks pretty sick. Get one for your mom. I'm just saying that. So, it's pretty much started with Timbits, went to an unfilled one, then kind of saw a hole, needed to fill it, and then just been like that ever since. Question number nine from Adrian Perza 24. What is your favorite sport to watch? Absolutely hockey and then basketball. Played hockey for a long time as a kid. So always watch the Leafs even though they let me down every year. And then question number 10 from Harish.99. When are we going to see your dad in a video? I don't know when I can find him. Uh hopefully he shows up at the front door one day. Uh, but all seriousness, if this video gets 100k likes, how about me and my dad swap diets for a day? So, hit that like button. So, let's get into another protein here. So, we got ourselves a cocoa mocha peanut butter. So, still a flavor you don't see every day. This is why I love blue star. Pumpkin spice, funky monkey. Like, it's just a party smell wise. You got to smell. You can learn a lot that way. Smells quite peanut buttery. The nut always comes through a little bit more conser situation. Oh, that's a good one. Very peanut buttery. Hint of mocha, hint of cocoa. Exactly what you expect. M. I like this one. This one will be really good mixed with coffee. I'm going to give this one four and a half out of five. So, doesn't beat my funky monkey. Okay, question number 11 from R_ner_1. Did you go to college? If so, what did you study? So, I did go to college. I went to University of G. Just went for a general BA, a three-year program. So, I didn't have any specific majors. Took a bunch of different stuff. Didn't really know what I wanted to do. Once I graduated from G, I went to George Brown College for a small business entrepreneurship program. It was a 1-year program postgrad. That was pretty tough, a lot of work, but learned a lot. And uh yeah, so University of G and George Brown College. Question 12 from Casey in Columbus. Have you ever really done cocaine? You joke about it often. Of course not. The only white powders I've taken are creatine, stevia, the occasional vanilla protein powder. Next question from and I actually haven't taken cocaine either. Yeah, right. Okay. Question 13 from Daniel Slutters_1. Slutter. Hardly know her. Why did you start YouTube/making videos? Uh, watch YouTube for a long time. Long long time. always watched Max Tuning, Guzman, all those guys. Uh my friends and family thought I'd be good at it. So, picked up my iPhone one day, started banging out videos, did one video a week just as like a a hobby. Didn't really think it was going to pick up to the point that it is now. And now I'm doing it full-time and I like I can't see myself doing anything else. Question 14 from Bjorn Bjornali. What is different now that you're a Gym Shark athlete? Do you have to smile and stuff? I mean, I hope I don't because that will not it probably wouldn't work out for that long. Uh, I guess the only difference now is that I'm probably be wearing a little bit more Gym Shark than I usually do. Although, I do wear Gym Shark quite a bit in my videos. So, nothing is going to change. Videos are going to stay the exact same, just a little bit more of that. Yeah. Uh, question 15 from Iggy Hacks. As a beginner, if you're consistent with training, when can you expect the difference in your physique? So, as a beginner, you will like you will see a difference no matter what you no matter what you do. You probably just walk into a gym and walk out and you'll grow. But uh yeah, so you'll grow obviously, but you have to be on a consistent program, a good program cuz you could probably just go to the gym and go through the motions. You'll see some results, but won't be that great. So if you're on a good program, linear progression, you have a consistent diet, you'll probably see really, really, really good progress within your first 2 to 3 months. Okay, let's get into this last protein. Answer the last couple here. So this one is key lime pie. That is quite the interesting protein powder. Plowder powder flavor. Doesn't smell anything like key lime pie. I love me a good key lime pie, but I do prefer a moist pie. I don't know about this one. Don't judge a book by clever. Oh, you know what? That lime is coming through. I also didn't think I was going to get some of that graham cracker crust situation going on, but I'm getting it. Wow. Protein key lime pie recipe will be coming soon. Highly recommend this one. It's a nice little like tropical thing if you're feeling all I don't know if you're feeling pretty cool about the pool. Key lime pie protein. Four out of five. Question number 16 from Lissa Matias. Tips on building confidence in the gym. Don't be afraid to ask people things. If you don't know what to do, ask people. They'll be happy to help you. And you have to remember that the people that you see that you kind of look up to in the gym, just remember they were in your position before, so they respect you. So just don't be don't feel embarrassed. Just kind of go in, put in the work, and yeah, you'll get your results. Question number 17. This is going to be the last one of the dry the dry series here. Is from OG disc og dirt stash. Okay. Do you think people treat you nicer slash differently now compared to when you didn't work out? Absolutely. But I feel like a lot of that was my own fault. I feel like when you're not confident, people see that and then people can kind of take advantage of you and like walk all over you. Like my body language was kind of like down. I was very embarrassed about about my body. So people are like could just walk all over me. So I think if you're confident people see that and they'll treat you with respect. So that was the last question. So let's rate these protein powders here. So easily number one going to go with my funky monkey. Number two, I would have to say the cocoa mocha peanut butter. Number three, we're going to go with some key lime pie. And then last but not least, still good though, the pumpkin spice. Okay, so to stick with the protein theme, I thought about what could be wet with protein. Then I thought, how about a chocolate lava cake? So I went online, searched protein lava cake. Found a pretty cool recipe. Very easy to make, pretty low in calories. So we're going to give it a shot. So the recipe that we're going one sec. So the recipe that we're going to be using is from Trifecta Nutrition. I'll link it in the description down below. So a chocolate protein lava cake. Takes 5 minutes to make it 350°. The oven is preheating right now. Uh so the macros on this thing, so it makes two cakes, and each one is 357 calories, 21 g of fat, 19 carbs, and 23 g of protein. So, all you need here is some stevia. You're going to need 3 tablespoons of stevia. You're going to need some coconut oil, which I've actually never used for cooking before, so that'll be interesting. You're going to need half a cup of some oatmeal, half a cup of any sort of chocolate protein powder that you have. 3 tablebsp of some cocoa powder, and one egg. Then, we're going to spray these little ramicans here. Put them in the oven for 5 minutes. But, we're going to get all these things right now into the Vitamix. Blend it all up. So, going to be using the Vitamix until I can solidify that Ninja sponsor. So, yeah, let's make it. Let's see if the Vitamix can handle the lava cake here. I mean, it didn't do me. Come on, Vitamix. One sec. So, it was not the Vitamix's fault. I actually forgot to mention that we need 1/4 of a cup of coconut milk. So, that's going to obviously add the moisture cuz looking inside right now, there's no way there's any any like molten situation going on there. So, going to need to add 1/4 of a cup of light coconut milk. And then that should be everything. There we go. That makes sense. Now, let's give it another try. Is this some risky bit? Okay, I think it looks done. So, now we're going to add it into the ramicans here. So, I was wondering how this even makes like a lava like molten lava thing. And I guess because it's only in the oven for 5 minutes, it's just pretty much cooking the outside while leaving pretty much the inside raw. Don't know how successful this time around is going to be, but that's what that's what the kitchen's all about, guys. It's about making making mistakes. That's how you learn. All right, oven for 5 minutes. and let's just hope for the best. Okay. Well, so it looks pretty raw, but raw's never stopped me before. Okay, we got a little bit of a solid vacation going on. Looks pretty wet. I guess that's what we're trying to achieve. Macros, calories. Don't know if it's quite worth it, but again, we'll taste it. All right, let's do it. So, lava cake with a white hoodie on a white couch. What's up, Mom? Oh, okay. Okay. It's pretty wet. It's good. Tastes like straight brownie batter. Really sweet. I can imagine it's really good with some ice cream on top. Okay, next question from swishactory_03. Olly, getting a girlfriend anytime soon? So, Olly actually has a girlfriend. Her name is Emma. She is a husky. I'll put a picture of them on the screen right now somewhere. So, she's a lot bigger than him, but he makes up for it in other places. What are your thoughts on intermittent fasting? Do you like it? Why' you stop? I love intermittent fasting. I think it's great for chloro control, pretty much why I did it, cuz I have such a big appetite. Uh, I stopped cuz I wanted to have those more consistent protein feedings throughout the day. I felt when I started doing that, I had better workouts in the gym and I just looked overall better. Um, I probably would start doing it again when I'm like actually cutting to a lower body fat cuz I just think it makes it a little bit easier to like have snacks at night. But that's why I do that macro fasting thing that I talked about in a previous video. So, I pretty much eat straight protein throughout the day. Then I fast my carbs and fat at night, so I can pretty much go out and have whatever I want. Antoine_YB, top or bottom, I'm versatile. You know what? I need to go get some nutmilk. I'll be right back. Yeah, I just remembered I could have fluids this time around. So, all right. So, next question from Joseph Presley. Tips to lose weight fast. Just started dieting and working out. So, you don't want to lose weight too fast cuz then you'll probably lose a lot of muscle. So my advice to you would to be to obviously do your cardio daily, track based on calories burned and slowly increase that amount each week. Obviously um you want to be very good with your diet. High protein diet. Um I think a very good tip would just be walk as much as you can is very easy to recover from. So get around 15,000 steps, 20,000 steps if you can if you have the time. That will add a huge difference. So if you haven't watched that 25,000 steps a day video for 7 days, I lost like almost 5 lbs in a week and I didn't even change my diet at all. So if you haven't checked that out, check that one out. Next question from liv.avvr. Do you have any advice about starting a YouTube channel? So obviously the first one is to be consistent. Post every single week. Don't take weeks off. Just again post same day, same time each week. Um don't think that you have to reinvent the wheel. A lot of people say like, "Oh, you copy this person. You copied that person." There's only so many videos that you guys can do. Think about it. Who made the first full day of eating? How many people have made full day of eating? It's not everyone's just copied that one person. You just got to make your own spin on things. Make it your own type of style of content. And another thing is you can't get caught up in negative comments. The internet is a deep dark place. Don't let things like that affect you. So, my advice would just be don't give people a reason not to like you. Don't be disrespectful. Don't be mean. Don't get involved in like the drama. Just stay in your lane and you should be okay. Hallbrook Hallbrook Gabe. Halbrook Hullbrook Hullbrook Gabe. Hullbrook Gabe. If you have Hullbrook Hullbrook Gabe, if you had to have a last meal, what would it be? So, first I have to distinguish between sweet or savory. I'm going to assume that you just mean one meal because otherwise I would just say like a bunch of a bunch of different things. So, I'd probably want to go with savory for this one because I probably want to go down with some protein in my system. So, gonna have to throw donuts to the side for that. And I'm probably going to have to say a nice authentic pizza for sure. A nice pizza with tons of meat on it. Definitely my last meal. Adam Sandow, out of all your diets you've tried, if you had to choose one, which one would it be? So, I've done like carnivore, I have done OMAD, I have done uh what have I done? I've done a lot of weird stuff, but I think out of all the ones I've done, I think I'd probably choose the vertical diet because that one seemed to be the most sustainable. Not and it's like the least restrictive. Although I can't have coffee, I can't have donuts, but again, I felt pretty good on that one. The workouts were great on the vertical diet. So, definitely the vertical diet. IB Kendall says, "Have you ever tried using kangaroo as a source of protein?" So, I actually have. Um, I didn't love it. It's pretty gamey, although I think it's probably kind of mind over matter when you're eating it. I'm probably just thinking of those little animals jumping around and [\h__\h] So, it was kind of hard to take down. I got it at Costco if you guys are wondering. You can actually go online and order all these exotic types of meat. So, I might have to try it again when I do 10 around the world in Australia. Probably have to take another mouthful of that meat_ripe, which I'm I'm assuming you mean triple. What do you think you would do as a career if it weren't for fitness? So, totally I'd be a chef. When I was growing up, all I wanted to do is be a chef. I'd watch the food all the time. Uh, I actually wanted to go to Cordon Blau after I went to George College, but then ended up in the fitness thing somehow. But if I wasn't doing fitness, for sure I'd be a chef. And I actually still want to open up one of my own restaurants one day. Delphinium_star says, "What do you love most about yourself?" That's a good question. So, I think I want to say the progress I've made as a person being from so self-conscious and like not confident in myself to like not being able to even present to a classroom of 10 people to being on YouTube with a bunch of people watching me. Um, I've just built a huge confidence in myself. I feel happy about who I am as a person and I just don't really care what people think about me. So, I feel I'm just very proud of um the change I've made throughout the years and yeah, just very happy with who I've become. Killy Rob says, "What is the best way to deal with negative comments when cutting and looking small in a shirt? Why does it matter, dude? Who cares what other people think? You should be working out for yourself." I mean, I just keep on pushing through and man, when you get shredded and you have like a tank top on, they're going to wish they did the same thing. So again, don't worry about it. Keep on doing what you're doing. When you're shredded, you look way bigger and just keep at it. IMSK. I am gay. I am gay. Have you ever had any bad injuries that took weeks/ months to recover from? So I actually destroyed my collar bone when I was playing hockey back in grade 12. I was out for like at least 4 months. Like I was like showering with one arm. It definitely helped me uh fix my wrist and form imbalance, that's for sure. Cuz it was on my dominant hand. So yeah, hockey injury. You could like even hear it. People were saying like when they were watching the game, they could hear the pop at the collarbone. I don't know if that's too too much to share right now, but yeah, it was it was pretty bad. Killer Briggs, favorite place to eat in the city. I'm in rural Ontario and need places to go. So, if you haven't watched my last video, Pizzeria Defina has pretty sick pizza. Uh if you're looking for like a night out with your friends, King Taps is really good. Have really good drinks and really good food. Um if you like the vegan scene, cuz I date Katie and she's she's vegan. So, uh Fresh on Front Street's really good. They have really creative stuff. Uh, Chebo wine bar. Again, very Italian. I love pizza, guys. So, if you're gonna ask me stuff, you're probably just gonna get pizza. So, yeah. Uh, King Taps, Fresh, uh, Defina, Pizzeria, Defina, and Chebo wine bar. Sally Tony, do you have a PO box? Would be sick for us fans to send you food to try, letters or random. That would be pretty sick. So, I actually do have a PO box. It's in my about me on my YouTube channel. Uh, send me some stuff and I'll try it for a video even maybe in my next Q&A. Maybe that. So, the last question of the day from Jared Good. if you could ask John Mayer one question, what would it be? So, I thought about that and I was like, how about I just be smart and say, hey, John, can I ask you five questions? But then he could say no and that'd be a pretty big waste. And I realized it's not like a wish. Like I was wishing a genie for like unlimited questions. So, I'd probably say like, "Hey man, would you want to go for donuts sometime?" Yeah. So, that was the last question. And from the first thing that we did with the dry protein powder, the Funky Monkey one, and I loved it. So, I want to share it with one of you guys. So, we're actually going to do a giveaway in this video for a big 5 lb tub of Funky Monkey protein. So, all you got to do is comment below a your Instagram handle. You got to like this video and then let me know what your favorite type of protein is and I'll be shipping this off to you. So, if you guys enjoyed this video, please give it a like, subscribe to the channel if you're new, and I'll see you guys in the next one.