 I was dancing 11 snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes snakes and cut the bullshit. Welcome to Table Talk. We're back with another episode of Table Talk today. It's Adam Roscoe, but we're going to try this again, right? Roskowski? That's close. I can stand there for you. Adam Roskowski. There you go. That works. That works. That's good. This is going to be a great start, right? Because you're going to be competing in the Arnold Pro-Am. Is that right? And this is going to post after. So what I want to pretend it's over. Oh, yeah. The event's over, and we're talking about how the event went. Like, did you fall on your face? Did you do well? Like, how did it go? It went pretty well. For sure better than three years ago, because three years ago, I also competed in Arnold's Pro-Am, but I injured my finger, like the big toe. I dropped 160 kilo block from metal straight on my big toe. So yeah, didn't make it to the final. So that's my revenge here. Sorry? You didn't do it this time. No, no. This time didn't do it for sure. Didn't trip over. So... You didn't trip. What were the events? Max axle deadlift, 13 inch without any suits. So it's like a roll. And how'd you place there? Pretty much good. I did 402 and a half kilos. So 890 pounds or something like this in American. Yeah. And then what was the next event? Next event was frame carry. I won it. Okay. That's my goal. I remember that. That's my goal. And third one was overhead medley. It was dumbbell lock, dumbbell lock. So that was pretty good. That was top five. And last event was arm over arm. And I was also in like top six. Yeah. So at what phase did the cramping start? Cramping. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And did you tear anything? No, no. Didn't tear. I think... Cyclone all tear. I'm always trying to prepare myself pretty good for the competition. And taking like, you know, like salt, for example, to not get cramps. Yeah. Because that I know from the football, because in football it's pretty common to get cramps and stuff. So I just trying to take care of myself before the competition. So to lower the risk before, like during the competition, right? So today, I mean, yesterday, whatever the competition was, I took care of everything and I didn't have any problems. And so out of all the straw man events that you've done in the past, and there's a bunch, right? Are you insinuating that out of all those, you never strained anything? You never hurt anything? You never dropped anything on your foot? Yeah. I dropped on my foot. Yeah, yeah. But no. Never. So in pretty much all the events you've come out... Yeah. I had an injury like 11 years ago. That was the big one, but never pulled anything straight or anything like this. I was prepared. I was good. Every competition I did, I did it to the ends. And you started as straw man, is it 2011? No, 2021. 2021. 2021. 2021. Okay. So with going back, I was trying to actually get my time. Actually, 2021, I was still playing American football. And at the same time, I was doing my straw man competitions. So one week I was playing a game. The second week I was starting a competition. Yeah. I was looking at my time. I was trying not to look at my timeline notes. 2011 is when you stopped dancing, right? So right around there. So let's go into that a little bit because I have... Football obviously didn't make you more durable, you know, to not get hurt during strongman. That's for sure. Right. But maybe the dancing did. I think dancing prepared my body for the football because in the dancing, maybe it's not a strange sport, but you have to be well balanced. You have to know your body. Every deep muscle is working, right? So if you like tendons, ligaments are very strong, maybe not the muscles, but the whole body. So the training is like 12 hours a day. So your body has to deal with it. Right. So I think dancing prepared very good for the football and in football. Also, I didn't have much, much injuries, just one. And also in strongman, I can feel that dancing brought a lot of... And the dancing was Latin dancing and ballroom and you did it for over a decade. Yes. So when I was seven or something like this, I started it and then I was dancing 11 years and through all the levels, also international, Polish national team and Poland is one of the top three in the world. So I was pretty good too. How did you start? I mean, it's seven years like your parents did it out of the house. Yeah. I have three siblings. So my father was doing pictures for the, um, for the dancing coach and stuff. And my father brought everybody to dancing to this coach. So everybody started, but I last the longest. So my oldest brother, for example, he did like maybe two months. My second brother, which is also older than me, I'm the third one. Uh, he was dancing like six, seven years. So longer than the first one, but still was pretty good. And my sister was also dancing the youngest one, but she switched to some other dancing, not, not ballroom, not Latin, but like new style hip hop and stuff. So, well, I'm like redneck from Midwest, you know, USA. Right. So what was this like in school? Like art? I'm from Poland. So it's pretty much similar, you know? Yeah. It was hard because, you know, I'm dancing like a tournament Saturday. The other, the other tournament is Sunday. So two tournaments in the one week, one weekend. And then, you know, I had to put this stick on my face to not shine in the lights. And then I had to go to the school after that. So my skin was pretty orange and boys were actually out of me. Yeah. That's for sure. Yeah. It was hard all the, all the time. What did the girls think about it? Girls was fine. I was, I'm pretty good with girls. I would think in high school, you know, just the boys were, I think also jealous because they did nothing. And I was competing worldwide, you know? So I think that's the, that's the two reasons they were like bullying me. So when you started at seven, cause you said it was a 12 hour day, you know? Not, not at seven. Not at seven. First two years was like light, light stuff. And also first two years of competing was the last places. But then something clicked when I was like 10 and I won like six competitions in a row. And then I changed class because there was like dancing classes. So you start with D and then I turn C in like six weeks and it's pretty fast. And then to another class B also six or eight competitions. And then B was pretty already big class is like one of the best. So then after B you get a class and a class is a national best one. And after A is S and S is international class. So I was disclosed from S as a 14 years old and S is already an adult class. So people at 20, 25 years old have S classes. And I was like 14 years old, almost with S. So when you're, when you're in high school, so the later years of grade school, how much did you weigh and how tall were you? When I was 16 years old, I was like, I don't know in feet, but 170 centimeters. So right now I'm 194. Maybe, you know, the one 75, six, five, six, five, six, five, seven, maybe. And I still was talking as a girl. Like I didn't have a mutation yet when I was 60. That had to help with the bullying, I guess. Didn't help. But then in two years, uh, I grew up like 20 centimeters. So I was six, two after high school or while you're still in high school. So first, first year in Poland, you have three years of high school before. So first year I was six, seven, six, seven. It's a common thing, right? Right now it's five, seven, five, seven. And then third grade, I was like six to already. And again, also 20 kilos or something and was still last year of dancing, but it was hard because I was tall. So switching partner, dancing partners is also hard because when you dance, you, your dancing partner has to be maximum sense and 10 centimeters low, not lower, but, uh, smaller. Otherwise it's not working with Barrow, for example. All right. So you're in this strange position to where you're in high school. You're, you're now taller than everybody else. Yeah. First grade, I was the smallest one. And third grade, I was the big one. Well, you're not ugly either. Right. So now, so now you're a little bit taller. You're not ugly. You can dance. All the chicks fucking dig you. Right. The guys hate you. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Right. Even more. Even more because of both reasons. But here's the, here's the, the weird, you can't date anybody because you're training 12 hours a day. So between school, my friends will always only dancing, dancing environment, nothing from school. Even now, I don't know anybody from school. I don't have contact anybody with from school. It was always dancing, dancing, dancing. If you spend, if you go to school 8am and then you have, have to go like leave 10 30 or something a.m. Then you start training and then you end up 10 p.m. And that was every day. Okay. Every day. And summer, when you have a free from school, you go training even more because you have more time. Wow. So is this something you wanted to do this whole time? That's the question because I was young and I didn't, I mean, it is fun to win. Yeah. And fun to have some prizes even from the, from the competition. So, so far I was good with that. I was doing it. But then I switched dancing partners because I grew and it was like that my best years in dancing that was the, when I was 14, 15 years old, because then I switched the dancing partner. I grew a little bit and then it's when you, when you, when you are at a certain level of dancing and then you switch partners, you have to build everything from the beginning because dancing is also about emotions and you know, it's not only trust. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it was hard because every year I had new dancing partner because it didn't fit. It didn't work out. And when I turned 18, my father kicked me out of the house for sure. Like go out. And then I realized maybe it's not the thing I was wanted to do. What was the reason for kicking you out of the house? 18 years old. It's just a normal thing. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a Poland thing. Pretty common. Yeah. I mean, if you go study, then you can go studies. I was, I was, I was, I was studying in Warsaw. So it's like a capital of Poland, but still I, I went out of the house, out of the house and then didn't came back. So during, after, during that time period, because I would assume from seven until 18, you know, all you dancing is a big part of your identity. Yeah. Obviously. Yeah. Because kids are making fun of you for it, or they're embracing you for it. Yeah. Yeah. You're being rewarded. It's, it's, it's, it's basically who you are. Yeah. Right. So you get to this point where you're like, I'm not going to do this anymore. Right. And how do you manage that? How? You know, because when you do something for that long and it becomes so ingrained in who you are, then you stop doing that. There's a gap, there's a void. Yeah. But I switched it to gym and football. So how does that come about? So the sport way, the, the, the rivalry, you know, mm-hmm that's, that's the way I was grown up. So I have to be in the competition mode, like all the time, even in the regular, like in a job, when I go to job, I also want to be the best. Yeah. But this is the complete opposite. Oh, you mean the, the, the energy, like dancing, football. It's yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But they're opposite. Like I could see dancing and something that's got. When I, when I switched to football, everybody was laughing at me. Well, what are you looking here? Yeah. A dancing boy, you know? Yeah. Yeah. What position? Uh, they put me first. So I was still in my studies. So that was in Warsaw. They put me on D line. There was two training only. Then I came back to my hometown and they put me on quarterback because I was throwing pretty good, but then the import came because in Poland, you can go, you can have two imports per team. So that was Americans and obviously they're better. So they put them on quarterback and linebacker. No, they put the quarterback and D lineman. And then they switched me to linebacker and I stayed on that linebacker. What's your body weight do after you quit dancing? Yeah. So after I quit dancing, it was like 85 kilos in pounds. That would be 170, 80 pounds. And then one year, uh, I was working in burger place and I can eat whatever I want and how much I want. So I gained 25 kilos in one year. So that's the nutrition. 55 pounds in one year. Well, your activity level dropped too. Cause you're not training. Yeah. Because it was less training, but, uh, more weights also. Yeah. So gym and football. So when you were dancing, was weight training involved? Not at all. Just dancing, stretching, some like yoga or also ballet, uh, jazz, everything. Like it's only dancing stuff. Only the, the, not the gym like this, but the gym like, uh, yeah. Yeah. I'm still confused how you go from that environment where there's no weights, right? Different, a different type of aggression. It's a good, it's also fun fact. When I was dancing, uh, we had, uh, some camp with foreigners like international. And there was a guy from Moldavia, you know, Moldavia, you know, for sure. And, uh, he was also into arm wrestling and he teached me how to, you know, hold the grip and do a little bit of arm wrestling. And then high school, I bet everybody in arm wrestling, the smallest guy beat everybody. And, and also that was a good, like impulse to, oh, maybe I'm strong. So maybe I go to gym. It's fun. And then I started lifting and then football. So the lifting was before the football. It was shortly before football, but it was the part of it already. Part of the idea. Okay. Was the lifting because you knew you were going to play football? Yes. Because, uh, my friend was playing football when I was like 15, 16 years old. That was the best friend of my oldest brother. And he was playing football and he visited us very often. And then I liked it, but I was still dancing. All right. No, I get it. Cause I was looking for the connection. Yeah. Like how do you, cause it would be like somebody that's like a pure meathead aggression, sport, football, wrestling, and so forth. And you don't just wake up and say, I want to go play football. Yeah. But yeah. Also, also when you are like bullied in school, you have inside this aggression, but you cannot express it because you're dancing. You're not going to hit your dancing partner. Right. So maybe, maybe accumulating this over the years, started playing football and it was legal and it was good. Yeah. The aggression was good. So I could do legally, you know, no, but that's also a really interesting concept, which we can get into with your straw man and even the football, because during that time period, you learned how to have control regression because it's still there. Yeah. Right. But you can't have it cause it's going to fuck up the dance routine or whatever it's going to be. Right. And so where we all know a lot of people that have it, but they can't control it even in straw man. And then it fucks their straw man all up because they, they, their finesse goes out the window. Cause it just, ah, it's just, you see, it's all aggression. Cause they, it's too much control it. They can't control it. Like animals. Yes. Yeah. We're in all your, all your developmental years. That's all you had to do was control it. I never thought about it, but you're right. That's good. Be also part of it. And I don't know the guys that in competition, he's the one guy that's always smiling out there while lifting or, you know, he's, he just lifted the stone and he's just out there smiling, clapping. Well, he was trying to do that. I mean, he cannot smile in his dance performance. Yeah. He makes it look so natural. Yeah. So relaxed. Yeah. Because it's fun also. It's not aggression. Fueled. It's, it's, uh, really fun to do it, you know? Yeah. That's why. Yeah. Yeah. Well, for, for some, it is aggression fuel. You see what I'm saying there? Yeah. But, but that, I think that's based on their mental because they have some problems maybe like mental problems. Yeah. And they just putting it in the weights and they want to express it that way. Tell me a person in strength sports doesn't, that doesn't have mental aggression or issues. Zero. Yeah. Yeah. I would also, so any athlete at any level that's beyond above average is going to have something fucked in their head. Something, something driving. But the greatest ability is how they can control it when it matters. The ones that can't control it when it matters are the ones that never make that highest potential. Yeah. I can, I can control it like a hundred percent. So with, I can stay calm until the very end. So with football, how, how did you go from dance, dance kind of is a team. And cause you're going from an individual sport, kinda cause I mean, you have a dance partner. Yeah. But I have to care about the girl, you know? Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So I think more about her than me. But when you go to football now, you got to care about everybody that's on the field. Yeah. For that play to work. If it's all my disorders. First, you have to do your job. Yes. So I have to care about everybody else too. Yeah. So what was it like for you to kind of wrap your head around that? Because that's more broad than just two people. It wasn't hard for me though. Yeah. I mean, it was very similar. So you think it was a good transition? Yeah. It was not, for me, it was natural. For me, it was like, do your job first and then take care about, if you can take care about the arrest. Mm-hmm. So it is like a dance where you're just a team of dancers on the field. Yeah. So you ended up... A lot of people when I was playing with, they were like also selfish because they wanted to make a big play to shine, you know? And I was always the guy who doing the work. It's not the big plays. Sometimes I did, but it was not that much, but always I did my job. Always. Even at the meetings, on the video, like when we watched the video before the trainings and stuff, almost never they had something to me. Like you didn't do your job. With football now that... Because now you're training more, right? Because it's part of football, right? Mm-hmm. And you're eating more because you're on the line. Yeah. Right? So now your weight, body weight, muscle, everything's starting to just come up. Yeah. And you wouldn't be doing what you're doing now if you don't have genetics to be able to do that. Like, so are you... First question, are you growing like crazy during that initial time period? You mean during football? Yes. Like adding muscle, getting stronger. Yeah. First year, like I said, eating burgers without limits, 25 kilos, so 55 pounds in one year, just like that. Just like that. And what did your speed do? 40 times, you know? I did at 120, so 260 pounds, I did 47. So as you gained the weight, your speed got better? It was same or better, but not worse. Okay. Not worse. But I also worked a lot on the weightlifting, Olympic weightlifting. So clean snatches and also sprint itself. Yes. So I was working on my dynamics, but it was pretty good on my feet because of dancing. So I know my feet and the feet are the only one, only part that touch the ground and you take the power from the ground, right? Yes. Even deadlift squat, everything comes from the ground. Well, that's everything with being a lineman as well. Yeah. You know, it's all... Exactly. So if you know your feet like very good from dancing, then you can sprint also good. You know, just need some dynamics and hip explosions. That's what I think. So dancing is a pretty good carryover. Yeah. There was also a dancing guy who was a top cycling guy in the world. I don't know his name, but there was also a story of this. I don't know the name. It doesn't matter. And you played for a decade? Nine years. Nine years. And so that goes past your university. Yeah. I was studying just one year. Okay. And in Europe, there is no connection university in football. Okay. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You just go and train the football at the local team. So after three or four years, what kept you in it? Why not do something else? Football. Yeah. Why wouldn't I do something else? Because better and better. And my goal was always to be the best. Always. Like when I was dancing, I wanted to be the best. When I was playing, my goal was NFL. It was pretty close, but I didn't make it. They choose another guy between us two. And he ended up in Ravens for two years. So then that was the point. And I was thinking maybe I will end it up because my goal was NFL and didn't make it. And it was like motivation. But then, uh, I, I switched to German football team and they were back then Europe's, uh, Europe's strongest man, Europe champion. And I became also one with them and also German champion and German league is like four in the world or something. So that was also a side quest of NFL, but still a good goal. So that came, the strong man came after the denial to the NFL? No, strong man came around 2017, 18, maybe because one guy was playing also football, but he was doing the strong man too, but he was under one Oh five kilo weight class. And after a few years, so 2017, we played together in the word games, word games, you know, that maybe. Yeah. And then, um, he was trying to convince me to football, to strong man. So I was pretty interested with it, but then came Corona. So gym close, everything is close. Then I continued to play football because in Germany, they also closed the league, but in Poland and Poland is pretty good with the, he was, it was pretty good with Corona. So they played even though that the Corona is there. So I moved back to Poland, played there, then moved to Germany again and played there. And 21 was already a little bit better with the restrictions. And then I started the competitions too. Now, were you making enough from football at that point to survive? No. So I was working. Okay. So until now. Okay. What was, what were you doing working wise? Uh, when I, when I moved to Germany, so in Poland, as I said, burger, burger place. So, uh, like food. And, uh, that's when I moved to Germany, I was working first, like three weeks cleaning toilet, let's say in school. Well, let's go back to the burger place because this is an interesting, right? Because I can see multiple benefits. You're getting paid. So that definitely helps. So how many, how many meals every day were you eating there? It was about the amount, not the meals, because when I did a meal, uh, it was like in grams, I put like 800 grams of meat. How much is that? Like, uh, two pounds. Yeah. Two pounds. And then I did like this, the burger. I eat it, go back to work. Five hours later. Okay. Again. And I was, I could eat anything. Uh, the, the record after the game, they made me burrito, very big one, but they didn't tell the weight. And after that, they told me it was 2.3 kilos. So it was five pounds. Yeah. Five pounds burrito. Five point something. Mostly beans, meat and rice. So your grocery bills, like hardly anything, right? Because you're getting. My grocery bills were small because I was eating. Yes. In work. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And when you work in food, like, uh, like restaurants, you work a lot, like two 50 hours per month. So most of the time I was working and I was eating there. Okay. So then on in Germany, so what'd you do there? Cause now you don't have the workplace. Yeah. Yeah. I moved to Germany. So then also for sure they, they, I was, I was earning better because in Poland, the, the money we were making was pretty low and in Germany you can earn better. So I switched, like I said, three weeks of cleaning toilets without language. Then I switched to pizza place for two months, English. And during this two months, I learned a little bit of German and my co one of my coaches, uh, friends was looking for a employee, employee, employer. Yeah. And play. And that was, uh, air conditioning firma, like, uh, like very, very different, you know? Yeah. But now you gotta buy your food. Yeah. But if you earn, if you earn better, because for example, 2017 was the last year I was living in Poland and I was making like 500 euro a month for the full time job. Then I switched to Germany and for the three weeks of cleaning toilets, I did 800 years. Wow. And then for the full time job, I did like 1.4 thousand euros. So it was almost three times more than I made in Poland. So for me, it was mind blowing. And also I got some money from football. So we did like a second job contract and I got also 450 euro from that. So almost 2,000 euro from 500 euro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I started to eating salmon. Never had that before. It also puts it into perspective how there's kids in college here getting paid hundreds of thousands to play a sport in college. All right. In college, amateur level, technically, really, if you talk about it. And this guy was struggling on two jobs and getting paid like 400 euros playing at the best level in football in Europe. Yeah. That's pretty rough. But I, yeah. Yeah. But if you are raised in that conditions, you know, you're familiar with struggling, then it's all good. It's not that hard. You don't know any different. Right. I mean, right now I'm living like a king for me. Back in the day, it was just normal. It wasn't bad. It was just normal. But comparing to other people, it was very, very bad. So tell me about your first strongman competition. First strongman competition. That was, oh wait, that was actually 2020. But that wasn't like a full competition. That was like training together with some guys. But we did the events and that was in Poland and we did like, I, that was like deadlift for max or something. And I did 300. So 660 pounds. That was pretty good. I was very happy. It wasn't the best place, but it was good. And I will, I remember they were, we were doing the yoke carry 6, 360 right now. I'm pretty good with yoke, but 360 back then. How many pounds is that? It's like 800 maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Just over. And I was struggling with like 20 meters course. I did over one minute, like going sideways. Yeah. That was fun. Yeah. And then I, uh, that was just this in 2020 without, probably without any preparation for that. And then football, football, football. And 2021, I did like two or three amateur shows, two amateur shows in Poland and then Polish championships. And I came sixth or seventh. Wow. And also 2021, I did, uh, German championships. They didn't know that I'm not German. And I wrote an email to the guy, um, Heinz Olesch. Maybe you know him. He was a famous modern strongman in Germany. Yeah. And I wrote him that I did a amateur competition in Poland. And can I start not with third league with second league in Germany? Oh, after the review, you can. And they announced that, uh, German championships can also like the people from second league can also take part in German championships. So I just signed up, came and there was like 30 guys and I was fourth in prelims. And they were like, who is this guy? And I came up second, exactly. But I was Polish that I think that was the reason they put me on the third place. How much of these competitions play into you ceasing to play football or stopping playing football? What, how they work? Well, I just, you're playing football, then you're completing a strongman, right? Football comes to an end. It was like week after week, the other sports. Yeah. You have to decide, you know, I'm no longer going to play. I already decided to make strongman, but I also gave my word to play. Yeah. So, so you just finished up. I'm the man of my word. Yeah. I say something, I do something. So I promised them that I will play the last year, 2021. I played it, but I wanted to do strongman at the same time. I guess my question is if strongman wasn't part of your life, would you have played more years? I don't think so. How come? Maybe one, two years, but because my goal was NFL, right? And I was already too old. Because 24, I was already too old. They picked the guy who was 22. I was bigger, stronger than him. He was only better in straight 40-yard dash, but changing direction, I was also better. But they picked the younger guy. So three, four years later, I was still too old. So, um, I didn't imagine myself playing football with 35 or something. It's like, I saw a lot of guys struggling with 40 years old and struggling to play football. I don't want to do it. So with football, go ahead. An interesting point, backtracking a little bit. When he said he started out strongman, I can guarantee you that almost every single strongman remembers their first heavy yoke. Anytime you ask us, we'll tell you how we felt and how we remember our first heavy yoke. Yeah. And I think that that point probably in every strongman's career is the make or break. They're either going to say, oh, I tried the heavy yoke. It hurt my back and I don't like strongman and I quit it. Or that shit was so freaking heavy. It destroyed me, made me want to throw up. It made me want to cry. And I can't wait to do it again. And I like it. That's where the character comes. Yeah. So which was it for, obviously you liked it, but was that the event you liked the most? Yeah. Because of that? Because it was hard. And I know if something is hard, I like it. I want it to be better. If something is easy, not interested. Dave Tate here from Elite FTS to talk to you about bands. We've been a supplier of bands for almost two decades now. So I've known my way around the band landscape. When I'm talking about bands, I'm talking about floss bands, long bands, short bands. Bands you can use for resistance training, mobility training, body weight training, and flossing. One of our most popular bands, or actually our most popular bands, are the long bands. The long bands are typically used the most with squats, bench presses. Our floss bands are bands that you wrap around the joint to be able to help with mobility, circulation. And the short bands are designed for shorter range movements, bench press, deadlifts. And a lot of times people will use them with resistance machines to help accommodate the strength resistance curve. Head over to EliteFTS.com and look for bands in the toolbar or blowout menu. So then what changed with your training now when football is gone? Now it's all strong. Training football, it was like, and working full time. It was Monday was off the all the training. So I do the groceries with my wife back then with my fans. Oh no, it was actually my wife already in Germany. Eight years already together as a lot. I'm not. And so Monday was the only day for us to make some live things. And then Tuesday after the training, after the work, gym. I came like 8, 9 p.m. So just some food and go sleep. Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, that was all the football stuff after work until 10 p.m. So going back home, eat, sleep. Saturday was game. So whole day busy and Sunday was kind of dying after the game. So maybe some sauna, but basically laying on couch and yeah. And that was the week of the football player working on the full time job. All right. So now football is gone. Yeah, football is gone. And then I can plan myself because in football, you have the training times. You have to be there. And in strongman, I can plan myself. So that was also better because we were planning to have a child who is like six this year. And I planned the trainings to fit my lifestyle. Work, family, and then gym. And then training. Uh, wait. Family, work, and then gym. Well, that makes me pause because of the most of the meat heads I know, it's like they plan the gym. Then they'll find the job. Yeah. And then whatever time's left over, they'll give to their family. Yeah. But that's kind of the stuff I wanted. I told before mental problems because they try to prioritize sport as a number one. But if they will be 50, there will be probably less sport. And sports is fun for sure. But it's, for me, it's not the number, it's not number one. It was number one when I was 19. And I told my wife, girl back then, girlfriend, that don't force me to choose between you and sport because you'll get surprised. And she never made me to choose. I chose myself. You think we'll find a right one? Hey, and you think without that, you would have the same perspective that you do now. Because I guess where I'm going with this is, let's say, let's say somebody hasn't had that with some sport in the past. You know, say I was that way with powerlifting for most of my life. Like, it's not going to change. Yeah. But since you experienced that earlier in a different sport, you, you know, the way I like to explain this is you kind of go all in with what that is. And when you go all in with that, what that is, everything else is a distant second priority. Like dance is first. There is no second, third, fourth. Yeah. When I was young, dance was number one. It was like number one. It was number two. Yeah. But it's not really two. It's like 10. Oh, yeah. You know, it's because there's this big, vast gap between them. Right. True. And, but you know what that is. And you know what that entails and you know what you have to give up to be able to do that. You also know the price other people have to pay, family members and so forth, for you to be able to do that. Yeah. And once you've done that before and you embark on some other thing and you think in your head, okay, I need to go all in to this, the same way I did with dance. The little thing goes off in your head like, whoa, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Right. Right. Because you've done it before. Yeah. And you know what all the side, what do you call that when it's consequences you're not aware of. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Right. So you know what they are because you've already seen it. Yeah. And you know that if you do that again, that all those secondary consequences aren't worth it. Yeah. That's the thing. It's amazing. Like for me, it wasn't the number one family before, but right now it is. And, uh, I, I, I always tell it like this. Um, I'm 32 right now, 33 this year, but in sports age, I'm 25 and a lot of people are 30 years old, but with sports, they're like nine. Mm-hmm . So they're like children. So they don't understand things explain to nine years old, some adult things. They don't understand it. Right. So for me, if I'm 25 in sports, that makes different choices. He's already had to make hard choices as a kid doing sports, dancing. So on. Yes. But I think experience. I think if anybody stays in any of the strength sports long enough, they come to this realization. And many times that realization comes too late. Too late. Right. Because they don't have enough years left because when you make that realization and you understand when I prioritize things better, your recovery is better. Your training is better. Everything else is better. That's stress. Which sounds fucked up to your 19 year old self. Yeah. Right. Yeah. But when it's all there and you realize all these other things can help propel the sport instead of distract, which is what you would think when you're younger. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So it's, and with the all in principle, I call it going all in on the things they conveniently want to be all in on. Mm-hmm . You know, so. Yeah. But when that pulls together, then that's when you see the second rise. Like everybody has a rise in sport. You know, just. Yeah. The people. It doesn't matter how you train. Everything that people talk about makes a difference. Does it. Right. No matter what you do, you're going to get to a certain point over X number of years, eight years or whatever it is. Mm-hmm . If you train all the time, none of the time, whatever it is, as long as you train hard. Yeah. You're going to get there. But then there's a second jump. Mm-hmm . Right. The second jump, most people never experience because priorities are fucked up. All the other things are fucked up. Most people will only hit that second jump in two cases that I've seen. One like yours, they've already done this before in another sport. Mm-hmm . And they know all these other things matter. The other is the performance starts to decline and injuries start to accumulate to a point where they're like, oh, fuck. Oh, shit. I gotta fix something. I gotta fix something. Yeah. And then they have two paths that they can go. They can go on the one path where they fix everything. Then it goes back up. Then the other path is the one where like, fuck it. They just doubled down. Like, I'm going to take 10 times more shit. You know, I'm just going to . . . Yeah, but it will end up bad. It ends up bad. I mean, it might pull them back up, you know, a little bit. Yeah. Maybe a little bit more, but then it crashes and dies. Yeah. Yeah. Hold on. Yeah, sure. Yes. So it's because that's where I'm going with this is when it sounds like because you had that before, those decisions are easier to make, but to a lot of meatheads, you know, that are kind of in that phase, they'll hear that and they're going to think, imagine what he would be like if he put more energy and more focus into the straw man, right? Yeah, but maybe that would also cause more stress and stress kills our generation, right? So. . . Yeah, but does it go through your head though, too? Yeah. You see what I'm saying? Yeah. Because it's always there. It's just, you know how to control it. Yeah, true. Because every now and again, you could think, man, if I didn't have to deal with this fucking bitch wife of mine and all this other kind of shit, you know, sorry, probably not, but. . . Probably not. Right? But it goes through, right? It's like, if I didn't have all these other responsibilities and I could just do this, then it would be so much better. No. Right? It still goes through your head, but you're like, that's bullshit. It's not true. Mm-hmm . . . You know, because these other things are where they're kind of getting you where you are. Mm-hmm . . . I think also with the right support in place, so like with my wife, she's also an athlete, she trains, she competes. It's, to me, if I don't train and if I don't prioritize my competition, my training, or whatever it is that I'm doing, I'm not letting only myself down, I'm letting her down and what her expectation of me is. So having the right person with you to support you and believe in what you're doing does actually help a lot. So then you do have to prioritize that person to make sure that you have that support. Are you still married now? Yeah. Okay. What does your wife think about this, straw man? She, she's with me for a hundred percent, always. She's not into sports at all. It's very hard. It was very hard to convince her to do sports, but her genetics are too good. She's slim. He doesn't, she doesn't care about what she eats. She doesn't sleep good, but she still looks good. Mm-hmm . . . It's like Eastern Europe, you know? She's from Belarus. So it was, it was Russia back then, Soviet Union. Yeah. Yeah. She was born in Soviet Union actually. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, but she supports me with her, all, all her power. How, how she knows how to support, you know, it's, it's pretty different because she doesn't do sports. She doesn't understand sometimes, but she, we, we, without, without understanding still, she supports. That's even better. I think. Were you with her before strongman? Yeah. Yeah. We are together. Uh. . . I think you said eight years. Well, eight years married, but 12 years together. Okay. Yeah. So I was, uh, that's pretty funny because I prioritize, I prioritize football and I said, okay, now I was straight after the studies. So I said, no more girls, no more parties, only sport, only football. And then I switched our job to burger place. Then I met her. I just saw her and it was like, it's done. Okay. Different priorities now. Hold on. Let me hear. Not different priorities back then, but, uh, done with my decision not to meet girls. Okay. Yeah. And we are together still, and we get, and we have six years old son and he is doing training with me. So that's extra motivation. Mm-hmm . . . We do together. Not now when, when it was cold, because I trained with the place without hitting, but it will be warmer. He will be back again. Yeah. Even when he was third three, he was also training with me. Was it after your first strongman event that you decided you wanted to be the best you could at that? Yeah. Yeah. I said also, 2023 at OSG, there was a Bill Kazmaier. I won a yoke and he interviewed me and what is my goal? And I said, to be the strongest man. And he said, eh, a lot of people tell that. I said, I don't, but I can also say it. And, uh, I know I can achieve it one day. I do whatever I can to do it, but it's also possible that I will not achieve it. But during this path, I will do a lot of good things. That's for sure. So going from that, while you're playing football and strongman, I'm going to assume the strongman training was just like a secondary thing that you're just using for the football, taking it somewhat seriously, but not having somebody help you. But the lifting was also different because strongman is different and football preparation, like prepare, prepare your, your body for football is different because a lot of dynamic movements, not so many heavy squats. I mean, still heavy squats, but not so heavy. And, uh, I didn't deadlift at all probably, no, just some Romanian, maybe. But that was also when I started to train consciously, like with, with knowing what I do, that was in Gdynia. That was the second team. And there was a coach from, he was, he was learning his coaching in States and he came back to Poland and he started to train us and all of other, other, other people. But he took our football team and he trained, uh, maybe, you know, Mirosław Babiasz. No, but he's pretty good strength and conditioning coach. And also he made me to, to come here because on the beginning I said, maybe not because I want to focus on the competition. And he said, just go there. So was he, was he also programming in your strongman stuff with the other stuff? Not strongman stuff because back then I didn't think about strongman, but he brought different thinking about to lifting because Polish thinking, uh, like Polish thing of lifting is way different. It's like you go straight without any warmup, you go straight heavy. And American style is a little bit different. And you still go heavy, but more conscious. So I was going to ask, how does, how did that help you in your training into strongman or generally now, let's say if you coach yourself or whatever training you do, did the football coaching training help you? A lot. A lot. A lot. That's where I was kind of going is when it was football and strongman, the football coach was doing the strength and conditioning programming for your football. And then I'm, my assumption is the strongman training, you were just figuring it out on your own. At the beginning, uh, I had my, I had a little bit help from my friend who got me into strongman. And he also had some other friend, also strongman and their, their training was based about more Russian school, which is also good. So then I was listening to them because they knew what to do, but also I know my things. So I just combined them and do the thing. So then when football is gone, are you doing your own programming? At the beginning is with help of my friends. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And then the way that, that was laid out is you look at all the things that are in your life that are important because you already said how you kind of structure the days. Well, that's what it is. I'm like, how is that getting like a ghost in here? Yeah. And, and so how, and you were laying that out based upon things that you've found worked in the past. Mm-hmm. Right. And it sounds like with the strength and conditioning that the, was the base of it Olympic weightlifting? It would make sense because it's Poland. Yeah. I still did a lot of weightlifting things like high pulls, cleans, snatches and stuff, even during strongman. Yes. All right. So then when you start training specifically for strongman and you're doing it, do you have a coach now who programs for you or you still do it predominantly yourself? I have a coach. He is more like consulting coach before it was. Um, so in the back, in the last one and a half year, I switched few coaches, but the best for me, what works is consulting with, um, Vodin. Maybe you know him. He's also very like PICP level five. He's a very good coach, but he's also very busy. So if we are doing the coaching, sometimes he doesn't time to respond or something. So consulting is better because we are meeting video online and then we talk about things, but we have a like appointment. Mm-hmm. But, uh, programming I'm doing basically on myself, but with the help of Vodin. All right. How do I explain this one here? That's where I think the all top strength athletes should be. Okay. Because if somebody is doing programming, they're just giving you the program and... I know my body. Yes. You can make adjustments based upon how you feel. Yeah. Like this day feels good. You can do it. If I understand the training, if I understand this consulting, this programming, then I can like fix it a little bit, switch something. For example, I had, I had the coach and I said, my knee is hurt. And he said, and he wrote me a program with two rep max push press. When my knee is hurt, I cannot do that. And what should I do? Because this is programming. And if I do myself, I can like switch it, fix it. And then it's better, I think. Well, the, the key, the key to all this is you have to be able to understand what works for yourself, which means you need to understand what your, what too much is and what too little is. And with experience, you'll gain that. Right. But what I wonder sometimes is if somebody comes into the sport young, like real young, like teenager, and somebody else is doing the programming all the time, then they never really get to experience. Fuck. That was way too much. Or that wasn't enough. So then they never know how to regulate it when they get further down the line, because it's always been these X's and O's. And then they're trapped in the spread, what I call spreadsheet hell. They're trapped in spreadsheet hell because they don't know how to auto regulate the training. But then the coach doesn't know how to auto regulate the training because the coach isn't there in person, you know, to be able to see and to make it because you might, your knee may hurt, but you may, you played football. Your knee may hurt. You're not going to tell them sometimes. Right. Maybe. But they can see it in your game. For sure. When I was playing football, if you tell the coach that something is hurt, he will not let you play. And the thing is to play. So you'll say, I'm good. I'm very good. No injuries. But a good coach though is going to see your gait change. Something's changed. Yeah. Right. So then they got to peel it back a little bit where the dicey thing becomes, how do you teach somebody that skill to be able to know what is too much and what is too little if they don't have somebody doing their programming first to lay down that base. You get what I'm saying? It's like a catch 22. It's like, you got to have somebody that kind of knows what they're doing. Your strength and conditioning coach would be a good example. Yeah. You know, to be able to know this is fundamentally kind of what you should do because strength and conditioning is strength and conditioning. I mean, it's that you, you can't do shit every single day. You know, you can't do stuff once a month. You know, there's some, some basic shit that kind of gets laid out in there. Then everything else ends up being in the weeds with all that, where the consulting, I think is the ticket. I actually get really excited when I meet a young lifter, especially in the stronger world now that instead of asking me, what is the program? What exactly am I doing? They start asking questions. How do I program this? Or how do I put this into my training? And instead of asking me for a program, they asked me for a book or a source to read, to learn about this. I'm like, oh, we still do that? Yeah. Understanding is the key, not like dry facts. You need understanding. Exactly. Why? Because like, as you mentioned, you get the two extremes usually of someone that either adheres so strictly to the coach's program that they will not do a single thing off program. Even if their day is completely gone to the kid, they will do their best and probably hurt themselves trying to complete the program or the complete opposite where all they have is the program. They don't understand why they do it, but their friends are doing a fun thing. So they're like, oh, let me go do the fun thing with them. And then they get injured still because now they're completely off program and they don't understand that they're not in that phase to do that. I love what you just said that understanding is the key, right? Because you can't understand without knowledge. Yeah. Right. But the understanding is going to be the level above the knowledge. And I guess to wrap up what I was trying to say is a lot of people have the knowledge. Yeah. But then to go to the next level, they don't have the understanding of what they're trying to actually achieve and how to go about doing it. Right. And that's where the consultant can come in because you're always going to have some things. I honestly, when I talk with my coach, like 85% of our time talking, we are not talking about straight programming or exercise or something. He's trying to explain me some things based on examples and how it works. So, and then I can learn even better because it's like, I can attach myself in the future. If something happens like this. Tell me about your 400K deadlift. 400K? Mm-hmm. Yeah. That was part of programming, but also understanding. Yeah. But it was two years ago, I think, or last year. I don't remember. But it was in the winter time. We did the program with my coach and then I just followed the program, but also attached it. And it was funny because I was doing heavy deadlift every two weeks. Heavy, light. And then heavy squats with light deadlifts. And I did 380. So when you say every two weeks, heavy on week one, light on week three, or heavy on week one, light on week two. Oh, heavy, heavy squats, light deadlifts. Yep. The next week, the next week switch, speed deadlifts, heavy squats, and then like this, pop, pop, pop. Yeah. And like being close to 400, I did 380, which I didn't do in my mind because I did the rep, but I thought it's not good enough. I mean, and the competition, I wouldn't whistle myself. Yeah. So I said, no, it's not good. Then two weeks later, I did 390 also. But I felt I could do this. You know, it was like not a rep, not a down signal for me. But I felt powerful. And then normally people will say, uh, 380 didn't do 390 didn't do. And then, uh, maybe it's not good. I mean, I need rest, but I felt good. I felt like after the training, I didn't feel like I'm dying or something, you know, then I was pretty motivated to the next two weeks when I was planning to do 400 and I did it easily. Like easy. Did you pull other things out of your training during that time period? Uh, sometimes when I have to, if something doesn't work, I'm taking it out and something taking it in, like bringing it in. Uh, for example, uh, I started without heavy rowing, but I felt my lat is not working good. So in the middle of this programming middle of this plan, I put the heavy rowing into it and I felt better with this. So I did like, I don't know, 260 kilograms rowing, but for the lats only pretty low. And then I felt the deadlift is better. What do you mean by you felt that your lats are not doing what they should be doing? Yeah. Yeah. So elaborate on that. Like how I, how I felt it or what? Yeah. How you, how you understood that, right? Because it's one thing to talk about it. I, I, I did, um, also on one competition, it was like 18 inch axle deadlifts. And then I felt for the first time in life that lats are actually working on the deadlift. So I know how it is. And then during this prep, I felt that it doesn't work. So that's how I felt it. And then, okay, I have to put a little bit effort more into it. And then I started to do heavy rows with LUT. I felt it better. And then I, and I could bring it to the deadlift. Okay. Kind of simple. Mm-hmm. Was that the objective of that training cycle? Or were you training for something else at that time? Was it? I was training, I was training to break 400. Okay. Because that was my, that I'm the last person with ego lifting. I'm always preparing for the, for the competition, not for the personal goal in the training. Yeah. I'm not a training champion. Uh, but this time I wanted to break this 400, like to have my peace, you know? Yeah. I want to take a moment to give a shout out to my friends over at Macedomics. I use their podcast a lot when vetting guests for the Table Talk podcast. I also listen to it a lot just because it cracks me up. Their YouTube channel is great. The podcast is on there, but they also have home gym reviews. Their apparel line is amazing. The standout products for me are these drink spotters. Rarely is it used for holding drinks. We have one on the monolith that holds the collars in between sets. Smelling salts, chalk, whatever. You'd be surprised at how much crap you can put into one of these things. Their stall mat coasters they brought out last time they were on the podcast. These things are great. Check out their website, mastonomics.com, as well as their podcast and YouTube channel. All right. With straw man, since you kind of might have been used to it a little bit with football because you're playing every single week, but straw man is not like powerlifting where there's two competitions per year that you're training for. It's kind of a grind. Two is generous. I know some people don't think one. Yeah. So how do you go about setting your training up for any long period of time? Do you know what your competitions are going to be for say 12 months in advance? Not 12 months in advance, but I have like in the beginning of the year, we got like calendar from Stringwell Champions League, for example. So we know the dates. We are not sure where we are invited, but we know the dates so we can prepare mentally. When is it, but we know that we have like winter break and then we can work on our like week points or some people just stretching up their good points, but they're not getting better. Yeah. Yeah. How long is that break? Yeah. Yeah. Usually it's from November to April, something like this. But if you decide to do other competitions, I mean outside Stringwell Champions League right now, for example, Arnold's in March. So I had my break from November to March. It's still four months. So it's good. Mm-hmm . It's, it's enough, I think, to work on your week points. For, for yourself, what have you found to be the minimum and maximum for that time? The off, the off, let's, let's just call it offseason for lack of a better word. Yeah. Minimum of time. Right. Yeah. For, because you're, optimally you're going to be bringing up your week points. Right. Yeah. Yeah. A month is not going to be enough. Right. No. So, no. What's, so four months you said works for you. So let's just say that's your minimum, right? You also don't want it to be nine months. Yeah. It's too long. Yeah. If I would have like one year of break, probably I would do maybe even some different sports for three months just to work on different level of athleticism, you know, like when I was dancing, it was straight ballroom Latin, but we were doing a lot of different dancing to get better than main thing, you know? Mm-hmm . So in my opinion, if you have longer break, do other sports. Still strongman is the main sport, but do the different ones. So the different, your body know the different movements and the muscles that didn't work for years can work again, you know? Yeah. So when you're in this four month, we'll just use this last one, right? So you're in this four month offseason where you're still training, right? Yeah. So you're still doing everything you need to do. Then you have to start getting ready for the Arnold. Yeah. How far out do you need if it's a four month break to be able to get ready for the competition? So for the Arnold, for example, I did like 10 weeks in this four month break. So first two weeks, it was going down with weights and everything, you know, just calming down, but still working, working out. So then I was like building, like going back to the foundation, like doing very basics and then start slowing to go up. Still working. So what are the very basics for you? Oh, from lifting basics are deadlift, but the squat, for example, but it's not that heavy. I mean, the way you do it, I would say, for example, squats, a lot of people do like more hip hinge, but they are using their quads properly. So in my case, it was like this. So I started to focus on my quads working on my, with my squat, you know, more high bar, not the high bar exactly, but the movement of my hips and knees, you know, because I was going away from my knees because I have this injury from football and my knees always not a hundred percent ready. So I was going away. So I'll do more hip hinge, not to struggle my knee, but with lightweight, I can struggle. I can do more with my knee. So I was doing more of it and my knees way better than it was. For example, uh, last year, July, I couldn't deadlift with legs. For example, leg drive was not there completely. I was doing only with my back. Even at the finals in Africa, I did 340, was it? Or 350 deadlift. I only two reps and almost straight legs. I couldn't use my legs, but right now it's way, way better. I did the last training, axle deadlift 380, pretty good. And I was feeling, I was feeling that I, my legs are moving, like pressing the floor. So that's a good point. So my work on my weak points on my basics, like carried over. Yeah. Yes. So then when does the event training start to come in? Uh, first I have to know the events. So if the events came out, then I start to plan when and how, uh, normally it's like I did 10, 10 weeks of preparation for the Arnolds, but event training was eight, eight weeks. I did once 16 weeks of preparation for one competition. It was way too long because when I prepare myself, I have to pick and my top, my heaviest sets are always the competition. So if I plan my deadlift, for example, my heaviest deadlift session is already the competition and then I count back with weight to pick for the competition. So 16 weeks is way too long for me then. Yeah. So if the deadlift is heavy every other week, 16 weeks is eight heavy deadlifts, which is going to be too much. Yeah. Yeah. Too much. But I, then I have to start very light and sometimes it's like just too, it was fun. For me personally, it was too long. Maybe somebody could handle it. No, I think you make a good point because if you got to back it down that light at the very beginning, then that takes a month, you know, to be able to get it to where you would normally start. Yes. And wouldn't that month have been better just focusing on the weak points, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Tending the offseason just that little bit more instead of starting your deadlift with 350 pounds. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Sometimes too light is just too light. Yeah. It is too light. Anybody can back off. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. They look at what they need to do for their top, their heaviest one. They just back it out. Right. Well, you can back it out 28 weeks and it's like a hundred. Sure. I can start with a 10-week bar. Yeah. Yeah. You can do three peaks or something maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But then you can focus two peaks on something else and then one peak for the competition. It's better than three, three, the same peaks, like competition peaks. I wouldn't say it's good. Well, that's where things are going to get weird here in the conversation, right? Because this all works when you have the four months and say the Arnold and so forth. Yeah. And then once you start to get into when the league starts, right? And then there's competitions, what? Every two weeks. Two weeks. Yeah. In June, we had like three weeks last year. Yeah. Three competitions in June. Yeah. So with the Arnold, you can actually have a peak, right? Train, have that peak, have that. Yeah. Then you have to get into when the season starts. Mm-hmm. Does that training go into a peak before the first competition? I wouldn't say so. I wouldn't say it would be a good idea either. No, no, no. I'm training for the events, but it's not peaking. It's like doing the exercise to get familiar with the movement, but it's not heavy. It's just maybe even more volume than weight, but you still are like, for example, when I'm doing the Arnold's, I'm in my peak. And strength is not that thing that goes down very fast. You're not losing strength in one month. So you can keep the strength during the season, but still you have to do the events, not that heavy, and you will still be prepared for the competitions. That, this works if it's, if it's you guys, right? Right. Right. Because you're strong. You're, you're, you're, you're strong, right? You're, let's say it's somebody that just, somebody that just came into the league. Oh yeah. Yeah. They, they have to prove themselves in that first one, or they're, they won't get invited to another one if they just suck so bad. Mm-hmm. Right. So you see that you have to earn your way to be able to do what you're talking about. Yes. But if I, when I started first, Starman Champions League, I picked for the first competition because I know I don't have any other invites. Yes. And then I, we win with Oscar to this, uh, worst, strongest team in Finland. And then they saw us. Okay. They are pretty good. They will get invites. And then we can choose, you know, then we can choose the, the, the peaking, you know, because if we have just the one competition and nothing else, then we can go heavy. But if we have like this year or last year, I know I will have three competitions in June, so I cannot go super heavy because I will have to survive three competitions. Mm-hmm . I know it already, but if you don't know it, if you are fresh, you have to focus on the first one, you're peaking. Even if you get invited for the second one, you can also always say, no, I'm not good with that. Maybe a little bit later because right now I'm tired. So that would be your advice. If it's somebody new into the league, I would say just prepare for the one competition and don't go. If you get invited for the next week or next two weeks, just don't go there. Get your regeneration, be wise and just take it easy and prepare yourself for the, for the next competition, like in three months, and then it will be better. Then they will see only the good side of you. But if you go heavy and then two weeks later, you have another competition when you probably do bad, they say, oh, he's not that good. How many times have you seen that case play out? A lot of times, a lot of times because people get so excited from the first win, whether they were lucky, whether they were just in a good shape and they haven't recovered for the second time. So they decide to jump into some competition. Straight after. And it looks terrible. They're beat up. They're still sore. They're complaining how they're sore from the last competition and they don't do anywhere near as good as they expected to. And obviously it is a public perception, both the way the other athletes look at you, the organizers, the audience, you know, if you're, they don't know that you had a fantastic show two weeks ago and now you're bad. They don't track that. So maybe you were lucky. Yeah, exactly. So you always want to put a consistent show. So like very good advice, step with your best foot forward. Take it easy and make it good. So that is my advice. So quality over quantity. Yes. To any level, both whether it's SEL or amateur competitions, or even on the big stage, I've recommended many times to athletes that come in, do fantastic, win something, take your time, step back, look at what you could have improved and come in even stronger rather than accepting every single invite that you can after that. But if they're new and they start denying invites, I mean, you're a promoter, you know, it's where's the balance. I'll accept it. If someone gives me a good reason why, if you tell me, Hey, I have a wedding, I have a family emergency. That's okay. We don't want to give good reasons. Well, that's true. But family emergency, always, always, I will accept it. I will accept it. Um, but if, if you tell me, Hey, you know what? I want it. I feel really good, but I think I need time to improve and get better. I will actually respect that. I would rather you not waste the opportunity. You not waste the spot of a, of another potentially good athlete and actually show me what you can do and show your best. And the worst thing is that for me, that you accept the invitation and you are straight after the competition, you go heavy training again and you injure yourself because you're fucking dumb. And then you can't do the competition. And as a promoter, he will say, okay, just forget about him. And bring the new one. Mm-hmm. Well, as a promoter, he's got the option to do that. Yeah. He has a lot of, a lot of people wanted to compete. So there is always another guy. Yeah. So then because there's a promotional aspect of this too, how do you balance that out? Because you can have two people that are at the same skill level that you are, and one's going to attract a bigger crowd than the other. He's going to go with the one that's going to attract the bigger crowd, which means that's a skill set that you need to work on. But if he has only guys who attract the crowds, but they're they are all dumb. It's also, you have to have, you know, you're going to love the brutal honesty here. You have to have a container, but you have to also have a real sportsman, like the mix of it. Yes. If you have only guys that lifts heavy, but they're all boring. It's not also good. Mm-hmm. Yeah. That's to be a good show. And Adam does a good job. As I mentioned earlier, he's always smiling out there. He's working with the crowd. He's been a dancer. I think that carries over so much into this, that it helps him a lot, despite whether he comes first in a competition or mid pack, or even last. I know he's reliable in his performance with the crowd, which helps a lot. So how do you go about training around injuries? Hmm. Because I think there was a quote that I saw down in here. It depends if it's minor or major, you know. Well, I think I saw a quote in here from you that said something around this, something along the lines of, it's a skill to come back from an injury fast. Sometimes, maybe too fast is that good. Mm-hmm. Maybe they're blasting too much stuff to get faster on the field, and then some stuff needs time. Like, muscles can regenerate faster, but not the ligaments. And muscles without then tendons and ligaments are not working, you know. It's basically like this. So it depends what injury you have. If it's like ouchie, then yeah. But if it's really an injury, then better to stay calm, take your time, get yourself good and ready. It's not about how fast you come, how good you come back. I forget the movie this is from, but it was a football movie, I believe, and the coach asked, are you hurt, injured, or fucked up? There's like three different levels, right? Because you're always going to be hurt. But also my sports mental is based on a lot of American football movies. I, when I was studying, I was watching almost every day, uh, American football, even sometimes like document, like not documentary, but like a fact base. And that was really always, every movie was like, I was talking, uh, two of them. But it's, it's the, remember the Titans and Friday Night Lights, that's top two for me, but they're all good. Like even this radio and this movie with the guy who was playing a radio and he was just a helper of the football team. Yeah. Rudy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's your favorite? Oh God. Um, the one that Al Pacino was in. Oh yeah. The last, uh, I know this. Also the speech will form up. Yeah. Well, yeah, that's kind of the only reason is because of that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's our balance of the speech. Yeah. Plus of that. I mean, it's, his life is like fucking falling apart, you know? Yeah. It showed the, like behind the scenes of a lot of the stuff that real or not real, but most of the time it probably is. Yeah. You know, where we, we see all these guys. I was like, and you think that you want to be in the position that they're in, but you don't, or you assume the position that they're in, which isn't actually true. You know, it's now American football probably is because of the money and so forth. But when you were playing, I mean, you weren't making money hand over fist. On the beginning, I have to pay every month, the fee to put, to train and then buy everything by myself. And so what, what to you is the difference between, um, the strongman champions league and world's strongest man? Ooh, that is also a politic question because. Yes, it is. What I will say. No, actually, no, it's not for me. Cause I don't know shit about any of it. Yeah. Yeah. But, but it is. It can be for you. It is. But. And you can pretend I'm not a promoter. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm always telling what I think and always the truth. So, uh, SCL is, I mean, worst strongest man is a little bit higher level, but also SCL athletes would do good at worst strongest man. That's for sure. Which is already proven. Mm. Mm. But. Worst strongest man is first, uh, TV show. Mm. Mm. And SCL is more about sports. It's also on TV, but it's more about sports. And what I like, worst strongest man, there was 30 athletes. Everybody have their own small circle. So everybody's hanging out with their friends or small circles, you know, and what is champions league? Everybody's together. No matter what. Are there as many people? SCL is always 12 athletes. You see what I'm saying? Because if it's 12 and if it's 30 and then they had 30. Yeah. But the S even in SCL would be 20. Uh, it is planned. Like it is scheduled to be together. Okay. We have a dinner together. We have everything together. And worst strongest man is just, okay, you have a photo shooting at this point, like this time. The other guy has one hour later. So we just switching. We are not together. I get it. I get it. And, and Champions League, Champions League is always together before the competition, after the competition. So as soon as we land, we are together until that we left. What about if you were to say? And that I like. A global overview of the events. Are they, is, uh, Strongman Champions League, shorter duration, longer duration? You know. Champions League is. I don't want to say that one is harder. A lot of contests. There was Strongman in just one. So in Champions League, we don't have that much time to prepare. That's for sure. Well, there is because there's more things, but with the specific events. Yeah. Would the events, I don't want to use the word harder. Um, what's the word I'm looking for? Um, I'll just use the word harder. In the word Strongman, would the events be harder than what you're going to find? It depends from the promoter because some competitions from SCL are lighter. Some are heavier. That's what you mean, right? Well, yeah, that's kind of where I'm getting at because if it's a league, then they can't have every single one be the hardest thing in the world. Otherwise, there's just going to be a cock measuring contest on who can kill people the most, right? If it's just one event over a year, it could be. For example, in World Strongest Men, there was a log medley, 120 to 180 kilos. And we had the same in Italy. Yeah. Same weights. Mm-hmm. Also, sometimes we have the same weight for the Deadly Four Reps as World Strongest Men. Sometimes it's easier and lighter. It's... I don't remember it was heavier than what Strongest Men, but sometimes it's comparable. Sometimes it's lighter just because of the number of the contests. Mm-hmm. Because also they want to save us a little bit more, not like kill us every competition. Yeah. Yeah. Because we have so many to put on. And not to brag, I think I remember quite a few other guys saying that my boat pull, the arm over arm, was the heaviest thing they've ever pulled. Yeah. Yeah. So even heavier than the World Strongest Men or something else. You know, it was very heavy. So I understand the political aspects from a federation level. You know, say you against you have other preembers. I get that. That's called capitalism. It's competition. I get that. But with underneath all that, you can get the political bullshit between athletes. You know, it's in powerlifting, I just call it drama. From an outsider looking in, it doesn't really look like you guys have a lot of that across strong... Yes, it's there. Like, it's always going to be there. But I don't think it's there to the same magnitude is what you see in other strengths. For sure. If there are strongmen competing for money, they will be always political and bad. Well, yeah. But if somebody is competing for the sports, for the title, for sure they're making less problems. That's 100%. So when it's competing for the money is what you said there, how much of that is real and how much of it is show? What do you mean? The drama, I guess. The drama. Because some of it will be created... Yeah, because somebody is doing good in sports and his number one priority is money. So he will do everything to win this money. And that is bad, in my opinion. That's like... In Poland, we say about it, you're just walking on heads. So you do everything. You can even sell your mother just to win the money, you know? And that's what makes it bad. And that's what I meant, the money. You know? If someone is about the money, then it's not good. That can be said with all sports, though. Yeah. I mean, you're always going to have... Yeah, but for example, Olympics. If somebody is doing Olympics, they are not dreaming about money, they're dreaming about the title. In my opinion. Most of it. Yeah, for a lot of Olympic athletes, it would be their dream to do this. When I wanted to play in the NFL, I didn't want to earn money. I wanted to play in the NFL, even for free. Yeah. That was my goal. I mean, it's not for free because they have a minimum salary. My goal wasn't make money. My goal was to play there. Because they're the best. I mean, that's a good point. Because if you take a look at it and what was happening even recently with the Winter Olympics, just the U.S. team alone, the female team, a lot of them had to buy their own bobsleds or pay for it. Yeah. Also important. So they went out there just for the dream of competing and the potential of maybe not even winning, but the hope of winning. And it was definitely not the money there for them. It would be good if they won, I'm sure. Everyone wants to win and get a bunch of money. Yeah. Well, if we look at every amateur athlete across all sports, the majority of them are doing it just for the sport. Yeah. Right? You know, so it's the ones that are going to be doing it for the money are the ones that have the opportunity to be able to actually lean into it to be able to get the money. But I would still say in the strength sports, the majority of the money that they're going to actually be able to gain is not going to come from the events. It's going to come from their own personal sponsors, their own personal promotions and so forth to fall into that. I guess it could, you know, on some of the bigger ones come from the events. But what's that going to buy you maybe six months of life, you know, at most? Yeah. I mean, what is the highest paid strongman? I think Rogue Invitational paid once $140,000 before taxes. $140,000. All right. So what? Two years? Maybe three? It's getting better. That's a good point. That's a good point because people think only two years up front. Like, I will win it and I will live like a king. Like, only fun two years and then what? No, that's what I'm saying. Only if you win. Only if you win. Because second place was like $30,000 or $40,000. Yeah, which is what? And you spent already a lot for the prep. Yeah. And now when I'm saying a year or two years, that's living as a poor-ass strongman too. Yeah. Right? Living on $30,000 a year is a poor-ass fucking strongman. Right? It's not like living fucking large. It's just enough for you to be able to compete and then that's it. Unless they're able to leverage it. You know, then they can leverage that with their own personal sponsors. But if they had the whole their life sports number one, they cannot handle the money too. Well, I guess the point that I'm trying to make is if the ones that are doing it say just for that competitive money. Right? And they're stepping on heads to be able to do that. Their reputation isn't going to allow them to be able to leverage it to be able to make the same amount of money that some of the others that have come before them have been able to leverage outside of the sport. Like their YouTube channel is not going to fucking be very good if they're complete fucking assholes. Yeah. Or they're fake as fuck. And they, you know, A lot of people are fake and they just pretend. Yeah. And they pretend on YouTube. Yes. And yeah, I will not say names, but. Yes. This is an unfortunate select. Very few. And you get those in every sport, I guess. But the select very few. Unfortunately, they have figured out how to leverage the stepping on heads and how to be dramatic and how to make and milk everything they can out of their position and situation. So, yes, winning the first place for them is only the, you know, the enabling factor there that then gives them a justification for whatever else they're doing after. So the question would be without, obviously, we're not going to name any names of anybody, but without doing that, they, did they start that way? Good question. You've been around long enough to be able to know. I guess some people, some people, I think you can tell what they're like going in. And the more they're getting nibbles of this pie and getting. By the way, just to put this out there, this is not new. We could be sitting here talking about Bill Kazmaier because he got kicked the fuck out of the world's strongest band because supposedly he was winning too frequently. Right. So this is not a new thing. Yeah. But that's the difference. Okay. So back in Bill Kazmaier's time, he was popular as a strongman and now he continues his career or continued, you know, still being an announcer or giving lectures or seminars, et cetera. But people, especially with social media, have found a way to leverage it further, whether it is a popular YouTube channel or whatever they do with their social media and getting sponsorships or whatever it is that they managed to get into after like movie roles or whatever it is. You know, they found a way to leverage it. And unfortunately, with the current state of social media, that extra fakeness, if you will, the extra drama enables them even further. And it allows them to do that and it feeds into that because people love drama. Maybe also they know what people need. Yeah. And a lot of normal people need to feel better every day. So if they see something on social media on YouTube, they feel better. So they need to see drama. Okay. My life is not that fucked up. Yeah. So they, they, they're not being themselves. They're just making scenarios for that. I mean, they're making these scenarios that they know it will be sold. Hey guys, if you're enjoying what you're watching, make sure to take a moment to like comment and subscribe. Or entertainment. Yeah. But it's not them. If I would do, I have some YouTube, but I didn't know it doesn't matter. But if I do YouTube, like, like a hundred percent, I don't want to be everything, anybody else. I want to be myself. If it's not selling, if I'm not selling myself, I'm good with that because I'm still authentic. Mm-hmm. And it's also helping my head that I'm not freak out. Because if you fake somebody else and you're like splitting yourself in two because you're this guy, but you're pretending to be the other guy. Two years later, I don't know. So the market is different. So the people need more different styles. So you are right now the third person and your mind is like three, four different persons. Yeah. Multiple personalities. Yeah. Yeah. So I want to stay myself. Maybe it's not selling it good because I have to work, but at least I have my inner peace. Yes. So how do you go about, and I've had conversations with Ilya about this on several podcasts so people can go listen to what he said about this. How do you go about training when you're on the road all the time? Because you travel a lot. On the road? Yes. Traveling and training. You mean with the competitions or with the work? With SEO. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So if it's a, I mean, I'm coming back home every time. So I have to train at home. If I'm going to the competitions, it's like four days. I'm not training at all there. I just have to come back and then train, you know? And if the competitions are pretty close to each other, I don't know how to go heavy. As I said already, I just do two or three light training like I did yesterday here. And, uh, yeah, that is pretty, pretty simple for me. I found, I find, I'm trying to find a gym and then I go do my stuff. What is your gym like where you train back home? So now it's different because after the finals, I got some money from the finals from the third place and I invested 100% to the gym. So I bought a lot of equipment. I rent, uh, like a storage before I was training at the CrossFit facility, but I couldn't have everything I had. I can, because the owner was pretty strict with CrossFit. So I can go with Atlas stones. I can't have that. I can't have that, you know? And right now I'm on my own. I rented it. I bought whatever I like. I brought it in and then I can do whatever I want. So if I go, if I want to, for example, I wanted to do this 13 inch axle. Then I bought, uh, these boxes for that and nobody will stop me because I have to prepare and I will storage it here. If I would do it in the CrossFit area, he said, I don't need these boxes. Just get it out. So you train by yourself? Right now. Yes. I mean, I'm open if somebody wants to train with me, but yeah, so far people, yeah. They, I mean, Germany is soft, so a lot of people wants to go to this fitness, you know, and there is warm, there is like a treadmill to walk, clean everything, you know, but there is nothing, nothing like just one type of barbell. For example, you can go squat over 200 kilos because it's bending like a pasta or something. So I assume you never need a spot on anything that you're doing. Spotter. I have this safety arms. I have this monolith. I have this, I have everything I need. If I need a spotter spotter, then I have a friend. He lives like eight, 80 on 100 kilometers from me. Then I call him and it's good. All right. So then tell me about a time something went wrong and there was no spotter. Without spotter. Mm-hmm. Because you're training by yourself. Yeah. So every now and then things, things go. Something I have to drop, then I drop it. It's just, it's his own stuff, I guess. Yeah. That's my own stuff. So if it, if it, if it broke, if it break, then it break. I mean, it's kind of simple, but I have a durable stuff. I also invested, not the cheapest ones, the good ones. Mm-hmm. So it doesn't break. Even if I drop something, it's good. So not, you never got stuck on it or anything that you're sitting there like, oh, shit. I had, but I've, I don't know. I just, I just can fix it, you know, by myself. If I, for example, once I was doing some, what was it? I think so overhead presses and I couldn't re-rack it or something, then yeah, I'll just do it like this and put it on the floor. Yeah. I mean, if you, if you, if you overhead, I don't know, in pounds, 350 pounds, but you can roll over 500. So you can just put it here and go down. It's really easy. So outside of the Arnold, which. I feel like you're trying to move away from the point that power lifters are soft and get stuck on this stuff often. You got what? Inside joke here. You guys shouldn't be bench pressing. So that's not going to be an issue. Okay. So even for the bench press, like I have the spotter arms. So I calculated which, which height I need and then I'm good. I can just go down and easy. Well, there's the squats. Just throw it off your back. Yeah. And squat is, yeah. You can just. Yeah. We don't have three layers of equipment and knee sleeves and a box to worry about. Oh yeah. But also I don't go like super heavy too often on the squat. So for example, I'm not doing like 95% of one rep max a lot. Like I'm going more like 85 to 90% and I can handle that. Right. Well, yeah. I would think just with your style of training that most of the lifts that you're doing in that 90% range are going to be like deadlifts. You know, the overheads. Stuff that's pretty easy to bail on anyhow. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, it's stuff that you're just going to pick up. Even if you have sandbags, stone, everything, you can just drop it. Well, that's kind of part of the sport, right? Yeah. It's throwing shit. Yeah. The lifting and throwing. Throwing it, dropping it, running with it. Yeah. Yeah. So outside of the Arnold, what are you excited about right now? Just in life and just... Yeah, that's for sure. But this year in SCL, we have some new locations. So I'm always excited about new locations. For example, we have SCL Taiwan. Yeah. That's pretty fun for me. I would go there. That's going to be a new one and a big one for us. Yeah. So every time SCL is in different country, I want to go there. Okay. With training, what are the... Because we know the things that you like. What are some of the things that you do that you don't like to do, but you have to still do? And that is from dancing. If I have to do it, I know I have to do it. It's... There is no argument between myself. I just have to do it. It still sucks though. Yeah. But I have to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is... Yeah. So for you, what are some of those things? When we were training, dancing, we had a lot of Russian coaches and they just regularly hit us if something is wrong. So it's better to just force yourself to do things that you don't like than getting hit by someone, you know? So for me, it's really easy. It's just... I know I have to do it. So I just go and do it. It's... There is no excuse. Well, I get that, right? But there's still the things that you like to do more than the things that you don't like to do. Yeah. Yeah. So what are some of the things that you don't like to do? I don't like... Okay. So... Basically, I don't like to go to the gym, just the trip. That would be better if I've had a gym like two minutes from my home. That would be perfect. I can agree with that. Because still, I have to go 25 minutes and I have to get into the car, drive the... Yeah, I get that. Because that 25... Yeah. If you're already at the gym, you have your equipment like here, like... Mm-hmm. And you're excited about it. You just go and do it. Yeah. No, I get that. Because that 25 minutes, if everybody's being honest with themselves, can either be the longest 25 minutes of your life, because you really don't want to go, but you have to go, as you just discussed. Yeah. And it's... Or it goes like that. It's very often. If I don't want to go when it's 25 minutes... Oh... A lot can change in 30 minutes. You could be excited to go. And by the time you get there, you're like, shit. Sometimes it takes like one and a half hour until I left home. Because I... For example, I plan... Because I train myself. I plan to go 1 p.m. But it's already 1 p.m. Mm-hmm. Let's eat something first. Mm-hmm. Then it's like time is running, time is running. It's already 2.30. I have to go to the training. Okay, let's go. It's hard. That's the hard part. If you were to guess percent-wise, being 100% honest, how frequently does that happen? Oh, very often. Almost every week. No, thank you for saying that. Because I think people need... I think people need to hear that, right? Yeah. Because you've done this for a long time. They're like, oh, man. Because when you're young, say when you're 19. Yeah. When you first started. It was easy. You love it, man. I love it. Six days in the day. I was motivated 24-7. Yes, yes. It was never a single day that I didn't want to go train. I couldn't wait to go. If the day was like a pause, like free day, it was the worst day in the week. Yeah. Because I didn't do it. Yes. Well, most people will lie about that question and say, oh, no, I still... Because they're not actually...