 l-fulfulfulfulful l tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech tech 2020 was the year where I was like, okay, if it doesn't work out this year, if I don't make it on this year, I'm not bodybuilder anymore. That'll be it for me. So that year was, okay, if it doesn't work this year, I'm done. You know what's interesting? Sorry to jump in. For every kind of great or successful bodybuilder or even just athlete that I've kind of interacted with, they all have a point like that where they were on that edge. Yeah, there was a questioning, okay, this is the last kind of go, and if it doesn't work out, I need to get a real job. I would say that's all strength athletes. It's everybody. It's probably every athlete. What pushed it over the edge to say, okay, now this is it? I mean, that was because I was in debt, you know, credit card. Everything else was racking up. And literally 2020 was like, okay, I literally came in 2020 and I did, okay, this is before COVID actually started. I was like, look, I'm going to do whatever it takes to make it this year. If by the end of this year I haven't stand on the only period stage, I'm done with bodybuilding because it's just not for me. So when we kind of started, I remember we started prepping for a show in April. I mean, the show was in April, so we started prepping at the beginning of the year. And then COVID hit. Yeah. And I was kind of like, damn, okay, what do you do now? I mean, I didn't know how long it was going to last. I thought it was, you know, just like most people thought, oh, it'll probably be a couple weeks so everything will go back to normal. But you've already made a deal with yourself that this is the year you're doing everything you have. Yeah. And then when it happened, I was like, okay, I'm not going to stop. I'm just going to keep going. Yeah. And then weeks and months and months. And I was on prep for almost six months before I even got the chance to go to South Korea. So every show that I was pretty much like two weeks away from, it gets canceled. And it's like, okay, now you're going on to six weeks. So I carried on prepping anyway. And then you get close enough and then you go counseling and you go, oh, now you're going on to 10 weeks. Okay. And then it just felt like it carried on like that all year. And then finally, when obviously the opportunity came to South Korea, I'm like, well, hell, this one has to work. So it was kind of like. And that was second though, right? Yeah. So did you qualify? Excuse my ignorance. But did you qualify that year? So what made you stay? Basically. Because you see what I'm saying? You didn't do what you wanted to do. Because basically at the end of 2020, you know, I was like, damn, okay, what do you do now? Basically, you know, doing the whole quarantine. Yeah. And, you know, if you have to go to a new country, you have to quarantine in a whole time. Yeah. Yeah. 14 days. So it was in that period. And basically all the shows are being canceled and everything else. Yeah. I really want to qualify for the Olympia that year. So I was like, you know what? The only show UK, we weren't allowed to fly into the States. The only show we could fly to was the one in South Korea. So I kind of called them up and said, look, I want to do your show. What was the requirements? And they go, if you're coming from UK, you're going to have to quarantine in a hotel for 14 days. Yeah. And at the time, I still thought about it thinking, okay, it's probably like, you know, a beautiful hotel. Got to the hotel gym. You know, yeah, no big deal. I'd probably call in, take out and sort of have those meals prepared and everything else. And first, I thought it was going to be like that, you know. And when I kind of spoke to the promoters, I mean, it was, no, when you get there, you don't, we don't give, we can't reach you. We can't give you anything. You're literally in your room for 14 days. You ain't allowed to leave that. You can't go to the gym. You can't do it. That's it. So they're sending you like a peanut butter sandwich every couple of hours. You don't get that. Really? You don't get that. Basically, you're not allowed to, you don't have meals. They bring you, like, you know the kind of meals you have in the airplane? Yeah, yeah. They bring you that three times a day. Your last two weeks. Yeah. And at the time, at the time, he's 280 fucking pounds. You know. He's trying to, trying to. All right, so how'd this go? So, basically, so basically, you know, they told me about it. And they said, yeah, yeah. And I kind of thought about it. Go, okay, this is impossible. It's not going to be two weeks off. I'm sure you're not going to. Okay. Okay, so we said, you're pretty much in shape and everything else. You got to maintain that for two weeks. You know what? I was hungry, man. I really wanted to do a show. I really wanted to qualify for the Olympia. So, you know, I speak to my wife and we said, you know what? Is it actually possible? Can it be done? And I was like, hell, then what is going to do it? I'm going to freaking do it. You know, I was going to say, yeah, let's do it. So, we said, okay, forget packing any clothes and everything. You don't need all that. You just need enough food to last you for two weeks. Yeah. So, we took all our chicken breast, all that thing, froze it up overnight, like literally have it frozen. Stuffed my bag with as much frozen food as we can. Went there. Literally, as soon as I got there, got guys with hazmat who put you in a van, put you in a truck, take you there, put you in the room, shut the door. It's okay. See you in two weeks' time. So, I was in there, obviously, sleeping in the office. Yeah. Every morning, they obviously drop your meal three times a day. Look at the meals and you just look at it and go, yeah, straight in the bed. You can't eat none of that. And, you know, wake up in the morning, first thing, do cardio. I'll be running on the spot. He was posting stories on his Instagram. You can't leave the room either. So, you're like running in your... He's posting stories just running on the spot. I'm watching this going, what the fuck is this guy doing? So, run on the spot and then use band work, anything like handstand, push-ups, anything just to keep that shape going and everything else. So, did that, you know, I mean, that's when we first started talking and everything. So, did that for two weeks straight. And, you know, it was definitely an eye-opener and everything else. And it was something that he's just, he was kind of shocked to be able to do that. And then, I remember after the two weeks, on the 14th day, they said, oh, by the way, we got bad news. The show's been canceled. So, you know, and, you know, at the time, I remember at the time, I was working construction at the time and we went, I wasn't allowed to travel overseas at that time. No, I wasn't allowed to travel, but they frowned upon it because it was all the, you know, corona. They really didn't want anybody so risky or anything. So, I couldn't even tell my job I was going there. So, we kept it quiet. So, when I was there and I was, you know, putting everything on the line just for this, they found out and I go fired. Wait a minute, wait a minute. I didn't, I didn't know this part of the story. Oh, he did. Okay, wait. You did a really bad job of not, of keeping it a secret because he was posting on Instagram every day. No, I didn't. For the first seven days, we left. Yeah. Oh, you didn't post until after. Nobody knew. Okay. And then, after seven days, the promoters were basically trying to promote the show and they said, I was coming to do the show and nobody believed them. They were like, he's, he's not here. He has coined it. Yeah. So, the promoters basically asked me that, look, can you just release a video just saying, look, I'm in South Korea, I'm in the hotel room. Yeah, just so that somebody will, yeah. So, I did that post and I sent it to the promoter, look, just don't tag me in it, just keep it yourself because I'm really trying to keep this on low key. So, did that and everybody saw it and everybody shared it and I was like, okay, this is, see how this goes. And then, he found out about it and then he interviewed me and then he went over you. Even then, I didn't want to put it on my social. I mean, it was on YouTube. But, somebody obviously at work went to Google it and it popped up and they found out about it going, hey, what's this? And, they obviously, they weren't happy about it. So, it was almost like you were putting everything on the line just for this one. But then, the show never happened. The show never happened at first. You know, the show never happened at first. No, no. So, they counted it first. Yeah, but then they put it back on. And then they put it back on. And then they put it back on. The same day though? No, two weeks later. Fuck! So, they had to stay there. Stay for careful. They had to stay. Stay in the dark. So, basically, because after the first two weeks, they said, okay, because after quarantine, you can actually talk to the public. And they said, look, Sam, you can either go home now and call it a day. Nice try. But we can promote the show. We can postpone the show for another two weeks. Or you can choose to come out to another hotel and go to a proper gym and eat properly and stay there for another two weeks. And, at the time, I was kind of like, I've just gone through this. And, obviously, when they just told you that, oh, by the way, we promote the show, we're proposing the show because it could cancel. They're not even guaranteeing you that it will be on in the effort for another two weeks. Yeah. They just said, well, you can stay for another two weeks. We think we can put it on then if you're willing to stay. So, it's almost like, okay, I've already made a loss. I've already been here this long. And you're not guaranteed that you're going to have another two weeks. So, what do you do? Do you just call it in and call it quits? Or do you say, oh, sorry, I'm already here. You mean I want to stay. So, there we go. So, that's basically what happened. And, at the time, I was like, okay, I'm already here. Yeah. At least this time, I'm known. You have a little more freedom, too. A little more freedom. So, I stayed for another two weeks and then did the show and came second. So, it was definitely one of those experiences that really, I mean, pretty much changed my life. Yeah. But, can I, sorry, this is a sidebar question. Was that the place where, was it the gyms that you couldn't wear your shoes in the gym? Yeah. Or was it just in the locker room? It was in the locker room. So, you couldn't wear your shoes in the locker room? It was in the locker room. I didn't even know the locker room was like wet floors and everything else. Yeah. Yeah. So, you go to the locker room and you got to take your shoes off before you walk in. But then the floors are all wet and shit from the showers. Yes. Wow. Because everything makes so much sense. I just remember, I remembered from hearing that, I was like, that's fucked up. Yeah. So, what happened after that show then? What was your next thing? So, basically, we did that. We kind of did that show and came second there and flew back to the UK and everything else. And then I think by that time, the outside was kind of bringing out the COVID measures and everything, we went down a bit. And then we had a show in Spain. Did that place fourth. And I was basically, my 2020 year was basically that point. I remember, even at that point, I was kind of like really disappointed because I really wanted to qualify for the Olympia that year. And everything just seemed like, the only thing I went to plan was basically me meeting for that. Everything that year felt like it fell apart. So, we started sort of prepping towards that show. And everything was going really well. You know, at this point, I'm feeling really good. You know, things just started coming together nicely. And I'm feeling like, okay, you know what? This is the big break. This is the point. I know I can do this now. I got a good support system. Everything's working out. And we started prepping. And then we kind of got to about eight weeks out. And, you know, I remember, you know, I spoke to John the Friday. And we kind of had our check-ins like we do. And he kind of said, man, kid, you know what? You're going to shock the world when you get on stage. You know, they're not ready for what's coming. You're going to really shock a lot of people. And, you know, he started making me believe that, you know, I've really said, okay, you know, this feels right. It feels good. And I remember that Friday, we kind of spoke and we had a check-in. And he was like, you know, kind of do that. And then I think it was like on Sunday afternoon, you know, I started getting messages from people and saying, oh, man, I'm so sorry for you, man. My condolences and stuff like that. And I was kind of like weird and weirded out and freaked out. But I was like, what the hell are they talking about? What is this? And, you know, at that point, he was like, okay. So I remember switching on the news to see what was going on. And I kind of opened up social media. And, you know, that's when I actually heard about John's passing. And, you know, that was the point where it was like, man, okay, that was it. This, nah, it just, it's like, you know, every time you seem to catch a break, life has a funny way of pulling that thing out of my feet, you know. So, yeah, that was the moment that I just thought, you know, I can't do this, you know. So, and I really thought, you know, nah, I was going to pull out right then and say, look, that was going to be the end of it. You know, and obviously spoke to Fouad and spoke to the rest of the guys and everything else and said, look, you know, with everything that's happened. And then I was already halfway through a prep anyway. Right. So, you know, they kind of advised me that, look, you know, you and John have already been working on something. You really, you know, he really believed in you. He really believed that you're going to do something big with it. Don't, don't stop. Finish, you know, finish up what, what you said you were going to, you know, finish up the race, keep going. So after that, you know, I kind of, after, you know, a day or two of just kind of like thinking about it, I'm really thinking, damn, okay, you know, if I'm going to do this, I'm going to do it for John. I'm going to carry it. I'm going. So I basically kind of reach out to, you know, but John have always spoke to me, like, you know, he speaks to my coach, Milos, and he tells him about me and saying, look, I got this guy in the UK, you know, he's going to be something you wait to see him and so I think. So I thought, okay, if I was going to do this, I need to reach out to somebody that actually knows about what Ben John were doing and everything else. So I needed, I needed help. We knew we were big. Yeah. Coming there. I mean, I remember when we started coming down and I, we got to a point where we were 10 weeks and what happens is, because I got like, you know, just like most of us, we got buddies, the small field, right? Yeah. You got a lot of size and we feel big. Yeah. We're like, oh, we lost everything. So I always make sure that, look, when we start prepping, I'm like, look, I stopped checking my weight on scale. Oh. It's all about getting lit. Tell him, tell him that he didn't check his weight once. I didn't, I didn't want to know. I was like, look, if you, if you start honing in that, you start self-reflecting. Yeah. Not yet. You don't want to get smaller than that. Oh my God. I weigh two. I weigh two 98. So my wife goes in and she takes, she takes. I know it. Like that sucks. You know? So my wife, she goes around the house. She takes all the batteries out of the scale. She's like, no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's all. Oh, yeah. She's like, no, we don't want to know. She goes, you check it, you get depressed. Don't. So I'm like, I know, I know. So she takes it out. So we don't, we don't know, you know what I'm saying? I was like, oh, what are you wearing now? I was like, honestly, we're going to have to skip that line because it's not happening. I don't want to know. I said, okay, forget it. We just go back and look. So we come in down and I'm, by that point, I'm wearing four XL t-shirts. I'm coming down and we get lean and I'm going, I'm still wearing four XL t-shirts. You're not getting smaller. You're not getting lean. I'm thinking, this is interesting. So we came all the way down. We're like two weeks out from the show. And I'm looking and going, and everybody in the gym going, dude, you still look just as big as you in the office and you still look huge. I'm like, yeah, but you know, come on, man, but you can't, you can't really be that. And we were sort of, you know, honing in that idea of just getting in shape and thinking about it. And I'm really curious. I remember I kept asking, so what are you wearing? What are you wearing? And I'm like, I don't want to know. I know that, but I don't want to know. So then when we obviously flew out to, because even when we were going, because I always check my weight, the only time we'll check my weight is a week out from the show. Yeah. We check it once and even then I don't want to know. So what happens is I'll stand, I'll close my eyes and I'll stand on schedule. My wife will actually take a picture of it. Well, no, we'll take a video of it. Oh, she'll take a picture of it. Even Arnold, it was the same thing. My wife takes a video of it and she doesn't tell me until after the show. And I'm like, I don't want to know. I don't care. Just do it and let me know later. So she takes a video of it and takes a video of the whole process. And I'm like, okay, cool. So we went out to, we went out to Vegas and, you know, she, she obviously whispers this to Milo's like, you ain't gonna believe this. He's still 200, 300 pounds. Because he's like, he's 296. Milo's like, don't tell anybody. How did that feel for you, Samson City? Getting a seventh, like, I don't know how you feel about feeling. Oh my God. You know, the thing is like, like I said, when I got in the body video, it was 2014. I remember that's when I was planning on doing my first amateur show ever. And I remember Generation Iron, that movie came out literally the day of my show. And I remember Mel bought the DVD and we sat down in her flat and we watched it before I went out to the show. And I was in awe, you know, you go, oh my God, that, this is, this is what Buddy can be. You know, this is what it is. I remember seeing Phil and just mind blown. Just like, oh my God, this, it just looks, this God-like physique and everything else and all the demeanor and the confidence. And I was just blown away by him. And even all to now, I still look at him in that same way. Yeah. And so when you're kind of there and you see him walk up to you and he knows you by name, he knows you almost, because I'm standing there, I'm trying to be cool and not be, not just have my jaw just drop on the floor and be like, you know, but I'm standing there going, thank you. And I'm thinking, oh my God, oh my God, oh my God, oh my God. Yeah. You know, so yeah, it really is. The night before you have Arnold, he'll give you a trophy and then the next night, it's, oh my God. Well, my question is that, that night when you're in bed, like everybody else is away. Yeah. It's because that all goes away, right? Yeah. On a stage, all that stuff, all the shit's cool. What's going through your head that night when you're just laying there? I remember, obviously, now we went and went back to the hotel for a minute and, you know, I put the trophy on the table and I said, I'm about to go to bed and I'm thinking, I'm not sleeping tonight. Yeah. I know I'm not going to sleep tonight. And, you know, I had to switch off and I knew that way. Yeah. So I kind of went to sleep and I remember waking up in the middle of the night, I think it was 5 a.m. I wake up in the middle of the night and his room is dark and I switch on the light to see, was he all a dream? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I literally switched on, I went into the room and looked at the trophy going, it really happened. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh my God. Yeah. It was a dream, it actually happened. Yeah. And, you know, the thing is, like you say, when you're working that hard for something, you dream about it. Yes. Every, you visualize it, you dream about it. Because you're in the grit and you're feeling every pain of trying to achieve it. So you visualize it over and over and in your dreams and even the call outs. I remember I'm dreaming about the call outs. I'm dreaming about, okay, when it goes wrong, when it goes right. I'm dreaming about it. And even when we were backstage at the finals and we're about to go out for the results. And I remember, you know, I'm sitting there going, you know, tonight we're going to have the results. I'm thinking, I dread that part so much. I'm dreading when they call us, when they're making the awards. I'm going, of everything else, that's the moment I fear the most. Because I'm standing there and I know in my mind, I'm saying, all I can envision is me winning. But what about if it doesn't happen? What do you do then? And I just couldn't visualize what I would do if it didn't happen. And I'm sitting there and I'm thinking, okay, you know, we're standing about to go on. I'm thinking, okay, maybe you're trying to sort of prepare yourself just in case it doesn't. I'm trying to envision, okay, that moment when it all comes falling down, what do you do? What do you do? And I'm just like, I don't, I can't think about it. I just don't know how. I just cannot see me not winning. I just, you know, and it was just so hard to visualize. So when we were on stage and they were obviously calling out the results. And it got to that point where it was like, okay, I'm second place. And it feels like the whole world pauses at that moment. And that might be a few seconds for everybody. For you, it feels like hours. And you're standing there and you're thinking, oh God, oh God, oh God. Is it enough? Is it time? Is it now? Is it time? What is going to happen in the next few seconds? And you realize you just won. And it feels like all the whole prep, all that pressure, all that dream, all that hope, all the thing you think, come on, man, I can do this. I can do this. It feels like all that weight just got pulled off your shoulders. Can I comment on something in that moment? Considering Andrew had just been announced third. Yeah. And I had it as, in my opinion, you could either have Nick in first or third. I didn't think they were going to put him in second. So honestly, starting now, what were you expecting in second? Were you expecting second or first? I was, I went and did, considering Andrew was third. Actually, that was the first point that scared me a bit. Like I was standing there and I was thinking, okay, are they going to, you know, we're both very similar. Yeah, yeah. Are they going to have us, you know, Nick in first and I'll be second that point. And honestly, when you're standing there, I saw that, but you feel like someone's stuck a knife in your gut and they're just twisting it. And you're standing there and it's almost feeling like, oh no. No. No. And you, you literally, that's what I mean. That moment feels like slow motion. And I'm thinking, come on, man, really? Yeah. Come on. I just, you can't tell me it's not now. You can't tell me. And then it feels like finally when you hear that, it's like, oh my God. And it really, it's a surreal moment. There's no words that can ever explain that moment when you get that confirmation that, yeah, you were right. There's no words that can ever done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done done