 All right, guys, for this crew cast, we just finished doing a gym tour-ish type of thing, where I went through some of the items and kind of told the story behind all those. The, what I wanted to do with this is my file structure when it comes to storing photos is horrible. So essentially they were just all in one giant folder. So as I was trying to find images, of some of some of the equipment that we have to be in the way of some of the equipment that we have out here that we have out here that we've had for over 25 years, I'm finding and I'm remembering stories from all these different locations that the gym has been in. So I wanted to pull up and kind of expand a little bit on the gym tour that we did. So I have some files I'm going to pull up, some images that we're going to go over, which kind of talks a little bit about the history of the company, the history of the gym, the history of some of the products, and more more so the gym. I'm leaning into this one. I could do another one that is just on the office, another one that's just on the warehouse. But as I was putting all this together, you can see how all these kind of tie together. So I'm going to start with the original gym that I had was in my garage. And this is while I was still training at Westside Barbell. And the intention of this was, actually wasn't in my garage, it was before I even moved to that place. It was in a shed that I had out back. And the reason was just for sled work, to have somewhere to be able to put, that's really all it was, was the sled. So Louie gave me a sled, and he gave me this big ass 100 pound plate, which we still have out here, that I would use for, actually, I didn't really use it at all, because I was doing it in the gym, or I was doing it as I was training clients. So it just kind of sat, didn't do shit. To be completely honest, that whole time until we moved into London, Ohio. And the reason for the move was the house that we were in, we, the equity was good. So selling was a good, was a good move to be able to do. I did not like living in downtown Columbus, which was another reason. Probably the bigger reason for me was Elite FTS was founded in 98. So it was mail order. And there weren't a whole lot of orders, put that politely. But there were some. And then when we would have the orders, I would have to package them up, and then take them to the post office. And that, that alone was kind of a pain in the ass, especially in downtown Columbus, where the post office was always busy. And your sleds, I remember, were part of this. Sleds were a pain in the ass. And especially if you had two or three, so you had to carry them in. And then whatever else it was at the time, like, sleds are probably the biggest item, couple supplements and stuff like that. And then, where, where, when I saw the, the home, that good friend of mine, Todd Brock, his dad refurbished, what attracted me to the home was, first off, it wasn't in Columbus. Secondly, you can't see the front door. And so if somebody was driving, because the problem in Columbus is I couldn't just leave it out for the post office or whatever to pick up because somebody was going to steal it. This one here, you can't see the front door. So I would be able to leave the packages out, drive into Columbus, train my clients, train at Westside, whatever it is, and then drive back and not have to worry about it. So that was the biggest selling point of the home for me. There's a lot of other selling points, but that's really what it was. So during that home office time, which would have been 98 to 2004, the, the office was essentially that was the office. Then on the wall that you don't see were plastic racks to where the inventory would be. This is fine. Yeah. There is that little TV there where a lot of the clips that you see that were from some of the old, old, old videos. I had a VCR over here and then it would run to that TV. Then there was some device that would be able to strip the footage from the VCR to the actual computer and then be able to post the clips that way. I use those a lot for the seminars I was doing at the time to be able to put it in the seminar to be able to show what, how to do the actual movements. And so this wall that you don't see that had the inventory ended up being the spare bedroom. And then it started to overtake the spare bedroom. So the gym at the time with the focus there was, so I had a event. And when it started, it was just the sled and a stretch trainer, the ab bench, the blue ab bench from Westside Barbell. And then, you know, over here on the left, that's a decline sit-up bench, which I still have in the warehouse now. So most of what was in there was to train the torso, which were the majority of the extra workouts that I had. There's, I forgot about the chest supported row that I had in there. Then there was a power rack, which really never got used because it was just extra workout type stuff like that. When we moved out into the main street location, the way that building was situated was, this was right when you walked into the building and that's where I put the equipment. So at the time I moved out there, Louie had given me a reverse hyper, the ab bench he gave me when he moved from the dimmerous location to where he is now. So the, I think he gave me just about everything in here, the combo bench rack, the chest supported row and the glued ham raise. And then the power rack was the one that I already had in there. At the time we were, we were selling power racks from, from Louie that he was getting from a company. I'm not going to mention they're no longer around, but all kinds of shit kind of happened with that. So we'll just leave that out of the equation. And so I would take the orders for the equipment, fax it over to Louie. Then he would kind of put it through when this shit show happened between Louie and the equipment he was working with. I had existing orders of racks and didn't know what to do with it because the way I was kind of growing the business is the ship time for equipment back then was between 12 and 16 weeks. So I could get the order for the equipment. Then I could use the money from that order, roll it into a faster moving product like books or some of the supplements and some of the other smaller things that we had at the time. And then hopefully sell those by the time the invoice came to be able to pay for the equipment when it was going to ship. So long story short, I have these outstanding orders and I have to be able to fill these racks. So I had to find somebody to be able to build the rack. So the person that I found at this time was building racks, which this is interesting, right? Because at the time, all the equipment that you would buy, the power racks would be in three pieces. And that was kind of standard. If it was three by three rack all the way down to two by two or anything of that sort. The person I found to kind of fill this gap was building the racks as you kind of see them today in multiple pieces, which that's the rack that I had. And so that kind of filled that buffer. And then I went through a couple other companies until I found the one that we've been working with for the last two decades, which thank God, because it was just a clusterfuck before then. So that was kind of in there and I couldn't wait to get that out because it wasn't as stable as what I would have wanted it to be. It did the job, but at that time, you know, everybody felt it should all be welded. It should be 100% welded, which is so odd looking back on now because that's not the case at all. And it didn't turn out to be that case. So this would be the front room when you walked in. So very, I rarely use this. If I used it for anything, it was just for the ab work, for the reverse hyper, for the extra workout that were in between. So this would essentially be S1. And then when you walk through that area, this was the office and it was just me. So it was just my office that was there. Then when you walk through there, there's a really small warehouse type area. So the way that this kind of all worked was because when I moved in there, I had I could afford the rent, which was a few hundred bucks. What I didn't know at the time was that Wi-Fi was more expensive than the rent. So I couldn't afford the Wi-Fi and the rent. So I would take the orders. I would do the majority of the work at home. I'd print the shipping labels off. Then I would drive into this location, package the orders up, wait for UPS to come. Then when they left, I'd either do my extra workouts and some of the training. I was still at Westside at the time. So it's just a little bit there. Then I'd go back home and just kind of rinse and repeat. And this went on for 2005 to 2008. So it went on for several years. But what happened when the let me. Yeah. So what happened was this front area ended up being the office area to where we put in cubicles. And that's when we brought Wendler in and we brought in a customer service rep. And it was my wife and I at the time. So all this shit here had to move. And this door that's to the right led to the place that was right next door, obviously. And they went out of business. So we took the rent over on that, moved the equipment over. And then that became where the gym was. A couple things happened there. So this is one angle of it. I don't have a lot of pictures of that place. But at this time, I shifted my training so the max effort bench and the dynamic effort bench I could be able to do here. That way, because now I have employees as well. And I'm still not paying myself, by the way. So it was four or five years before we could pay it all. So I'm still training clients and going back and forth and all this other shit. But this allowed more time to be so I could work and get more shit done while I was there. So this original bench rack I let go of when we moved into this location. The monolift, that made it through a couple different gyms. The bar holder that you see here, that's still in here. The chalk box is still in here. The dumbbells are still in here. Up until last year, the power squat machine was still here. The only reason I replaced the power squat machine, the leg press, and the hack squat that we have out here is essentially just aesthetics. This was a bitch to move into this location, by the way. But it was a main driver for Wendler's squat. That was one of the sessions that he had there where when he added this in because he was a quad dominant squatter, his squat just blew up. So it was also in this location is this monolift here was half owned by Louie at the time. Because when we were putting meets on together, there was only three I think that we did. He wanted to always have equipment. So if we ever traveled to a meet, we had enough equipment if the meet director didn't have anything. The one story I told was this image here of my son was at that monolift. And this was for a Powerlifting USA ad that I did. And I wanted something different. With our Powerlifting USA ads, I wanted something. I wanted it different than what everybody else was doing. Because I had a couple years to where I was doing just the little quarter page ads of the products and the price of the mail or at it. And what I wanted to do is I wanted to take out full page ads and drive people to the website essentially just for the training logs and for the education. So one of the things I was doing at the time was I would take our sponsored lifters, get a professional photo of them in a meet and use them as that main full page image. Because at the time, no lifters were getting full page image in the magazines at all unless it was the cover. So my thought process is if I can give them something similar to the cover, then I would have the opportunity to be able to get more top lifters that wanted to be part of the team and keep their training log on the site. So all those ads were of them to drive back in. And I do think that there were, for a while, we were doing two page ads in the center. So you could pull it out and then it would kind of be a mini poster. This one here was an ad that I wanted to put out that was different. That was just this image and it said, someday I will, which is still a banner and posters that we sell now. But at the time that took off to where you would see this in almost every gym that was out there. And to get my son to be able to do this, we had to put this rubber ball, like a playground ball, in his lap to be able to have him sit there long enough to get the photo. But it resonated because it's 500 pounds. It's a young kid. You know, someday I will, you know, grow up and squat 500 pounds. So it's kind of plays into all that. So it's Jim being Jim. And then Chris was customer service. So it got to a point here that we outgrew this. And then in 2008, we moved to Maple Street. And when we moved there, it was a little different because where we were at on Main Street, everything was there. You know, the warehouse was there. The gym was there. Everything was there. When we moved to Maple Street, it was split up. So we took the bottom part of this building, which is like a house. But the bottom part of that for the office, then across the way was the warehouse. Then right next to that warehouse was a smaller warehouse. And on that warehouse door, S1 was the warehouse. S2 was where the weight room was. And the weight room there was this. You know, so now there's a couple more racks that we put in there. The chalkboard is still the same. The deadlift platform came in during S1 because when we hosted the IPA Senior Nationals, I wanted all new equipment in there. I wanted the deadlift platform in the warm-up room. And then after the meet, we had to break it down and take it to that other gym that I showed you. And then it ended. It's still here now. So that's a piece of equipment that's been, it's probably 30 years old. But the power squat was in here eventually. I think I put the leg press in here soon after. So this would be the S2. And the S2 we ran into when we started doing apparel, the blanks started to take up too much of the warehouse space. So when we first started to do apparel, this was the middle room. So when you walked in the door, there was a main office area, which was my office. There was like a tiny waiting area. Then there was this main office area to where this was after we converted it. But this is kind of where Wendler's desk was. Then we had a content person that was here. And then, so take all this out and just put desks in there. The apparel desk was here. So we're heat pressing apparel. He's working there. And this, it's not quiet. And then this started to become full of blanks. And it was also kind of a pain in the ass because we had to take the apparel, which would be dropped in the warehouse, move it into there, print it, carry it back out to the warehouse every single day. So it's when that got to a stage to where this was just too much of a pain in the ass, we realized we had to move the weight room out of there and there was nowhere to put it. So we ended up putting it out in the middle of the country, which was at an old tractor supply shop, which I'll get to in a second here. But this was the gym after we moved the gym out. So when I talk about blanks and stuff like that, all this shit was essentially in that small office that I just talked about. So moving and where some other photos from S2. This here was the reason I put this in here is we have that floor press bench now. This is kind of where this comes from. So at this time we wanted to do floor presses, but keep the leg drive in. Because when you do a floor press, you're supposed to have your leg straight to be able to take the leg drive out. So I wanted to have the floor presses to keep the legs in the lift, but to still restrict the range of motion. So we would take box squat boxes or the adjustable boxes, put them beside the bench, and then put like an Aridex pad on there to make it so it would be even to what a floor press was. Because, you know, I didn't know then, you know, that 15 years later we'd have essentially a floor press bench to where those kind of come out. So that takes us to S3. So this is that tractor supply shop. So the leg presses in there, more of the pieces of equipment came in. I always had this problem to you give me more space, I'm going to put more shit in it. So that ended up being an issue where the bar wall started. Or you see all these pictures here. If you look real close on this right-hand side, you see this blue shit. This entire wall was just blue insulation. So we were doing content and seminars as well. Part of the reason why the Main Street location worked as well is I was doing seminars at the time. And the way that would work in Columbus is I would rent a chart room or the conference room of a hotel for the lecture, then use Westside for the hands-on. And that worked. It worked fine for a couple years. But it's still the logistics was kind of a pain in the ass because you had to get everybody from one place to the other place. And sometimes they're not even staying at the hotel to where that is. Where that Main Street location allowed to be able to have everything under one roof. Then when we came out here, we were able to have bigger events. But the problem was the aesthetics were horrible, you know, because of that blue shit. So my answer to that was to start taking and printing photos on my whatever the fucking printer was in my office of anything I could find. So some of them were old meat photos. Some of them were Photoshop or not Photoshop, but photo shoot things that we did. And I would just start stapling them on the wall. After a while, the pictures are started falling down. So the answer to that was to put them all on poster boards and staple the poster boards up. And then after a while there, I started to get smart and we put the poster boards on plywood and just fill that wall in. So the aesthetics of part of this outside of the training is no matter where you were in the gym, if we did a video, if we did a photo or if there's a photo shoot, you knew where it was. So I would lay on the ground, I would sit on different places, take photos all over it to be able to see if our brand was somewhere in the image, no matter where you were or something that represented that. So the photo wall was the first thing is to kind of hide all the shit, but to be able to help with the brand. And the bar wall, which started at this time as well, was just to kind of hide that blue shit as well. And so this is kind of where the bar wall started. It's where the photo wall started. Some of these photos here were what became the racking the bar cover. So the book for that book. One of the problems that we had when we were out there, personally, I had was it was a few miles away from the compound. And Jim would put it. So if something was to be delivered or if I had to go out there, especially the deliveries, that was the biggest pain in the ass, because you don't know when they're going to drop it off. And they don't really tell you when they're going to drop it off. So I'd be out there for hours just waiting for a piece of equipment to be delivered or whatever was being delivered at that time. And so a lot of my work time was done there. So this became my office outside of the office. I'd say during this time period of a couple of years that we are out there, half my office time was there and the other half was in there. Something else that came about during that time period was the spider bar. And the reason for the spider bar, as I went into a little bit more in the gym tour stuff, was when I could no longer squat with the straight bar, all I had was the safety squat bar. So the safety squat bar eventually led to the SS yoke bar, which had better displacement across the shoulder so I could use it more frequently. But it also became another bar that I could rotate in. So there was the safety squat bar, there was the SS yoke bar, then it was it. You know, that was all I had. So I wanted something else to be able to rotate in. I was not able to use the regular rackable cambered squat bar. I don't have the shoulder mobility to be able to even grab that. So I stuck a yoke on that and then that became the spider bar. That bar is still out here now. So this is, again, going way back. But you can see in the background here, I'm still trying to do some of the branding in any way that I possibly could. So people would know where you're at. So we only stayed out there for a couple years. And the main reason, well, first off, it was that pain in the ass that I got talked about. The other was propane. I did this a few times, right? So when I moved into Main Street, I didn't account for the Wi-Fi, you know, what that was going to cost and what those other costs were going to be. And it kind of bit me in the ass. So I had to find some in between to be able to kind of manage that situation. When we moved out to Mainline, which was that tractor place, I didn't account for heat, you know, and the propane cost. And it didn't take long. It took one winter to realize there's no way that we can actually do this. And I can still remember at the time, one of the first ones that came through was like $2,000 for the month for something that we were not even in very often, maybe three, four times per week. And that was it. But it's also the time when we, there was a very, when I was in S1, there was a small crew that was forming with myself, Todd Brock, Jim Wendler, and a couple other people. And then when we went to S2, that kind of maintained what was just bench work and then a couple other people. But it's still not like a main thing, just more just a place for me to train. And when we went out here to that S3, that's when we started to get more people coming in to train and where we had a conversation of, do we really want to do this? And part of the reason was, you know, time-wise, you know, I didn't want to put the time into having to go out there to open it up for other people. We still weren't going to charge them. But some of the people we were training with had potential prospects that could be good competitive powerlifters. And when then we come in, so myself, Todd Brock, Kenny Patterson, I think Mike Ruggiero at the time, Joe Amato, a couple other people sat down and we kind of talked this out. Like, what's this going to look like if we're going to do this? How's this going to work? Because there are certain things that I don't want to say that we came up with rules, but we came up with things that we did not want to be rules. And one of those was, you know, if they're a little late, not a big deal. It doesn't really matter how the fuck you train. Just these are squat days. These are bench days and so forth. So that started to form there. A lot of the seminars and the events started to kind of build momentum there. Then when we were able to move back and when we moved back, the way that that happened was the warehouse and even the S2 location that we had, they were all converted from being a lumber yard. So what the building owner decided to do was enclose this area here of that open lumber yard into another warehouse that was going to be our weight room. So it was going to be, you know, the S4. So that allowed us to bring all the shit back into this location. And then the construction became interesting because all those images that you see here were all those pieces of plywood and some of them were not on plywood yet. So we had to take it all and put it on the plywood to be able to move it over into this location. So that was the first thing that we moved over there. And then that was, there's a video here that I'll have Noah kind of put in of my son giving a tour of the gym after, you know, this is when we left. But there's, there's one of him giving a tour of the gym when we moved. Good evening, everybody. You know, everything around here is a little different. We moved into a new workout house. We moved into a new workout house. You know, this is all the stuff there is. Over there, oh, all the way through here is the pictures. And with these are the letters. And over here, all the way up there, there is the TV. She's the baby. You know, all the way to leave, remember, all the way over there, all over there. I can show you everything. You know, look out for me, Jenny. That's the Waste Union. And that flag is the USA flag. That flag. That one. Oh, there's more. Yes. That's what we are. Yes. That's what we are. It's zero. I walk. This is a computer. We're faster. I have to be all kids. And then this location also is where the events that we are having at the time started to pop off because we are able to bring more people in. There's also a video of Juji Mufu when you. I mean, we're talking old Juji doing some deadlifts, which we can throw in there. My son giving a tour of the thing. This is also when we put in a couple other things. We put in the signature power rack, which we still have out here now. And then we put in the table that I'm sitting at right now. So the podcast table. So that was one of the first things to be able to go in there. What I wanted there was to have a gathering place because anybody that's training a crew or training gyms for a long time. It's it's you spend a lot of time there. There's a lot of hanging out. So you hang a lot. And I wanted to have an area where we could just fucking hang out, talk shit, you know, stories and all the other kind of stuff. Eventually that ended up leading into, you know, answering some of the Q and A's that I was doing at the table and, you know, becoming the podcast that you see now. But the table goes all the way back to 20, 2013 is when that came in there. We were at this location for until 2017 to the location to where we are now. There's the one video that's in here where after we moved everything out, which was, to be honest, kind of depressing because there are so many memories and so many hard training sessions that were in there. And it was it was hard to leave. I was just put it that way. So it was hard to leave. And I love that place. I still talk about it now. The fucking the mice and just all the critters and shit that we'd have to deal with. And it was it was brutally hardcore. It was. The fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the fuck the Just didn't max that strip set on leg presses. Yeah, I'm all fucked up. There was no bathroom, so you had to pee outside. We had these strongman stones, so you had to pee on the stones. You had to puke outside and so forth. So it's me kind of closing out the chapter here, which this was the last time. I wanted to take the photos, by the way, all the picture boards and all the plywood. I wanted to bring that with us over here, but that got voted out, which we ended up creating vinyl strips, which are the images that you see now, and then walking into the new place. And as I walk through here, I say something about Fuck Arm Day, which is kind of funny with that. The next part of the script is the script that you have translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and translated and Thank you. I don't see you do arms. Fuck arm day. This fucking picture wall is giant. We'll be getting the other walls done here shortly. And so as I was going through these photos, other things kind of popped up. And when I was working with, it was either Justin Harris or Shelby Starnes and doing a shit ton of cardio. At the time on the website, we had something that was kind of like a form. It was a Q&A. The difference between our Q&A and the form is that there were no threats. It was a question, answer, done. So in each, we had training logs. We had all these other things that were a part of that. Where I wasn't able, with all this cardio that I was doing, actually answer the training logs or answer any of the questions. So I would print them all out. Then I would answer them while I was doing my cardio, which was this From the Mill series, which is either on our channel or on our archived YouTube channel. And then when that ended, that training block, whatever you want to call it, ended, I found it way more convenient to answer the question that way than in written context. So I simply just did the same thing, but sat at the table and answer the questions. And we called that table talk. And that was before it was even the podcast at all. This would be that nationals. So that was the warm-up room. And that was the deadlift platform. And again, that's still in here now. The storage racks, the plate storage racks that we have out here, we supplied all the equipment for whatever WC Worlds this is. Too lazy to look up what the date was. And so there were four of these. There were all the monoliths. And we also outfitted the entire warm-up room. And the thought process in this is that it was going to be a good business decision. Because the worst case scenario would be we would be able to sell everything that we put there, at least at our cost, at the event. And not have to, even if we didn't sell anything or get anything from it, it would at least be a break-even. That was not the worst case scenario. The worst case scenario was we sold maybe one, maybe two pieces out of all this. And then had to have everything packaged and shipped back. And then took years to sell everything out. The last orange monolith we had out here up until two years ago. So it took that long. Now those weight storage things, we sold one. So one of the original ones is still in the office. The other two are out here. I changed the plates to red so it would match the equipment. Are still out here. So they fit out here. I don't want to sell them. They have a reason for being out here. But it's also a reminder to me to not make stupid fucking business decisions that take forever to kind of recover from. The one thing that I covered during the video was I get asked a lot about when I squat. I have this mat or this rug on the mat. This rug goes all the way back to west side. And it even goes back to even before this west side. It goes back to the west side before Demers where we had a bunch of those in there. But when he moved from Demers to the location that they west belt or whatever it is, I asked him if I could take one of those mats. I'm not nostalgic in any way, but I kind of was for that. And so that's out there. And the funny thing with this is when I came into west side, I asked like, what the fuck are they even for? Because of the box squatting. And he said, so you don't slip on the box when you're sitting back on the box, which never really made sense to me because I never saw anybody ever slip on a box. But it did start to make sense because all of our boxes that were there were wooden and you could get splinters. I know for a fact, you know, so you throw it on there for that. It also helped a ton with the glute ham because it allowed just a little bit of slippage to be able to get into a better position for that. And so with some of the items that I covered that were out here, the ab bench was something that Louie gifted to me when he moved because from my extra workouts. So that's been that there's probably three decades old. You know, the chalk box is a couple decades old. I went over a lot of this other stuff, but a lot of the stuff that's in our gym now is over 20 years old. Some of it even more so than that. The a lot of the pieces that we have out here, racks, monoliths, held just the leg press, the hack squat and the monster squat. I only replaced those for aesthetic reasons last year. So the racks were for the same reason, just because we discontinue and we bring in a different one for aesthetic reasons. For all intents and purposes, everything that I had in S1 and more specifically S2 and every piece that we've ever had could still be out here and functional. And so it's that was parting with some of the things over the last couple of years was kind of rough because I liked having it out here and the fact that it was over two decades old and that I've done zero maintenance to anything and it's still all worked perfectly. That's a selling point for the equipment that we provide. So it's but at the same time, you know, things we tweak things, make things a little bit better, change things a little bit more. So it's a lot of the pieces that I had out here were our last prototype. And then we tweak one more thing and bring it. And then that's what we go to the customers to where the last few years, it's been replacing a lot of those older pieces with the newer ones that we have just for videos. And this is still a showroom as well to be able to put out there. So this was a little bit going down memory lane with some of the products. And from the gym side, what would be interesting and fun to do, because when people come out and have me do gym tours, either for their channel or for whatever reason, it's like 10, 15 minutes, maybe 20 minutes of just a broad overview of shit like the picture wall. I mean, some of the things that really kind of matter. But we spent time going through a handful of pieces, a couple handful of pieces and kind of telling stories about each one of those. I could do that with pretty much everything out here. So if you guys, the crew members, the ones that support the podcast more than anybody else, if you guys ever see a piece or you're ever interested in anything and any of the videos or anything that you see out here, let us know. And then we'll take that. Then we'll create that as one of these other follow up videos. If this thing goes over well, the gym tour video, because I've seen enough gym tours on YouTube that I don't really care to watch them anymore because who cares where this is a little different because it's not necessarily a gym tour. It's the history and why, you know, behind everything is out here, why everything is out here, because everything is out here for a reason. The reason could just be nostalgic. It could be for a training purpose or it could just be, fuck, I don't know. For any reason, I can tell you if you ask. Let's just put it that way. So thank you guys for the support. We're going to wrap this one up for that. All right, let's go. Okay, so I got this idea and I think it's going to be fucking awesome. So you take the ammonia caps, bust them in a little reciprocal. Receptacle. Yeah. I have no idea what this thing's even for, but this could be an awesome fucking ammonia inhaler. Oh my, Jesus Christ. Oh, this asshole's good. Oh my God. I never, I didn't expect that. Holy shit, try that. Stick your nose in there. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh, come on. Stick it, inhale. Is it dead? Oh, fuck, no. Oh, see, it fucking gets you. They're fucking in the kitchen. Squeezes out of the sphincter. Oh my God.