 nndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndnd a big medical institution. I've now taken it upon myself to work with the public in the areas of strength, conditioning, dietary manipulation, and longevity. That's become a big one now since, well, I'm getting older. So it's time to start thinking those things. And one of the main things that we have to really think about when we think about longevity is more so the health span aspect than just kind of living forever. And really, you know, as a performance athlete, when you're younger, we tend to think about performance as jumping higher, being able to run faster, being able to do a better squat, being able to, you know, deadlift a thousand pounds. All those are metrics that are easily measurable. But as we get older, the key to kind of staying into the game is to change our perspective or our definition of what we call performance. And that is really more so to be able to do those things that you could do in your youth at a high level, despite any setbacks or challenges that you may have, and be able to carry those into your older age. And some of the key tenets of being able to do this is to really, really be able to lock in your muscle strength and power, especially power, and your cardiorespiratory fitness. And generally speaking, when we're talking about strength realms, like I've worked in for years, you know, you tend to think about muscle mass as the primary source of performance. But as we get older, that cardiorespiratory function really, really dictates whether or not we're going to carry that performance into our older age. So there are an abundance of data now on the longevity aspects of exercise. And for years, we thought of cardiorespiratory fitness as kind of the only big rock to move to really extend lifespan, but especially healthspan. So that is, you know, being able to do everything you want to, you know, wake up in the morning when you're 102 years old, have sex, go for a run, do the things you love, and then just drop off a cliff. And that's really, you know, how we want to go out. We don't want to go out of this world in a frail state or a state where we're, you know, functionally dependent on others. So when we talk about increasing longevity or healthspan, more accurately, the that's when we really need to start locking and loading both our training and our cardiorespiratory training, so our physical strength training, as well as cardiorespiratory stuff. And as strength athletes, a lot of times the cardiorespiratory stuff takes kind of a side side branch, and we don't really focus on it until we really need to when we have a issue with our heart or issue with our lungs or both. So when we program for any sort of aspect of living longer and performing longer, we really, really must program those cardiorespiratory type modalities into our training programs. One of the best ways to do this is through periodizing your cardio work into your strength training work. And when I say periodizing it, you want to be hitting multiple aspects of cardiorespiratory training, everything ranging from HIIT style training right through to zone two style training. And the reason why you want to do this, and the reason why it's going to transfer into your strength training workouts is because when we push through HIIT training sessions, we increase our metabolic flexibility quite well, which simply means that we can choose, our body can choose quite readily and quite easily between different energy substrates to be able to perform the exercise. So for example, when we do long slow distance cardio, say in zone two, you know, heart rates under 135, 140 beats per minute, we activate a lot of the aerobic energy systems. In fact, they become predominant, especially over the long term. And this utilizes a lot of our slow twitch type one muscle fibers. And when we increase the capacity for those slow twitch fibers to be able to work, they become what we call lactate sink. And that simply means that that'll transfer to lactic style training quite well, because the slow twitch become very, very sensitive to chewing up that lactate while it's being produced. And this then, you know, obviously extends your sets, your reps throughout the workouts. So you don't get these hydrogen ion accumulation, all these things that can cause muscular fatigue. As we get older, the biggest problem and more sedentary, the biggest problem is that we get muscle fiber types switching from slow twitch fiber types switch over to more fast phenotypes, which aren't as aerobically designed or aerobically, they don't have as high of an aerobic capacity. So you get kind of a double edge for that one, because you're activating those mitochondria during those long, slow distance exercises, you're increasing that lactate sink, that's going to transfer into your conditioning so that when you're in more voluminous workouts, you'll be able to handle them much better. Now, the reason why I mentioned voluminous workouts is because also as we get older, the ability for us to do a couple of warm up sets, and then just jump on to a, you know, four or five rep max set to really, really activate and summate those fibers, muscle fibers well, that becomes more difficult with joint pain, neurological issues, you name it. So we have to then start increasing the volume in our workouts. And so for in order for us to sustain those, we need to have this this base in the background, so that we can sustain the workouts, produce the, the catabolic effects that we're looking for from the training, and then move into the recovery period quite well. That's kind of the biggest scientific evidence-based way to improve longevity. And we know this through the science, up to 40% decreases in all risk mortality when we get cardiorespiratory fitness and strength and power up. And this is a real, real important factor because in strength training, as we know, for the most part, as we get older, we tend to become less and less healthy over time. And this, this cardiorespiratory stuff is real important. On the other side of the coin, the reason why strength training is imperative for this whole health span longevity thing is because the increase in mass or increase in your amino acid pool, and that's, you know, we store our amino acids in skeletal muscle, that amino acid pool, if it's small, so if we don't have a lot of skeletal muscle reserve, then we're not prepared for future insults on the body, which become a little more frequent as we get older. Injuries are one, sicknesses are another one, surgeries, all of these events are highly catabolic for skeletal muscle, because the body is going to choose, if it was a philosophical entity, anyhow, it's going to choose to repair whatever organs, tissues, whatever's damaged, over recovering from exercise. And when it does that, it becomes a high, high, high catabolic stimulus. So a lot of muscle breakdown after a surgery, a lot of muscle breakdown when we're going through organ damage. And when we have this and don't have a big amino acid pool to draw from, then the body is going to be drawing a lot from the skeletal muscle. But in doing so, then we see recovery go down, the ability for us to build muscle goes down, and we end up with a situation that we call anabolic resistance, which is a hallmark of aging. So the ways to get around anabolic resistance is going to be to train. Now the data really highlight for the longevity aspect that strength training, being strong is very important, being muscular is very important, but the number one predictor of a long health span in terms of strength training is going to be producing power. So being able to move that resistance through a distance at a rapid speed, this then requires us to be able to train our nervous system. And if we're not training our nervous system properly so that we can recruit more muscular units, then our training won't be pushing the envelope that's needed for getting into that kind of state of power that's really, really required for longevity. So in a nutshell, on the front end, when it comes to exercise, you have to periodize your training. Progressive overload is going to be the foundation for, you know, it doesn't matter whether you're training at 19 years old or training at 85 years old. But what we have to put in perspective is that our bodies may not be able to perform like we are 18 or 19 years old. So we have to produce consistency and we have to be able to produce good high quality programming within that training so that we have power component components put in there, not just muscle building. And with that background of, uh, of cardiorespiratory fitness, now we've hit both the biggest, uh, biggest levers in increasing health spin. With that comes recovery. And this becomes much more difficult as we age. We have to become really in tune with our bodies when we think about recovery. And that right off that the easiest, biggest rock to move is to lock and load that diet. And when I say lock and load that diet, a lot of us are, uh, definitely getting enough protein these days, especially in the strength training realm, you know, one gram per pound body mass, uh, high quality, quality protein, uh, complete proteins from, uh, that have an abundance of essential amino acids. These are generally animal proteins. They're the best ones for this. And that part, like I said, has been, I think beaten to death, but what hasn't been is the, uh, effects of the dietary, um, status on, uh, digestive health and our ability to be able to assimilate the calories that we're eating so that we can push them into recovery. Because as we age, um, our digestive health starts to decline just as a natural propensity of, of, of aging itself, all of the inflammation and everything kind of goes on with it. So in diet, we no longer want to be, um, focused purely on, oh, we got to get our carbs in and we got to get our protein in. We have to really, really make sure that we're getting enough phytonutrition from high color vegetables, berries, fruits, these types of things, but also the soluble fibers that come from them so that we can promote high quality digestive health, especially in that large intestine. And by doing so, then we, uh, will be able to assimilate, um, the foods that we eat much better and get all of the antioxidants, the vitamins, the minerals, as well as amino acids from the food that we eat into the stomach. And then when they reach the small intestine, they can flow in there and go in the bloodstream and do all their work. I talked about anabolic resistance before, and this is, this is one of the key factors when it comes to diet. In anabolic resistance, one of the key features is the inability as we age to be able to assimilate total protein meals. And that has to do with a number of different factors, but one of the biggest kind of leading, uh, areas of research right now is on digestive health within, uh, the context of the large intestine. And that's where really all the magic happens when we talk about gut health, gut brain access, gut muscle access, gut liver access, these things. And in order for us to, uh, uh, be able to assimilate proteins well, then we need to make sure that our large intestine is well populated with, uh, microbiota. So, um, uh, uh, uh, beneficial, uh, uh, viruses, beneficial bacteria, beneficial, um, fungi, all of these things play a commensurate role in being able to be, being able to take those soluble fibers, some amino acids that make it down to the colon and those phytonutrients to be able to produce these short chain fatty acids and all these magical molecules. People talk about that are gases that circulate around the body, help with the brain. They help with all these different axes, gut muscle, gut testes, gut liver, all of these require those short chain fatty acids to remain healthy. So when we talk about that in the context of anabolic resistance, the biggest problem is if we have a condition where we, uh, have inflammatory effects, like I said, generally in the large intestine, but throughout the digestive tract, then, um, we have an inability to be able to assimilate all the protein. A lot of it ends up in the, uh, poop and, uh, we then, um, don't get the muscle protein synthetic effects that we want to get to from those, um, uh, high quality proteins that I've mentioned that we want to eat. So the digestive system is a real key player in this role. It played the same role when you're 19 years old, but as you age, life happens, parts start to fail a little bit, and the digestive tract needs to be focused on a little more tightly than when you were younger. And this in my practice starts to show up in my pro athletes. I work with a lot of pro bodybuilders and power lifters. This starts to show up in your early thirties. And that's because we've pushed the body so hard with force feeding, training hard, inflammatory effects from injuries and everything else that, uh, the status of our digestive health starts to kind of falter more early than say the general population. This can be very, very, this can be highly variable among different, uh, people. Depends on how you picked your parents depends on whether you're vaginally birthed or not. That's kind of our first insult of, uh, bacteria that helps with, uh, develop that colon over time, the microbiota in the colon. Uh, it depends also whether or not we were, uh, breastfed and, or exposed to any sort of antibiotic, um, uh, antibiotics in those first kind of three years of life. So people that have, you know, they were C-section births, they weren't, uh, breastfed and they had a number of probiotic or antibiotic insults when they were younger tend to have issues with digestive health as we kind of, um, get into our older ages, especially, um, in those folks in the younger older ages. So we're talking now, you know, 20, 30, 40 years old. And that then promotes that whole anabolic resistance at a much earlier age. So having your digestive health locked and loaded is going to be key to the whole process of being able to, uh, recover from those workouts that we talked about earlier. Now in that kind of general context, then this, you notice I haven't talked about any supplementation. I haven't talked about any peptides. I haven't talked about any of this stuff. The key to being able to stay in a sport or just in any sort of capacity of physicality throughout your whole lifespan. The key to this is to really, really make sure that you're consistent with training, you're consistent with diet and within all that your training and diet are periodized together. And so you want to be able to support those, uh, recovery periods really well, because if you haven't got that figured out at a, in your younger years, as you get older, it gets harder and harder to implement. Thank you.