äsäs shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout I always recommend going with 36 inches here. Wise man once told me, why not have more? So if you can use it in competition, get more out of your wraps, get more support with a longer wrap. First thing that I like to do, if you have a thumb loop, we're gonna take it off at the end, but to start the wrap, put the thumb loop on and make sure that the tail end is pointing up. I'm gonna show you why that's important. This is how I know which side I'm gonna put my wrap on. Tail end up, because when we come around the back of the hand, what most people miss is the support in the back of the hand. All right, you end up wrapping way too low, doesn't support the wrists, and then you wrap in a cylinder. Every single wrap that you take, every revolution's going in the same spot. So it feels like your wrist is jammed up in a steel tube. You don't have the wrist support that you're looking for. So starting in this fashion with that tail up is really important, because that's gonna allow me to come across the back of the hand first. Okay, I'm not putting too much stretch on this thumb loop, or else it'll be a pain to get off after, but I'm gonna catch the wrap on the side of my hand. I'm gonna stretch it over the back of the hand. That's the most important probably out of everything I'm gonna show you is get the back of the hand. When you come through the bottom, rotate it. Don't just wrap straight across, because you're gonna cover the bottom of the palm. You wanna make sure the bottom of the palm is right up flush against the bar. So angle that wrap down when you come across, so you leave the palm free, but we still have the back of the hand. Alright, get it nice and tight, and then the rest is pretty easy from here. You wanna have good holes at the side of each of the form here, and just work your way down. Okay, don't wrap the same spot every single time. Work your way down, cut it in three fourths every time. That's it, cap it off. Pop it off here, the thumb loop, and that's it. You have wrist support. This is great support on my wrist. 36 inch allows me to cover a good amount of area. Now obviously, depending on the federation you're competing in, you just have to make sure if they have specific requirements for how much coverage you can get from your wrap, and just tailor it to that. Alright, you can make this process work no matter where you're competing. Important thing, back of the hand. Leave the palm exposed. Tight wraps across each side of the forearm here. Yank at it. Don't just try to go through in revolutions like this. You're not gonna get it quite tight enough. And there you have it. We are gonna go over five improvements to strengthen your shirt of benching immediately. So if you implement these five things here, I promise you, you are gonna see results on the bar. Alright, this is important to note here. This is specifically for poly shirt of benching. So my poly puritans, this one's for you. I know the band shirt that's boomed lately. Little bit different rules here. So if you're doing the band shirt, that's a little bit different. But if you're doing single ply, multiply traditional poly benching, this video is specifically for you. Number one, less boards, more touching. Alright, the boards, I don't know how they've found such a staple in shirt of benching over the years, but in a meet, you have to be competent going full range. The boards are awesome. Notice I say less boards, not no boards, okay? Boards are a fantastic tool for the break in process, for overloading your bench, making sure you're not putting too much mileage on the shirt and stretching it out. But, a lot of you can benefit from doing way less board work. Way, way less. Alright, they reinforce bad habits. So when you're using boards for the majority of your training, you're gonna develop very poor touching habits with how you're tucking, because you can get away with a lot with boards. You can tuck too early, you might not tuck at all, right? And these are all things you need to be fluent in when you're going full range in a shirt of bench, in a poly shirt. So, try not to use boards for the majority of your training. Many of you are likely working down in boards every session, but I encourage you, have weeks where you're doing rep work, you're doing volume work, you're not always utilizing the boards here. Alright, when you're using the boards, weights should be within reason. Alright, if you're a 600 pound bencher, and you're doing 800 pounds off a three board, what are we doing at that point? My rule is that, you should always feel confident being able to take the weight that you're using off the boards, down to full range. There should be a confidence there that if this board wasn't here, I would still be able to maneuver this weight down full range. Maybe make some shirt adjustments to make it happen, but it's not unreasonable. Many of you use very unreasonable weights on high boards, when at a meet, we're not going to have that board. So we need to make sure we can take that weight down, use it as a tool, not as a PR in itself. This will help your consistency at meets tremendously. Tremendously. This was something that I actually got hung up on for quite a while, when I was doing a lot of a descending boards approach. And then I go into the meet, and I feel strong. I would have hit some great PRs on boards, but I didn't touch quite enough. And I would feel very inconsistent, going full range and getting that touch. It was either I was having a great day and it felt right, or more times than not, it was that, wow, this feels like a long freaking way down. And I am having a hard time here touching. Something's off. This doesn't feel right. I would say that quite often. The pause feels really long. You name it. Once I started doing more training full range, and got really competent at greasing that groove for a long period of time, I have that, I do not have that problem whatsoever anymore at meets. Everything that I take down to the chest, I feel like I've been here before. I've done this before in training. This is nothing. And I can build up from there and make proper adjustments to the shirt. So that's number one. Less boards, more touching. Number two, prepare for the opener more than the third. So many lifters get hung up on trying to hit the biggest lift possible. All right. They'll try and in training, I want the biggest PR, whether it's off boards, whether it's full range. That's a low percentage lift. All right. Maybe you get it. Maybe you don't. But what I would rather do, the strategy I'd rather utilize is prepare for the opener. All right. Overly prepare for the opener. Okay. This doesn't mean only prepare for the opener. This is power lifting after all. We need to move heavy weights. We need to see that weight jump up, but we need to prepare for that higher percentage lift. All right. Dial in a high percentage first lift rather than trying to hit a lift that maybe you'll hit once in a blue moon. You had to make some crazy shirt adjustments. All right. Because training, again, all the variables are controlled. In a meet, we don't have anything in our control. All right. So we want to be very confident. Hitting your opener regularly builds meet day confidence. I promise you, if you have hit your opener already four, five, six times in training before you go to the meet, and every meet you're just bumping up this opener, and you're more focused on that than you are that big low percentage lift, I promise you your confidence is going to skyrocket. All right. You're going to relieve your nerves. You're going to be able to go in there on the platform, execute that opener, and then you'll be able to build from there. All right. I'd rather that build up. And then the big thing here is you can judge progress off how you're executing your opener. All right. If your opener is going up each meet and you're hitting that confidently, you're hitting that with a high percentage, you can then gauge your ability here, gauge your ability to make those shirt adjustments and hit a low percentage big lift. Okay. So if I see that opener going up, I know with confidence, hey, I have the ability now if I make a few shirt tweaks, if I bring the triceps down a bit, I bring that collar down a bit, I know I'm capable of doing so much more because I just smoked that opener. And it was 25, 30 pounds higher than my last opener. All right. That's what you should focus on. Number three, incorporate rep work. This is a huge one. You need to be confident going full range. Rep work in a shirt is also absolutely brutal. When you have that pressure of the weight, everything's cutting into your triceps. It is not easy to do reps in a poly bench shirt. More reason that we should get good at doing them. All right. What's going to happen when we do rep work is we're going to get very well accommodated to uncomfortable conditions. All right. Without substantial loading, which is huge from a recovery standpoint. You're getting huge value out of doing rep work and you're not needing to load up the bar with a substantial amount of weight. So this is best done with a looser bench shirt. That's important to note here. Or some kind of an assistant device like a slingshot, a Titan Ram, whatever. But make sure you're using a looser shirt. Otherwise, you're going to have the problem that you're going to need more weight to actually touch. And we want to try to work full range here. That's the whole point of doing this is to try to work full range. Because that's going to help you be more finely tuned with your bar path and your pressing mechanics. How you're tucking into the material of the shirt. How you're pressing back. How you're holding position. We are working on all these things. And we're also being able to stress better recovery because we're not under sink or swim type loading. Okay. So utilizing this rep work strategy. Have a volume day. All right. You can also in the warm up process. So let's say you're just working up to a top set single that day. You can still include rep work. Just do it in the warm up process. And you don't necessarily have to do a looser shirt and then switch into your heavier shirt. Just use the tighter shirt that you have. The comp fit shirt. And float the weight. All right. You might not get full range. But you're still getting that practice in of the transition. When to start tucking. And take that weight to where the shirt truly stops you. When you can't go any lower, pause there for a second or two. And then press out of it. All right. But that will help you so much with your shirt of benching. Fine tuning that groove. When you implement a volume based day. And you start doing rep work. Number four. Land like an airplane. Not a helicopter. So when you're going through your shirt of groove. Many are going to take that same bar path they do raw. And raw, sure, there's a slight descent. There's a horizontal movement to a raw bench too. But when we're in the poly bench shirt. There is a large horizontal travel with that bar. You want to aim more towards your upper abs belly region. Than you are a traditional raw touch. Okay. So land like an airplane. Not a helicopter. Just really important mental cue to help you dial in that bar path. All right. So this is going to reinforce the elbow tucking mechanics. This is going to ensure that you don't handcuff yourself with the weight as well. So that's if you immediately tuck. Now you're going to have a hard time getting down. And that's what a lot of people do too. Because it feels supportive. It feels very supportive when you're starting a heavy bench. To immediately tuck into the material. Because yeah. You have a lot of support there initially. But you don't have anywhere to go after that point. You can't elbow tuck any lower. You handcuff yourself. And then you'll see you dump the weight up. You dump the weight down. There's probably going to be some dumping included in that. So pretend we're in a poly bench shirt. All right. Same thought process. So first thing I need to do. I need to spread. That's very important. And many are immediately going into the tuck. And then you have nowhere left to go. There's a ton of support in the shirt. But you're already tapping into the support of the chest plate. The support of the triceps. And you have nowhere to go. There's no way to really get lower in this position. So what's really important is that at first. You focus on spreading the weight. Get as most as you can out of the chest plate first. Stretch that across your chest. Until you can't anymore. All right. So let that weight bring you down. You're using your upper back. Spread, spread, spread, spread. And then the transition happens. Where you're starting to tuck. All right. And with a poly shirted bench. Your tuck. Your elbows are going to end up likely in front of your wrist. So it's not a stacked position. All right. We have the support of the shirt. So that's why it's a little bit different than raw. It's not a stacked position. We're going to transition into a really aggressive tuck. And that's when that bar is going to travel out towards your upper abs. Belly region. All right. So that's land like an airplane. Not like a helicopter. All right. If you just take a raw approach. You're not fully transitioning into that tuck. Because what's happening right. We have the spread of the shirt. And then if we assume there was a pole coming out of my sternum. We're wrapping the tension around the pole. So first we're getting the tension to the spread. And then we're trying to take that and wrap that tension into the tuck. And then that's where you get the flare back. The weight shoots back. It's a nice smooth groove. It should cut through like butter. You shouldn't get held up at any point. And then have to grind through the lift. Even at heavier heavier loads. It should cut through like butter when you nail this process down. Okay. Patience. Patience. And making sure that you're truly maximizing the stretch of the shirt at each point. All right. It's not going to happen quickly. I always say aim for the path of most resistance not least. There's going to be a lot of resistance with a tight shirt. Always aim to stay in that resistance. Don't dump out of it. As soon as you are like oh shit I'm not going anywhere. Don't freak out and try to get a touch. You just need more weight on the bar if you're truly in a good position. So path of most resistance not least. Volume day is going to help you practice this. Lastly number five here. This is another real big one. This is a technical concept. I'm actually going to demo it for you. But just run through it real quick. Let the handoff come to you. So many lifters get in trouble with the shirt or bench. Not in the setup process or anything they're doing with the press itself. But they're losing incredible position. And the shirt is actually repositioning itself during the handoff process. This process is so key. This is probably the biggest element for a shirt adventure is to get this handoff down. Have good communication and know what you're trying to do here. So the cost of trying to do too much on the unracket when you're trying to handle all this weight. Think about raw when you're trying to actually assist your handoff with the weight. You cannot do that with a shirt. Which leads to a lot of frustrated handoff people when maybe they're not in tune with what to expect with a shirt. It's all on them. It's a lot of weight. It's all on them. It's pretty much like a deadlift handout. So it's important for you not to freak out when that weight doesn't start to move initially. If you're getting a handoff with someone who's maybe not familiar with this. You have to really be able to discuss with them like, hey, I need you to give me a lot of help initially. And then get me guided into the right position. Because you have zero control of the weight until you're out in a position. You have no control with the weight. You really have no feeling and loading of the weight until you're out here. So this process is critical. When this is off, now the touch feels off. And now you lack pop. Because when you try to do too much, it immediately starts to ride that shirt up. Starts to choke you out. And we have a lot of difficulty grooving that shirt to bench now. All right. You lose position and you can't regain it back. The shirt already won. The shirt wants to tarp you down. Why equip lifting? Why you're successful in equip lifting is simply because you held good position. And allowed that shirt to maneuver around you. Once you lose positioning, done deal. All right. Communications key is I'm going to show you guys. And then you want to focus on tricep rotation. This is very different than raw benching where you want to stay stacked as you're taking that bar out. You want to focus on you'll likely be positioned in a very tucked position like this because you have a tight chest plate on a good tight comp fit shirt. So you're going to be stuck like this when you get your hands set. In fact, many people need help getting their hands set. And then from there with good communication, they know to take that load. And it's a tricep rotation. It's not stay stacked and bring it out. You're stuck like this. It's a tricep rotation out into position. All right. Big bonus. This will help you so much. I can't stress this enough. Hold the bar five seconds. And it might seem counterintuitive when you have a shit ton of weight in your hands and you're feeling like, oh, oh boy. But hold it five seconds. I promise you if you start doing this in your training, you'll be so much better prepared. A lot of your success with shirt benching comes down to killing the momentum of the bar and making sure you're truly set in your back. You truly want to create a wedge here where it should be effortless holding any amount of weight when you have a full lockout. And that weight is just sitting on your bone structure and the tension of the shirt. And you have a tight upper back. And you can hold it there all day. When you're good at doing that with really heavy loads, I promise you there's going to be nothing that you can put in your hands that's going to shock you, make you feel uncomfortable. You're going to be completely confident. Rock solid. So use the five second holds. Let me show you what we're doing. I do a lot of my shirt at work without assistance of others in positioning the shirt, making adjustments. So I'm going to show you how I go about it. Now, it's easier with a looser shirt. Obviously, this is still a comp fit shirt for me. I have used this pretty recently in a competition. So it's not the loosest shirt in the world, which will make it a good demo. Don't have shirt slippers, but I highly recommend just get shirt slippers. It saves you so much effort getting the shirt on. Even if you can get the shirt past your elbows, the sleeve, just have shirt slippers because it makes it so much easier. You might as well just do it. So first thing I'm going to do is we have the shirt stretched by. This is closed back. If you have an open back poly shirt, this is going to be a lot easier for you because you can just slide into the thing. I'm going to show you with a closed back. All right. So first, I'm just going to line up the arms. You can see I don't put the back around me just yet. But what I'm going to do is just make sure they're even. Just a quick check, making sure they're even. Now, a little trick. If you want a tighter shirt, if you want to tighten it up a little bit, which could be an adjustment, go palms up. All right. If I go palms up and that logo here, for example, is more in my elbow crease. Once I get into a proning position, the bench, that's going to tighten things up on me. It's going to tighten up the shirt, give it more pop. All right. I'm just going to go in neutral. This is pretty much what I do every time. I go in thumbs up and I just make sure the logo is even on each side. Okay. The adjustments I typically will make are pulling collar down and then the triceps. Just making sure they're bringing the arms down. So I'm just going to get into it even here. Kick into it. Don't just try to pull. You're not going to do anything. You have to kick into the shirt like this. All right. So once that's set, it doesn't necessarily have to clear just yet. I'm going to show you some tricks for that. But once you get it positioned up as much as you can, just dip the stretchy material behind you. Now, the key here, leave it on the back of your neck. Okay. Don't just put it on just yet. Because this is going to give you leverage to then kick in more. All right. So I'm pushing against this material. This is giving me leverage to actually kick into the shirt more. From here, this is where it gets a little tricky depending on the tighter fits. You just shimmy it down the body. And I've done this with really tight shirts before. Might take a little extra effort to shimmy it down the body. From here, what we can do, I'm going to work the sleeves first. Get that where I want to be. And then I'll go and I'll set the collar. So I'm going to take the collar material here. I'm going to pin it to the knurling of the bar just to give me a little extra support. And then again, I'm just going to kick my arm. Remember, it's kicks. It's not just do this. It's not just push. It's short kicks. And you're going to feel that material blow up your arm slightly every time. All right. It's short kicks. So once I clear the elbows, I'm in a good spot there. I'm going to go set the chest plate. So I'm going to take the material of the shirt. Usually there'll be some weight on this bar at this point. But I'm going to pin down the bottom of the shirt. And use it as leverage to help pull that chest plate down. And then I can just push the pecs up above the collar for additional support. Now, I don't have my belt on me here. But this is when you would then go take a bench belt. Just a thinner belt. And I just whip that around. Attach it there. And then we're good to go. We're in our bench shirt. The handoff process in the shirt, this is critical. So we're going to go through this right now. Now, I have a tighter shirt. This is actually one of my Looser Train shirts now. But I've used this recently in competition. So this is going to be a good demonstration. When you're in a tight shirt, you're stuck in here pretty tight. Now, I'm going to show the issue that most make when it comes to the handoff. Which is taking too much of the weight. Or wanting to feel too much of the weight in your hands too early. So, I might just go through a quick light setup here. Alright, see this position I'm stuck in. I can't comfortably get my hands out real well. I can set one. And then, usually you might need assistance. I'll work this other hand out. But look at how handcuffed my elbows are. This is my position. Alright, if I try to do too much here. And I try to get under the weight during this process. Watch this collar. And that happens often. Now, it's in my throat. And I'm not regaining it back. Even if I crunch down, I'm not getting this back. It's done. Lifts over. So, what happens in this handoff process is key. So, if I get this shirt position. Especially if it's jacked down. To have a tighter fit shirt. So, you can handle more weight. This is really important. So, what I'll typically stress out of me. I'll go up to my handoff person. And I'll say, On your count. I want to have the time to breathe. A lot of people rush their breath. And with the shirt bench. You don't want to try to retake your air. Under the amount of load that you're using. So, you want to have one air. And then go through the entire lift. Under one breath. And you want to practice this. Because that's not the easiest thing to do at first. With all that pressure. One breath. That's huge. Okay, this is something I took from Vinny DiZenzo. Helps hugely. So, I'm going to say, Hey, I'm going to go off of you. I'm going to have him count down three seconds. And then I know when he's done counting. He's taking me out the weight. So, I can time my air. Okay. And I can breathe during that count. I'm not just like this. I want to get a good fill. Because I want to expand where I'm going to touch. I want to maximize that. And be able to create that reach. So, I'm going to tell him on your count. And then he has to do most of the work. Because again, I don't have control of this weight. Nor do I want to put any force into this weight. Until I'm out here. So, I have to be very receptive and patient. With the handoff process. Okay. So, on your count. One. Two. Three. Three. And then this is where I'll have control of the weight. Okay. So, that allows me to get my air. That allows me to get out of position. To try some rotation. Again, I came out of the rack like this. I didn't try to scoot under it. And ride that chest plate into my neck. Okay. Okay. Thank you.