 EDM-ousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousous So works with the most jacked and the strongest people. Before we jump off, I want to get into your trip to get here. Okay. It's a harrowing story. Yeah, I saw the Instagram story. Kind of followed it a little bit. So I'm curious. So first of all, thank you very much for having me, Dave. This is one of the coolest days of my life. So before I left Ottawa yesterday morning, and I left, just to give you context, I left my house at 530 AM when I got in my truck, uh, pulled up the destination of elite FTS on my phone and I had two options. I could either travel on the American side of the great lakes. So I crossed that hill Island, which is pretty close to Ottawa, or I could drive all the way up to Windsor and then cross that, uh, Windsor Detroit border. But that was going to tack like an extra 45 minutes onto the drive. So there was a warning that if I chose the American route, that there w there was a severe weather warning, I got overly confident and I dropped, well, you saw my truck and drive a big monster truck. So I thought, well, and I'm Canadian. I know it's, you know, it's my 48, 49th Canadian winter. So how bad could it be? Well, it turns out it can be really bad. So what happened was I w I was probably maybe 75 to 90 minutes into the drive and I started to hit some snow, but it wasn't, it wasn't crazy, but then it just got progressively heavier. Where were you at the time? At the time I had just crossed into New York state. I was probably not even to, uh, wasn't even, I was maybe getting close to Rochester and then that's where, that's where things started to get a little bit dicey and then it just got progressively worse and worse. So the first, the clip that you saw on Instagram, I think I posted two of them and the second one was a little bit worse than the first one. And so the second one was pretty bad. And you can tell in that video, I'm already tucked up pretty close to the tail end of an 18 wheeler. Cause that's just what I've learned to do over the years in Canada. When the weather gets really, really bad, you just tuck up behind an 18 wheeler and yeah, you know, stay, stay maybe three and a half, you know, vehicle lengths and just stay. And then if it gets really bad, you can just focus on the, on the trailer lights. Well, it got so bad and I didn't, I didn't, I didn't want to take my hands off the wheel to show video evidence of this cause it wasn't worth dying. But there was a couple of times where the whiteout was so aggressive that those little red lights, even though the, the, everybody had their four ways on, they were flashing, there's vanished. So it was just, it was like driving through shaving cream. So I was just hoping for the best and hoping I didn't either lose him and then just drive into a ditch or inadvertently drive right into the backend. Cause I couldn't see the tail lights. So I was pretty white knuckles. So that, so it was, so that happened many times over the course of the first seven hours of the 12 hour drive. But then at the same time I've gotten, one of the reasons I was really looking forward to such a long drive down here is there's a few audio books that I've been meaning to get to. So, um, right before the snow got really bad, I threw on one called man search for me, which is a great, it's a great book and everybody should read it. And you're familiar with it. So the first like 50% of that book is person. It's a personal account of the author who's a Holocaust survivor. So he was in Auschwitz and I don't remember the name of the other three, but he was in four different, like the four worst concentration camps during world war two. So I had this sort of dichotomy of emotions because I was really, I thought that God hated me because of the snow storm. But then at the same time, because of what I was listening to, I was like, oh, things could be much worse than they are. Yeah. Did you get all the way through it? Oh yeah. I listened to it again, cause it's only, it only took about six and a half hours to listen to the book and it's, it ended up being a 12 hour drive. So it was, so by the time I got through the worst of the snow, I was, I had also gone on the emotional rollercoaster of just listening to that. It's a tremendous book. Like everybody really should read that. And then, but then also it instantly, it instantly reminds you that no matter what's going on in your life, like whatever challenge you're facing could be significantly worse. And people have been through much worse than whatever you're currently dealing with. It doesn't mean that your battles are insignificant, but relative to how bad and how challenging life could get, you're probably all right. What was your biggest takeaway from the whole thing? From the book? From, uh, from the book itself, it essentially was that, so I won't worry with the details, but I'm going, I'm going through a divorce right now. And that's, uh, it's, it's challenging in all the ways that you would expect that a divorce would be, you know, but at the, at the same time, so I can use that as a perfect example of something that's currently challenging me right now. But in the grand scheme of things, billions of people have been through it. Billions of people will go through it. My, my challenges are in no way unique and I should, and I am very grateful that that's currently the most difficult thing that's going on in my life right now. And relative to how challenging, um, the curve balls can be that life throws you, it's not even a one on a scale of one to 10. So that was probably my biggest takeaway from that book was the instant reminder that a, unfortunately, um, man can be absolutely terrible toward another man, but then that man who's had these terrible things. And he speaks to the, to the personal experiences of many other Holocaust survivors, the many, many of those people, even through the, they went through the worst things that you could possibly imagine. They went on to leave very, very enriched lives because they devoted their life to helping other people deal with whatever they're struggling with. And that's tremendous. So I, that my biggest takeaway probably from that book is that, um, life really is a gift and that the more good that you can do, um, and the more opportunities you're presented with that, you should never pass up an opportunity like that. And, and in a way, be grateful for the challenges that you're presented with, because that, that that's what you grow from. I've never grown from winning anything in my life, but I've learned to grow a lot from my losses. And I'm also grateful that I haven't suffered a loss anywhere near that guy's experience. It's been a while since I've read that, but I believe, wasn't he accrediting the, the ones that survived to having some kind of purpose during that time to the ones that did not have the purpose, didn't survive. And so, so yeah, there's a really good, there's a point in that story. I'll never forget this particular part of that story. If I live to be a thousand and you'll, I'm sure it'll, you'll, this'll call back to you too. He tells a story about, I think, I think it was when he was specifically in Auschwitz, another, another guy that he was in there with had a dream that specifically on March, I believe it was March 30th. He dreamed, and this was on, this was on like February. Second or third. And he woke up from a dream and he was in a really good mood. He felt really optimistic. And the author, Victor Frankel said to him, like, you really seem to be in really good spirits. And the guy said, I had a dream last night that the allies are going to free us on March 30th. That's when, that's when my struggle will be over is specifically how he worded it. And then as the days and weeks went by and March 30th kept getting closer and closer that they didn't hear any news that would lead them to believe that it was likely that, that they were going to get out on March 30th. And then on March 29th, the guy fell terribly ill to what were attributed to be symptoms of typhus. And then sometime before the sun came up on April 1st, or sorry, on March 31st, he died. So for him, his struggle was over. Like he, he, his freedom was granted to him. But what Victor Frankel said was he attributed that immediately to the way how tight, how, how, um, intrinsically attached the body's emotional response can be to external stimulus, like external stressors. And he said that, that, that gentleman passed away because he was so heartbroken that, that he wasn't going to be free. He literally died from that. So it was immediately, I mean, the way I interpreted that was it's, it's incredibly important how much we allow maybe, you know, negative things that happen in injury or an illness, or, you know, maybe to sort of boil it down to maybe the context of what we will discuss a little bit more here, maybe a bad meat, you know, maybe a bombed out at a bad meat. Or you bombed out at a meat and that's bad. Um, how you just, how you decide to respond to whatever terrible thing has befallen you will greatly dictate what the, you know, maybe the whole rest of your life looks like, but for sure, at least in the short term, it's going to, it could either very positively impact several aspects of your life or very negatively and immediately impact several aspects of your life based on how you choose to respond to that. That becomes interesting when we're talking about the, the people that you work with, the clients that you work with, right? Cause you're working with people that are in all demographics, you know, all age demographics, male, female as well. Yep. And the, the one, there's one way to kind of look at life as, as, or training, you know, as a microcosm of that, it's all bad with a little bit of good sprinkled in. Yep. Right. That, that way you kind of cover all bases. Like this just always sucks except for these times. Yep. Right. And the other way to look at it would be more optimistic. This is always great except for these shitty times that get sprinkled in. But the fact is there, there's always shitty times. It's just how much you focus on those shitty times and then how calloused you are to those. Cause the, if you're taking somebody through their first weight cut, right. It's, it's going to be super challenging cause they've never done it before. Yeah. Like the second time they go, let's say that we use calipers make this super fucking simple. The first time they get under 15% calipers, right. It's, it's, it's rough, you know, they get, it gets a 10, it's a different world. Yeah. It's a different level of suffering. The first, but the second time they get there, they'll all say, this is way easier. Yeah. Is it though? Or did you just, you know, what's come, you know what to expect. Yeah. Which makes it easier cause you've always been through that. Cause the hardest thing anybody's ever done is the hardest thing that they've ever done. Up to that point in their life. Yeah. Yeah. You make a really good point. So, um, the first time, so I can actually, I could, so that's absolutely true. And I can, I can sort of speak to that from personal experience. Cause when I got into bodybuilding, I had been overweight, like significantly overweight. This was as a teenager. I believe. Yeah. Teen. The heaviest I ever got the heaviest moment of my life. I'll remember this forever. I weighed 338 pounds when I was 17. And this was no training. This is just. No, I had actually started working out. I started working out when I was 13, um, for all the same reasons everybody did at 13, you know, like this was in the eighties. So Hulk Hogan was a thing, the ultimate warrior, Arnold Schwarzenegger, like all the, I wanted to, I wanted that look. Um, but I also started drinking when I was 13. My eating habits were terrible. So I, I was training. So were you fat jacked? I was, no, I was just, I was, I was, I was a fat guy that was way stronger than you would think. Okay. First time I ever benched a three plates aside was the morning of my 16th birthday and I had a hangover. So, but my eating habits were terrible, but I trained hard five days a week. I didn't really know what I was doing, but I did it to the best of my ability for two hours, five days a week. So what, what made you start training at 13? Cause that's young for most. Yeah, that's, it's a little bit earlier than, than, um, most people, but basically when I, as soon as I, as soon as I made the correlation between having those big muscles, like that, you know, like how though, because it's you, I'm older than you are. So I can say you're old, like you're old. I mean, this, there was no internet to be able to show you all this. My, uh, my uncle Mike had a, my uncle Mike had the, remember the, the original weeder barbell set with the, with the plastic thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Concrete powder. So yeah, he, so there was a summer where he was, uh, he was home for the summer from out West and he was staying in the house that I grew up in. It was a great big old Victorian house and he brought his weight set with him. So the first time I ever saw somebody lift weights in front of me was him and he wasn't jacked or anything, but, but he was like a hero of mine at the time. So he said, if you lift weights, you'll get big, strong muscles. So that's all I needed. So I asked my mom, Hey, could you buy me the same, the same set that uncle Mike has? So at Canadian Tire, it was like, I don't know, $79 back then in their eighties. So she went and bought it. So I put the poster up, you know, that showed all the different exercises. And I started working out in my basement when I was 13 years old. And then right around the time that I think I was maybe 15. Did you do every, cause I had the same kind of experience. So you have that, did you do every exercise? Yeah. Whatever the 32 exercises were for three hours in my basement. Yeah. I didn't have any understanding of sets or reps. I form was exactly what you would imagine it to be. And then at the same time I discovered that protein was important. So I, where, where'd you get protein, milk and eggs. So I would say to my mom, like, can you just, can there just always be four liters of skim milk in the fridge and a giant bowl of. So was this in your basement? You said. Yeah. But to get, sorry, I drifted off topic. No, this is why, this is good. Cause I had the same type of shit and it was in the basement. And I remember taking a, going out in the garage and finding like a two, it wasn't even a two by eight. It was, it was a piece of wood that I leaned against my dad's tool bench to be able to do inclines. Oh, perfect. Great fucking idea. Right. But you gotta like, you gotta knee it, knee it up. And, um, after like two weeks, the board broke. Totally. Did you have shit like that happen? So no, I wasn't that creative. So I started out, um, my mom, cause I had the, I don't know where she got it. Maybe like a yard sale or something. Uh, it was a, just a flat bench with the, you know, where the bars were super narrow, not proper close ones. And then, so when I, so the, what I, what I did to turn that into an incline was the same thing. Like I took some loose two by fours and just stack them up and with nothing to secure them and then just put the bench on that. Which is fucked up because the uprights of the bar. Oh yeah. It didn't take long until it came crashing down. And I fortunately I didn't lose any teeth or anything, but to sort of circle back to your, to your question about dieting and how hard it could be. Um, if we skip forward to me making the decision that maybe I'd like to actually compete in bodybuilding the first, when I first started to understand the basics of what dieting was like, I understood that you needed a calorie restriction and the best way to do that, keep your protein intake really, really high, but start cutting back on carbohydrates. It's super rudimentary. And then, but that, how did you figure that out? I don't even remember. I read it. I read it maybe in like muscle mag international or something. I don't even remember the moment that I became aware that that was a thing. Yeah. Well, I'm asking because most of the magazines at the time you would see the, oh my God, it was like the classic five meals a day. Yeah. You know, egg whites from the morning with oatmeal and then chicken rice. And that's totally what I was doing. Yeah. Yeah. And I just sort of leaned into, and because I, every, well, the carbs are pretty high though. The average carbs were pretty high back then, but wherever was the first time, wherever I stumbled onto the notion that keeping protein where it is was really important. And then when you were going to cut your calories, cut them from carbs. That's interesting because everything was seen to be low fat, right? Yeah. So it kind of went against. Yeah. And I don't, I wish I could, I wish I could tell you, but that's been, that, that was the first sort of staple of, of nutrition relating to reducing body fat. I wish I could remember because looking back, it definitely was ahead of its time. Well, the deficits really mattered. Yeah. It's ultimately totally. So, but the, because I had been fat my whole life, I had never really been hungry for longer than three minutes. However long it took to get to the fridge or tell my mom, Hey, I'm hungry. So not to throw my mom under the bus, but the, the family I grew up in was a big Irish group of big Irish people. And the medicine for everything was booze or food or both. So, um, I didn't like being hungry. So the first two times that I started quote unquote prep dieting, uh, I, I, I failed that the first two times. I think I lasted three weeks the first time and maybe six weeks the second time. And then I was like, okay, well maybe bodybuilding is not for me because I, I couldn't get used to the discomfort. Was it enough time for you to see a difference though? I don't think so. And then it wasn't until, um, there's a, unfortunately she's passed away now, but the only other coach that I ever worked with other than John Meadows was the coach that prepped me for my very first show. Her name was Rhonda Karesma and she had won the Canadian national women's bodybuilding championship. I think in 96, she got her pro card and I met her in 99. So she was in your gym. No, she was down the road in Kingston. So I lived in Belleville at the time and Kingston's another little town. Um, uh, so how'd you hook that up? Cause that wasn't a thing either. I had heard through the grapevine that if you were Rhonda coached everybody in Southeastern Ontario, that was really good. Like all the guys and girls that showed up in crazy shape, Rhonda was their coach. So I, I, um, I forget how I even got ahold of her cause it was way before anybody had a website or anything, but I booked an appointment to go and meet with her in Kingston in person. So I drove down to Kingston. I was 21 years old at the time. And when I first sat down with her, she said two things that were really funny. Cause I was like, I had gotten, I had learned, I'd learned to get myself into decent shape. When I met Rhonda, I was probably 290 pounds, completely natty at 21 years old, 285 to 290. And when I sat down with her, she said, okay, well, the first thing I need to know is like, what quote unquote supplements are you on? And this was in, I was in the hardcore phase of learning everything there was to know about supplements. So I was like, oh, creatine, whey protein. And I take a multi every day and glutamine. And she was like, no, no, no, no. Like what supplements are you taking? And I would, at the time I was very proud. I was like that. I was that fucking annoying natty guy that was pretty strong, but needed to work it into the conversation. Cause the town I grew up in, everybody was on steroids and I wasn't yet. And I was really proud of that. So I said, no, no, no, I've never touched anything like that. And she said, okay, well that's fine, but you need to understand there's, there's two different versions of you that we will potentially bring to the stage. If we do it your way, you're going to be significantly lighter. With less muscle than if we do it like kind of my way. If so, you need to make a decision whether or not you're going to be enhanced and full disclosure, that decision took four seconds because at that time I had started, I started working out when I was 13. I didn't know what I was doing, but I was 21 now. And I had put in some hard years of training. I was studying anything I could get my hands on to learn about proper training and good nutrition. And I trained at a gym where all the local hardcore bought, actually the guy who gave me the nickname vanilla gorilla was one of the two brothers that owned this gym in Belleville at the time called four seas fitness. And all of the hardcore guys, like all the big juiced up guys in Belleville, not everybody competed, but all the guys and girls who did compete, everybody trained at that gym. And that's where I trained. And I held all of those people in, in really high regard. I didn't judge them because they were using gear. I just wasn't, I just wasn't ready for that kind of thing. But as soon as Rhonda said the difference, like if you want to, if you want to be on stage at like two 30 to two 40 or two Oh five to maybe two 15, that's going to be the difference. Like the process will be exactly the same, but you're going to lose a lot of muscle if we do it that way. And I made the decision right away. Um, I, I'm not, I didn't come this far to like, if I, if I'm going to compete, I don't want to just be like, Oh, I went from being fat to being a bodybuilder. If I'm going to go through that, I want to have an opportunity to be successful. So it's kind of safe to assume that the decision was already made. You just didn't know when a hundred percent. Yeah. Cause I, cause even back then the logic, so this might sound counterintuitive, but if you were to ask somebody in Belleville, um, in 1999, how much, if you're going to use steroids, how much should you use? The universal response was as much as you can afford for as long as you can afford it. All of the guys in my sort of, they weren't even really in my peer group. They were, cause they were a little bit older than me, but they trained at my gym, but they were like, we all knew each other and I had questions and they would answer them. I've always been very fortunate even since I was little and this goes on up to this day. I've always been really, really fortunate to have people that were far advanced in, in the area that I was hoping to learn from be very generous with their time with me. Um, that's just always been the case. So I, I never, I never pass up an opportunity to pay that forward because the universe has been really good to me. A lot of really, really smart people, guys and girls over the years have been very generous with their time. So the decision, I had made the decision that I would go as far as I could naturally. And then if I, if I was pretty serious, the, if I was going to dip my toes in the bodybuilding pool, if I, if I'm going to be swimming with, with those level of sharks, then I'm willing to do whatever they're also willing to do. Cause if I, if, if I, if I do well, I want to, I want it to be, it's a bodybuilding is all on your own merit. If you put in all the work and you stuck to the diet and you train hard, then you, unless you have a coach and you share that with them. But you know, at the end of the day, you're responsible for how things turn out. I want to talk about sodium for a second. The research shows that optimum sodium levels are about two to three times higher than the recommended levels. That's where element comes in. For the past two years, I have used element packs in a multitude of different ways. Each stick has 1000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium. There's no sugars. There's no fillers. It's just what your body needs. And it's used by the U S Olympic weightlifting team, Navy SEALs, professional sports teams. You'll hear how many people swear by how much element has made a difference in their ability to not crash, to fight fatigue and cramps, to maintain optimal fluid balance, improve mental focus, help regulate stress and support deeper sleep. They also just dropped the 12 ounce sparkling can, which is great. It's got 500 milligrams of sodium. Head over to drink element.com slash table talk, and you'll receive a free eight count sample pack with every order. I've never heard anybody have a bad experience, but if you do, they'll make it right immediately. No questions asked. I want to talk about sodium for a second. The research shows that optimum sodium levels are about two to three times higher than the recommended levels. That's where element comes in. For the past two years, I have used element packs in a multitude of different ways. Each stick has 1000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium. There's no sugars. There's no fillers. It's just what your body needs. And it's used by the U.S. Olympic weightlifting team, Navy SEALs, professional sports teams. You'll hear how many people swear by how much element has made a difference in their ability to not crash, to fight fatigue and cramps, to maintain optimal fluid balance, improve mental focus, help regulate stress and support deeper sleep. They also just dropped the 12 ounce sparkling can, which is great. It's got 500 milligrams of sodium. Head over to drinkelement.com slash tabletalk and you'll receive a free eight count sample pack with every order. I've never heard anybody have a bad experience, but if you do, they'll make it right immediately. No questions asked. So if you, if you do really well, then that's on you and you earned it. And if you shit the bed, that's on you too. And you learn to come back stronger. So I had already made the decision in my mind that, um, either I would know when the time or somebody smarter than me would say, Hey, it's probably reasonable to say that you're pretty close to your genetic potential. So if you want to go further, like you can sort of grant yourself permission. Now, I know a lot of people would argue that 20, technically it was, I was 22 when I started my first cycle. I know a lot of people would argue vehemently against that. And I don't really have, I couldn't really make a case for a 22. I wouldn't say to a 22 year old, definitely it's time to hit the gas. But if you were to come back to me and say, well, Hey, listen, cause I started to know right around the time I started training at four C's fitness, I was learning, like I understood the basics and I, and I practiced the basics, full range of motion, you know, training at least you're at least one set to complete failure before you've earned the right to move on to the next exercise. Like that's always the way that I've looked at training. And it's part of the reason that, that, um, John Meadows methodology was so attractive to me because the things that the tenants that were like a religion to him really spoke to me. Plus he was a really good human so that I immediately became a, a, a John Meadows disciple because it was, it was right in line, although it was way more advanced than what the smarter, um, and more experienced guys and girls from the Belleville area. That's kind of what they had instilled in me. And then when I started following John's YouTube channel, it was just, it was that, but at a, at a whole new level. So I, I, I felt like I could honestly say that at 22, cause I, I was, I walked on stage at 230 pounds in very good condition. I was a little bit flat. Rhonda rest her soul. I did have a tendency to over diet people and she wasn't able to fill me back out. I probably, if I'd have been properly glycogen replenished, I probably would have been more like 240, but I still did really well. Um, back in the day in, in Ontario, you had to place third or higher in your weight class to get what was called a level one certification. And it's all different now. It's, it's, it's much faster to get to a pro card, but back then in the late nineties, early two thousands, you had to earn your level one. So you had to do, you had to do third or better in your weight class. And then that the next time you competed, you would go to what was called a level two show. So now you're in, you're in a deeper pool and then you had to get third or better in the weight class again, against a bunch of other guys who already had level one certification. So then, so then you've got your level two and then you could go, then you've earned the right to go on to the Ontario, like the provincial championships. So there, everybody in your class already has their level two. So there's no jobbers that just wandered in off the street doing their first show. So prevent the provincial championships back then, not to say that they're not good now, but they were awesome because everybody there had at least two shows under their belt and they had beaten people that were pretty good to get to where they were. And then it was the same thing. You had to do third or better at provincials to earn the right to go to nationals. So nationals back then, everybody was awesome. Now in, in, in Canada, at least you can do one regional show. You have to get fifth or better in your class and congratulations, you go to nationals. So it's, and not, and not to cast aspersions of that system. It's opened it up. So back then too, there was only one pro card given a year, right? Yeah. Yeah. So overall at the nationals, it was really hard to get a pro card and, and that's just, I'm not, I don't have a pro card, but when I earned the right to compete at nationals the first time in 2003, it was, I had to, I had had to go through that process. Like you had to, you had to compete against stiffer competition three times and get at least third or better. It wasn't fifth or better. Like it is now it was third or better. You had to move up three tiers and then you got to go to nationals. So the first time I qualified for nationals was in, uh, after the 2003 season, then I blew up my left shoulder, which was before I really blew it apart. My left shoulder threw a monkey wrench, uh, at about six weeks out, I had to pull out of that prep. So how long did the qualification last? Did you have two years? Okay. And so as long as you're competing every year, right? Yeah. And you're, and you're doing all right. As long as you do third or better, you're, you're good. And then once you get, so, or you can, you're out of the top three. Does it drop you back down if it's after two years? Uh, yes. You, so now it's all changed, but you had to go back and sort of requalify and work your way back up. So it was pretty stiff back then. Um, but at the same time, and I understand this looking back on it, if you're trying to grow the sport, uh, and I can't think of a more difficult sport to make mainstream than open men's bodybuilding. But if you're trying to do that, you want to get more people involved. And now that's why, I mean, now when we, you know, scroll ahead 25, 30 years, it's why there's so many more classes. There's, um, men's, um, men's physique with the board shorts. There's classic physique. Um, you know, there's more, there's just, it opens it up so that many more people can take part in it. So I totally get that. Um, but at the, but just at the time it was a little bit of a tougher climb to get to the top of the mountain, you know, back in, back in the day. So again, I knew what I was getting into if I was going to go down that path. And this is, I guess all comes back to my decision to use PEDs for the first time. When I did, I said, you know, I had said to myself and I'm kind of like, I'm, I only, I only know one or 10. I'm, I don't, there's not a five on my radar. I'm all in or not at all. And so I thought, okay, well, if I'm doing it, then I need somebody to show me because I have no idea. I'm certainly not just going to buy all the steroids I can afford and take all of them. And so I, I get under Rhonda's tutelage, I let her put together my first stack. And I really appreciate this, especially knowing what I know now about PEDs. If I was to write out the, my, my contest stack for my first show, it's children's doses. Like I'd almost call it half natty. It was like a little bit of Winstrel and a little bit of equipoise and a little bit of testosterone and, um, like 10 milligrams a day from three weeks out of halotestin. Like it was, it was, it was laughable compared to what is out there now. Um, but it, I was really, really, she brought me in at 230 pounds. Again, I was a little bit flat, but I had no body fat. Um, and, and then I understood, and I guess this kind of goes all the way back to the initial point we made. Then I understood what suffering was like, cause I really suffered. Like I didn't get a cheat meal for 20 weeks. I understood what it meant to go to bed. Very, very hungry. But then in the, in the grand scheme of things, and now that I'm a hundred and I've been doing this for such a long time and I know a million of, we've all traded war stories. First of all, it's all elective. Like you're, you're choosing, you're choosing to suffer that. So you should never complain about it. That's crazy. I'm so hungry. Well, eat a sandwich and fuck off. Like nobody's making you do this prep and maybe it's not for you. And there's not, you're not, you're not claiming a moral victory because you went to bed hungry for a few weeks. Especially if you read a book like, like in search for meaning, like, are you kidding me? So it's bodybuilding in some ways that maybe you wouldn't think of on its face. My, my interpretation of my bodybuilding experiences, um, because I've learned to look through them through a, I think a much more mature lens. Um, I, I, I see, I see, and I'm grateful for the suffering that I chose because life can dump so much suffering on you that you didn't ask for. But either way, whatever type of suffering lands on your plate, whether you ordered it and the waiter brought it over or some terrible situation has befallen you, it's, it's up to you how you respond to it. And, and, um, uh, even in the most dire circumstances, you, you, once you take a step back, you really don't have to look that hard to find at least one silver lining to that situation. And then whatever, whatever the situation is, as long as you're still breathing at the end of it, if you push through it and you grow, then there's like a thousand silver linings and, and not the least important of which, at least for me, from a coaching perspective is that once you've learned that lesson, that's a big tool in your toolbox that is now available for everybody that is either paying you or not paying you that you can help. Like, so one thing that I've, I'm grateful for is I have a massive toolbox full of painful lessons, um, that I either had to learn myself because I made a stupid decision or some situation fell in my lap. And then I, you know, I pushed through it and I grew from it. And then what the, the, the positives that I take from that, they're good for me, but then they're also available for me to share with anybody whose path I cross. And so I'm kind of doubly grateful for that. Well, the interesting thing with the toolbox example is we all know you can't have an empty toolbox because you can't build anything, right? You don't get the tool unless you've actually suffered to actually earn the tool, right? So the, the people that have the biggest toolbox with the most tools, the question would then become, do you need all those tools? Right. So what you can help when you're helping the other people is to actually acquire the right tools. Yeah. That's a great way to look at it. So acquiring the right tools is still not easy. Every tool requires a mistake, right? That's how you get the tools. It's not like a video game where you hit the happy cloud and you get a tool. You get to grab all the tools. Wouldn't that be amazing? Yes. Yes. So it's, so the, the toolbox analogy is I've, I've come to look at that in this other way, right? To where there's, because as you're trying to help somebody else, you're like, I know you don't really need that tool. Right. But it's like if you're in the U S with like guns, right? You only need one gun to be able to do the job. Right. But somebody is going to show you this other one. You're like, fuck, I need to get that one. Right. So next thing you know, you got 30 fucking guns. You can only shoot one at a fucking time, you know? And, but what's the most effective one, you know, to be able to help them to be able to, to, to have that right. To acquire that. And then to acquire it in the most economical way. Cause you can overpay for the tool, get fucked. That's a good point. Or you can underpay for it and get a piece of shit, you know, that won't do the job. So there's a lot of different ways to kind of look at that. That's a great analogy. Which is, which is, as, as I've gotten older, the more I look at stupid shit like this and try to dissect it a little bit because it's a, it's a catchphrase that's used all the time. You know, you want to, you want to get the biggest toolbox. You want to have all these tools. I'm like, do you really though? Yeah. Like, I don't know. If you've got a great big toolbox full of tools, there's a lot of, on paper, that might look like a great idea. Like you, you might maybe naively in, I don't know, let's say in your twenties, cause I was fucking naive in my twenties. And if somebody came to me and said, Hey, um, by the time you're 50, you could have this really significantly oversized box of tools and you'll have all these wonderful tools that will be at your disposal that you can help people with. Um, but I, and I said, okay, well, what's it going to cost? And they go, Oh, we'll talk about that later. Um, the cause when you find out how much, how many shit sandwiches you have to eat in life to have earned all the tools in that toolbox, you might say, yeah, you know what? It's maybe it wasn't, it wasn't worth it. But now that at least for me, now that I'm on the other side of the first 49 years of my life, um, although some of the struggles, some of the struggles that befell me, the ones that were bad decisions I made on my own and whatever it's easy to take ownership of, but every once in a while, when something nasty, you know, kind of falls in your lap, like, uh, like when I had to have my hip replaced or I tore either one of my biceps or tore my left rotator, tore my left tricep, those ones all came bearing wonderful gifts that didn't bear fruit until I was well, you know, well past the injury. You know what I mean? Like, so, so there, there is, there's a heavy cost to be paid for some of those tools, but, um, once you've earned them and they're there and they're good tools, I wouldn't go back like the, I can't think of any, I can't. Think of anything now that I'm on the other side of whatever suffering it took to have those lessons that I've learned that I can now share with younger guys and girls and my, and my clients or anybody that I come across in life. If, if there's some, um, advice that they ask, if I've got, if I have, if I have good advice that I can offer because I own the tool that comes from that level of suffering, I'm grateful. I can't think of one of those things that has befallen me that I would say out loud. I wish that had never happened because first of all, I'm still breathing. So it didn't kill me. And now I've got this valuable lesson that I can learn a, to make sure, hopefully I don't repeat that same stupid behavior, but then also maybe I can help somebody avoid that pitfall. Um, if it's, you know, if it's training or nutrition related or maybe even relationship related or financially, cause I've, I've made every kind of mistake that there is to make in life, but I'm still here. I'm still smiling and I'm still sitting here talking to you. So things are going on. I think another way to look at it is staying on this toolbox. You can have somebody that has three giant rolling toolbox full of tools, right? And they've acquired some of them, some of them they've acquired, but not really used, but they have a little bit of an understanding of all of them. But, and so let's say they're trying to build something. Then you can have another guy shows up. It's just got a hand box, but he knows how he's mastered every single tool in that hand box. Yeah. In 95%, and I'm just throwing a number out for relative sake and 95%, he can kick the ass of the person who's got the three different toolboxes, right? With all those other things, because most things are covered with basics and mastery of the basic tool set. But when, if you get into the margins, that other 5%, that basic toolbox isn't going to work. Yeah. Yeah. Right? Man, that's such a... So the margins are these athletes that have hit their genetic potential per se. Yeah. Right? And so all you can really do with them is to have them come in healthier, have them come in retaining more muscle than they did last. They're not going to really gain more muscle. They're not really going to get stronger, right? They're going to peak better. Yeah. Right? That's that 5% gray area that the basic tools aren't going to do the job. But before they get there, the basic tools are going to do all the work. I'm so glad that you worded that exactly the way that you did. And, and cause now I'll be able, that'll, it's a great jumping off point for when we get into, when we get talking about the, the, the finer points, which maybe unironically, I consider to be the absolute basic basics when it comes to nutrition. There's like five things that if, if you really pay attention to them, they'll account for 95 to 96% of your success. And then, like you said, there, there's a couple of little, there's little outliers, little, you know, dials and knobs we can pull, but you can, every person can get very close to whatever their absolute potential is. If there, there's like five things and we'll break them down and they're just, they're basic. They're, they're well within everybody's locus of control. It's just a matter of, you know, the expression, what gets measured gets managed. Yeah. I think there's basically five things that if you're paying attention to them, really paying attention to them, um, you can do incredible things with whatever gifts nature gave you. Uh, and that it's, and then over and above that, you might say, okay, well, this, you know, this athlete's natty and they're doing these five things to the absolute best of their ability. And then, and then, then you could say, okay, well, one of the things that could elevate their performance, cause we haven't talked about it yet is if, you know, go the pharmaceutical side, or it could maybe be some other little thing, but you're, you hit the nail right on the head. If you do the basics really, really well. And I, I think that's probably, I'm only good at like five things in life, but I think we probably could paint in broad strokes just about any profession. There's probably a set of basics that if you're really good at, you'll probably be in the top 1% of whatever that profession is. Yeah. So it's the, I guess this would be a way to look at it. I'm not really good with fucking tools, you know, just like building. I'm terrible. So if I walk into a hardware shop, right? Fuck it. I don't have, no, it's, it's overwhelming. Right there. It's overwhelming. It's like, all I need is a fucking hammer, you know, socket set, a screwdriver, and I don't know, a couple other basics, right? Yep. But walking in there, you're overwhelmed. There's so much shit. That's the fitness industry. Yep. Right? Yeah. That's a great, that's a great comparison. Right? So when, so what you're saying is when you, we can give them a list that when they walk in, you know, so of what the hammer is, what the screwdriver is, what the socket set is, you know, what those are. Yep. So you don't get lost in all the minute details. Yep. And what typically happens in the fitness industry is all the, the shiny minute details. They're on the end of the aisle. They're, you know, they're more, bigger, heavily over, you know, the things that really work are usually in the center of the store. Yeah. The boring shit, the boring shit. The least sexy things are the most effective. I, I think, I think I could probably make that a full stop statement. And, uh, it's funny. I've sort of, so we're the same way when it comes to being on, on handy men. I have an expression that I use all the time. Whenever this topic comes up, I always tell people the only tool in my toolbox is my cell phone. So I can call somebody that knows what they're doing. Yeah. Cause I'm just going to make the problem worse if I try to fucking fix it. Oh, it's terrible. Yeah. No, I'm completely right there. Absolutely terrible. If I can break it with a hammer, I can do it. And then the only other tool to make it better is a bigger hammer. Obviously I just wasn't using the right size hammer. So what would be those basic tools? So I would say, um, if we're managing gut health, hydration, uh, sleep hygiene, um, I guess we could sort of give this box a name for itself. So are things that would optimize recovery. So what are we at four there? And then I, I, I guess maybe, I don't know what we would label this one, but, um, some way, some way to be, to be paying attention to the athlete from the neck up. So what I mean by that is how does this individual deal with kind of the things that we were talking before, how does this person deal with challenges that show up in life? Like, uh, like, are they a type, are they the type of person that has an internal or external locus of control? Like what's their mindset when it comes, like, does life happen to them or do they believe that they're in control of what goes on in their life? Cause that, that can be a really big thing. So I don't even, I don't, and I don't even maybe know if, cause I'm just, I'm thinking on the spot here off the top of my head, I want to make sure I don't miss anything. So sleep hygiene, gut health, like the things that I address when I, when I take on a new client, the areas that I'm looking at, this would have been an easier way to word it. I want to make sure the things that I measured that get managed, I make sure they're measuring that get managed are, um, performance and recovery related things. So resting heart rate, uh, blood pressure, fasted blood glucose, uh, relative body composition. Cause that's a really, but we could probably, we could probably chew up some time just on whether or not an athlete will perform better if they're above or below a certain body fat percentage and the things related to that. But, um, uh, what is that? How many gut health performance and recovery, micronutrient optimization, things like vitamin D, magnesium, uh, other electrolytes, that kind of thing. That's really, really important. Um, I built elite FTS in 1998, 27 years ago with the aim to help educate as many people as I could and strengthen conditioning. And the way to do that was to keep all the content complimentary. The way that we've been able to do that since day one is by providing the best products possible to help your training program. If you can put the item in a gym bag or load plates on it, we have it. And it will work everything from SS yoke bars to American press bars, bands. We also have a strength equipment specialist staff that helps outfit home gyms, sport training centers, colleges that have over three decades of experience and also have spent a lot of time working as coaches. So they understand the flow of the weight room and how things actually get done. If you're serious about your training and you want to up your game and support the podcast and all the content that we provide, head over to elite FTS.com and use the code table talk at checkout to receive 10% off your orders. Yeah, I think. All right. So with you, you don't handle the, because they need the stimulus that's going to create the adaptation, which, so they need the training, but you don't, that's, you don't work with that. That's taken care of by their other coach or themselves. Basically everybody, when I first got into, so I used to do program design because when I, uh, when I, when I first got into coaching and this changed inside of four months, cause I had really just gotten into the online coaching space. And I guess just for context context, I'm from a purest bodybuilding background. When I got into, as I spent, I ran my own sports nutrition stores from literally two months after I got out of college. Um, I borrowed some money from my mom and bought a franchise, pardon me and opened up my first sports nutrition store in Belleville. And then over the course of the next 10 and a half years, I had at one time, a small chain of three sports nutrition stores between Belleville and Kingston. And then I sold that company and moved to Ottawa in 2008. I started working for good life fitness. So I spent about eight and a half years working as a personal trainer and then a PT manager, like a fitness manager for good life. And then I left good life and went back into sports nutrition for about a year, but I was working, uh, I managed a store for, for another guy and it didn't, it wasn't, it was way less fun than when I was the boss. So I ended up leaving sports nutrition and I went back into PT, but for good life's number one competition in Canada, there's another company called Movadi started out as a trainer, became a department head again, and then COVID came along. Uh, and then I, it was because of COVID that I made a now permanent career change. Uh, but the, uh, my, my wife at the time said, Hey, you should really consider getting into online coaching. So that's how, that's how vanilla gorilla athletics became a thing. I've had that nickname since I was 17. And that's actually kind of a fun story. Uh, if we get a second, I'll work it in here, but that, um, I got into the online coaching space shortly after new year's in 2022. So I'm, I'm just right around the four year mark. I had only been in the online coaching space for a couple of months. So people reached out to me, some former clients, like people that I had trained in person became my first round of client. I never really, I never really did get into advertising. I just kind of put it out on Instagram that I was taking clients. So I started to build a bit of a roster and then Justin's auto came into my life. And actually at the same time, Alex charge, Chuck as well. Um, and it was, it was because of, of them and, and sort of more so mainly that the Justin's auto story, which I'll tell you in its entirety. Um, that's how I found my way into the, into the power lifting space. And then all of a sudden overnight, 90% of my clientele are strength athletes. So they, they came to me with their own coaches. So at the, at the time I used to, when I first got into online coaching, I was doing program design, but because I learned it like the way that I learned the, my favorite type of coaching design is exactly the way I learned it from John. So when I put a program together, it's not three sets of flat dumbbell press, like three by 10, I get right into the, to the minutia and I'll say, like, I'll word it. Like I would word it the same way John would word it. He'd say, okay, well, like we're, you know, we're going to start out with your first set is going to be eight reps, you know, with you're leaving maybe three, four reps in the tank. And then based on how you're feeling that day, you make a, you know, a modest increase. We'll do another set of eight, you know, feeder sets. And then we'll take that last set. You know, we'll run the tank dry. So for me to write a program, would took hours because I couldn't, I couldn't think of any other way to do it. And I feel dirty. I just won't, I won't, I can't do it any other way. So it was so impractical because I was only charging at the time, $225 a month, but I was spending like a ridiculous amount of hours every week, just writing programming. Plus I was doing nutrition on top of it. So as soon as I, I saw, I saw an opportunity when I started working, because as soon as I started working with Justin and I'll, I'll tell you that I'll tell you that nutshell version of how my business exploded overnight in the powerlifting space. And then now I'm carried over into the strongman space. As soon as all of these guys and girls from all around the world started reaching out to me and saying, Hey, if you, can you help me do what you did with Justin's auto? They didn't even ask what I charge. I just say, do you have room for me? And when can we start? And so immediately I was like, perfect. I'm, I only work with strength athletes now or people who are just looking for nutritional guidance. And that was my get out of jail free card to not write after write programming anymore. Cause I couldn't find a way to make it economically viable for me. I would, I'd charge a thousand dollars a month. Oh, it's great. Yes. I did. That's funny. I, I did a program with John. It was called the hybrid program. And so he sent me his part of this thing and Oh my God, this took four. And this took like three months and every piece of glass that you see in this office, I had shit written on because I'm trying to figure out what the recovery demands are of what he has. Cause this is strength based too. Okay. So anything that he's going to do, which is, you know, take a complete failure and challenge sets and shit like that is going to completely affect whatever the hell I'm going to be able to do. Yep. Right. And he's not going to change it. Nope. So I have to like buffer it and figure it all. Oh, I told him once that was over, I don't care what the fuck this does. I'm never doing this again. Yeah. By, cause by this time he had already sent me in his side of the next one. Yeah. And I'm like, no, man, no, no. It's not worth ruining our friendship. It's just, no, this is, this was a nightmare. Yeah. Um, so I'm, I'm putting that out there because if you're working with strength athletes and you're going to try to put some of this in there, it's, it's, it's, it's 1% possible that you're going to nail. So I'm, first of all, I'm not, I don't, I, I, I understand hypertrophy training very, very well. I can write very good hypertrophy programming. Um, I don't know. I know enough to, to, I know enough to get by in a conversation and I don't even know if I'd be comfortable, especially not somebody, your knowledge base. I couldn't have a, a strength programming conversation with you because I'm just not qualified to even shoot the shit with you about it. And I know it. So I just, I just don't touch that. So every athlete, every athlete that I'm currently working with is either the client of somebody who's a very good strength coach and who I'd likely all also know basically the way my business runs. Cause I, I don't, I really don't advertise. I post content on Instagram, but I'll post the content about like how to figure out how much magnesium you should be taking. Like what's right for you, that kind of shit. But never once in four years have I said, Oh, two spots remaining. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but the way like, um, I guess now it's probably a good time to tell the story of, of how Justin and I met and how that affected my business. But it's, it's because of, of the way I'm, I'm very, very fortunate. The way I got into it created a situation where I don't need to advertise. I either have athletes or client or coaches that send me their athletes or athletes that reach out to me because they're either a huge fan of someone like a Justin's all or an Alex charge. Chuck. Um, and they'll say, Hey, listen, like it happened a lot in the, especially with, with, uh, Justin and Alex, but they'll just say, Hey, listen, like I'm a big fan of Justin's auto room. I've been following Alex charge for a long time. Um, they say, you're great. Have you got room for me? Like I have, I'm, I am either a coach myself and I, you know, I understand programming or I have a great coach. Uh, but I, I need to learn the finer points of nutrition and gut health and, and, um, optimizing hydration protocols and things like that. So that, that's just, I've been, I've been really grateful, but if you want to hear the story, so Justin, so Justin, so the way Justin and I met, this is back in somewhere, like maybe the tail beginning of maybe 20, 22. I think I want to say maybe April or May. Um, so at the time, the, one of my best friends, the guy who was my best man at my wedding, Stu log, you've had Stu on, you know, Stu, Stu was working with Justin and Alex charge, actually at the same time. Um, so he invited myself and, and, um, um, my wife at the time over to dinner and I met Justin and his girlfriend at the time. Uh, my buddy, Paul and his girlfriend were there at the time. So that's where I first met Justin. And then I think it was only about four or five weeks after that, Justin was going to be competing at the Canadian national powerlifting championships and they were going to be in Ottawa where, where I'm from. So he had reached out to me. I want to say 10 or 11 days before nationals and, and Stu sent him to me. And so he just DM to me one day on Instagram and he said, Hey, I hate to dump this on you on short notice, but Stu said, you could help me make weight. Uh, nationals are in Ottawa. They're a week from Saturday. You know, can you help me? And I said, sure, absolutely. Like just send me, send me everything. Send me all your food, your drugs, all your supplements, everything you're doing. Pardon me. So, um, he sent it all over. So I put together, I put together a new diet and, and, uh, hydration protocol and sent it back to him. So he just followed it step by step. We, he kept me posted day by day. Uh, and in the last couple of days, sometimes two or three times a day, they made weight. No problem. He came in at exactly two. So he only needed to be 275. Um, but so the, some of the changes that I made, I think really reduced a lot of systemic inflammation for him because he dumped a ton of water. We came in at 266. How much did he have to cut? Um, well, he, I think he was only at, he needed to be, he needed to be 275 and he was only like 288 or something. Nothing crazy. But he dumped a ton of water, like way more than I had expected, but it wasn't, it wasn't a big sack. It was easy. He didn't, you know, there wasn't, there was no, uh, there was no bumps in the road. And I was actually really surprised when, when he got on the scale, like when he weighed in at nationals and they said 266, even he was like, holy shit, really? Cause he didn't, you know, he felt great. And then, you know, we filled him back up by the time he was, by the time he was on the platform the next day, he was definitely above 275. Like he was rehydration, everything went great. And he broke four national records on that day. And that was only the second time I'd ever been in the same room with him, but it was in Ottawa. Actually, Ken Kanekin was there too. He was competing. I hadn't seen him in forever. So, uh, Justin had a great performance. And then on the, I think it was the Tuesday after that meet, he reached out to me and he said, Hey, listen, we never talked about payment. Like I didn't like, what do I owe you? And I said, honestly, man, I don't, it was, I don't, I don't want your money. If you're going to do a meat recap or something, maybe just tag me in it. You know, it'll be a little bit of extra, you know, a little bit of advertising for me because I'm not currently working with any strength athletes. Everybody that had come to me at that time or so far was just people that wanted to build muscle and burn fat. Cause I'm, I'm good at that because of bodybuilding and that was it. And not any, and not any even competitive bodybuilders. So while we're having that conversation, Justin said, well, actually, um, I want, I'm going to move up to three Oh eight. And I think you and I, like, we just kind of vibe, like we get along and now he's like family to me. Um, you know, four years down the road, I, he said, I think we could probably, we could probably like work well together, but full disclosure, I can be a bit of a diva. Those are his words. And they're fucking, they were true at the time I've chewed up three or four nutritionists at the time. Um, but I think, you know, you and I could do good things. So I hope he doesn't mind me telling this story, but he, he had revealed to me at the, at the barbecue where we met before, you know, how it is when, when a bunch of meatheads get in the kitchen, you know, talking about life, you wind up talking about gear. And up to that point in my life, when it came to talking about the craziest steroid cycle you'd ever done, I always went last because to the best of my knowledge, I had abused the most steroids of anybody that I've ever known in my life. Justin's story was significantly more harrowing than mine. And so I won't, I won't get into, we discussed the numbers. I don't want to out them that bad. He probably wouldn't care, but either way, there was one particular total number of milligrams relating to specifically Trenbolone. And I, my jaw hit the floor and two hours after we left that night, I, I, I called Stu back and I said, Hey, that's auto guy. He was, he was pulling my leg, right? Like nobody's ever, nobody uses that much Tren. And he said, Oh man, I, I wish he was joking. No, that shit keeps me up at night. Cause he was coaching him at the time. So, so I said to Justin, Hey, listen, if we're going to work together, um, I'm going to insist on a drastic reduction in your total milligrams of PEDs. Like you're, you're taking more than your body can metabolize. It's not, not only is it, not only is it not optimizing your performance, but it's almost certainly hurting. It's hurting. Inflammation. Oh yeah. It's holding you back. So. Which you kind of saw in the weight cut. Could very well be. Yeah. You know, and that's, that's a good point. So he said, okay, well, I'll tell you what, um, let's do, let's do, um, this meat where the first one that I'm going to do where I want to be three Oh eight. And this will show a little bit of my naivety in the powerlifting world in a second. He said, I'll do exactly what you tell me. And if I get, if I get better, we'll know you were right. And if I don't, you're fired. And I said, okay, well, that's, that's fair. I'll take that challenge. How long till we're on the platform again? And he goes eight weeks from Saturday in Edmonton. And I said, I can't put 30 pounds on you in eight weeks. Like, I hope you're hungry. And he said, no, no, no, no. I don't have to weigh 308. Uh, I'm just going to be competing against guys that weigh 308. Um, and I can already hold my own against them. I just want to, I just need to put on as much quality mass as I can and perform as, as best I can. So if you just create the best situation for performance and an increase in lean mass in the next eight and a half weeks, I'll do exactly as you tell me. And if it goes well, you're the man. And if it doesn't, you're fine. So I'll just skip to the good part. Um, I, I sent him a new meal plan and, um, you know, we, we talked about a significant reduction and he was a little, he was a little apprehensive about that, which I get, but he did it. And then what happened? Well, I flew out to Edmonton. His prep went so well. I think I was more excited to see him on the platform than he was. He weighed in at two 66 in Ottawa and nine weeks to the day. He weighed in at two 99. I think he talked about this when he was here. He weighed in at two, two 99 for ghost clash. And he was significantly better conditioned. Like he was significantly leaner and 33 pounds heavier. So the first question that came up when he was in, well, actually it would be cause he cut down from 88. So it would be 10 pounds, right? But still 10 pounds of the way I like to look at situation like this is 10 pounds of unreleased tissue. So the growth could have been potentially there beforehand, but it was being stifled cause he's in a weight class. Very possibly. Right. Yeah. So there's definitely new tissue. Oh, for sure. That's being there. And being leaner would be a loss in the body fat. The look, he, you have to scroll back now, um, to find it cause it's like three and a half years ago, but his before his, his picture that he took on weigh in day in Edmonton compared to the one from nine weeks prior, it looks like two different athletes. He was super jacked. So the first question he got asked, and this is what blew my business. Oh, and he also put 120 pounds on his total. Um, which made him at the time. So when that day was done, he became the number one active power lifter in Canada. He had the highest total of any active lifter. He wasn't the best of all time yet, but on that day he became the greatest who was currently competing. So as soon as he took his clothes off and started warming up, all the same people who were at that meet had been in Ottawa nine weeks prior. And the same question, he must've got it 30 times. What's like, what's your drug stack or what's the new drug is every, all the guys are like, what's the new drug? Like it can't be, you've started just taking better care of your body. So he said, actually, the only thing I've changed, he said, I'm actually on way less drugs than I was last time you saw me, but I hired a nutritionist and they said, well, who is it? And I was there. So he said, if you just, if you look out and it was past the curtain, the guy in the black hat in the third row, um, is he's at real vanilla gorilla on Instagram. And by the end of the day, I think I had 14 clients from that one show between him. And so Alex Sharchuk was also competing on that day and he also had a fantastic performance, but Justin, but Alex and I hadn't worked together. Alex hired me on that day. Cause it was the first day I met him. And Alex is just awesome. Like they're both like brothers to me. And, um, we'll, we'll, we'll reference Sharchuk when we get talking about optimizing, uh, an athlete's performance relative to maintaining really, really good condition year round, like really, really good body composition and how that positively impacts things like inflammation and androgen receptor sensitivity and insulin sensitivity. Sharchuk does it better than anybody. Um, with the exception of maybe Dylan Pierce, he's another guy I'm working with. We'll get to him too. So when I came away from that meet, I think I had 14 new clients and my phone just started blowing up in the audience. And same, it was like I mentioned to you before, nobody said, how much do you charge? They just said, do you, do you have room for me? And can you help me do what you did with Justin? Because the transformation, uh, the physiologically was overwhelming, but the way he putting 120 pounds on his total in a nine week period when he was already one of the best in Canada, I didn't understand how profound that was until he told me. And then that was, we were away to the races after that. So, um, he's become like a, a, a brother to me, or maybe more like a son. Cause I'm a hundred and he's in his thirties. But I like, um, that was, that was what sort of set me on my path. And now 85 to 90%, even, even at this moment, 85 to 90% of my total client roster is always male and female strength athletes, either in the powerlifting world or the strongman world and all around the world, Belgium, Ireland, Australia, Canada, I have a ton of us clients and every single one of them either came to me because their coach sent them or they follow another athlete that I'm currently working with, uh, you know, who tags me in their posts, you know, relating to. So when they come in, what's the, what are the, the biggest mitigations you have to make right from the jump? Cause I'm assuming none of these people are coming in eating fucking Oreos and Ho-Hos and that's all they're eating. You'd be surprised. So for the most part, for the, for instance, Justin had two others beforehand. So he's not completely stupid to the fact that he needs protein. No, no, no. And I'm sorry, I don't mean to throw him under the bus. He understood the importance of protein and ate lots of it, but he wasn't of the mindset yet. And, and so, you know, the mass, the mass moves, mass crowd and their dietary relationship. Cover your protein and everything else. Everything else is good. That's exactly. So that was essentially up to and including alcohol, which I'm not going to get on my pulpit about it. But, um, and a lot of times with respect to alcohol, maybe I'll speak to it quickly here. A lot of times what I find is universally athletes won't touch alcohol and prep, but in the offseason, they're like, well, it's the offseason. Well, in the offseason, your fucking gut health still matters. And alcohol is basically like detergent. So if you're, if you're putting alcohol through your digestive system, you're cleansing it of healthy gut microbiota. Every time you do that. I just want to take a moment to let you know about our crew, what our crew is. It allows the show to stay independent. And it's the reason why the podcast is still here. Now the podcast is free to listen to, but it's not free to produce. It keeps going because of the sales through elite FTS, our show sponsors, but more importantly, our crew members. The reason I love this is for many reasons is it keeps the show independent. So I can pick who I want to speak to. I can pick what topics I want to speak to. And I don't have to be accountable to anybody. I just go off what the crew members want and what the audience wants. And I'll have to deal with all the other bull crap that's associated with the podcast world. In return, what you get with the crew is ad free episodes that are released a day ahead of time. You get access to our discord community, which has AMAs, like 60 eBooks. We try to put a new eBook out every single month. Access to our coaching community with form checks, training Q and A's. It also gives you invitations to our training retreats that are out here in the gym once or twice a year. 76% of all the people that joined in 2022 are still members now. Right now, you can either go month to month or get two months free with an annual plan. Just look for the link in the description. Look at the QR code or search EliteFTS.com crew and join today. It means a lot. And once I really peeled back the layers and I had a really good understanding, and this is mostly thanks to Dr. Dwayne Jackson, I've become obsessed with gut health because of him and I'm grateful for it. If you're not doing everything to the best of your ability to optimize your gut microbiome at all times, you're setting a pretty low glass ceiling for your body's ability to perform and recover, but also dealing with internal and external stressors, immune function. Like there's so many things that are so vital to optimizing your gut microbiome. So if you're one of these people that says, yeah, you know what? I get hammered two times a month, but I'm a serious strength athlete. I wouldn't go so far as to say, no, you're not. But you're kidding yourself if you think that you're making the best of your off-season. If alcohol has any sort of a regular place anywhere in your life, if you're a super serious strength athlete, you don't have to dig far. Just have a basic understanding of how important gut health is and what happens when you put alcohol in your gut and you'll figure the rest out. So, so when I met Justin, um, when we talked about, you know, what his off-season habits were like more than one time, I had to chastise him about alcohol. And again, like, I'm not, I don't get on my pulpit about it, but if you're, if you really want to be, maybe not even like, he's trying to be the best who ever lived. Maybe that's not what, you know, you're trying to do in your personal life. But if you're legitimately trying to be the best athlete that you can be, if you're, if you're not, if you're doing anything that's counterproductive to gut health, there's, you're leaving, you're leaving, I guess, um, you're leaving kilos on the platform in this, in this context. So what, so when he comes on, what, what are the first, well, it sounds like it'd be everybody that's coming to you. So, so how long does it take to turn that around and how do you do it? Almost no time at all. Because usually like what happens is they'll send me, so it's a relatively lengthy intake questionnaire so I can figure out everything that's going on in your life. Um, so when, if you answer all that stuff completely and honestly, I know everything there is to know about, about what goes on in your day-to-day life, even how you deal with stressful situations at work and shit like that. So I have a pretty good snapshot of like who you are and how you live your life. So if there's some, if there's some obvious troublemakers like alcohol, um, that's something that gets addressed, uh, when we do. So I put all the information together and I send it back out and I refer to it as first draft. So that's best case scenario. This is what, this is what doing it perfect would look like. And then I send it back to the person and then I schedule a first draft review call and we just go over everything line by line. And then anything that for whatever reason, if it needs a little fine tuning, we do it in real time while I'm looking like face to face, like through a laptop and make whatever changes and then we get rolling along and that's the expectation. So I guess to sort of answer your question, um, initially what? Nobody's ever come to me. That's just like, uh, just an absolute train wreck of a diet. Um, if the, cause if they're serious enough that they're talking to me, then they're for the most part, they're doing, they're, they're, they're doing pretty good things. They're checking enough boxes. Oh, totally. And usually the only one where I'm like, Hey, you know, we should, we should really talk about this. Cause if you're not, it's usually alcohol. Um, cause generally, generally speaking, actually, I can't really think of another, there isn't really another offender cause nobody who's either, if they're being honest, if they're being honest, but they're also very serious about their performance. It's not like they're going to say, I go to McDonald's five days at a time. Like it just doesn't happen. But usually the thing that sort of has slipped under the radar for a lot of athletes, even at the top tier is the alcohol thing. And it's not, it's not like they're closet alcoholics or anything. Cause it doesn't take that much, a little bit of alcohol. And thank goodness. I think, um, somebody, I know Mike is or tell, uh, and a few other, uh, influencers with really big platforms have spoken to this in the last 12 to 18 months, just sort of abolishing the idea that, oh, like, you know, doctors have always said like a glass of wine a day is actually really good for you. No amount of alcohol is in any way good for you full stop. And then if, cause then what happens is people go, if one a day is actually good for you, then if I have two or three shots of Ryan, you know, with a little bit of ginger ale, and I only do that twice a week. Well, no, it's not, I mean, it's, it's, it's not hampering your life, but if, if, if you're going to be on the platform at the end of your prep against another guy or girl that's in your class, that's just, that's almost like you in every way. And the only thing they're doing differently is they never suck. They never sabotage their gut microbiome. And you do, that could be the thing that, that could be the, that could be the thing. That's the difference between you in first place or them in first place. And it just depends how important that is to you. So if that would be tragic, if you would say, Oh, I really wish I would have known that. Like if, if I, cause I've been all this blood, sweat and tears and I'm doing everything else perfectly, but I'm just sabotaging my gut microbiome just often enough that, that it, it, it, it, it made the 3% difference. You know, if, if that sounds tragic to you, then you don't have to dig too deep to find out that there's this one thing that you actually probably thought was okay. And I was guilty of it for the longest time. Um, you don't know till, you know, so then once, you know, once you're made aware of that and I make it explicitly clearly, and it's not like I say, Hey, listen, if you're not going to give that up, I won't work with you. I'll just say, if you're not going to give that up, you need to know that there's, there's a, there's a performance and a recovery sacrifice that you, that you're, you, that's what you're signing up for. So if you're okay with that, it's all rock and roll to me. Like I want to help you be the very best that you can be within the confines of what you're willing to sacrifice. That's not, that's got nothing to do with me, but if you say, I want to be the best I can be, then I say, okay, well, this is, this is what I think is the best case scenario to nourish your body. And if there's something that you say, Oh, well, you know, if I say no alcohol and you go, I really like to have three or four beers every Saturday night, I say, okay, well, just so you understand, here's what happens in your gut microbiome. And when you, if you, if you do it often enough to create some sort of, some level of measurable gut dysbiosis, um, systemic inflammation goes up when alcohol is in your system, androgen receptor sensitivity, sensitivity goes down. Estrogen receptor sensitivity goes up the body's tendency to want to hold on to more fat. When you eat a fatty meal, cause who doesn't love to get a buzz on and then go get whatever your, your favorite food is that you like to think, you know, that's going to be the antidote to your hangover the next day. So amazing. So all these terrible things are happening at once every time you do that. And you just didn't know that it was that big of a deal. It doesn't make you a bad person, but it's holding you back to some degree. So if you don't want to be held back to any degree, and that's what you're coming to me saying that I say, okay, well, this is a roadblock that we weren't aware of it before, but now that we are, I would suggest you take it out. If you really want the thing you said you really want, but if you don't, that's okay too. But I just, it's my job to make you aware of all the potential things that could be holding you back that you up to, up to this conversation, you weren't aware of. One of the older dudes I trained with when I was in high school, I started powerlifting very young. So we're going back into like mid eighties, made a statement to me and it was about alcohol. And the way that he framed it to me was if, if you, if you train really, really hard, it's going to take a minimum of 48 hours to be able to recover. And that's when you grow and get stronger. I got that. Yep. And now if you drink alcohol, when you go to sleep at night, your body's got to decide, am I going to metabolize the alcohol? Am I going to recover from the training? And then he went into, it takes X and X hours to be able to do that. So now it's not 48 hours, you know, now it's going to be like 54 hours. So you can't squat with us, you know, if you do this on, so that, that was like the first seed that was laid and it tastes like shit, right? I never acquired a taste cause it tastes like shit. Then I bounced in a bar for 10 years and saw people on alcohol and hated all of them. And so I never had to battle the whole alcohol thing. Yeah. And I wish I could say that. It tastes like shit. Right. And it, it hurt recovery. Right. And so it's the gut biome. It's, it's kind of another one of those. It's going to fuck up your recovery, but actually it's screwing up your body to process nutrients, which is worse. Oh yeah. A whole bunch of terrible things. It is fucking your sleep. It's a cascading effect. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a bunch of terrible things. Um, I I'm, I'm so grateful and there's a, there's a laundry list of people that I've had exposure to over the years that I'm really, really grateful for that the two names at the top of that list would be John Meadows and Dwayne Jackson. Um, uh, you know, Dwayne as well as I do. He is amazing. Um, it was really when I started, when he took over, when he took over, he became like the director of education or whatever his official title is for, uh, Jordan, the two Jordans companies, uh, prescript. Um, that was, that was Wayne and I had just, or Dwayne and I had just become very, we had just gotten to be really good friends probably within a year of the time he started, uh, taking over all the education for prescript. So I did both of the first courses that he did, the one that was gut health specific and the one that was just like sort of blanket, uh, nutrition, uh, for optimizing body composition. I was in the first class for both of those. And I've been, he's been, he, I would take a bullet for, for Dwayne. There was a time, this is going back a couple of years ago where I, I begged him to take my money. Like I said, I really, would you just take me on as a client? Cause I started to feel bad cause he's my buddy. So, uh, you know, you ask your buddy a question and he gives you a beautifully detailed answer. But I was, the more I've learned from him, the more I wanted to learn. And it was very positively impacting the, my ability was put more tools in my toolbox for my clients. So I tried to get Wayne to take me on as a full-time client and he was resistant to that. And I said, Hey, if you're just too busy, cause he's, he works with a lot of people. I said, if you're just too busy, like I totally understand. And he was like, no, Timber, I'm not going to take your money. I said, I want, I want to give you all of this knowledge, but I'd be way more comfortable. A because you're my friend and I love you. I would rather move into sort of a, more of a mentor role for you. So you just ask anything, anytime, and I'll give you all the information that I have. And then sometime in your career, there will, there will come along another person who is to you, what you are to me. And then the way that you can pay me back is you take them under your wing and you do, you do for them what, what I'm offering to do for you. So I said, okay, deal. And, and, and that's, so I've taken them, I've taken them up on that. And now, like I said, I've become completely obsessed with gut health because there's so many things that it positively impacts and so many things that can go south. If you're just not paying attention to that one thing. Now, are you just assuming that it's bad or are you measuring stool and all that? I don't get into the stool measurement. So generally speaking, um, and actually, if you really wanted to get into the nuts and bolts of that, like the, I think, I think Dwayne's coming down next week. Yeah. Um, that would be how, how deep you need to go. Uh, he would be a better person to answer that question. I don't get into, so like what I do when I put together a meal plan for a new athlete, I just make sure there's really only a couple of things that you need to do that will very likely ensure that you're optimizing your gut microbiome. Um, and that is simply make sure that you're getting enough fiber, which is, um, uh, something I think the average, I think the average North American gets like seven to 12 grams a day. I don't know what the American recommendation is. It's probably similar to Canada, Canada, health Canada recommends 25 grams a day, and that's not bad. But generally speaking, if you really want to optimize, um, if you really want to optimize your, your gut microbiome, I would have everybody, no matter where they're starting, um, unless they happen to have been measuring it. And I know when they come in, I just assume they've been undershooting it because even people that, that eat quote unquote clean in the bodybuilding world, eating cleanest chicken and rice, it's not a high fiber meal. So we just make sure, you know, I just say, Hey, listen, you know, starting off, we're going to shoot for 25 to 30 grams a day. If your fiber intake has been significantly lower than that, there's going to be an adjustment period. The first probably seven to 14 days, you're going to spend a lot of time in the toilet. You're not dying. It'll pass. And then we will slowly, but surely work our way up and we'll aim for like 38 to 40, maybe 42 or even 45 grams. And the reason that's important is there's two types of fiber. There's soluble fiber and insoluble fiber. So insoluble fiber delivers what it promises. We don't really absorb it or do anything with it. It just moves through the digestive system and sort of acts like a broom. You know, it detoxifies and adds bulk to our poop and it gets, it gets a lot of the stuff out of the digestive system that we don't want in there. But soluble fiber, the body can actually do something with. It gets broken down into what are called short chain fatty acids. And for want of a better expression or to keep this simple, the short chain fatty acids are basically the fuel source that the healthy bacteria in your gut thrive on. So once I get started with an individual, there's really, there's two things on my radar. I want to make sure they're getting adequate fiber for the reasons that I just explained. And then I want to make sure they're getting enough probiotics. So we add in a little bit of kimchi or sauerkraut or, um, it's not uncommon. I'm sure probably 85% of the viewership of this conversation probably just went out when I said those two words. So if you're somebody who doesn't like, you know, fermented foods all that much, uh, specifically kimchi and sauerkraut, you could, you could opt for something easy. That's a high potency source of probiotics like cultured coconut or kefir, uh, or kefir, depending on how you want to pronounce it, um, uh, Greek yogurt, uh, regular yogurt. Like it just, it doesn't matter where you get your probiotics, but you want to get a decent amount of probiotics. And essentially, so I'm going to steal this comparison from Dwayne. It's the best one. And the simplest one that everybody can relate to. If you were to compare your digestive environment or your gut microbiome to the lawn at your house. So if you, I'm a 49 year old white guy, so it's not on my radar to care what my lawn looks like, but apparently that's a thing for guys in our age group. You care about having the best lawn. So I'm also not a lawn care guy, but from my understanding, if you want to have a good looking lawn, the two things that you really need to do are seed your lawn and fertilize your lawn and obviously water it. So if we compare our lawn to our gut microbiome, the, the grass seed would be the probiotics that we get from our, our, um, fermented vegetables, sources, kimchi, sauerkraut, or dairy sources, um, like, uh, kefir or, uh, Greek yogurt or maybe cultured coconut. So wherever you get them, maybe, you know, one to three servings of, uh, of a high potent. So some, uh, maybe 250 billion colony forming units, which is about 30 mils of cultured coconut, or maybe something like 140 or 160 grams of kimchi, something like that. One to three times a day, that's your grass seed. And then your fertilizer is the, the, um, soluble fiber that you get from your fruits and veggies and whole grains, you know, wherever, wherever you get. So you shoot for your 40 grams a day of, well, starting at 25, but work your way up to maybe 35 or 40 grams of soluble fiber. That's where your short chain fatty acids or your fertilizer for your lawn are coming from. And then your probiotics are your grass seed. So if we have both of those things and they're coming in with, with, you know, relative regularity in our, in our daily diet, then we're promoting the opportunity to have a very robust gut microbiome. So then as long as we're not doing anything that negates those efforts. So the, the first, probably the biggest negator of all the, all the work that we just did to create that healthy gut microbiome, number one for me would be alcohol. But then the other thing that can cause a negative gut, um, environment is if things that cause things that, things that overstress the body. So training too hard, too often, not getting enough sleep. Those two generally go hand in hand. So things that are really bad for muscle growth are generally also really bad for your gut microbiome. So the, so then all we have to do is keep an eye on, we have to measure the things that would most likely promote lean muscle gain. And if we're doing all of those and performance as well, you know, which counts on the stimulus side, if we, if we're keeping an eye on the, on the four or five things that are most likely to contribute to lean muscle and strength, they're also the same things that will very positively contribute to a healthy gut microbiome. So things that, things that are important for performance and recovery. So are we getting, are we optimizing our carbohydrate intake? So we've got enough available muscle glycogen to train really intensely. And are we properly hydrating muscles, especially around the time we're going to train? So something like the people at element, you know, maybe have one of those with your pre-workout beverage, maybe drink another one to two packets in a liter, a liter and a half of water during your training. And then just over the course of the day, are we eating, you know, put a little salt on your food to get your potassium or your sodium and then eat some fruit. Over the course of the day. And you'll probably be fine for potassium. It's super, not rocket science, but if we don't think about it, if we don't put it into the plan, if we're not, if we're not measuring it, we're not managing it. So, um, you know, with, uh, one of the things I do with the element to kind of chill it is they have different flavors. Yeah. And so in my oatmeal or cream of wheat or whatever's in the morning, I'll put half a pack of chocolate on top of that. Amazing. Um, the caramel one, I'll put a little bit in the coffee, then the potatoes or whatever my starchy carb is at night. Yeah. You know, it's, I get weird with some of the flavors, but it's only been once that it was like, Oh, you put like lemon lime on your potato. That wasn't bad. Like the, I think it was the citrus. No, it was a watermelon. I was like, Oh yeah, I just fucked up this watermelon, this whole carb source. But, but that way you're getting the potassium and the magnesium as well as just not just dumping all the sodium in there, which matters. So magnesium, uh, this, this, so this is a great segue for this is something I definitely wanted to make sure that we talked about when it comes specifically to magnesium, which I would argue, I could make a pretty good argument if I had to pick, if you were to say, what's the single most important, um, element for your body? There's a whole bunch, but I would, I would probably die on the hill of optimizing magnesium above all else. And specifically. Oxygen. Water. They're all super important. But if somebody, I guess maybe if you were to say, if you were to say, if you could be, if there was a, if there was a world of superheroes and each one of them was represented by maybe oxygen or water or vitamin D, like which one would you be and why I would choose magnesium and this is why. So magnesium is incredibly important and it's used for somewhere between 300 and 600 different enzymatic reactions in the body. So we, so we use a lot of it. And if you, if you right now were to go on Google or ask chat TPT, how much magnesium, how much elemental magnesium, cause this is important. How much elemental magnesium, um, does a, does a physically active adult, uh, individual need to optimize their performance and recovery and maybe get specific and say, you know, I'm, I'm a strength athlete. So how much magnesium do I need? You'll get a generic response of somewhere between two and 400 milligrams of elemental magnesium every day, which I don't have a problem with. I think that's, that's, that's a great starting range somewhere in those. I definitely wouldn't go below 200 for anybody. So then you say. I actually just checked that and you are correct. It didn't say exactly 200 to 400. It says like men 19 to 30, 400 milligrams a day, 31 and up 420 women, 310 to milligrams a day, women 31 and up 320. Amazing. Yeah. Basically. Okay. So this is super important. If there's, if there's, if this is the only takeaway that people get from this, the entirety of this conversation, I will die a happy man. Hopefully not tonight or on the snow drive back. But so this is where the things get really confusing. And thank you for looking that up when you go. So there's a bunch of different types of magnesium that you can buy and that can get confusing on its own because they all, they don't all work the same way. If you really need to poop and you haven't pooped in five days and you really want to poop in the next two hours, take a whole bunch of magnesium citrate or magnesium oxide. Don't use them for anything other than that. If you are, if you're interested in improving muscle performance and recovery and improving insulin sensitivity and improving sleep hygiene and a bunch of other great things, the type of magnesium you want specifically is magnesium glycinate, also known as magnesium bisglycinate. They're synonymous. It means the same thing. So in Canada, the most common dosing or dosage per capsule that you'll find for magnesium bisglycinate is 200 milligrams. So let's say, let's say I'm maybe just getting into fitness and maybe, maybe somebody finds real vanilla grill on Instagram and they watched a video that I made that said, Hey, magnesium is really important. And then that's all I watched. They turned it off and then they went and asked chat GPT. Okay. Well, how much magnesium do I need? I'm Steve Jones. I'm 34 years old. I weigh 200 pounds, whatever. And then it says, okay, um, you know, 400 milligrams or up. And then you say, okay, I'm going to go to the supplement store. I look up on Amazon. Um, okay. So there's a 200 milligram capsule. So I buy a bottle of those. And then I just, I want to be the best Steve Jones that I can be. So I take 400 milligrams right before bed, just like it says on the label. So, so now I'm getting, I'm getting the optimal dose. I'm getting 400 milligrams. Well, unfortunately, Steve, no, you're not. Magnesium bisglycinate by definition is only 15% elemental magnesium by volume. The other 85% is an amino acid called glycine, which is really cool stuff, but it's not magnesium. So, um, and that's just that that's, if you're using magnesium glycinate, it's, it's 15% magnesium, 85% glycine. That's just how that works. So if you take a 400 milligram, take a couple of 200 milligram capsules, take 400 milligrams, your brain thinks, okay, well, I just took 400 milligrams of magnesium, but you didn't, you took 60, you took 60 milligrams of elemental magnesium because it's only 15% by volume. So for every hundred milligrams, 15 milligrams was magnesium. The other 85 was glycine. So you didn't take 40, you didn't take 400 milligrams. You took 60. So then maybe you take, you know, your 400 milligrams every night before you go to bed and nothing's getting better. Your sleep isn't getting better. Nothing's improving. Performance isn't getting better. Like you're noticing no change. So then you might think, oh, well shit, maybe magnesium just doesn't work for me or whatever. No, unfortunately you're just underdosing it. And then, and, and for whatever reason I have yet to see, if I owned a magnesium company, the whole front of the label would be a briefer explanation of what I just said to you. And then there would be a table on the back that explains how much and how often you should take it to actually get 400 milligrams of elemental magnesium. So every single time, unless, unless the athlete already knew this every single time I start working with somebody new, I have this conversation during the first draft review call because they'll say, holy shit, like, why am I taking 14 magnesium capsules split up over three times a day? Well, it's because of that. So that's just, that's really important. Like for everybody out there, there's no one that's watching this. If you're taking magnesium, take what I just said into account and do the math. Because if you're taking magnesium, but you're not experiencing the benefits that should come with magnesium, which is first and foremost, if there's, if there's significant room for improvement in your sleep hygiene, very likely it's got to do. Cause everybody, everybody in North America is magnesium deficient, especially people who don't, you don't even take it. If you're not taking supplemental magnesium, same with vitamin D you're deficient almost for sure. Where are you going to get it in food? Oh, that's a great question. And then the other thing is even, even the foods that are relatively high in, in magnesium content, you only absorb like eight to 12%. So you might as well assume you're just not, um, like off the, unless you're eating. And I don't even, I should know this, but I don't talk about high density magnesium foods. Cause it doesn't, it doesn't fucking matter. Like you need to supplement with it, a bunch of it. So if you're somebody who is supplementing with magnesium and not seeing the benefits, do the math and figure it out. And then the other thing is you don't want to try and take a ridiculous amount. Like you wouldn't take one for me. So minimum for me, I take 3000 milligrams a day and that gets me 450 elemental, um, milligrams of magnesium. And I split that up into three doses. Pardon me. I take a thousand milligrams, uh, with my post-workout meal, which is meal two for me. I take another thousand milligrams with meal five. And then I take another thousand milligrams right before I go to bed. So I'm getting a total of 450 milligrams of elemental magnesium. The reason that I don't just take it all at once at the end of the day, because I would have no problem taking 15 pills. I mean, I'm not a person who has an issue. I could probably take them all at once, but you can only absorb so much magnesium in one sitting. So it just makes more sense to, if it's impractical to break it up into three. The other thing is compliance. So I have a couple of clients that would eat broken glass twice a day if I told them it would make them stronger, but it's, it's not realistic to expect somebody to break up their magnesium into like four doses a day or something. So best case scenario, I'll get them to take, um, a thousand milligrams, maybe even a little bit more. Cause your body can suck up a lot of magnesium right after you train. Cause you just burned up a lot of it, uh, through the, the, the muscle exertion and then take another dose, uh, right before they go to bed. So then on top of that, vitamin D is absolutely crucial for the absorption of magnesium and magnesium is absolutely crucial for the absorption of vitamin D. So I never have a conversation about one without discussing the other. And then, and actually, so there, there still seems to be a bit of an argument raging about what proper dosing is for vitamin D. Uh, I basically, uh, I, I'm a big, I'm a big fan of the entry level is 10,000 I use a day. And on, that might sound like a crazy amount when you look on the bottle. I don't think I've ever seen a dosing recommended above 2000 I use a day. And this is all dependent on blood work too. So if you're somebody, hopefully if you're somebody that's working with me, you're getting your blood work done, but just anybody who's listening out there, hopefully you're getting your blood work done at least once a year. And if you just check the little box that says D25, you can see where you were like, what your vitamin D levels are at. And if they're, if they're anywhere South of the top, maybe 25% of the acceptable range. Like if there's some room for improvement in there, especially if it's at the lower end, if you want to see the needle move, you need to take a lot like 12, 14, 20,000 I use for like months. It just, it takes a really long time supplementing with a, with a, with a significant dose of exogenous vitamin D to get your blood levels to rise. So if you're only taking one or 2000 I use and you haven't had any blood work done that there's probably significant room for improvement, but then also you, you need a decent amount of vitamin D to absorb all your magnesium. So just, just do it. And then the next time you get your blood work done, I have yet to see vitamin D up out of range, like so high that it's, it's above the acceptable range. And theoretically that's possible, but, um, Dr. Serrano, the last time I was here for Swiss told a really compelling story. I won't get into it, but, um, he, he recommended that a female client of his who had really, really, it sounded like really terrible eczema and it covered her whole body. He had her taking 300,000 I use a day for an extended period of time. And initially she left his office, um, because she thought he was crazy, but then she went and talked to a bunch of other skin specialists. And, and what couldn't get any relief. Uh, so she came back to see him. I think she brought him sushi or something. It was a really neat story. And she said, okay, listen, like nothing else is working. I'll, I'll try it your way. And he said, I promise you, you're not going to die of vitamin D poisoning. So he gave her 300,000 I use for many, many, many, many weeks. And it solved her problem and didn't, it only did a really good thing. It didn't do a bad thing. You're not going to get vitamin D poisoning. Um, so once I, I did, I'm not a doctor, so I wouldn't have made a blanket statement like that. If I hadn't heard that story, particularly from him, because he's obviously someone that we both hold in very high regard. He's an excellent doctor. So that, that just sort of, it sort of drove home the point to me that, um, it's not, and now, now it's, it seems to be much, much more common. I see recommended dosages in the 8,000 to 15,000 I use a day. I see that very, very commonly. Um, and I, I, that's just a thing that also doesn't get talked about a lot. I'm kind of, I wish more people talked about optimizing dosing for vitamin D, especially with regard to optimizing magnesium dosing. Because that's such a, it's such a positively impactful thing that any person can add to their, their nutrition and their, and their physical health regimen that's being overlooked. And even if they're, if they, if they do the research and they say, oh, I, you know, I, I'm understanding now that magnesium is really important. And I'm taking, I'm taking the recommended dosage of 400. Sometimes I even take 600 milligrams and I'm still not seeing any forward progress in my sleep or my insulin sensitivity. And, and my, my muscle recovery, you know, still seems like it could be better, but I think I'm doing everything else right. It's, it's not, it's not, it's not that they don't respond well to magnesium. They're just inadvertently wildly underdosing it because nobody talks about that. The fact that magnesium bisglycinate, which I think is the best kind to take other than maybe three and eight, but it's for a different story for another day. It's there. They don't understand that it's only 15% by volume. So they, they just need to be taking more and maybe break it up into a couple of doses. And then all of a sudden I've seen it happen so many dozens and dozens of times with my own clients. And these are people that are already pretty healthy. If there was room for improvement in their sleep, nine times out of 10, the thing, the thing that ended up solving the sleep was finding their unicorn dose for magnesium. And just to give you some perspective, I have a couple of female clients that are both much smaller in stature than I am. They both, I had to escalate their doses higher than mine, like well above 3000 milligrams a day. So their elemental dose was at or above 500 milligrams a day. And then that's what solved their sleep issues. Because at the same time, um, there's so many things that will dramatically increase the excretion rate of magnesium that people don't realize. Really hard training is a very good thing, but it burns through magnesium like crazy. If you lead a stressful life, if you have a stressful job, or even if you're just a person that, that generally, that, that's just sort of amped up. Like if, if you're just, if your adrenal, if your adrenals are just kind of amped up because you're maybe sort of an anxious person, you're just burning through magnesium at a rate greater than the average person. So all of those things need to be taken into account when it comes to figuring out what's going to be your, what I refer to as your unicorn dose for magnesium. And if you're not sure, just keep dialing it up a little bit. Eventually you'll, you'll get to the point where your body's like, okay, I think I've got enough magnesium. And you're, you'll start getting loose stool like consistently for a couple of days. You don't have diarrhea. It's just excess magnesium will draw more water into the lower digestive system. So it'll start liquefying your poops. It's not, you're not, not absorbing other nutrients. It's, you don't have diarrhea, but if you overdo your magnesium, you'll probably get some loose stool. So a quick and dirty way to prescribe magnesium is keep up in the dose until you get mud butt and then back it off by 200 milligrams. You know, something that I wondered as you were speaking is with vitamin D with myself, the dose, oh God, what's wrong? I had me, it was always sitting like at 15, 20, you know, blood work. It was, it was not good. Okay. And so I think we scaled the dose up to like 60, maybe 80,000 and really no change, no change. And then just one day, or I was doing a podcast with somebody and it just hit me that, oh fuck, it's a fat soluble vitamin. Oh shit. Yeah. That's a really good point. I'm not taking it with meals. Yep. Right. No change whatsoever. Just start taking it with meals or with a tablespoon of peanut butter. Yeah. You know, D goes to 150, you know, 180. Yeah. But now if the D has got to go with the magnesium, right. And it's before bed, does there need to be fats in there? No, they just need to be in the same day. Sorry. Okay. That's a great question and a really good point. And I'm glad you mentioned that vitamin D is fat soluble because for the whole rant that I just went on about it, I completely would have forgot to mention that as a really good point. Yeah. I've since then found a source where it's covered in coconut. Oh, perfect. You know, so now it's like a no fucking brainer. Yeah. But I pay a lot more when I could just use. Have some peanut butter. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. As long as you're getting it though, that's, that's perfect. Well, it's interesting about the magnesium though, because I'm not a giant fan of the supplement industry where you would think it would just fucking create it. There's like five that I really. You know what I'm saying? But it's, why do they not just make it as you're saying? That's a great question. Well, I guess, I guess maybe because the capsule would have to be so big. And so this is worth mentioning. Oh, that's a good point. Because, because the glycine that makes up the other 85% is an incredibly important. That's another, that's another supplement that I personally spend the money on. So I supplement with a significant, well, 15,000 I use a day of vitamin D, 3000 milligrams a day of magnesium bisglycinate. I take nine grams a day of glycine on top of the amount of glycine that I'm getting in my magnesium. And I also take N-acetylcysteine. So without, without turning a huge section of this into supplements. Is that NAC? NAC. Yeah. NAC, NAC dramatically elevates the body's levels of glutathione, which is very arguably, the most potently antioxidant, like it's the top of the food chain for antioxidant value. So glutathione is made up of three amino acids. So glutamine, cysteine, and, oh my goodness, why am I drawing a blank on this? Glutamine, cysteine, and glycine. That's the whole reason we're talking about this. So, wow. Well, glycine, glutamine, cysteine, those three amigos, the body can use to create glutathione. So I'm sure you've heard of people just injecting glutathione, like it's a peptide. Yeah. But I'd rather just take the fucking NAC. Yeah. You can just, you can just elevate your own doses. I won't forget that. 100%. It just, yeah. You just put them, you know, they're, they're dialed in at meal one or meal three or whatever. So, you know, a thousand to 2,000 milligrams of N-acetylcysteine and then somewhere between three and, and like my doses, uh, nine grams of glycine. Were they going to pull NAC during the. Yeah. Cause you know what it's really good for? Not only your lungs, all of your vital organs. So your heart, your kidney, your liver. Well, I know they were talking about it here in the States, but I don't know what. They flirted with the idea of pulling it off. Whatever America does, whatever stupid thing the American government does, the Canadian government's like, oh, I wish we would have thought of that. Yeah. I mean, it only took one news story and I bought like 20 fucking bottles of backup. Maybe 40. One of, so my good friend, um, Warren Carr, who's like up there with, with, uh, Dwayne Jackson and they're, uh, really good friends in real life too. Warren reached out to me. Um, he's, he's kind of my go-to supplement guy in Canada. Um, as soon as he heard that that might be a thing, he said, Hey, listen, if they pull it off the shelves, I've still got access to a warehouse. Pardon me. That produces it because it's got really good connections in the supplement industry. But unfortunately that ended up not being a thing. But the reason, the reason that they were going to pull it is it was, it's really, really good at helping the body deal with all of the symptoms of the virus, uh, whose name we don't speak. So yeah, it's just, it's very, very effective. So if you want to keep your glutathione levels high naturally, not there's anything wrong with just injecting it too. But if you want to keep your, your glutathione levels nice and high and have a robust immune function, which who wouldn't want that? Take a little NAC, use magnesium bisglycinate because it's got 85% of it is glycine and then get a little extra glycine on top of that. We're not. Have you done a cost analysis of what it would cost to inject it versus what it would cost to take the NAC? Because you're not going to absorb the, it's a precursor to glutathione. Right. So, so much of it's not going to convert. No. Yeah. And it's probably, it's honestly, it's probably not even close. Like the amount, like if you just took 1500 milligrams of glutathione, I have, this is a great question. Hey guys, I just wanted to take a moment because we do read the comments and one of them that keeps popping up more frequently than not is I can't believe this video doesn't get more views. Take a minute to subscribe, leave a comment and share. It really does help. Dwayne might know that off the top of the head because he's super smart. That's a great question. I, I, the short answer is I don't know. But, um, if, if I'm, if you're dealing with, if you're somebody who's just not comfortable with ordering peptides online and then doing injections, you know, two or three times a week, if, if for whatever reason, injecting glutathione is just not on your radar, then fortunately you can just take some NAC daily. And then, um, you know, you should be taking magnesium bisglycine anyway, for all the reasons that we just discussed. And then a little extra glycine on top of that. So another cool thing that glycine does though, not only is it absolutely, uh, foundationally important to elevate glutathione levels, uh, glycine also drives up GABA levels in the brain. So GABA is a hormone. It's not, it's not a sedative in any way, but it's got, it's kind of like, it's sort of a Bob Marley hormone. Like it just, it helps kind of chill you out. It definitely creates the opportunity for a much more peaceful and serene night's sleep. So taking either some, either some, just some glycine on its own or your evening dose of magnesium bisglycinate with maybe a little extra glycine on top of it, that's going to dramatically elevate your GABA levels. And that just has a really nice calming effect. It's perfect for if you're, if you're somebody who's struggling, if you're struggling to maintain good, consistent sleep hygiene, or if you're just somebody, you know, maybe if you're listening to this and you're somebody who sort of self identifies as somebody who's kind of amped up, like it seems to be dealing with a little bit of extra ambient anxiety that everybody else in the room isn't dealing with. That might be something that just supplementing with some glycine over the course of the day, you maybe take a little with, with breakfast or lunch or lunch and dinner. That might be just enough to elevate your GABA levels enough to just kind of offset you, just kind of chill you out. Again, not all of a sudden you don't give a shit what happens in the world, but you're just not so prone to anxiety. If that's something that you're dealing with regularly, um, optimizing magnesium supplementation. Uh, sometimes I think the magnesium might end up taking a little bit of the credit for what the glycine content of the magnesium glycinate is actually doing because magnesium on its own is good for sort of chilling out the central nervous system. And it works as a, as a potent, um, uh, muscle sort of, I don't want to say relaxant, but it's great for dealing with cramping, restless leg syndrome, sort of like that. But because the glycine is so good at driving up GABA levels, that also helps people deal with, you know, sort of ambient anxiety. I would, I would almost go so far as to say, and I would marry, I would marry this back around to optimizing your gut microbiome. The combination of optimizing your magnesium and your glycine intake and optimizing your gut microbiome and, and, and Dwayne could really dig into the, cause he, he really understands he's done the research on this. Dwayne could speak to this even with much greater authority than I, but that it can have a very positive impact on somebody who is, is dealing with what they would identify as some, you know, level of depression, just optimizing the gut microbiome and, and elevating GABA levels just a little bit can help alleviate symptoms relating to what we would commonly identify as depression. That's a real thing. So when these things are implemented in the clients that you're working with, what do they report back that they noticed different? First thing that if there was room for improvement in sleep, sleep gets way better. That's how, how did they define that? So I'll have them, I'll have them rate their scale on a, or rate their sleep on a scale of one to 10 and then explain what the number is. So if, if they say, if they say, well, you know, my sleep's a six and, uh, cause, and then I'll ask exploratory questions. Are you falling asleep, but having trouble staying asleep? Are you having trouble falling asleep? Are you having trouble falling asleep? And then you, then you wake up at three o'clock in the morning to go to the bathroom and then you can't come back to sleep. Like what, what, like, what does it really look like? So is your, what you're rating as a six is actually like a nine or is it actually a three? Like, well, you know, we'll, we'll get into the weeds about it. Cause then we've got, we've got specific data that we can then address. So we start tinkering around with magnesium dosing and then we'll talk. Cause I have my client, I have my clients check in three times a week and that's just every Friday. Cause if there's a, if there's an issue that started on Sunday and I don't hear from you until Friday, we could have dealt with it Monday. So there's everybody checks in Monday, Wednesday, Friday, or Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. And part of their check-in is a little bit of feedback relating to sleep hygiene with an explanation. So like, where's the number and what's going on specifically. So if it's an eight and a half or nine or higher, especially if it's somebody I start working with, I don't need an explanation. If it's an eight and a half or higher, you're sleeping good. It's fine. But if it's anywhere South of that and there's, there's, um, uh, a specific measurable, uh, marker that we could improve. If I'm having trouble falling asleep or I'm having trouble staying asleep, we'll tinker around what also, so we'll maybe make an adjustment to magnesium and or glycine dosing, but then we'll also take a look at what's going on in the hours leading up to it. Have we fallen off the path a little bit? Are we getting maybe screen time, you know, within an hour that we didn't use to have we introduced, have we, have we traded morning workouts for early afternoon workouts, but we're still using the same pre-workout that's got caffeine in it. And maybe the, the extended half-life of caffeine, which is six to eight hours. And a lot of people don't know that. And maybe that's the thing. So I pay very, very close attention. And that's the thing that that's the thing that gets better. That's the thing that gets better the most dramatically, the most often is sleep. And then probably second to that would be general mood and anxiety level. So a lot of the guys and a lot of the guys and girls that I work with are, are pretty chill people, but not everybody that I work with is a, is a, is a high-end athlete. Like I, there's, it's not, it's not like I don't have people that reach out to me that are just that work out and stuff, or maybe might be, uh, I have a couple of people that are, um, high level executives and they exercise. But the thing that they're, that they've reached out to me for is stress management and optimizing digestion. Like their guts are all fucked up and they're stressed out all the time and their sleep is terrible. So it's what we still use the same tools out of the same toolbox to work with them. It's like a lot of the same processes that top tier athletes are working for, but there's just, there's different things that are negatively impacting the sleep and the gut health. It's because there may be a really high stress environment. How do they report guts are all fucked up? Gas, bloating, diarrhea. Um, so one conversation that happens, it doesn't, I tried to like talking about poop isn't weird for me to talk about poop all the time. But if you're, um, if you're a new client or it's somebody who doesn't talk about their poop very often, it's not uncommon for me to like when I say, you know, tell me a little bit about your, tell me a bit about your sort of digestive life. How often do you poop? So, uh, and sometimes it, depending how quickly I build rapport with somebody, I'll just say to give you a frame of reference, I eat five times a day. I generally poop five times a day. Like that's just what's normal for me. And not often. So this response tends to lean more toward one gender than the other, but they'll say, yeah, no, I poop pretty regularly. Like usually Tuesday. And then again, on Friday, that's not, that's not pretty regularly at all. Like we need to do way better than that. And kind of here's why. So, uh, that's, so when I, when I say, so guts are fucked up is usually indigestion, gas, bloating, and, um, either I poop regularly, but it's soft serve or liquid all the time, or I poop every other Wednesday. And that's just how it's always been. I didn't know that wasn't, uh, that was a sign that there's maybe room for improvement. You had a topic down here on how you met John. Oh yeah. So, wow. This is such a, so I'll try to get through this story literally without tearing up. So how I met John, um, back in 20, the tail end of, oh, it would have been September, 2013. Uh, my girlfriend at the time, I was already a huge John Meadows fan. Like I had adopted mountain dog nutrition and mountain dog training. Everything I did, I probably took in at least an hour a day back in 2013. I was probably taking in at least an hour a day of John's YouTube content. And that was just, it, John, what was John Meadows was my favorite show on YouTube and everything I did, I ate, slept and breathe mountain dog. And so for my birthday, which is in, uh, September 24th. So September 24th of 2013, um, my girlfriend at the time bought me John's online coaching package called lean gains or lean mass or something. It was a, it was a 12 week package and it was the coolest thing ever. Cause that meant John Meadows was going to email me. I was going to be in contact with John Meadows. So for me, that would be like, if you were a huge rock and roll fan in the late sixties, early seventies, and somebody bought you a guitar training package with Jimi Hendrix, like it was, I couldn't believe that was a real thing. I was actually going to have actual contact with my hero. He was my Yoda. So, uh, we get started. So, um, he said, you know, sends me my, my first meal plan. And then my first set of check-ins I sent in and I sent in my pictures and all my diet related feedback. And then he was really good too. And his roster was, must've been massive at the time. It was amazed because I could only assume how many people he was dealing with. John was incredibly responsive. It was never the next day. It was all, it didn't matter what time of day I sent my check-in and I tried to always do it in the morning, you know, cause I would appreciate that. So, um, but it didn't matter. He would always get back to me within like two and a half hours. It was crazy. So that was just, it was amazing to me. It was so much fun to learn from him. And this was really cool because my nickname has been vanilla gorilla since I was 17 years old. So he knew that because that was my Instagram handle. So about, about five weeks into us working together, he started signing off his emails, like his response emails to my check-ins. He stopped signing off John and started signing off the white walrus. So he made up a nickname that was like my nickname. And I couldn't, I couldn't believe that he did that. I thought that was so cool because I was just Joe, nobody from Canada. Just another, I thought just another, one of his, you know, myriad of clients from fucking nowhere. And it meant the world. I was so excited. I called my mom. So then over the course of the next few weeks, we're working together. And at the time, you know, Shane church, Shane was my, we were, he worked on my personal training team and he was renting the second bedroom in my house. So he was my roommate. So John and I started working together in September at the tail end of October or early November of 2013, Shane had a powerlifting client that was going to be competing here. Um, in, uh, December of that same year. So he said to me casually, Hey, listen, why don't you, next time you're talking to John, why don't you tell him, uh, that you're going to come down to Columbus with me? I'm going down there. I think it was, I think I want to say it was the second weekend in December. Tell him you're, you're going to be coming down with me and we'll go train at elite FTS when you were at the other building. And I said, Shane, I can't, I'm going to sound like a fucking lunatic. He doesn't know me. I can't just invite myself down. I'm like, no. And he said, no, he'll, if he's in town, he'll say, yeah, we should, that'll be great. We should train together. And so it took like 45 minutes of him convincing me. Cause I thought it would sound like a lunatic. So then I wrote the email and I said, Hey, John, um, cause Shane said, just mention my name. If it makes you feel more comfortable, just tell him you're my buddy. And so I said, Hey, um, Shane church happens to be my roommate and he's got this thing coming up. You know, he's, he's going to drive down the second weekend in, in December. And he suggested that I come with him and you know, maybe we can get a workout in an elite FTS. Feel free to say no to this. I promise I'm not a crazed fan, but if you happen to be in town, like, would you maybe want to get a workout in? And like four minutes later, he wrote me back and he was like, absolutely. You pick the body part, like what body part do you want to train? And I love training back. So, so it was the first day I ever met you too. So, so this is really, this was really cool. So that when we walked in that morning at the other building, Shane walked in, like he owned the place. Cause he'd been there a million times before and you were there and there was so many other faces that, cause I had watched hundreds and hundreds of hours of training footage that were shot in that building. I couldn't believe I was in that building. I can't believe I'm sitting here talking to you right now. So I went over and sat in a corner and I was looking around, like even right now, like all of those amazing pictures on the wall. And I'd seen so many incredible moments with so many great athletes, guys and girls, you know, that were my heroes. And I was sitting in that room. So I'm sitting in the corner and I'm putting my shoes on to train and John came in and I heard his voice and I froze. I was just staring at my feet and everyone was like, good morning, John. Cause it's just a fucking other day in your lives. And then John looked over, like I could see in my peripheral that he was heading in my direction, but I was frozen like a deer in headlights. And I've never, I've, I've actually met in a weird, for some weird reason, I've actually met a lot of celebrities in my life. Never fan. I never fanned out about anybody. And the closer he got to me, the more nauseous I got. And he reached out and he stuck his hand out and I was still, I could only see his hand. I couldn't see his face. Cause I couldn't move. And he was like, good in the gorilla. And he stuck his hand out. And I was like, this is not good. I'm trying not to throw up on your shoes right now. And he goes, what? And I said, sorry, I'm just, I'm having a minute here. And he grabbed my hand and pulled me to my feet and gave me a hug. And he says, it's really nice to meet you. And I, and then that moment, like the awkwardness passed. And I said, it's really great to meet you too. And so we just started shooting the shit. And then, I don't know, five minutes later, the three of us started training. And my, my girlfriend at the time, Steph, we ended up training for like three hours. And, and, and, and that was over the course of that conversation. I don't know how much of this you would remember if you were standing close enough to hear it, but we got talking about bodybuilding and John said, when was the last time you were on stage? And at the time it had been almost seven years. And he said, how come? And I said, well, when I, when I, when I first left Kingston and started, I had just re-qualified for nationals. And when I first left Kingston to come to Ottawa to take this job with good life, I had every intention of still pursuing, you know, I wanted, I didn't have any delusions of grandeur. I didn't know if I'd ever get a pro card, but I, I had just gotten to the national level, but I hit the ground running with good life. My sales were really, really good. So I got groomed for a management position, pardon me, almost immediately. By the end of my second year, I already had my own club. And then I became obsessed. And there's a, there's not to say good life's a call because Mavadi was the same way. All big chains are probably the same way. Um, if you perform really, really well, they pour a lot of gas on that fire and they don't care if you burn out and die. But I was working seven days a week. Like, but my numbers and my PT team's numbers were really, really good. So I just kind of forgot about bodybuilding and six and a half years went by. And then, but I was still like, I was still over 270. Like I'm still carrying a bunch of muscle and I felt good and I was strong. And John said, well, you've obviously still got it. Like, are you sure you don't want to, you know, like he's like, because there'll come a time. And he said, I've seen it so many times over the years where guys or girls, the window closes and then two or three years later, they try, they try and come back. And that's just not the same. And I've seen it happen a million times. And I said, well, geez, I hadn't really thought about it like that. And, uh, I said, what do you think? Like, what do you, what do you think we should do? And he's like, I think we should, let's do Fuad show. And I was like, okay. So I just came out of retirement and we, we wound up working together for the entirety of the rest of that year. So he prepped me for the Fuad Abiod classic the next year. And he brought me in bigger and better condition than I'd ever been. And in a weird way, unfortunately, or maybe not, unfortunately, it was the first time in my whole career. I didn't, I didn't place third or higher. Like I've never not been in the first to call out in my whole life, but there was 13 super heavyweights in that class. And my conditioning was, I talked to the judges after and they said, you can do it. And these are all guys and girls that I'd gotten to know over the years. Cause I had been retired for a while, but I, they'd seen me on stage 10 times before that and they said, but I'd had all these injuries. Like between the time I did my last, uh, between the time I'd done my second last show. And when I started working with John, I had torn both biceps, torn my left rotator, torn my left tricep. I have since had my hip replaced. Like my body was pretty banged up. So although he brought me in a tremendous condition, my body didn't, I'd look, my arms suck now. They used to be huge, but now they're all fucked up because I've torn everything. So I just didn't bring, I wasn't as pretty looking as I used to be. So I, I wound it up. I think I went up coming in sixth or seventh out of 13, but I didn't make first call. So that's it. You know, your day's done. And I, it broke my heart, not because I didn't do well for me, but I was very sad that I didn't do well for John. So. So when I got off stage after the morning show, I knew I was done. So I texted him and I said, I'm really sorry. I didn't make first call out. And he got back to me right away and he said, holy shit, it must like, it must've been a stacked lineup. And I said, yeah, there's 12 other guys in my class, which is crazy for super heavyweights. I was 241 pounds. Um, and I said, I already talked to the judges and when they asked who my coach was and when I said it was you, they said, well, that explains the conditioning. But you know, Tim, you don't look like you used to, you know, like it's just your injuries, the balance and flow. It's not the same, but that's the only reason, you know, but your conditioning is absolutely flawless. Your posing was great. And I, and I was still very apologetic to John and he said, he said, I'm so proud of you. And he said, I was going to wait and tell you this later, but it sounds like you could use a W. So, uh, I'm going to have Andrew Barry, uh, who was working for John at the time. I'm going to have Andrew reach out to you and he's going to interview you for a spot, uh, called in the trenches on the website. And so, so that was, I couldn't believe that that was way better. I have a room full of trophies. I don't even look at it anymore. The coolest thing that had ever happened in my bodybuilding life, other than the day I first met you and met John was having that in the trenches, which to this day, I mean, you got all the way back to 2014 to find it, but it's still on the mountain dog website. And that was the, that was the biggest honor of my whole career. And it meant the world to me to have him a say, he was proud of me. Um, but then also it just immediately like trophies are nothing experiences are that's everything. And the, that it was, it was the time that I worked with John. And then we ended up like, we ended up becoming like, he became my friend. That was now I look at in my, you know, like, I mean, I was a grownup when I met him, but in my sort of adult life, I don't just look at business situations or training situations or industry related situations through the lens of what would John do from a, like from a moral compass point of view, the two best people I ever knew in my life were my mom and John. So I look at like, I'll say to myself, like either, what would my mom say if I could, if I, if she was alive and I could call her and ask for advice or what would John do? That's, and that's how I'll run. That's how I'll run my life for the rest of my life. You kind of lucked out when you came down because he switched the Saturday from leg day to back day because he had to bring up his, his back, you know, which that was a, that was an interesting time because the, he did the same thing with his back that he was doing with his legs. And that was just slowly pull the volume up to the point where it was just fucking stupid where he was doing like 45 sets of lats a week or just total back, not just lats a week. And, um, it was kind of during that same frame where I got locked up into something business wise to where the training had to drop down to like once or twice a week. And for a long period of time, it was just that day. Really? It was just back. And I, I always kind of knew that if you just trained legs really hard, you pretty much maintain everything. Yeah. I, after that, it was like, well, if you train your back really fucking hard and the volume's high enough, not really the volume and intensity, it kind of plays into that. Yeah. You, I actually maintain better, which was fucking weird because the, the partial deadlifts would fall on back day, you know? So that was kind of taking care of hamstrings and shit like that. Cause it certainly wasn't back. Yeah. You know, maybe erectors. We live in some crazy times right now where there's not a day that I don't go on the internet. I see some BS crap about this research study or this research study. This isn't new. I've been in this industry for four decades. One thing that's helped me is eight years ago, the mass research review started and became a godsend. The mass research team are professional researchers that are also meathead. So they've done this great job of being able to take all these topics and put them into this research review that I get every month. I'm excited to partner with them. I spoke with Eric Helms about this on the podcast. It's simple. It's easy. They're offering a 20% discount to all podcast listeners. The code is EliteFTS20. When you join, you get the research review, which is going to be sent to you every single month. It has seven to nine articles in there. The archive, which is 1500 articles, thousands of videos. Just head over to mass research review.com and use the code EliteFTS20. Link will be in the description. Bye. There's a, there's a moment from that day. This was amazing. And I'm sure you'll remember this probably for the entirety of the rest of my life. The craziest fucking thing I ever saw happen right in front of me was when, remember at the end of that day where we all did a max effort set with a sort of modified rack pole thing with those big wagon wheel. Yeah. So you had what looked like a, I'd never seen anybody else do this because everybody else just sniffs their ammonia from like the bottle. But you had what looked like a, like a climber's chalk bag or something that I guess had ammonia in it. And instead of just like taking a whiff of it, I was standing next to John and you stuck your face into a, I guess what was a bag of ammonia and you went and your eyes were like this big and John goes, we should take a step back. So we did. And then you did your, you did your crazy max effort set, but that was the wildest thing. The look in your eyes, I'll never forget. And I already kind of had you on a pedestal, but holy shit, it was like, that was really intense. John goes, yeah, Dave's really after it today. Yeah. There was a, I think it was dead lifting with chains off blocks or some shit like that. And it was the same type of thing that we did. Yeah. And there's a video out there where it's the last set, you know, so you just fucking go and just, I didn't pass out, but I was on the floor because there was no other place to be. And John just leisurely walks over, steps over me, goes to the other side, takes the plates off. And it was, it was just, it was exactly what we do. Yeah. But he, uh, the amount of DMs and shit that he got because of, I can't believe you didn't check to see if he was okay. You know, it's just normal. His chest was still raised. Yeah. There was another video of, uh, John did the, the drop set of death. Um, it's 10 reps and then you hold for a 10 second ISO hold and then reduce the weight 10 reps. ISO hold. Yeah. That's a terrible. So one of, uh, one of my favorite clips that I've ever seen, uh, and this would have been at the other facility. So John's John's in the middle of one of those and he doesn't quite make it all the way through. I think he gets seven reps of the 10 after the second load reduction. So like rep 27, his leg just seizes up and he just falls out of the shot and you lean over and you just go still owe me three. And then you lean back out. Like you didn't give a fuck. It was so hardcore. Just wait. It was that shit that made me fall in love with like both of your training styles. But really that's what I was like, this is, this is the methodology that works for me because the science and the nutrition, all of it made sense. But there was, there was nobody that was demonstrating that level of intensity. Remember the cattle prod thing you guys were doing for a while? Yeah. Like that's fucking crazy, but it was awesome. That started out before I get into the cattle prod, the, the, the, the most impressive vomit thing I've ever saw is like Evan Sinopani came out and with that, it was like a fucking fire hose. In fact, I've never seen that in my life. That was the best thing ever captured on video ever. But with a cattle prod, what John wanted to do was to, um, taser. Right. So, and I'm like, yeah, fuck. Yeah. We'll do all that. Then he's, he's like calling me and texting me. Like I got a police officer friend that's going to come in and he'll be able to do it. And it's, and then I started thinking that he's like for real, right. And he's never been tased before. I have like this. Why? Actually. And it fucking knocks you off your feet. You're not, the videos are, you're fucked up. Like you're really fucked up, you know? And he wanted to squat down, sit on a box and then tase. And then you should come up more faster. And I'm like, no, it doesn't work that way. It's going to break your fucking back. So now I'm like paranoid. I'm looking for options. Right. And I'm like, well, cattle prod's not that big of a deal. Yeah. Right. It's comparative. Yeah. I've grew up around farms and shit. Like we used to cattle prod each other. Like a battery. It's not a big deal. You won't have that. So I went on Amazon and I bought a cattle product because I figured it's not even going to be that strong. It's fucking Amazon. You know, so I bring the cattle prod in. You know, actually I tested on my fucking shin before I go in. It's no big deal. Now, if you had like spandex shit on like tights, it hurt worse. Right. But if it was just bare skin, not a big deal. So I walk in with the cattle prods. I'm like, John, look, this is what we're going to do. And so we, we hit it. It's not a big deal. Right. And he's like, this is going to be great. I'm like, I'm thinking this is going to be great because it doesn't really hurt. Yeah. It's not that big of a deal. And half the people who see it are going to think, oh my God, that's a cattle prod. Yeah. The other half, which I hope don't comment or say anything are going to be like, that's like licking a battery. I wouldn't have known that. Oh yeah. It was my pivot from what he wanted to do. And I think he would have fucking done it and I would have done it. Right. And probably gone first. Yeah. Right. And so stupid shit like that. That's amazing. That was before the YouTube really blew up, but that's how his brain worked. He was thinking of shit that would do well on the internet. It was the best thing I ever saw. Yeah. And I hated it. Like all this stupid shit. Oh man. I like hated it. And he's like, well, what if we do this, this? I'm like, I said, well, we just fucking train, you know, and kind of go. Yeah. No, that. But it worked out for him on YouTube. A hundred percent. It hooked me immediately. There was nobody. And I've never seen anything like it since. There's no, there just, there was something that was so much more special. It's Dorian Yates is my favorite Mr. Olympia and his training videos. What, you know, the intensity was awesome, but it's, it's not, and not to say that certainly would never disparage Dorian or his training intensity, but the stuff that you and John were making was so much more fun to watch. It was just, it was awesome. It was super hardcore. And it was, if you were of the right mindset, it was completely relatable. You go, that's, this is, this is my jam. Like that, these, this is the way it needs to be done. And so I hooked, line and sinker ever since. Now, part of what he was doing with the leg stuff. And I think this needs it to be stated. So people kind of understand because he would not program that same shit that we were doing. Right. Right. Is part of his goal was to pull the volume up so high and make it so brutal that if anybody ever came out to train, they wouldn't be able to last. Right. And it took a couple of years to get it to that point before people started coming out. So you could wreck people. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's kind of, that's kind of what it was. Cause that's what happened to everybody. Exactly. But if they would have come, you know, a couple of years ago, if they worked with him, they would see there wasn't that many work sets that were like that, you know, it's the, one of the first times I trained with him was, oh God, it was, it was a seated leg curl. And it wasn't that it was intense. It was like, you have these warmup sets, like everybody has a warmup set, but it's fucking seated leg curl. Like I need like two warmup sets to figure out what the weight's going to be like five, five weight go. Yeah. And then we, we get like two sets done and actually it was like four or five sets and they're all the feeder sets. Then it's like four work sets. And I'm like, the fuck? Like I was done like a half hour ago. Yeah. Like, and that's, we've been on the machine for 49 minutes. That one, like, what the fuck were all those other sets? You know, this is insane. Yeah. You know, then the like six work sets after you do the warmup sets, like that's a fucking, this is stupid, man. And I hated it coming from the powerlifting standpoint. Oh yeah. One or two work sets, it's fucking done. Yeah. Hard enough. It's like, no, that was set two. There's two more. I'm like, I don't want to do the same weight four times. Like that's, I hate that. That's the one thing I hated about body. If you use the same weight for multiple sets, like I already did that. It's counterintuitive to a powerlifting mentality. The fuck? I conquered that. What are we doing here? Next one. Santana Anderson. Oh, he came out once or twice. So he's been, he's been a good friend of mine for a while. I knew him way before he got us broken. And I love him. He's just a great human. Santana is another really good example of a, of a person from the bodybuilding world who not only is one of the nicest people in the bodybuilding world, but would be one of the nicest people you ever met. He worked his ass off too. Was it like a fishing charter or something? Yeah. So his old man. Um, so the way that I met him was he moved from the East coast. He moved to Belleville to go to the local college there. And then back from back in the days, I worked in bars as a doorman for 10 or 11 years too. So in my early days, uh, he, he was working as a doorman, uh, at a bar that was owned by a guy that I knew. Um, and so he was also looking for extra work and I had just opened my first supplement store in Belleville. So my buddy said to go over to, um, body nutrition and, uh, just tell him I sent you, you know, meet Tim, you guys probably get along great. So I hired him right on the spot, but then we also started training together. He's just a great, he's a great kid. And then, um, he really, he really got the bodybuilding bug and he's always had a tremendous work ethic. Like as we were getting to be good friends, he told me about his first day is his old man owned a crab fishing outfit. And he said, um, and so like, if you've ever seen movies, like, I don't know, like the perfect storm or whatever. Yeah. Fucking guys. That's why there's reality shows on how hard their life is. And he's like, it's it, that's legit. Like, it's really like that. And if you get on the ocean and you don't have your, like your quote unquote sea legs, the first few days are rough. Like he said, I puked for three days straight. Couldn't, I couldn't keep water down, but you just gotta, you just gotta get used to it. Um, but yeah, he's like, he's, he's got a, an absolutely militant work ethic. He's, he's amazing. So he had, he had been down, he had been down to train with you and John a couple of times. And then when I first posted on Instagram that I had been down here, um, when I did, uh, it was just a circle back. So when I did my max effort set of those modified rack pulls, um, and that was, so what John would call a challenge set, uh, or everybody else would call it an AM wrap. It's the same thing. Um, I had, I had posted that, that video cause I basically just kept, I just kept going and going until he told me to stop. Cause my form got so bad. I think I went blind in my left eye for a couple of minutes. Like, I just didn't want to quit in front of him and you, but there was a point where my reps were getting so ugly. It was like, okay, you're good. And I, in my summary of that day, I mentioned, I used the expression challenge set and Santana sent me a DM and said those challenges. It just said those challenge sets are no joke, like dot, dot, dot. And then we talked about it later and he's like, I thought I was going to die when I was down there. Um, but he said it was an amazing training experience, but he's like, you, you think you train hard until you go to elite FTS and then you realize that there's levels to this shit. And it probably, it's probably universally every time you guys got somebody new in here, they probably felt that same way. Unless they, if they came down for four or five days, right. So they would, cause he trained at that lifetime fitness, which was, it's, I couldn't try, try to train there twice. I can't do that. It was so fucking commercial. It was commercial times 10. And, but he loved it cause they had a place for the kids and all this other kind of shit. And the training was hard. It was definitely hard. But if they could get every body part, then they would see there's a difference between, you know, chest and arms and shoulders and legs. Like they would see that there's a phasic structure that's kind of going on here. Yeah. If they just happened to pop in on Saturday, they'd leave thinking, Oh fuck, I can't do this. I can never go back. Training. Burn that footage. Yeah. Yeah. That was rough. Did you have any other topics you wanted to go over? I didn't bring up. I don't think so. I think we've covered everything that I, that I really wanted to make sure that, Oh, actually, you know what? No, there was one. Cause we alluded to it briefly, but I did want to talk for a minute about specifically the body composition of an athlete. Yes. And what, what I would consider to be optimal compared to maybe what, what either maybe, maybe an individual isn't considering at all, or maybe what they would consider to be optimal. So. All right. Before you get on this path, let's not use body fat percentage. Let's use what they're going to look like. Yeah. Okay. Sorry. Yeah. Because you start dealing with calipers and all those things. So let's just say, let's say if there's unnecessary fluff. Yeah. So when you look at yourself in the mirror in your underwear, you're either, you're either in pretty good shape or you're not. So if you're fluffy, then if you're fluffy, then we can take it to the bank. If you're, if you're carrying, let's say if your body fat is, if you have unnecessary body fat, then you will be also be dealing with unnecessarily elevated estrogen sensitivity. But how, what are they going to see? I mean, should they see an outline of their abs? Oh, that's, so that's a great question. No, I would just, that would be great. Like if you can, if you can, abs, abs are a pretty good, it's a little bit different. Um, because the, because of the, the, the gender gap for guys, if your abs are at least lightly visible and I don't, I don't just mean like, oh, in the right lighting, I can kind of see the outside. Like if you can see your abs, but they're not peeled, but if you go, oh, okay, no, they're, they're clearly there. Then that's, that certainly, I would say that's acceptable. And, but then you don't need to, you certainly don't need to, to, to strive for like veins on your hands. It's like, we're not talking pre-contest bodybuilder, but if you, if for guys, if, if you can, if you can, if your abs are visible and not just in perfect lighting, let's say that's, that's good. And then for the girls, if there's not just, I want to be choosy with my language here, but if you're being honest with yourself, you know, what is, what is, you know, what fluffy looks like. So if there's, if there's what, what you would honestly say to yourself, okay, that's, that's more body fat than nature intended or whatever, however you want to word. I mean, you can, you can, you can read between the lines, hopefully enough if you're serious enough about your training. So then, uh, essentially the point that I kind of want to drive home is if you're, if, if your body fat is, when I say unnecessarily high, well, I guess what I mean specifically by that is if you, if there's more, if there's more body fat than is likely to promote robust health, every pound of, of body fat over and above that we'll call unnecessary body fat. So if you, if you're, if your body fat is unnecessarily high, you're going to deal with unnecessary, um, degradation in your insulin sensitivity. You're going to deal with unnecessarily lowered androgen receptor sensitivity, unnecessarily elevated systemic inflammation and unnecessarily elevated estrogen sensitivity, which is particularly bad for male athletes. So my. What were those for again? So unnecessarily elevated. So unnecessarily elevated estrogen sensitivity, unnecessarily elevated systemic inflammation, unnecessarily down-regulated insulin sensitivity, and unnecessarily down-regulated androgen, down-regulated androgen receptor sensitivity. So all four. All those except the inflammation I can fix with drugs. So, okay. So that's true. But if you, if you change the lifestyle habits that contributed to the unnecessarily elevated body fat and did drugs, you'd get an even better response. I'm just playing devil's advocate. Totally. Right. And it's a, it's a valid point. Because that's how I would have thought. Somebody's going to show up in the, that's how you, I used to think too, until I learned. Yeah. Um, so if, if, if your response was, well, wait a minute, there's a drug for everyone. I mean, actually there's. Well, the inflammation, what is there for inflammation? That's. No, not really. I see. There's not a, there's no that. So there isn't a drug. Somebody will figure one out. Um, but, but if, if, if your response, if your response was, Hey, there's, I can fix most of those with drugs. I would say that's true. And I'm don't get me wrong. I'm pro drug, but let's not bring drugs into the situation until we're doing the best that we can to create the most robust and performance enhancing environment and then do drugs. Well, drugs can either fix or enhance. Right. So if you're using the drugs, they can fix the bad. They can mask, mask, mask or enhance. Yeah. Fixing the problem is going to have to, that's going to come back around to better nutrition choices. You might have to actually start doing some cardio. Um, you might have to, you know, like there's, there's, there's all of the, there's all of the easily pulled levers that are well within our control and don't aren't expensive. The things that we talked about at the beginning, the things that if we, if we measure will get managed, all of those things, none of them are expensive. They're all pretty easy to learn. If I can learn them, anybody can. And they're all things that you could immediately, you could immediately deploy into your lifestyle tomorrow morning. So if you did all those things and then you say to yourself, okay, let's, so let's say, let's say you've got 30 pounds more body fat than your body can do anything productive with. And you're serious about your training. Cause I want to make sure like if all the, all the, everybody watching this, I'm not saying if you're unnecessarily fat, you're a bad person. I don't care. Whatever makes you happy. But if you're, if, if, if, if in your heart of hearts, you're saying, I want to be the fittest, healthiest, best performing, either competitive athlete or just human being, or maybe set the best example for my kids or whatever your why is. If you want to be the healthiest, best, best performing, best case for longevity version of yourself, if you are carrying 10 or 20 or more excess pounds, if, if we make that a priority and you say, okay, I'm going to, I'm going to slowly but surely get rid of all of that. Everything about your life will get better, especially your performance and recovery life. If that's really on your radar. So the, the best, the most recent best case example of that, um, I'm not picking favorites. I love all my clients, but one in particular is a kid named Dylan Pierce. That's a strong man competitor in Western Canada. So in the little, uh, between a year and a year and a half that he and I have been working together, when I first got him, he was in the low, low 200s, 202 maybe. And, um, what you would consider to be fluffy. He, I mean, he was very, he was really strong. Um, in his weight class is already one of the best power lifters in, or sorry, uh, strongly competitors in Canada. But it was immediate. It was on his radar when he hired me. One of the things he wanted to do was just improve his body composition. I didn't need to give him the speech that I just made. He just, he wanted to get better at everything. He wanted to, he just wanted to learn to manage the five things that we've talked about. They were already on his radar. He wanted to learn what are the processes to optimize those things that are within my, that are within my capability. Um, cause I want to be the best athlete that I can possibly be. And I just want to learn that. So the beneficial side effect of all of the things, and he's put in, he's got a great work ethic, all of the things that we've been doing together, which was basically, we did a, we didn't, we did a sort of a clean offseason together. And then he did a couple of, we did a couple of preps. He went over to Ireland recently to compete over there, did really, really well. He's been slowly, but surely improving his body composition. And just as of this past week, um, he's down, he's 25 pounds lighter than the day he and I started working together. And he's crushing all time PRs at his, at his, so his new low body weight, he had a DEXA scan done the week before last nine point 8% body fat. If I had to, if I had to guesstimate where he was, he would have been in the low twenties when we started working together. So less than three weeks ago, 9.8% DEXA five or six days ago. Maybe a few weeks ago now, depending on when this airs, he hit a squat and deadlift PRs. And that's, it's, it's, that's what happens. So once several months go by where you're dealing, dealing with elevated androgen receptor sensitivity, down-regulated estrogen sensitivity, up-regulated insulin sensitivity, down-regulated systemic inflammation week after week after week of living in that environment, everything gets better. You get significantly stronger, significantly faster. The beneficial, all the beneficial side effects of down-regulated systemic inflammation that are relating to your sleep hygiene and your immune function, everything, the way you deal with stress, cortisol goes down. Like everything gets better. If you make it a goal, if you make it a measurable goal to improve your body composition up to the point where, and you could say, well, how will I know when I've gotten there? You'll feel amazing. And you'll look in the mirror and go, now that's an athlete. So whatever that looks like to you, that I think that's a relatively easy way to manage, to measure it. And then you don't have to get into the weeds and be like, well, you know, if it's not, and you made a great point right off the bat, you know, if it's not 12%, it's bullshit or whatever. It's just, if you can, if you look in the mirror and you say, now that's an athlete, you know, and I, I, I earned that and I feel amazing. Fucking great. That's you win. Like that's, and it's, it all comes back around to just getting really, really good at those basic things. And then I'm not pro or anti-drug. If you want to throw some drugs in on top of that, knock your, knock your socks off. But I would say, I would actively say, don't do that until you're really good at these things. And then whatever, whatever exotics on top of that. And that would be probably, I think that's probably the last thing. What would be the best way for people to find you? Oh, so on Instagram, I have two accounts, but I pretty much live on my personal one. It's just at real vanilla gorilla. And then the website is www.vanillagorillacrew.com. Any final thoughts? Uh, this has been, this is now tied for the other coolest day of my life, which is the first time I met you. And, uh, I hope everybody really, really enjoys this episode. Hopefully there's at least a couple of good takeaways and thank you very much for the opportunity. Thank you for coming out and for Dan.