 naringin,Throughabergik.co.co. So, when I say true overtraining, the reason I say that is because if you dig yourself a hole down here bad enough, we're talking like months to get out of. So, guys, hope you're having a good day. So, take one didn't go too well last week. So, we actually had time to kind of think about how we could change it. it and improve it so hopefully this is actually gonna be a better version of this video now because of that so today's video is going to be about auto regulation and this one came courtesy of I believe it was an Instagram message from Jeff so Jeff thank you for the inspiration because coming up with what to talk about is usually the hardest part anyway and we were kind of surprised actually when we looked because we don't really have like a long-form video on auto regulation which considering it's probably the third most said word out of Dave's mouth after it and depends that was pretty surprising so here we go this one's gonna be on the longer side so I'll warn you in advance maybe get comfy get some snacks or whatever because when try and delve into this but also give you a framework for how to actually go and start applying it with your programming or even on a day-to-day basis then based on how you feel so first off let's address what are we actually talking about when we are talking about auto regulation because it's a cool sounding technical term that gets thrown around a lot but like what's the actual definition that lies underneath it what we're really talking about here is managing neurological fatigue yes muscular fatigue is important and you know we can talk about that a different point but when we listen to athletes and coaches talking about auto regulation either on like a daily basis or a weekly basis whatever what we're referring to is managing the neurological side of your fatigue and the reason for that is you only have one nervous system at the end of the day right so we use that for everything so that's why for example you're a demanding squat session on the Monday can still have a detrimental effect on say your bench press session on the Wednesday even if there's basically no overlap in musculature because the nervous system that controls the musculature hasn't recovered and gotten back to its full level of potential should we say so what we're really talking about is managing the nervous system so let's just put that up there to remind us what we're talking about okay so when we're looking at the nervous system which we need to ideally kind of be at its best for pretty much every session if we want to perform our best what we're really looking at is the relationship between the training that we perform and the amount of cortisol and adrenaline that get released as part of that so that is the main factor that we're going to be talking about because that really forms the baseline of how fatigued we are and its increment its incremental effect on our performance should we say so cortisol and adrenaline we're just going to put these at the top two are intrinsically linked okay so when you release one you release the other now they're not bad and they're not good necessarily it's all dependent on context cortisol is why you wake up in the morning you get a cortisol spike causes an adrenaline spike and we're awake so if you're one of those lucky people that wakes up feeling energized in the morning that's because you've timed your wake up with your natural cortisol spike and you become a morning person one of those insufferable individuals right so this is what we're talking about managing now cortisol gets a really bad rap it's like a stress hormone and like causes you to gain fat and all this horrible stuff which isn't strictly true its main function is to create readily available energy that's primarily what it's there for it's there for the breaking down of substrate to basically maintain your blood sugar level so that you can do all the stuff that you need to do for example say you suddenly need to run for your life from a tiger and your blood sugar is low cortisol will spike very high it will give a very strong signal to the body that you just need to break stuff down to maintain blood sugar high enough so that i can sprint away from the tiger and survive or i just sprint fast enough so i'm not the slowest person so they get eaten first right so this is what we're talking about managing now when we don't do that well we start building up cumulative fatigue in the neurological sense and that is when our performance starts to decline so let's just look at what that looks like because at the end of the day we may not need to do this because we may not be carrying any neurological fatigue or you might be watching this and your nervous system is absolutely screwed and you kind of need to know that so that you can take some action right so let's look at the different levels of neurological fatigue that we experience now the reality is like there's this is actually a spectrum you know you don't just progress from level one to two but this is the easiest way to split it up makes sense in my head so hopefully it makes sense in yours too so the first thing that we experience takes place at the beta adrenergic receptors which basically is the fancy term for the receptors that adrenaline binds to okay now when we experience this like initial level of neurological fatigue what happens is these receptors down regulate in terms of their sensitivity and also to some degree their number okay so what happens then is because these receptors are not sensitive or not as numerable you don't respond as well to the same amount of adrenaline being put into your system okay now there's a reason for this because these are the most sensitive receptors in your body pretty much right and the reason for that is too much adrenaline will kill you okay can give you a heart attack and all this other horrible stuff anyone who ever triple scoop jack 3d is a pre-workout knows exactly what overloading your adrenaline receptors feels like okay it's not a fun place to be so this happens very quickly and we've all kind of experienced this right like maybe your morning coffee turns into two because one doesn't quite do it anymore or that one monster energy turns into two you get what i'm saying right and all of that is down to this mechanism here we're releasing more cortisol and adrenaline and because that level goes up the receptors desensitize and come down because too much is not good all of us experience this to some degree with our training because if we are training hard enough to create a stimulus this is going to happen but that's also why then it's important to have rest days and sensible programming and all that type of thing so this we will fluctuate in and out of that state pretty much all the time so that's not necessarily a problem now what happens is if we're in this state for too long without like a recovery period right what happens is well we still need to get our stuff done so what happens is if these receptors are not as sensitive we just have to release more of this stuff to get the same response right now we can't just make infinite amounts of cortisol and adrenaline it's got to have like a base to come from we've got to make it from something right and now the easiest way to create more adrenaline adrenaline is from noradrenaline as the name kind of suggests very similar right you just knock off whatever this bit is and then you have adrenaline that's wonderful so when we go through a stage where we need more adrenaline because we've got stuff to do but the receptors aren't very responsive anymore we start to break down noradrenaline to make more adrenaline which isn't a problem at first but when this starts to drop too much we end up with things like brain fog short-term memory loss and when i say short-term memory i mean like walking in a room not remembering why you're there forgetting where you put your keys that really kind of like basic stuff right now just to backtrack a tiny bit i'm sorry when we're here this is just like a small drop in energy level a little maybe a little bit of lethargy and what you'd see with this is like a downturn in power output and reflexes which we'll talk about later like how do you assess your level of neurological readiness okay so we'll put power and reflexes here get worse because they're like the most finely tuned parts of our motor function okay so when we get here we start depleting noradrenaline if we do that for too long we start getting these neurological symptoms our thinking isn't as clear we can't concentrate as much we start to be struggle to recall memories okay this is why for example like there's a lot of use of like noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors which bring up your noradrenaline levels for things like add and things like that just as an example okay again most of us will probably get to this point at the end of like a very hard training cycle you know like if you're prepping for meat or something like that right and you know when you're here because you're just not at your best in terms of like mental clarity or performance but usually there's some kind of like you know week-long deload or something like that which involves very little training or minimal training which is enough time for us to kind of get out of this state like this if this isn't too pronounced in a day or two you're you're back to normal like if you're drinking a little bit too much coffee and you just go cold turkey for a couple of days you're pretty much back where you were right this we're looking at more like maybe a week maybe 10 days depending on how far into this you are then once we get down here this would have to go on for a reasonable amount of time right we get to what we're going to call level three right now at this point we start to run into problems with dopamine and the reason for that is and i'm gonna have to kneel down here there's basically this whole cool cascade where we want adrenaline up here this is the end result that we need we need to keep pumping this out because these are still down regulated at this point so this needs to go up we've got this really easy intermediate here which is noradrenaline but actually we can make noradrenaline through quite a lot of steps to be fair but we can take dopamine feed that into here that increases noradrenaline which means that we then have more adrenaline noradrenaline i'm sorry to increase adrenaline so when this starts running really low we start to make more of this from this so what happens then dopamine starts to go down now this is where things get kind of serious okay now this is this in my opinion this is what i would call like true overtraining when i say true overtraining the reason i say that is because this if you get dig yourself a hole down here bad enough we're talking like months to get out of cool thing is most of us can't actually train enough to get into this problem right but if we're talking like endurance athletes like olympic athletes maybe high level crossfitters doing two a days that type of thing it's very possible to get here and it's good that most of us can't get there because this absolutely sucks right so this when we start depleting a dopamine we're gonna talk we're talking about having basically zero motivation we're talking about anhedonia which is basically not feeling pleasure which i guess you could also classes like depression mood swings and all these other horrible things okay this takes a long time to get back from because you're not going to be at your best until dopamine has been repleted which won't happen until noradrenaline has been repleted which won't happen until these have been receptors have been resensitized so you need a really really long kind of period of time where neurological stress is low so that you can get yourself kind of out of that level three so like here we're talking just talking like a day or two here we're probably talking like a week like give or take right and then here we could be talking weeks to months depending on how big of a hole you dig yourself right so these are the stages of neurological fatigue but all of these come back to here okay this when the body needs to release more and more of this then we can end up digging self ourself this rabbit hole here but obviously remember training is not the only thing we do that releases cortisol or adrenaline unless you literally lie in bed all the day and have absolutely no worries in which case power to you okay so like when we're looking at our training we kind of have like a training budget for cortisol right there's like only so much cortisol we can release before we start going down this recovery cascade here now let's say we've got like a hundred units of cortisol that we can release but not incrementally go further down this here well then let's say we've just like started a new job or we've got like a newborn in the house right well our budget of cortisol and adrenaline probably isn't a hundred anymore right because i don't know let's say we're learning a lot of new tasks our job or our boss is you know not the greatest guy in the world or now we're getting three hours of sleep a night our budget of a hundred you know maybe just got cut down to like 70. so we need to just take into account when we start talking about the training variables that affect how much of this stuff we release which is important right we need to also take into account well what else is causing this to be released in our life is our physical activity very very high is our sleep good is our nutrition good is our level of life stress high all these types of things will play into the budget should we say like our neurological budget that we can give to our training session before we start to exceed our capacity to recover so now we've kind of established like what is neurological fatigue what is the driver behind it which is causing the release of too much cortisol or adrenaline in total not just from your training but overall now what i want to look at is what are the training variables so what are the variables that we control with our training program that have the biggest impact the names of the names of the names of the names of the names of the names of the names of names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names names Every time we mention one of those, it's probably going to be in for a good time by the end of this video. Okay. So this is what we're on about managing. So first off is our volume of work. So sets times reps for this scenario. We're going to go with that definition of volume. Okay. Because remember, cortisol is an energetic readiness hormone. It's creating enough readily available resources in the bloodstream so that you can perform the activity that you need to perform. So the more activity that there is, the more of this you need to release. Okay. So this is probably the single biggest driver behind this from your training session. Okay. So this is a really easy one to adjust and the one that's probably going to have the biggest impact on you, just because it directly relates to how much energy output you're going to have. So for example, let's say, and this is a common mistake. So this is a good one to mention it. You're dieting down, right? You want to get lean for the beach or your honeymoon, whatever. It doesn't matter. Okay. So you're in a calorie deficit. Calorie deficit means less energy going into the system, which means you've got to break down resources you already have. So what do you think that means goes up this? So then when we go in the gym, this is already like elevated to some degree all day, every day because of our calorie deficit. So our budget or our currency that we can work with in terms of this is going to be decreased. But what do people commonly do when they're dieting down? They ramp this up because they want to burn more calories and get cut, right? And then they end up feeling like trash. Their performance goes down. They presume it's because they lost muscle, but usually it's just because their nervous system has started going down that rabbit hole that we went over earlier, right? Because this is bumping up cortisol and adrenaline with the diet. And then they're going in and they just increased their training volume 20%. So that's increasing a cortisol and adrenaline by a considerable amount. The nervous system ends up getting extremely fatigued. Performance goes down. They end up looking watery and flat and losing strength. And they're like, bro, I've lost loads of muscle. So then they stop dieting because that sucks because who would want to do that? Because you get skinny and weak apparently. And then the whole cycle repeats. So that was a tangent. I apologize. The next variable that we're looking at is difficulty or like RPE. So I suppose the other way we could look at this would be like proximity to failure. Not just in terms of your hypertrophy work, but in terms of your strength work too. Okay, so proximity to failure. Now the reason for this is when we are training, we get to a point where the body is lazy, okay? It wants, you know, to get the task achieved in the most efficient or least output way possible, right? So when we're doing our set of, say, curls or whatever, like, say we're doing 12, it only recruits the muscle fibers. It absolutely has to do like reps 1, 2, 3 or whatever that are easy. And then as the same load becomes more challenging, we bring in more and more muscle fibers. When we get to around 80% of our max volitional effort, then we get full fast twitch fiber recruitment, which is the thing we want. Because that makes reps effective in terms of hypertrophy. We're just going to talk about hypertrophy for now, but it's relevant to strength too. Then, well, we don't just stop there because that might be like six reps shy of failure. And very few of us are going to train effectively there, right? So then we keep going. Once you've recruited all those muscle fibers, you're still trying to do the same thing, but fatiguing. And so then what did your body do? Well, then it turns up what's called like the firing rate or the twitch rate, which basically means those muscle fibers contract harder for the sake of this argument. Okay. All of that is governed by this. Okay. Basically, your body doesn't want to work really hard. We kind of know this. This is the thing that kind of sends the signal to the body. Like, I know you don't want to go to failure to say in this example, we are, but you have to. So here's the thing. Here's the neurological fuel that gives you the pick me up. That makes you go all the way to a hundred percent effort, right? This is what we need. And then the same is also going to be true. Let's say, you know, we do our set of squats and we're doing sets of five. And by the time we get to our last work set, like five is the absolute max effort. Exact same thing is happening there. Nervous system is being amped up and, you know, getting more neural drive because it needs every last bit of function out of it to complete the task at hand. So, like I said, that's going to be relevant, whether it's your set of cable curls or whether it's your set of back squat or down lift. It doesn't make any difference. Proximity to failure is going to determine how much cortisol and adrenaline that set releases to some degree. And then last but not least, we also have in load. Okay. Now, when we say this, we're talking about like percentage of one RM. Now, this kind of plays in for the same reason, right? Because let's say we're like, I don't know, eight weeks out from a meet or something, right? We're like, we're working at like 85 to 90 percent. One rate max on whatever lift you want. It doesn't matter. Okay. Well, as I just said, the closer we are to 100 percent volitional effort, the more muscle fibers we need to bring into play and also the harder they need to work. Now, we have all the fast twitch fiber recruitment, generally speaking, around 80 percent. Obviously, it varies from the individuals, right? That's a good ballpark figure. So now if we start our say we're doing like doubles, right? If we're doing doubles at 85 to 90 percent, then the second we pick up the bar, we're above this threshold. So we need all the fibers firing right from the get-go. Otherwise, we don't even get rep one. And then obviously, by the time we complete our doubles, there's going to be two reps worth of fatigue in there. So by the end of our set, that 85 percent might be more like 92 percent. And if it started at 90, it might be more like 98 percent at that exact moment in time, right? So very, very close to 100 percent effort. So this is also going to cause us to release more cortisol and adrenaline because our nervous system needs to be like right at the top of its game, even from rep one. So like lifting 60 percent and 85 or 90 percent, very different things, as we all know. But this is the mechanism that's behind it. Now, the reason I said last but not least is because this is the big trifecta that's going to do the most of it is going to be affected by these three. Okay, so this is like, say, 70 to 80 percent to put like a random, not random, but semi-calculated number on it, right? Like this, these are the three that are going to make the big difference to how draining your training session is on your nervous system. So these are like the master switches, okay, that we want to adjust most of the time. But we do have some others that we can play around with down here, especially if we're dealing with like lower levels of fatigue. Okay. The first of that is going to be what I've called training density. You could call it like the pace of your training or the rest periods, whatever. Right. And basically, the reason that this adjusts how much cortisol and adrenaline you release is because it's going to affect your heart rate and your breathing rate. Right. Lower rest periods is going to mean, on average, your heart rate is higher. What elevates your heart rate? So if your heart rate is now like an average of 120, 130 beats per minute for most of your session, because you're doing like some kind of CrossFit WOD or circuits or whatever, that's going to mean more adrenaline has to be released compared to maybe say like a training session, which is low volume with large rest periods in there. Okay. So that is kind of controlling heart rate. We also have workout structure. I didn't know how else to word this. So we're going to go with that. So the first thing that we would adjust there would be, let's say you have circuits or like supersets in your training. Right. So you're like, say you're doing giant sets or something. Right. You go like A, B, C, and you're kind of going. And let's say in this example, like these are all compound movements. Right. I do strength circuits. So I'm obviously biased here and that's coming through. Right. So these are all compound movements doing some kind of funky strength circuit. Now, when we're going between different motor tasks, we have to get the nervous system to go do this thing. Oh, now do this complex thing. And now do this other complex thing. And now come back and do the first thing again. That requires, that's basically multitasking, right? We're asking it to switch between blueprints and to be proficient at more than one movement pattern, essentially at the same time. That requires a higher level of processing speed. So that is going to cause more of this to be released. Okay. It would be the same if even, it would be the same, even if you were supersetting like bicep curls and rope pushdown. Obviously the effect wouldn't be as pronounced, but you would release more cortisol and adrenaline by supersetting them compared to doing all your curls first and then all your pushdowns afterwards. Like I said, smaller effect sizes here. Then we also have pain and discomfort. Okay. So afferent signals being sent to the brain when we're in pain or discomfort are going to cause more of this to be released because your body inhibits, kind of interprets this as we are in pain. We are in some kind of threatened state. Better jack all of this up so we can run or fight from whatever the thing is that's causing us pain. What brain doesn't realize is this is all self-flagellation and we're doing it to ourselves, but that response exists nonetheless. So if you're performing training methods that are very uncomfortable, you know, things like blood flow restriction training, or maybe like very high rep kind of burnout sets, whatever it might be. Loaded stretching might be another great example there, or even just movements where you go into a very stretched position and pause for any significant amount of time. That is going to cause more cortisol and adrenaline to be released. Also, and then last but not least, we have psychological stress. So when we're looking at that, we're referring to the lifts that you probably suck at. So, you know, everyone's got lifts that they're not very good at. We kind of know we have to do them more, but oh man, they suck. Right. So like if there are lifts that you struggle with or that you find intimidating or just a workout in general, like maybe once a week you go in and do like assault bike sprints and all the cardiovascular work that you try to avoid the rest of the time. And like whenever you do that workout, you're driving to the gym like, man, I really like this is going to suck. That's going to cause more cortisol and adrenaline to be released as well. So just bear in mind that one of the reasons that you feel more fatigued after you do a workout that revolves around maybe the lift that you suck at, you feel more fatigued. There is a genuine reason for that. Okay. And that is going to be the fact that you're stressed about it makes it harder to recover from. And then it can create this whole feedback loop, right? Where because you're stressed about it, it makes it more draining. And then because it's more draining, you don't like it. So on and so forth. So if you want to try and get rid of this, you kind of have to fake it till you make it and convince yourself that you love insert lift here or type of workout that you've generally tried to avoid. Okay. So these four are things that we can tweak on a kind of more micro level, right? Let's say, you know, you've had a bit of a rougher day at work than you normally have. And you're driving to the website. Well, maybe like if deadlift is your absolute worst lift and you hate it, right? Maybe you just squat today instead. Maybe like that will reduce this, right? Maybe it will also reduce this because maybe deadlift is painful to you, right? Maybe that will bring those two things down. And then maybe, you know, like, okay, well, maybe I just give myself like an extra 30 to 60 seconds between my rest periods today because today's just been hell of a day. You know, that's going to mean your average heart rate is higher. And then all three of these things together are probably going to have a moderate effect on this, but you've still actually kept the workload the same. Like you haven't adjusted anything. You haven't dropped the weight or the volume or anything like that. All you've done is taken the workout that was maybe later in the week and you brought it to today, giving yourself a little bit of extra rest. And that might be enough for you to perform at your best despite being hindered today for whatever reason. Okay. So that's the main stuff. So what I want to do now is we're going to move on and look at how we adjust the dial on these three. Because in reality, we can limit the amount of this we have to do if we have the training program set up in a good place to start with. And really good programming is nothing more than controlling these three variables so that we create a workload that we can recover from sustainably. So that's what we're going to look at next. Auto-regulation starts with the program itself. What we want to do is we want to make sure that the program is actually like a sustainable template. Right? Otherwise, we're just going to be auto-regulating every single workout because we're never going to be recovered. So as we said on the previous section, volume, difficulty, RP, whatever you want to call it, and then absolute load in terms of percentage of one rep max are the most important variables for adjusting how stressful your training program and workout is on your nervous system. One tiny little thing I forgot to mention in the last bit, but then I'd already wiped the board. So I'm going to mention it now. Another variable that does affect cortisol and adrenaline in your workout is the exercises you're doing. So basically, the more demanding an exercise is, the more cortisol and adrenaline are going to be released. So let's look at something like a snatch or a clean and jerk. Right? Like very precise timing, high power output, whole body. That's about as stressful, neurologically speaking, as a movement can be, short of maybe like really advanced gymnastic movements like iron crosses and cool shit like that. Right? So that can be dialed down also. So let's say you're in a bodybuilding phase and your first exercise is meant to be front squat, but you're drained, not feeling great, whatever. Right? Well, a hack squat is going to be way easier to stabilize, involve less core musculature. It's going to mean that the nervous system doesn't have to work as hard to complete the movement, even if it's pushed to the same level of intensity. So on that day, maybe your front squat goes out and the hack squat comes in. You know, so basically, if we look at like free weight compound over here, would be like the higher end of the spectrum for neurological stress. And then down, as we go down the spectrum, we'd go like to machines and cables, more stable movements. And then eventually at the very bottom, we'd have like single joint stabilized movements. So we can always adjust the exercises on that we're using in our workout to adjust that neurological strain on the system. Also, anyway, back to this. So this is a little cheat sheet that you can use when designing your program. And the idea is that when we're looking at these three main variables that control the bulk of cortisol and adrenaline release of our training program, we want to set up our training program so that one is high, one is medium, and one is low. So we don't want to be training with even two of them high at any time, ideally, because generally speaking, what that's going to do is just lead to a degradation of performance over time because of all the stuff we've already talked about. Okay, so I'm just going to go through it one by one, but obviously you have this to look at, so I'm not going to spend too much time here. So let's look at volume first. So anything, 20 to 30 work sets in a specific workout, personally, I would class it as high volume. Obviously, there's going to be, you know, variants here based on the type of athlete you are, your training history and all of that. But if we start going down that rabbit hole, then all of this just becomes, it depends and it's kind of useless, right? So these are like ballpark figures for the average trainee who kind of wants to be a bit jacked and a bit strong. Okay, so 20 to 30 work sets would be what I would class as like a high volume workout. Again, usually in an offseason with a premise on hypertrophy, but not necessarily. If you want to look at it from a pure hypertrophy viewpoint, it would be a training program that leaves to you accumulating anywhere between 25 and 35 maximally effective reps per set. Remember, the maximally effective ones are the ones that actually stimulate hypertrophy that you accumulate when you're reasonably close to failure. If we go down to the medium column, then we're looking at anywhere between 13 and 19 sets per workout. And, you know, if you're a powerlifter looking at this, remember, this is, that's the entire workout. Obviously, not just your main lift, your accessory work and all the fluff and buff stuff that comes after it as well, right? Or a training program that allows you to accumulate 15 to 25 maximally effective reps per muscle group per week. That's the way that we're looking at that in terms of currency, okay? And then low volume could be as low as six work sets in a workout or say a total of 10 maximally effective reps per muscle group per week. That's how we're going to divide that up. Now, let's look at RP. This one's pretty simple, right? Like, 9 to 10 is going to be high intensity, right? Or, if you prefer, anywhere between 0 and 1 rep in reserve. Now, remember, 0 reps in reserve doesn't necessarily mean failure. It just means that you stop the set when you're incapable of completing another rep. So, if I, like, get to the top of a curl and, you know, if I were to attempt the next rep, I would definitely fail it. But I stopped there. That would still be 0 reps in reserve. No, it seems like nitpicky, but just so you're aware, when we say 0 reps in reserve, it doesn't mean you have to do everything to failure. Because failure is more stressful, again, okay? Moderate or medium intensity would be 7.5 to 8.5. So, like, this is where the vast majority of us should be living most of the time for, like, our strength training work. Or when we're doing, like, more compound-based movements that have a larger technical element to it. Whereas this would primarily be reserved for, you know, like, more stable exercises where pushing to that level of intensity is safer, easier to coordinate, and so on. And then, last but not least, down here, low intensity, we're going to class as 6 to 7 or 3 to 8. So, we're going to class as 6 to 4 reps in reserve. And the reason we're saying that, and the reason it's not like RP2, is because we're talking about low intensity work that still creates a meaningful stimulus, right? Anything below this is probably a warm-up, and it's not contributing to our cortisol and adrenaline load in the same way that everything else that we do. Okay? And then, of course, last but certainly not least, we have, you know, training load, which, you know, is percentage of one rep max. So, anything above 90% we're going to call high. And the reason for that is not only does 90% mean that we need all the fast twitch fibers working, right? So, fast twitch are all recruited. We also need firing rate to be very high also. So, we're recruiting all of them, and we're asking them to have a very high firing rate at the same time. That's very neurologically stressful. Okay? Then here, we're going to call medium, 70 to 89%. So, again, probably where most people should be spending the majority of their training cycle. And then, for low, we've got anything as low as 30%. The reason for 30% being a cap here is because, remember, if we look at all the studies on hypertrophy, what we generally see is anything below 30%, even if we go to failure, we don't really get the same adaptation. And the main reason for that is when you hit failure with very, very low loads, which obviously generally involves very high reps or time under tension, the reason you fail is not volitional force. It's usually energy sources. As in, you literally run out fuel, or the muscle becomes so acidic that the nervous system signals can't actually be interpreted properly by the muscle, so your muscle stops responding. It's not a case of, like, I am creating as much force as I can, and I cannot move the thing. It's a case of I don't have the fuel to, or I can't get the signal into the muscle. So, that's that. So, that's why we wouldn't really count anything below 30% there. So, this is our little matrix. So, we can just kind of use an example here, right? So, let's say you're at the beginning of an off-season, or you're a bodybuilder, whatever, right? It doesn't matter. So, our goal, right, is hypertrophy. We're just going to put that out there. Maximal hypertrophy. And let's say we really like, like, Arnold's style of trading, like, very high volume, right? Or maybe someone like Mike Isretel would be a good common example of a proponent of higher volume style hypertrophy training. So, okay, well, first off, we know that we're going to have to be here. We have to be high on the volume because, well, otherwise, we're not doing the style of training that we want to do, right? So, we've already got our high column ticked. We can't have anything else high in our training program now. Now, when we're looking at hypertrophy, well, we need to be close enough to failure. Otherwise, it ends up not being effective, right? Like, usually, the last kind of five or six reps are going to be the ones, if presuming we're going really close to failure, are going to be the ones that actually get us that stimulus we want. So, if we're not going reasonably close to failure, like, we can do as many sets as we want, you know, times zero effectiveness by a thousand sets, you still get zero, right? So, we probably want to live here. Two reps in reserve, RPE, seven and a half, eight and a half, right? Because that means when we're doing all these sets, they're probably accumulating a decent amount of effective reps per set. For argument's sake, we'll say three, right? So, we're doing 25 work sets, and we're getting three effective reps per set because they're all being pushed to this level of intensity. We're getting 75 maximally effective reps per workout. That sounds good. Maybe we split those between two muscle groups. We end up at 37 and a half maximally effective reps per muscle group. Math isn't quite that simple, but you get it, right? That would put us right at the top end of that stimulus level there. That would mean we only need to train each muscle group once per week, for example. So, we've got our high, we've got our medium. So, if we want our training program to be recoverable in a sustainable sense, then that means we probably have to live down here in terms of the loading, right? We're probably not going to be lifting more than 70% on anything if we're going to be following this workout structure. And we all kind of know this, right? Like, there's a reason that programs like small oven and everything, like kick the hell out of us, right? And we don't do them very often and we need to deload for ages after them. So, that would be one example of how we could set up our high volume bodybuilding phase. We just high, medium, low. Super simple, right? So, let's just dial that back. Let's say now we are a strength athlete. So, right now our strength athlete isn't that worried about hypertrophy. We're worried about maximal strength. Now, we're not going to, they're not going to, let's say, they're not peaking, but they're in like a max strength phase. Okay. So, obviously, if maximal strength is the goal, the thing that's kind of a non-negotiable is this. Like, we're probably not going to build maximal strength down here, or really even there, if we're talking about like the ability to express that strength in the short term. So, we'd like then really have to live here in the high load section. Now, the other thing is then if we take out 90%, we're pretty much already close to failure because you can't do that many reps with 90%, right? So, we kind of have to live here because unless we're going to do it for half a rep per set, there's no way we're going to have, be like three or four reps in reserve realistically, right? So, even if we're doing like singles or doubles at 90%, most of us are going to be within two reps shy of failure because very few of us are going to do like more than four at 90%, okay? Unless you're very slow twitch dominant. And again, this is also why there's like variance here, right? Like, I think Naomi's best set at 90% on squat was like 11 or 13, but you know, that changes things a little bit. So, for the average trainee, if we're working at 90%, then we have to live here straight away because otherwise we're not doing any work. Which means then, of course, we got to be up here. And again, this makes sense, right? Like, how do you set up your max strength programs? They probably don't have more than 12 sets in them. Or, you know, there might be like, say, three to four work sets on the first exercise, maybe two or three on the second. And maybe if you are going above 12, you're going above 12 because you've got all these, you're doing like wrist curls or calf raises or lat raises or Zottman curls or something right there. They're not contributing quite the same way, although they still count. So, again, easy example, maximal strength. We're going to go high, medium, and low. Very, obviously, that's kind of two ends of a spectrum there. But I just wanted to like make you realize that it really can kind of be that simple to actually provide a framework. So, you can just go and write a training program that for the vast majority of people is going to be quite easy to recover from. And then, of course, we've gone kind of both ends of the extremes here. We've kind of gone pure hypertrophy, don't care about strength. Pure strength, don't care about hypertrophy. If we were in like our power building phase or whatever the cool word for it is right now, I don't care. Like we want to get jacked and strong at the same time. Well, then we're probably going to live right here. Right? We're going to live in moderate because that allows us to do a reasonable amount of volume at a reasonably high workload, which means we can get a bit of everything. Because, you know, as long as we're working above 75% plus, we can get some neurological benefits. Ideally, it would be more like 80%. But let's just say we're at the early stages of that. So, it allows us to work in that zone where we can do enough volume to accumulate a good hypertrophy stimulus. But we can also get some decent strength gains. If we want to do a reasonable amount of volume, we probably can't afford to be going to failure on everything because that will be too draining. So, then we end up living in this middle column here. So, that's kind of a way of you can set it out. And again, you could literally do it like that. When you're in a hypertrophy phase, you can live that way. You're in a max strength phase, you can go that way. And if you're in a power building phase, you can go that way. That worked out far better than I thought when I was writing that up on the board. I've got to be honest. So, that was cool. So, what I want to do next is just talk about in the short term then. Because this is like how you set up your training program so that it is auto-regulated in of itself because you're not asking too much of your body. What I want to go into now is just like on a day-to-day basis, how do we know our state of readiness? Because that's important. And then what are the things that are most easy to adjust based on that state of readiness? So, last section now. Promise. So, if you've designed your training program based off the previous slide, section, whatever, most of the time you're going to be in a pretty good place where your training is not going to be causing an excessive amount of neurological fatigue. But, unfortunately for us, training isn't the only thing we do. And also, we're human. We have good days, bad days, and so on. So, your state of readiness is going to fluctuate based on how much sleep you get, how stressful the day is, what you've had to do, all these types of things, right? So, even if we've got the quintessential perfect training program over here in the gym, things are very rarely perfect on the outside, which means sometimes the perfect training program might need to be adjusted, okay? So, first off, how do we know we need to adjust things? We need to assess our level of readiness because cumulative neurological fatigue will make us less ready to do hard things, right? So, there's quite a few different things that we can use here. And the one thing I would say to you is that I wouldn't use any one of them in isolation because none of them on their own are super accurate. But, together, they can give you a pretty good picture of, like, where you're at, okay? So, the first one is going to be heart rate variability and or resting heart rate, okay? So, this is what, you know, a lot of, like, the fitness trackers and stuff. Like, I've got an aura ring on here, which hates me permanently. Generally speaking, that heavily weights HRV because that is a kind of a longer-term factor there. Like, you have to be stressed for a longer period of time for that to be affected in a meaningful way. Whereas, resting heart rate, obviously, as we know, like, your heart rate is going to adjust very quickly based on whatever it is that you're doing. But the resting heart rate, say, at night, over time will give you a good trend there. So, when, you know, we get down that rabbit hole of neurological fatigue, heart rate variability will get worse. Resting heart rate will go up. And the reason that's a problem is, A, it's a sign of neurological fatigue, which we're trying to avoid. But if heart rate variability is low, your heart rate doesn't respond well to the things that you're asking it to do. So, when you want it to be really high, it doesn't elevate very well or very quickly. And when you want it to be low, it doesn't come down very quickly. So, that tends to affect your performance reasonably hard, especially if you're an aerobic athlete, but even if you're like a powerlifter, okay? So, that can give us a bit of an indication there where we're at in terms of, like, systemic fatigue. Another really easy one is going to be your power output, okay? So, when we're looking at power, you know, like plyometrics, jumps, etc., they put a very high demand on the nervous system because they require all your fibers to be recruited, if we want maximal power. And all of those fibers have to create the desired force extremely quickly. For example, you know, if I do a vertical jump on the spot here, I don't have much. So, this is the bottom of my dip. I only have the time it takes me to go from here to here to create all the force that I require to create that max effort vertical jump. So, you have to not only recruit all the fibers, you have to do it very quickly and get them to create max force very quickly also. It's very demanding, which is also why plyometric training shouldn't be done in high volumes. So, if you are someone who does some kind of power work in their training, even if it's just as a warm-up, then if you're starting to get some neurological fatigue, your box jumps, your kettlebell swings, maybe your medicine ball throws or your plyo push-up, all of that stuff is going to feel dampened. It's going to feel less crisp. You're not going to move as far or as quickly. And you're just going to feel like it's just not quite there. That is an indicator that you're fatigued. Also, if you're lucky enough to have like one of those cool vertical jump mats, you know, where you can just stand and do a vertical jump on the spot, you can walk in the gym, do three vertical jumps on the spot, take an average, compare that to what like maybe your baseline is when you know you're not fatigued and you can compare it to that to see how much worse you are on that given day. Conversely, if it's higher, then you know you're in a good place. The other one that's really easy to measure is grip strength, okay? So, as we fatigue and the nervous system doesn't have all the resources it needs to do everything, it prioritizes this bit, the central column, because all the important stuff is kind of there, right? So, like it wants to maintain function here and when we start to lose function, we lose it from the periphery inwards. So, the first thing that's going to go is dexterity and strength in your grip, okay? So, if you have like a Captains of Crush handle and you can normally do like, I don't know, five reps at level three, I can't remember what the levels are, okay? Like that's your normal though. So, and now you go in and you grab that level three one and it feels five or ten percent harder or you can't do as many reps, that's a great indicator that you're carrying some neurological fatigue. So, we can use that to piece the puzzle together as well. The other one that we have then is reflexes. So, reflexes kind of fall into the same bracket as like the plyometric work where very fast reflexes obviously mean your nervous system has to be very, very fast and responsive. So, what you can do to test your reflexes, you've got one of those cool things, light walls, we have to go press all the buttons and stuff, you could do that. The easiest one here though is just to do like a tap test. So, give yourself like 30 seconds, piece of paper, there's probably an app for this, right? By now, I don't know. And you just give yourself like 30 seconds and your only goal in 30 seconds is to tap as many times as humanly possible, right? Because the faster your reflexes are, the more taps you're going to accumulate in that given time period. And again, you can have a baseline for that. Like, say you come home from your weekend away at your log cabin and you're super chilled and whatever. You can do that test for the next couple of days because you know you're in a good state. And then you can be okay while I get to the gym and I tap my phone, whatever, 100 times or whatever the time period is, we're going to use 30 seconds. And I compare that to my baseline and that's going to tell me where I'm at. Now, in things like this, like if you're down like say 10% or even like maybe say like 7% to 10%, you probably need to adjust things, okay? And then last but certainly not least, we do have our perception of how we feel. Now, there's been some pretty good studies now actually on more advanced trainees who have better proprioception, who are more experienced in the gym. And they found that a lot of the time their perception of their state of readiness is as good if not better than a lot of the wearables and stuff like that that we rely on. So while it's certainly not 100% accurate, like how many of us have gone in the gym feeling like Superman and had a really bad time? And how many of us have gone in like shouldn't be there because I'm battling the fluid hit of PR, right? Like it happens, but this is also a pretty good indicator. So like what I would say is like pick two or three and then use them to guide your decisions, right? Like if your heart rate variability is low and you feel a little bit trash, then you probably need to adjust something, right? Whereas if like your heart rate is low, but you feel amazing and it's not because you had four extra coffees today. And then you go in the gym and like, you're going to do some plyo, you know, like say box jumps to warm up for your squats and they just feel super crisp, right? And like, you're just bounding off the floor easily then, well, maybe that's not worth worrying about too much today. In fact, if all of these other indicators are like, go, go, go. And you've just got this one that's not so great. Maybe today's actually a day that you would push it, right? So those are some pretty easy ones that you can use, right? So then, but let's say we are in say not a great state today. Say we had an argument with our partner, our boss being a bit of an asshole. We were at work for two extra hours. We got stuck in traffic on the way to the gym. Everything that could go wrong is kind of going wrong, right? So like all of this is just, but you know, I have to go to the gym because the gym is the only thing that makes me like not be violently aggressive with people because that's what it's like, right? It's how we deal with life. So what we would then do is look at, go back to the previous slide. How is our training program set up right now? Let's look at what is the priority, right? Because let's say we take the first example, our hypertrophy, bodybuilder, athlete, whatever, right? Volume was high. Intensity for RP, whatever, right? Was medium, load was low. Now, if we are this bodybuilding athlete and we're in this scenario, not a good day. This is the, this is high for a reason, right? This is like the cornerstone of the training program. Like it's all based around volume. Like volume is the main driver of progress. So if we can, we want to protect that with all we can, because that's going to be the largest part of the stimulus. So what we would probably then look to do would be to adjust these two. Okay. Can we bring the intensity down a little bit or can we bring the load down even more? Now, if it's just a little bit of an off day, remember, we've got that other bracket we talked about before. We've got like rest periods. We've got exercise selection. We've got structure. There was more too, but that'll do for now. Let's just say we're a little bit off today, right? Maybe we just, maybe we spend an extra 30 seconds scrolling Instagram between our sets of machine flies, right? Maybe we take out all the free weights or most of the free weights. Like we don't do our barbell bench press. We do a machine chest press. We don't do our dumbbell fly. We do a cable fly, whatever, right? Well, that'll bring cortisol down too, as will that. And you know, maybe we don't do our supersets today. Maybe it's, I don't know, pecs and binds, whatever, right? Maybe we don't superset them back to back. Maybe we just go A, B, C, D, E, F, right? If you're just a little bit off, that's probably enough. But if we're more beat up, then we probably need to go up here. Okay. Now, what I would say personally in this scenario is I would leave this up high. I would bring the intensity down very slightly. As in like, instead of going maybe two reps shy of failure, go three. Because we don't want to get too far away from failure because not effective otherwise. And maybe we just go a tiny bit lighter on load. Just a little bit. Maybe the reps go up a tiny bit and so the load can come down. Proximity to failure is just a little bit easier, right? That will be enough for the vast majority of us, right? So, let's go back and look at our strength athlete, right? Who is going for maximal strength. So, for him, her, whatever. Volume, slow. What were we going to say? Intensity or RPE. Medium. And load was high. Okay. Same principle here. What is the main driving force of the training program right now? If it's maximal strength, it has to be load. So, we don't want to sacrifice that unless we absolutely have to. And if you're at the point where you can't do the load that you need to or you can't do the volume that you need to, maybe you shouldn't be in the gym. But that's not for me to tell you. So, this. This is the variable we wish to protect because that's the variable that creates the stimulus that we want. So, now we have these two to adjust. Volume and RPE. Now, the easiest way to adjust this would be, let's say we're doing... I want to write it over here so you guys can actually see it. Say we're doing 90% for five sets of two. Pretty brutal workout. But let's just say that's what we're doing. Well, what we could do here... Volume's already low. So, if we can leave it the same, then we could. So, what we could do here is we could split this into clusters where we go five times one plus one. And this is like an intraset rest period. Like 30, 40 seconds, whatever, right? Doesn't matter. So, now the RPE of that workload has come down, but the volume hasn't been sacrificed. Or it could literally be as simple as I'm going to do 10 sets of one. Same volume, same load, RPE has come down. Obviously, if you wanted to reduce volume, that would be quite easy. We'd just go like three sets of two instead. Or you could do both and do like three sets of one plus one. Worst case. Same workload gets done at that reduced level, but then the RPE also comes down. And what you could further do, let's say we get through that by the skin of our teeth, right? We get through our three by two or three by one plus one. And you're like, okay, well, given how I feel today, that's a win. Like, I'm going to take that, right? Well, what we could do then is look down back here. What are the other variables we can adjust now? Because let's say after our squat, we've got like, I don't know, like RDL or something like that. We've got like more axial loading and heavier movements. Well, then all of that can be changed to like machine-based. So, maybe instead of your RDLs, you do like an inverse curl or a glute bridge or something that's way less axial loading and way less stressful. You know, we bring the rest period, we increase the rest periods, we make all of the exercises more stable, and we get the muscular workload still done while still getting the main stuff done to the best of our ability. Okay? So, generally speaking, what I would look at is identify your most important variable. Try to leave that the same if you can. And then look at how you can adjust the medium and low variables then to achieve the ideal down regulation and stimulus so that you can actually perform the session without digging yourself a bigger ditch. But don't forget about the little ones, the little players over here, which collectively can also make a big difference. So, that was our attempt at auto-regulation 101. I sincerely hope that now when this word gets thrown out there, you kind of know what it is and how you do it. I've tried to give you a framework for your programming and stuff that you can actually work with. I really hope that we've achieved that. But please let us know. If not, we can always go into more detail. But as always, guys, if you've gotten this far, thank you for watching. Thank you for supporting Elite FTS and the YouTube channel. And we will see you next time.