 triggered by that, this may not be the episode for you. Also, just to clarify that when we're talking in this episode, we talk about many medical situations that Holly's been in. Neither of us are doctors. None of it should be taken as medical advice. We're just simply recounting personal experiences and so on and so forth. Obviously, always consult a physician if you're looking to make any changes to your physical or mental health. Enjoy today's episode, and thank you as always for supporting Elite FTS. All right, guys and girls, welcome back to the Rebuilt series. Today, our guest is Holly Torres, who is fresh from the Cincinnati Pro-Am yesterday, so is probably cripplingly sore, sitting here anyway for us. Holly is a super interesting person who I've had the pleasure of working with for a couple of years now, and she is kind of, I don't think I know anyone who wears more hats than you do. We've got single mom, gym and business owner, coach, massage therapist, competitive athlete, all-round good person is really what I would like to throw in there. So you juggle a lot, and I think this is going to be, I really want to sit down with you and kind of pick apart your kind of day-to-day life and what makes you you, because I think there's a lot of things that people can glean from you. So thank you so much for coming here, especially today when your nervous system is probably even more fried than usual. Now, I think it will help people understand a little bit what we talk about if at first we outline your condition. So like you have an illness that I want you to kind of go into, just so people can understand like what it is like to be you on an average day. Thanks for having me here. I'll first say that that's a pretty loaded question, so I'll do my best to answer that. Let's see. First, I have what's called an astronoma brain tumor. Astronoma just means it looks like a paint splatter on an MRI imaging. It can come and go like a weed in a garden. They can pluck it, but chances are it's probably going to come back and maybe come back in different places. And right now I have what's called a Karen. That's what I've named it. I like to name my brain tumors. It makes them more fun. Currently, it is in three different places. Cancer, for those of you that don't know, three small little places, but it is probably the size of a golf ball, I believe, and inflammation on my frontal lobe. So the frontal lobe deals with your emotions, your vision, your balance, your sleep. It deals with a lot. Prior to that, I had it more in my penal gland, which again, was more sleep. Again, personality. Where was it before? I've had it three. This is my third time. I've been struggling with this for years. It's been a war and multiple battles. So my chronic illness is chronic headaches, seizures. I struggle with seizures weekly, if almost daily. I call them brain blips, which to the normal eye, you're just like, oh, I forgot my keys or, oh gosh, what was that word? You know, I deal with that on a daily basis. And I have found little quirks to kind of overcome those things. So my illness comes with a very long list of things that I could go on hours discussing. I think that's probably the short end of it. I'm in an age range where it could probably go on for years. So we're taking the longer approach to it. Sometimes my condition is something that it could be a one and done surgery. And some at this point in time, I have so much inflammation on the brain that surgery is not the option. Being at the frontal lobe, that typically is an easier surgery where they can just open you up, take it right out. Being as it's really small pieces of cancer, that would be an easy surgery. But I have so much inflammation, so much scarring from the amounts of seizures that I've had and trauma to the brain. They think that it's too much of a risky surgery. And the reason why is if they did have surgery is if they did have surgery, that would cause more inflammation, more scarring, which the chances of me being a vegetable or completely turn my personality to someone else is very, very high and or leave me brain dead. So we don't want that. It's pretty close to my optical nerve as well. So can cause disruptions with my vision. And currently, that is something that I'm dealing with. I was a former fighter. And I also dealt with in my past, a lot of child abuse, as well as my former ex-husband was abusive. So dealing with abusive past, as well as being a fighter, lots of trauma to the head, both unwanted and accepted. So I have what's called a TBI that goes on forever and ever. And the effects of that led to me having, what's it called in my right eye that I have? Just snow vision? Yes, I have. Yes, I have snow vision, cornea pressure, glaucoma. Yes, I have glaucoma in my right eye. So I'm 35. Should not have glaucoma. I go in the doctor's office. I'm the youngest one there. So fun conversations there. A part of that is from there, but it makes it a much more difficult path with having the frontal tumor, the inflammation. So you can imagine, hence the glasses. And then you add in the migraines. So if anyone's had a headache and then you add in the migraines, I'm sure there's a little understanding there, like with the vision disruptions. Well, I wake up with a type of migraine or headache almost every single day. Well, not almost, yes, every day. I think yes, every day. Does that summarize that up for you? I think it does. Was it not a fight and a potential TBI that led to you finding out? Yes. MMA was definitely a huge blessing for my life. You were, sorry to interrupt, but you were fighting at a high level at that point, right? I was. I was actually in a huge competitive fight. And Victa and Bellator were there watching my fight. That was a determining factor for me to go pro at that point in time. Wow. I'm not going to get emotional about this. You can. That's fine. That was the sport I was intending to go pro at. And I got knocked out in a spinning back fist with Jessica Middleton. It was an amazing fight. And please watch it on YouTube. I still get paid for that fight. Yeah. So it was an amazing fight. I did still get taken aside and both promoters came up to us and still they came up to us and I got offered a three fight contract on either for both of us. He said, you know, heal up 90 days. We want you to like, it was a either or situation. And I was like, oh my gosh. But where I was fighting out of the dojo, both all of my coaches and staff said, you know, you can't come back to fight till you get an MRI. I got knocked out in your vagus nerve, which is your, a lot of people don't know. It's your on off switch to your brain. Um, so, uh, yeah. So like when you're getting choked out, you get hit there and just the right amount of pressure, like, yeah, you're going to get knocked out. Um, so yeah, I, I went in, I was like, ah, it's going to be fine. I went in and they're like, yeah, we found something interesting on your MRIs. We want to come back. We want to take a couple more pictures. I was like, wait, what? Like, what do you mean? Like I got a concussion. Okay, fine. Like rack it in. I've had all many of those. It's fine. Just give me my concussion protocol, write it off. Just give me my note. Let's go. And yeah, no, I, I got issued my, um, first neurology appointment and, um, he started asking me these questions of, uh, have you ever passed out, uh, when you were stressed out? Have you ever passed out when, you know, and I was like, yeah, I pass out all the time. He was like, well, when do you pass out? And then I said, well, you know, basically my whole life. And we started digging into understanding these things of, wow, I've been having seizures my whole life. I did not even realize it. It's been passed along. I've, um, and passed over of you have hypoglycemia, you have anxiety, you're just sleep deprived. And, um, you know, all of these things are neurological and seizures. There's different types of seizures. They're not all just what you see on TV of flopping around on the floor. Um, I really wish that seizures were more in the medical fields of, um, first aid, CPR care. Um, and people were more educated about it, um, especially for kids in contact sports of any kind so that parents were aware. Um, uh, I tried to educate the kids that I train in, in my gym and parents, um, that come along to, and, and the people that I'm around just because of the fact that I have seizures, just as I get more and more educated about the brain, just because of this fact that I have been having seizures my whole life and never even knew it. It was just, oh, you're not getting enough sleep. Oh, you're, you have hypoglycemia and I've been to doctors, but no one takes picture of your brain, um, unless you have a reason to. Uh, so, you know, why would you think that you have a seizure and, um, unless you have multiple seizures, they're not going to put you on a medication either. And unless you have had trauma again, they're not going to put you on medication and that's understandable. That's safe. Um, that brain comes with multiple chemical things. And I don't mean to go on a rant. I'm just very passionate about this. This is my life. Um, so in this appointment with my neurologist, he explains to me that, uh, we were going to need to do testing to solidify that I was having, um, seizures. Um, we found out that I had a pituitary gland adenoma and we needed to make sure that it was not cancerous. These are pretty common. Uh, the pituitary is the size of a half dollar. It's in between your eyes. Uh, typically you would, it would just be like a day surgery. They go up through your nose, they take it out. Um, but that did, that deals, it's a driving source of your hormones, your thyroid, your main optical nerve is there. Um, still considered a brain surgery, even though it's a in and out procedure. Um, and it seems like, uh, oh, it's a, oh, it's a no big deal thing until they took a picture of it. And I was like, let's take it up. Let's take it up. Pretty big thing. Well, yeah, that was all the way back in, uh, 2012. Um, and then the first tumor was the size of probably a grape, um, again, by my pineal gland. Um, and again, back in, in, uh, 2012. And I remember asking my neurologist, so can I still fight? And he just looks at me and he's like, seriously? And I'm like, well, like, I mean, I know I see the pictures that I see all of this, but they're like, they're not doing anything. Right. Like I've lived, I've lived this long. I went this long. Like I just have a, like a concussion. Right. I mean, I just get through the concussion protocol and he was like, yeah, we're not doing that anymore. You can't take any more blows to the head. We need to figure this out. Uh, that's a no. Um, how did that feel that moment though? Cause like at this point, you know, you've been handed what seems like a golden ticket. Like this is it, this is the big step up. And then obviously it's like, it was given to you in a millisecond later, it was taken away. Right. Like there was not even a chance to experience it. Like that must've been pretty gut wrenching. It was, uh, that, that was not the first moment in my life that has happened. Um, that is, that moment has happened over and over and over again. Um, uh, several different situations. And that moment I was like, it's happening again. And I'm like, nope, well, I'm going to do it my way. So I did not listen to my doctor at all. And, uh, I forged a doctor note to go back to practice. Yep. Of course you did. Yep. And I got a double concussion that let in be in the hospital for a week. I bet you, I can only imagine the look on your doctor's face when you, you turn up in the office the next time. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, the doctor's retired. I stuck with that doctor for quite some time. He's retired now, but, uh, just because of that, um, he, uh, he came in and he said, are we going to listen now? Yeah. And I, I just looked at him and I said, I guess I'll take the test. Yeah. So, uh, we developed that, what type of seizures I had got me on medication, uh, that made me feel like a zombie. I had some weird dreams. Um, it took me probably six months before I actually took them correctly. And, um, yeah, I fell into a super huge, uh, depression because, you know, I kept showing up to practice, uh, just as normal because I didn't know what to do. Like that was, um, that was just something that I'd always worked for as part of, I don't want to say my identity. It was just, it was something I had for myself and it's like, okay, now what? Um, you know, my, I'm, I have all of this other life stuff going on. I'm, you know, trekking through and now I'm just supposed to sit still. How do you do that when you are, you don't have the tools to work on yourself just yet? Like this was my way to work on myself, but you know, so my coach, uh, one of my boxing coaches reminds me a lot of you actually, uh, master Lewis and, uh, he speaks in riddles. That's why. Yeah. And, um, you know, he just, he was just very, very patient with me and, um, telling me just to take my time and, um, gave me a lot of tools to center myself. And, um, yeah, I just slowly started to step away and again, doing my own, own thing. And I just was like, okay, well, if you can't do this and I'll just cut everything off. And I cut everyone off. I stopped going, I stopped talking to people. I stopped watching it, stopped going to everything, which, you know, I used to fight at 135 and like walk around at like 150 or so. And then I jumped up to like 200 or so pounds. And I found my way back into the gym slowly. And that's when I found, you know, this lady that, uh, trained in the gym, same gym that I did. She was in her forties training for her last bodybuilding competition. And she says, she was 40s, maybe she was closer, she was older. She said, you know, why don't you do what I do? Then you don't have to get hit in the face anymore. I try, I'm training not to get hit in the face. So, um, she was like, well, come on, you like to compete. Like, and this is the way you can still get to train and move your body. Like gives you purpose, something to a goal and like keeps you disciplined. And, you know, she just kept going, she down this list. And I thought, you know what, I'm not doing anything. It's something that's better than nothing. And that's always been my mantra. Doing nothing gets you nothing. And I'm doing nothing right now for myself. And, um, yeah, I was just, I was realizing, I was kind of just slipping away from myself and sports and athlete, athletic things were just always my thing. And it's always been a goal of mine to get to a pro level of some sort. And I'm at this age where, okay, basketball's it? Not it. Cheerleading's not it. You know, I'm looking at all these things I did in high school and now I'm a single mom and now I'm in my twenties. So like, now what? I'm not going to do softball. I'm not going to do bowling league. I'm not going to crochet. So bodybuilding it is. I was like, okay, can't do fighting. Let's do it. Okay, fine. So I started out my bodybuilding career. Lame. So it wasn't for you? It was definitely not for me. You did a show, didn't you? I did five shows. Yeah. Five shows. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I was a figure competitor. Sure. I did well. So what, if you knew it wasn't for you, what made you do five? Because you probably knew after the first one, like, not sure this is for me. Did you think it, was it just a case of this is the best option I've got in front of me? I was still chasing, I was still chasing that aspiration to finish my dream of being at this pro level. I, I, and I, I can't explain that. No, I get you. I don't, I don't know the why or like, you know, this point behind it of who I'm trying to prove it to or for myself. It was this probably inner child loss sense of, what I didn't get when I was a child, this little, like, you know, mommy, daddy issues. I'm sure. How much of our, how much of our behavior is all fueled by that is very contentious. Right. So we do the, the five shows of wellness. How do we then end up in powerlifting? Oh, don't say wellness. My book is not that big. We do the, the, the five shows and then we end up in powerlifting. How does that transition happen? Uh, that transition happens. I ended up in 2018. I've, um, found out that I had to have, uh, uh, brain cancer or brain surgery. I'm sorry, because of the cancer had progressed. Um, so, you know, from 2012, 2013 until that time I'd been monitored and, you know, having my symptoms, not really taking everything into consideration and just really being self-absorbed and keeping everything on the back burner and just doing what I normally do. Wake up at that point in time, wake up, body scan and okay. How serious is this scale of one to 10? Do we stay home or not manageable? Okay, let's go. If you, I've always preached this to people that if you think about it over and over and over, then it's going to be a blinking light in the front of your brain over and over and over versus like, is it really? Okay. I'm not encouraging people to hard to mentalize your pain, but sometimes like it's really. No, sure. Sometimes it's the best option, you know? So yeah, when you get to that point and they're like, Hey, you have to have surgery. And, um, so April, 2018, I had my first brain surgery, which was absolutely horrible. Um, I've had two brain surgeries and that one was terrible. Um, I say terrible because they presented it like it was going to be, um, um, no big deal thing. And, um, um, I hit it from a lot of people. I did not handle the situation very well. I lied to a lot of friends and family and told people that I did not have cancer, that it was benign. It's not that big of a deal. I did tell a few people that I was having, um, surgery. I spoke in a little bit of detail about what the surgery was about, but I didn't go into depth about everything. Um, I don't think you should have regrets. You can't go back about things, but that is what happened. And I had an MRI laser ablation, which they put you in an MRI machine. They use that as a picture. They go in, drill a small burr hole, sift a tube in and laser out the tumor. And the reason why is because it was wrapped around a blood nerve. So it was really hard to get to, um, there were no complications. I was in there for 72 hours. They kept me to monitor and then I was taken out. So because I did not express everything to everyone that it was that big of a deal is where then in lies the problem. Cause after the fact, I had zero help. And when I came out of it, I ended up having lesions on my brain, which I didn't realize. And because I didn't have any help, I was at my house by myself healing so much so that I was on the couch, like defecating myself. Um, and I couldn't figure out how to walk. I can think about it, but I couldn't physically do it. It was crawling to the bathroom and it was a mess. This went on for like 10 weeks, trying to figure out how to clean up my mess, literally and figuratively, um, mend relationships. And, um, you know, there was, there was a lot. This transitioned, we get through all of this. We had to have another, another surgery to take care of, um, to take care of the lesions. Um, and then I had to go through a lot of, uh, therapy after that. I had to go through vestibular therapy, um, which I did a lot of that post concussions. I've had a total of 43 concussions on paper, which is a lot. More than that off, I'm sure. Oh yeah. Um, so vestibular therapy, uh, for those that, that don't know is just, they're teaching you how to balance and redistribute, um, connecting your, uh, that phrase, you can't walk and chew gum at the same time. That's what they're trying to help you with. Basically that's vestibular therapy and speech therapy. Um, so that's what I had to do after all of that. And that probably could have been prevented had I communicated better. Um, so we get through that and then I opened my gym October, 2018. Okay. So that's, that's, that's just stopped right. So you go through that and you'd like, you survive by the skin of your teeth, essentially like, cool. I can walk and talk again. Like this is, this is progress. Your next step is I want to open a gym. Oh, I didn't want to open a gym. It just happened. Okay. So how does, how does opening a gym kind of happen by accident? Um, yeah. Um, when I was healing from, uh, my brain surgery, I was going through a breakup. I was managing my ex's gym and, um, I was thinking, I'm just going to go back to doing full-time. It's not therapy full-time. Maybe I'll go back to school, um, finish my degree finally. And, um, I had seven personal training clients who were like, well, what about us? I'm like, I don't know. I'm just writing plans or something like that's not my main focus. Um, you know, like, I don't know. I just, you know, I really need to restructure my life and I got to do something. And, you know, massage therapy is my solid income, blah, blah, blah. And then one of my clients said, Hey, uh, John's shutting down his gym in town. You should buy it. I'm like, yeah, let me just pull out $40,000 cause I got that. And then, you know, just these structures of people around me and just, it just started flowing and happening. You know, I had a 418 credit score. I had $2,000 in savings. I think it probably had a negative bank account and everyone just started coming out of the woodwork. I mean, my clients ponied up to put down money on a new building. My clients came in and helped me move all of this equipment. I reached out to John and said, I don't have the money, but would you allow me to lease your equipment? And he said, yeah, I was wondering when you were going to call. And just like that, like overnight, I literally had a whole entire gym. I had nowhere to put it. I didn't have a building yet. I went into the place that I was working at for massage and I sat down and I was like, I just bought a gym. They're like, you did what? They said, yeah, I just bought a gym. They're like, where are you going to put it? I don't know. They're like, when do you have to do it? I said, well, I have to find a place to put all this stuff in like two weeks cause I have to get out of his place. And they're like, what are you doing? I'm like, I have no idea. Do you know how to run a gym? Yeah. They all believe in me. They're like, can you afford it? And I was like, yeah. Can you afford to live? Barely. We'll make it. I'm like, they believe in me. So yeah, sure. I was about to curse. I was just saying, yeah, yeah. But that must've been, that must've been as someone like, you know, you go back to like your brain surgery where you, you pushed everyone away and kind of isolated yourself to now be at this point where people are rallying around you to make this thing come together. That must've been a pretty cool realization that like, oh, like this is stuff is fixing. Even if like you still have this issue, whatever, like at least socially your relationships and stuff are, they're there for you. Yeah. You know, when you're in that 10 weeks and you're literally crapping yourself and finding a way to get to the bathroom, you kind of realize like, you should probably not be alone. You should probably talk to people. Um, but you know, I'd like to say that that was the turning point, but I need to get hit in the head a couple more times, uh, before it finally stuck. Unfortunately, um, it's been a few more lifelines and things in my life that, that didn't really stick, but hence resilience where you, you know, bounce back after pressure. Um, yeah, you know, I, it was never my intention to open a gem. Like everyone says, you know, what made you want to open a gem? I didn't want to open a gem. People wanted me to open a gem. They needed me. And for whatever reason, people wanted me. And so because of me, my gem has still stayed open through, you know, two cancer brain, my whole cancer ride, two brain surgeries, COVID, a multitude of, you know, shit storms. Um, people believe in me. They believe in whatever Kool-Aid I'm brewing up for the day. So, um, yeah, I didn't want to open a gem. They wanted me to open up a gem. But resilience training is very fitting name based on that. So how does that then, we open the gym almost, almost against our will. We become a gym owner. How does that transition to, I want to try and be a pro power lifter? Yeah. Um, once I started to heal from, uh, the surgery and the gym was going, COVID happened and, um, I kept my gym open and, uh, kind of felt like a secret access. Like people were sliding in my DMs, like knocking. Yeah. Are you open? People parking in the back. It was, it's pretty cool coming from, you know, commercial gyms, but, um, yeah, I, I was, I had reached out to my bodybuilding coach and said, you know, I feel like I have the tools to kind of get going by myself. Um, I'm going to see what I can do on my own and then I'll reach out to you, but I'd like to try again. Um, it's my last show prior to where we left off. I, I placed fifth out of 50 girls on, um, you know, a pretty big stage. And I felt like the only reason why I placed this was the amount of, um, stress in the environment in my life. And I'm like, you know, I put all of those factors in. I'm like, okay, we take all of those variables away. You know, I'm done with the cancer stuff. Like things will be different now. And I started going and then this, uh, crew of power lifters come into my gym and my buddy Joe is a power lifter slash strong man. And I had been to a couple of his meets and he had actually talked about Dave Tate often. And so anytime I'd ever gone over to his house and his garage, like, you know, we always talked about West side and I've seen the videos and dah, dah, dah. And so my recollection of power lifting is these strong, hairy, big bellied guys. Um, I didn't really see any girls and the girls that I did see was like Amy and Laura and in these like diaper suits. And so my, my recollection of power lifting was that that's not for me. Um, uh, you either have to be those guys or the girls lifting that he was showing me, I have to be in those seats suits and, uh, they were trapped and, you know, I'm a, I'm now this like 135 pound, like stick figure. And yeah, I'm thinking to myself, I worked this hard. I'm not going back there, but you know, I had just come off of brain surgery. And so like, I'm still a little, little fluff ball from, I'm having all of this mental stuff post treatments and I, I'm like, okay, I'm going to get on it. And then all these power lifters, COVID come in and, um, I had no idea what any of this is outside of what Joe was showing me. And then I see this guy taking three hours in my one power rack doing Zerzer squats on a juggernaut method, like five sets of eight or something like that. His arms were bleeding and I'm like, his nose is bleeding. It's hot, it's sweaty. And I'm like, what are you doing? Fair, fair question. And then he goes on and he does more. I'm like, what are you doing? Then you choose to do that sport. But I'm like, wait, what is happening? But then, and then, and then these guys come in to ask to come to my gym and they're like, can you, can we deadlift in here? And I was like, yeah. Not realizing like, you know, what that really means. Yeah. Because the guy that's asking me is only a little taller than me and it's probably like 165, 180. And so, you know, I'm thinking no big deal. He was like, you got shock. And I'm like, yeah, he was like, cool. And so we can squat. And I was like, yeah. And then, and I saw it and he was like, oh, I don't see, I don't see like a deadlift platform. And I'm like, oh, it's no big deal. And I'm like, can you just move the equipment over there and just do it on the mats till the next week guy comes in and I see one plate, two plates, three plates and three plates is all I've ever seen. Aside from the big hairy guys from West side, I've never seen it in real life. Then four plates, five plates, six plates. And I was like, that's, that's only like two and a half inch mat over there. Are you going to deadlift on that? And he was like, yeah, you said we could deadlift. And I'm like, how many is that? Are you going to do? And he was like, oh, just like four or five just like today. And he was like, yeah. And then I'm just sitting here and I'm like texting my friend Joe, oh my God, there's this guy in here. He's deadlifting. Like, he was like, no way. I'm like secretly like videoing. I was like, in real life. He was like, oh, that's cool. And then, you know, it was just really cool. So he sees me looking at him and he said, you know, if you quit messing around with bodybuilding and actually do some real work. And I didn't think anything of it. I tried floor pressing for the first time and the guys thought it was pretty cool that I could floor press like 135 several times. And I didn't know what that meant, but apparently it was strong. And then I just did more and more and thought it was cool. And then, so, yeah. So in a couple of weeks I signed up for a meet and I came back and I was like, hey, I signed up for a meet. And then I said, you did what? You just started. And I was like, so? I was like, well, I have to see if I like it. So I signed up for a meet. I was like, isn't that how it works? And they're like, no, you, you've got to do. They were like freaking out. And they're like, you, you just started like two months ago. And I said, it's plenty of time. I'm like, I have to see if I like the end result before I do all of the training that I said, I like the training more than I like the end result. So why am I going to do all of the bullshit that I don't like? You see what I'm saying? Yeah. So I did my first competition in 2020 at the Sunflower State Games and it's pretty unforgettable. It was awesome. And I've done one or two meets ever since. That's awesome. That's a, that's a very cool journey. Thank you for that. Now, one thing I really wanted to ask you about and, uh, you know, Noah and I filmed a video on auto regulation a couple of weeks ago for a one way. And that's a topic that is quite abstract to a lot of people. They don't really understand what it means, uh, what it looks like in action. And I'm, I'm intrigued as someone who has to auto regulate essentially their entire life, right? Like for the average person, like myself or Noah, like we go in the gym and the type of thing that we have to deal with is like, Oh, warmups are slow today. My elbow is sore from whatever, or my neck is sore. Cause I slept funny. You're what you have to deal with is like, I have no peripheral vision or I can't feel my right arm or something like that. When you're, when you're, let's talk about training specifically, at least to start when you're going in the gym, what does your process look like to assess your readiness? And how do you kind of act based on that? Because like, it's, if you can do this successfully, like it's going to be, it should be easy for the rest of us. Right. So what does your process look like? Um, you've definitely helped me find tune that a little bit. I, I have essentially had this process for a very, very long time. Um, I've always journaled prior to any of my practices. Um, this actually started way back in high school. Um, my high school basketball coach taught us about this. Um, so, uh, before every single practice, I always write down, um, essentially how I'm feeling and it's not like, Oh, I'm happy for the day. Um, I do essentially a body scan and what I coach my athletes, you can make it as simple of a scale of one to 10 of, um, you know, head to toe. And I have to think about it on a scale of, I have a headache every single day. Sure. So that's like your 10 is still like, I have a headache, even if that's like the best day possible. Yes. So for me, if my headache is starting at, if I have a pressure headache and it is already at a seven and I am starting to get my warmups going, I'm doing my breathing, I'm doing my actual, um, movement routine and that has not settled down, then I'm going to actually continue my, my workout, but I'm going to have to dial it down. Um, because when it comes to powerlifting, you are, you're initiating intra-abdominal pressure, which is going to create more intracranial pressure. Yeah. So I still have more stuff to do for the day. Yeah, sure. Um, prior to training, I have to do a body scan. I have to go head to toe, figure everything out. And what, what are you looking for? Like for those who've never done a body scan, like, what are you looking for in that process? Functioning. Mm hmm. Optimal functioning. Sure. Okay. Um, survival mode. Mm hmm. Um, something that you can optimally work through. Mm hmm. Mm hmm. Not something that should be forced. Okay. So is it like feeling for pain, tightness, discomfort? Like what are, what are the red flags that kind of show up? If you know what? Yeah. Pain is relative. Mm hmm. Um, I talk to my clients about this often, um, describe your pain. Like, oh, this hurts. Well, describe it to me because your body is talking to you constantly and you have to understand what it's saying. Mm hmm. And it's, you may, a lot of people come post surgery and their body is screaming at them. They think that it's screaming at them, but you have to take a moment and actually understand what it is actually saying. Sure. That's the importance of starting your session mindfully, um, listening to your body and then going into your training and understanding like what your training process is and putting those two things together. Um, is it tightness? Is it actual pain or is it just mental pain? Is this something that I need to dial back or do I just need to take a day? It's completely fine to take a day. Mm hmm. Like it is actually okay to move this training day to tomorrow. Mm hmm. It's not going to kill you. It's probably going to make you better. Some people freak out about that. Did you find that hard to accept at first though? As like someone who's clearly a driven athlete, because otherwise you wouldn't have gone MMA, but like you're an athlete kind of instinctually, if you know what I mean, which usually means you want to work hard. Like not training is worse than training. So did you struggle with that or did that, did that kind of come naturally to like the ability to kind of just push this down the road? I struggled with it at first. Yes. Do you think it might've been, and I don't mean this in a derogatory sense at all, but if you push too hard at the wrong time, the cost is huge. I've seen it. Yeah. Yeah. So do you think that made it easier to trust that process? Like if someone else is probably shouldn't train, but trains anyway, they get a bit too, they get a bit more sore. Maybe they don't make as much progress, whatever. We can brush that under the rug and ignore that quite easily. You push too hard on a day that you shouldn't, the next 48 hours might be a write off. Right. I push too hard and I end up having a seizure and then I'm down for the next two or three days. Sure. So do you think in, in a, in a weird, strange way that like this, at least your current predicament has made learning that auto-regulation process more effective or however you want to put it? Because the cost for you of doing it badly is so much higher. Yes. And how do you then, obviously, so you have a unique perspective on this that like, I won't have, I don't have to deal with that. Right. And your clients won't have to. How do you try and bring this perception, this awareness to someone like myself or someone who is struggling with this? Like, how do you boil this down into a way that they can understand it on a day to day, but like the importance of this, like the body scan processing, what you're capable of, and then how to adjust based on that. I don't believe that you have to have a chronic illness for it to be just as important. Yeah. Why do, why do you have to have a nine one one for your body, for your body to not be as important? Oh, I agree. You know, wholeheartedly. Yeah. You are the most valuable possession you will ever own. Act accordingly. That's a good mantra. I like that. On those days then when you are not so good by your own relative scale, what does adjusting training look like for you? Say that again. So like on, we go in the gym, we do our body scan. We are not in a great place today. Like we are able to train, but definitely not 100% all out. What does adjusting training look like for you? Like what, what are you doing on the fly that that is accommodating for that kind of reduced state of readiness? It depends on the symptoms for the day. Um, uh, typical flare up symptoms, symptoms for me are, um, nerve pain or no sensation on the right side of my body. Um, so for me, physically saying verbally out loud, uh, my checklist of my walkthrough of things. Um, also why I appreciate power lifting. It's very technical. It's step by step by step. It's methodical. It does have a lot of the same steps. So if you go through those same steps every single time, you shouldn't have to, you shouldn't have to think, you just do. It's like breathing. Just do it. Your body will just go into it. And that's, you know, that's what I, I appreciate about it. Um, is being able to adjust breathing, visualization, meditation, adjusting, um, doing a lot of training with my eyes closed. Yeah. Um, just feeling the lift, breathing, embracing, learning how your body moves, taking your time, not rushing through. Hopefully that answers your question. No, I, and maybe, maybe you're predisposed to this because you come from like a fighting background where like you can't, if you have to think about what your next move is, you're done already. Like you've lost, right? Um, do you think that, you know, we take now power lifting where the, you know, the stakes are not quite so high, but that same attitude of like, I need to learn this lift to the degree that it is instinctual so that on my worst day, when I've got a migraine or I'm partially numb in your case, I can still execute. Do you think that gets focused on enough by strength athletes? No. And it's funny you say that the power lifters that came into my gym, that actually none of them compete now, um, that introduced me more into power lifting than even Joe did when they initially were teaching me about the lifts and, and engulfing me into the power lifting. The very first things that they talked to me about of, of power lifting, as they said, pay attention to this and understand what I'm saying, because if not, you will die. And I looked at him and I was like, well, that's pretty morbid. And they said, seriously, like you have to think worst case scenario in any of these lifts. If you do it incorrectly, you will die. And that always stuck with me. And when I'm teaching every single person, a barbell lift, like that is the first thing I say. And I allow kids to come into my gym and it's split off between concrete and mats. And I stopped the kids and I say, okay, when you come over to the mats, I'm like, you could die. And they stop and they listen. Don't you pay more attention when someone says that to you? You're like, huh, I could die. I'm listening now. Yeah. So no, that was brought to my attention pretty closely from the get go. And it brought a little bit more technique based. And so I implement that to my clients and make that pretty aware of like, this is why I'm beating technique into you because you could die. And they understand the seriousness of this because yes, it is a ripple effect. It's like dying is the last thing, but yes, like here's the ripple effect. This is what it looks like. Yes. I'm, I'm detail oriented and I talk a lot and I explain a lot. Sorry, not sorry. Here's all the information do with it as you wish. But yes, you could die. You're welcome. Um, no, I, I, I really like, I, to some people that will obviously sound morbid and I understand that, but I really like that because, you know, again, you coming from like a martial arts, I'm making presumptions here and I could be horribly wrong, but it's kind of the same thing. It's like, well, you know, your opponent could kill you like inadvertently, you know, not necessarily trying to kill each other, although I can't talk for the mindset of a fighter and I really don't want to try to, but that's not the intention, but it could happen. And because of that, there's a a degree of urgency and attention and stuff that you pay to your practice because you know that that is the ultimate cost that you could pay if you don't do that well. And bringing that kind of idea over to here to strength sports, where like, you know, we don't really worry about that type of thing. Like, you know, it's not uncommon for someone to be like, oh, well, you know, I'm only squatting four plates. I won't bother putting the safety pins in the right place. And you're like, dumb 400 pounds. Even if you squat 1200 pounds, 400 pounds falling through the air is still plenty enough to kill you and do whatever damage to you, regardless of how strong you may or may not be. So I like that. I actually, you know, I go and says do the same thing every single time, whether it's an empty bar or your max effort. And I live by that. I mean, I tell my clients like routine matters, same thing every single time you shouldn't mess up. And that way, when you're having a really bad training day, like you are having some medical symptoms or like, you know, you're having a brain blip, like your body knows what to do. I can't remember where I heard it. Um, but I did hear once, you know, you don't rise to the occasion, you fall to the level of your training. And I think, you know, you can, you can, again, correct me if I'm wrong here, but as someone who's like been on stage and fought and then also compete in powerlifting, would you say that's true? Yes. So like in many regards, training is the main event then, because if that's what you fall back to when the stakes are high or the pressure is high, or you're having a bad day, the quality of your training is the absolute determining factor for your performance. I really liked that kind of idea. One thing that I want to, if you don't mind, I hope we sidestep a little bit now in the time that I've known you, which a couple of years now, um, you have made some pretty big strides in, in many, many different ways. Um, and you know, we've, if you listen to the first 30 minutes of this episode, people get a pretty good idea that you've had a couple of things to overcome and not been dealt the best hand. I just, you know, I would like to hear about what changes you've implemented in like, let's say the last 12 months or so, because that's kind of the timeframe that we've kind of worked together a little bit more closely. So I have a bit more context or understanding at least that have led to positive outcomes for you because, and again, I don't mean this in a derogatory way, but things that can help you can probably help all of us. It's probably a fair, fair thing to say. I feel in this context, in this circumstance, right? So like, what have you, what changes have you made and what steps have you made say in the last 12 months that have led you to be in a better place now than you were previously? Well, I think the biggest change that I've made is my commitment to sobriety. Mm-hmm. Um, and how many days in are we? Uh, or weeks, whatever is appropriate at this point for you. Yeah. I'm, I'm months sober. So, um, my official start date was November 17th. And so what day are we April? April 11th, something like that. 13th. Thank you. There you go. December, January, February, March, April. So I'm six months. Yeah. Yeah. Congrats. Thank you. That's huge. Thank you. Um, how does that feel? Yeah. My heart just started racing. It's probably the coffee. Um, really proud of myself. Good. As you should be. That's not, I mean, alcohol addiction is not uncommon, you know? And I think it's, you know, there's, there's going to be someone that listens to this that probably is in the throes of it. Right. That that's, that's a fair assumption. So, you know, for, in your experience of that, you know, Oh, it's alcohol and, and pain pills. Sure. Let's go. Let's go with both. Yeah. In that. Yeah. But in that circumstance, what is it that helped pull you out of that? Uh, your guidance, you know? Well, that's very kind, but there's, yeah, I know you'll never take the pat on the back. It's fine. It's like, what did you, what I want, I want to know what you did. What did I do? Specifically. As in like, you know, you took actions, like regardless of my input or not, I can only say like, this would be a good idea. You know, uh, this, this past year, last April, I thought I had started a turning points. Um, and then October, November is when I actually, you know, dug my heels and, and had an actual, um, should I talk about July? You're welcome to. It's not my life. You can share whatever you want. Um, you know, what, what actions took me closer was I had to completely fall flat, flat on my face. And be completely stripped down bare. And I don't think enough people are completely stripped down, bare naked, running through the streets for the whole world to see. Um, I think that's what it actually takes to change, to make a real change. Um, in, in April, you know, I thought I was making the changes and certain cycles were starting to creep back in and water was just filling back up. And in July, I tried to take my life for the umpteenth time I failed and, and, and, or maybe it's not a failure because I'm still here and there's been lots of wins since and I'm very grateful that I'm here. Um, Ooh, that was really hard to say out loud. Um, it doesn't get easier. And yeah, the work wasn't done or even just beginning at that point and October, November hits and I had a accidental overdose with a medication that was supposed to help me overcome my addiction to drugs and alcohol, um, amongst other things. I was like, okay, I, I'm tired of the person I'm seeing. I'm fed up with myself. I'm fed up with the cycles. I am fed up with hurting the people I love, um, ruined relationships, the fighting behind closed doors. I'm tired of the mask, the constant. It's exhausting. Um, I was a closet drinker. I would slam a fifth of vodka and two tall boys on my way home. I have, how I didn't get a DUI is beyond me. The amount of hours I would spend driving around drinking, listening to music, writing music, poems, talking to people, letting my emotions out, talking to myself, driving country roads. How I didn't kill myself doing that. I'll never understand it. Yeah. Um, bypassing the question of, I don't know what the turning point was. I don't have an answer to that other than the medication that I took when I finally decided I had had enough of my own bull crap. I was like, yeah, I'm ready. I was just stacking since April, May, June. And then it was like, stuff is still not working. And then I decided, you know, I've just throw it all away. And then, Hey, guess what? No, you still have to stay here. I'm like, all right, well, I guess we'll just keep on trying and then trying a little bit more and a little bit more. And you just keep telling me like, well, you have nothing else to lose. You're already here. We kept trying. I say we, the Royal we. And I said, okay, I'm going to take this medication. And then I took way too much. I don't know how to math and I don't know how to communicate well. And I spent 13 and a half hours throwing up in a toilet and literally felt like I was dying. I'm taking this medication to literally help me stop drinking and, and taking drugs. I had not openly admitted to anyone except for you that I was an addict ever to anyone. I assumed that my family and friends knew. Uh, but yeah, I would socially kind of drink. I never really drank in front of my kid. Not, I mean, I did, but never like over the excess. Um, yeah, I would like, yeah, it was just, I was super closet. Um, but so what everyone else saw was my personality and results of the drugs and alcohol. But I have, yeah, receipts. I have receipts of the amount actually doing my taxes last year. And I'm writing down exactly how much I spent on, on alcohol and, um, the amount of different pharmacies I would go to, to get Xanax to mix with the alcohol and the, um, and the pain pills. Um, yeah. That I'm hovering over a toilet and literally thinking like, this is how I'm going to die. The amount of times that I chose to kill myself, I never chose, um, I never chose to take drugs because I knew how I knew that it was going to be a long, grueling process. And yes, it was absolutely. I was throwing up blood. Um, I was hallucinating. I was hearing voices. I was hot. I was cold. Then I had to wait in the waiting room. And then I finally had to open up to Isaac and say, I'm having an overdose. And he's like, of what? And I said, yeah. So this is what I took. And this is why I took it. He's like, you're what? And I said, yeah, well, we got a lot of time. And so I'm, this is where I'm at. And I'm like, uh, here we go. Sure. And I'd already been into counseling. So I guess you and my counselor were the only ones that I've been discussing openly about my addiction process. And then, yeah, six and a half hours in the waiting room, uh, kidneys starting to fail me and nurse comes in, honey, we're going to take good care of you. We're not going to lose you tonight. And I'm looking at him like, what? Uh, Were things, did you know things were that bad? I did not. Yeah. So that was like a realization like, oh, it's that serious. Yeah. Like I, I'm a very drama person. I mean, I'm sure I'm texting you and then, you know, casually texting you about how, how my day is going. And then I'm like, nine one wanting it. And I'm sure you're thinking like, it's a bit dramatic. And then it's like, actually, yeah, if you haven't ate or drink and nothing's, you need to go in. And then, yeah, I'm, I am trying to like bring myself down and thinking maybe it's not that bad. And then a nurse is like gently grabbing my hand with doe eyes saying it's going to be okay. And I'm like, oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. I lost 18 pounds in a week, one week, five days, not seven days, five days and could barely eat. And yeah, that, that very day or the next day, I remember texting you saying, I am never drinking again. And you're like, I don't, where did you get that from? Where, where are you even talking about? And I'm like, uh, yeah, as I'm sitting here hovering over the toilet, the only reason why I am here is because of this medication that was supposed to help me prevent from not drinking to excess and taking an alcohol to feed into my, you know, my mental illness, my, this, my, this, my, that no, never again. We're going to do it the hard way. I'm, I'm done. I don't want to feel like this. I don't want to feel like that. I will do whatever it takes. No, I am never drinking again. This is death. This is my funeral to drugs and alcohol right here, right now that no, you were like, okay. Yeah, it works. Perfect. Now there was, you, uh, unindependently became my AA sponsor. I have yet to find someone in, in group just yet, but there's been times where I have pulled into a parking lot. Uh, there's been two times where I've actually purchased, um, and thrown it down in the bottle. So, you know, we're not completely there yet. I don't think it ever will be, you know, I would probably agree with you there. What else has happened to like, we talked, there's an incident she was hit where the drugs and alcohol are now gone. So that puts us kind of like October, November where we stopped drinking then. What else has changed in that time to kind of lead you to a better place? Obviously that's a pretty acute incident, but what else has changed? But what else are you doing now? What help, what else has helped keep you consistent on that path or keep progressing? Routine will always help keep a good structure and, you know, a routine for you that is set for you and your life. You have to find something that works well for structured for your life and a routine that worked well for me. A routine, a morning routine, um, a midday routine, a nighttime routine. And what that looks like for me was something that was calming to my nerving nervous system that allowed me to check in on myself. Often I have very high anxiety, um, and allowed me to wind down and, um, yeah, all of these structural things, including my nutrition change have been a huge part in my training change, um, have been a huge part to play in changing how my body has felt. I've had a reduce and symptoms. I've had a reduce in my RX medication list. I went from taking 20 different medications a day to now I only take five RX medications. I was spending close to $2,000 a month on RX medications and now I'm not. Thank you. Um, you set the plan. I did the work. I get to say thank you. No. Um, uh, structured, you know, a routine, but all of these things reduced a huge amount of inflammation to my body. Um, anyone is capable of doing these things. It's just, are you willing to put in the work to do it? A lot of people are not, they want the quick fix. I want to take the shot. I want to take the pill. Um, it's very frustrating to hear that over and over and over. And I've been working with you for over two years and I'm a coach. I still know better and it still took me, you know, I'm still not done. Well, no, you're not, you know, I'm, I'm like people. So hopefully that answers your question. If you want me to go into more detail of what that extent looks like, you know, my, my morning routine of, of, uh, structures is, is taking time to check in on myself of, um, not rushing to my phone, instant anxiety. Oh my gosh, I got to do this. I have to do this of breathing, centering myself and doing a body scan, my gratitude, my journaling, um, grounding myself, centering myself and centering my nervous system to be ready for the day. So I can be my best self for everyone else. If you are not your best self, how can you treat everyone else? You know, if you're rushing into the day, you're going to rush through everything else. And then you're going to skip something. You're going to be missing something. You are going to forget something. And for someone who is already forgetting things at a constant speed, speed, I have to be on my A game. So I have to be present. I have to, that doesn't mean slow, which means I have to be present. So I need to start present. So these things, my supplements, um, I'm not late. I would just be there when I'm there, present, aware, and as I am. And midday, um, if I am not able to utilize red light therapy or meditation or my reading or going outside and getting some sunlight and fresh air, which is huge with my depression and anxiety, then five second routine. Um, I encourage this with my clients. We see our phones constantly. That is a cue to, um, that's cue to you. Like, what do you see on your phone? That's big flash. Um, I don't remember where I read this. I saw it's like a bulletin board. Um, uh, Oh geez. You drive by it often. Yeah. Like an advertising board. Yes. Advertising board. So subliminal message, see it over and over and over. Put something on your phone, your screen saver, that's going to be a reminder to you, a five second reminder to stop and think pots, be a reminder, good thing, bad thing, whatever. I have one client that it was his thing. That he wanted to put his biggest picture ever on there. Okay. That was his reminder to not go to the fridge, whatever. Uh, mine is a quote five second reminder. Just take five seconds, breathe, check in. Okay. Now transition into your next go-to. My nighttime routine is there to calm me down. So I'm not going to bed wound up. So yeah. Routines matter. Same thing in the gym routine, same thing over and over and over. Perfect. Thank you, Holly. I just wanted to say thank you for sharing your story, all the things that have happened to you, all of the incidents and ways that you've bounded back from them, um, is admirable amongst a thousand other compliments that I could give you that you thoroughly deserve. And I hope that, you know, there are some people watching it that maybe are dealing with even one of the issues that you've had to deal with in the last 10 years or so and can take some solace from it, that there, there are things you can do, you know, not just things that you hope you can do. There are things that you absolutely can do right now that will take you towards the place that you want to be. If anyone has been like inspired by what they've, they've heard from you today or like feels that they want to reach out to you for help, is, is there a way they can do it? Like, is there, do you mind giving like your social media handle or something like that in case people like, Oh, Holly, I listened to this and thank you for sharing. Uh, sure. Uh, my personal page is halls, H O L L Z period one zero, halls 10. Um, also my gym page, resilience, resilience, period training. Uh, they're both links. Either one of those is just fine. Perfect. Thank you. So, and thank you for going, what you do, going through what you do and still being the most, one of the most giving people I've ever met in my life. I think that's a great example to people that it doesn't matter what hand you're dealt, you can still help improve other people's hands. I think that's, like I said, admirable in so many ways. And thank you. Thank you for your time today. It's much appreciated. Thank you. Thank you for having me. We're done.