 isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr isr is setting before getting into private business and creating my own seminar and certification model. And, you know, what I'm going to be talking to you about today is, you know, part of my system that I put together. I'm big on trying to categorize things. And this is an attempt to categorize training movement and athletic movement, really from the full spectrum of all the way on the rehabilitation end up to elite sports performance in competition within the mechanical considerations of that movement. Now, there's all different kinds of ways that you could mechanically break down movement and exercise. The way that I chose to do it today with this board is with three different variables. The first one is muscle length. The second one is the velocity of the movement. And the third one is the length of the moment arm. So when we talk about, and I tried to keep this very simple, and I want you to understand that with all these variables, they actually really exist on a full spectrum and with every possible iteration in between the most extreme ends of the two sides. But for muscle length, we're going to look at it either being concentric or short or eccentric or long. So you'd have to think that for every muscle, there's got to be some sort of midpoint where it's neither concentric nor eccentric. But once you cross that point, now the muscle is concentrically oriented. And once you cross it the other way, now the muscle is eccentrically oriented. So it's either going to be one or the other in this discussion, short or long, concentric or eccentric. Velocity, we're going to talk about just as slow and fast. And what I want you to think about here is kind of like weight room versus real sports. So that's going to essentially be the breakdown that we're using. And moment arm is going to be the level of torque that's imposed upon the system. So that's going to be the horizontal distance away from the rotation point that we're seeing the loading taking place. So that's either going to be short or long. And I'll get into the specifics of that as I go through the different quadrants here of this eight part graph. But I think that what you're going to see is in that in many ways, all movement is actually going to live in this graph in some way, shape or form. And also the full spectrum of rehabilitation of the training is going to live in here. What you'll also see here is that this is essentially a sequential stress in like the level of stress that you're applying to the system is going to increase as we sequentially move through these boxes. So the least stressful place to move is going to be in box one. And the most stressful place that you can move is going to be in box eight. You're also going to see that in some ways, some of these boxes unlock other boxes so that you have a pretty good idea of, Hey, where do I start someone on their training journey? And how do I bring them along in a manner that is progressively exposing them to greater stresses that in some ways could be threatening if you jump too fast. But if you allow the system to be exposed in a graded manner, I think that you're going to see that this is a very useful tool to be able to visualize and understand how the mechanics of movement play into that. So let's talk about box number one first. And this is a place where the muscle length is concentric. The movement speed is slow and the moment arm is short. And essentially what I want you to think about this box, this is where almost everything in traditional physical therapy actually lives. So something like a quadruped position would be in this. The muscle length is concentric. The movement is slow or isometric. And the moment arm is short because if I'm in a quadruped position, essentially the loading is directly under the joints that could possibly be rotating. So there's no, you know, increase in distance horizontally from the primary joint that's involved with the activity. Something like a clam shell with a band is also something that would live in this place. As the femur is abducting and externally rotating, it's a slow movement. There's very little torque imposed upon the system and the muscle itself is continuing to get shorter and more concentric as you're doing it. As we move over here to box number two, this is concentric muscle length. It is a slow movement and it is a long moment arm. So what are examples of things that live over here? This would be something like a dumbbell lateral raise, for instance. So as I lift my arm into abduction, the deltoid is getting more and more concentrically oriented. The muscle is getting shorter. It's a slow movement. And by the time I lift my arm all the way up into abduction, I now have a long moment arm. The shoulder is the primary point of rotation and the load has horizontally moved from being under it, which is essentially no moment arm out to a long moment arm, the longest that I could possibly get to in the shortened position for the muscle. So this is a box that certain exercises live in. And what we seem to be seeing in the science that's associated with, with hypertrophy at this point in time, is that we're questioning the efficacy of some of the exercises that live in this box. They don't seem to provide the mechanical stimulation for growth on a rep to rep basis that exercises that would live in a different box would provide. So it's like a hip thrust would live in this box. One of the early studies that took a look at this concept of analyzing short muscle length and a long moment arm and seeing the difference was a study that compared the preacher curl versus the incline bench curl. So if I'm doing an incline bench curl, my body's leaning back, my arm is stretched out, but the weight is directly under my shoulder in this position. As I lift the weight up, the muscle is getting more and more concentric. The moment arm is increasing as the weight comes up. And we looked at that and how much bicep muscle growth that created as compared to a preacher curl. And with the preacher curl, when you're at the top, the concentric position for the muscle, there's essentially no moment arm. The weight is directly above the elbow. As you lower the weight and the muscle is being stretched more, the moment arm is increasing as the weight moves horizontally away from the elbow. What we saw was that the preacher curl seemed to grow significantly more biceps tissue as compared to the incline curl. And that led to a lot of other follow-up research that started to take a look at muscle lengths and the sorts of hypertrophy that you get from different exercises that feature more of a stretched position versus a shortened position. And essentially the shortened position did not seem to grow as much muscle tissue rep per rep as the longer position. Now, this could just simply be that it's a lower stress thing. Like if I have more torque in a stretch position, this is just overall more mechanical tension that the tissue has to deal with. We need continuous and further research to really dive into this. There is a fairly large body of research at this point in time, but I think that most scientists are still a little bit skeptical of completely jumping on this idea that short position high torque is definitely inferior to long position high torque for growth. What I would say is that from the perspective of gradually introducing stress, I think this is an intelligent approach so that if someone is coming back from an injury, I would probably start them with a short or a concentric muscle orientation combined with a longer moment arm exercise that lives in this box. So following that, we're going to come over here to concentric muscle orientation with fast velocity and a short moment arm. What is that exactly? Well, this is essentially how people turn and tumble in sports. If you see a figure skater and they're going up for a triple axle or a sow cow or something in that regard, they're always going to keep their arms very tight into their body or overhead in those positions. And they're always going to keep their legs very close while they're spinning through space. If you have a diver in the Olympics and they're trying to perform an exercise with multiple somersaults, they're going to tuck their body in in a very tight manner like a ball. So when they do that, they're creating a concentric muscle length for the prime movers of that particular movement. They are going to be moving fast and that's the key is that you have to create these concentric muscle orientations to be able to actually spin or tumble at a very fast rate. And when you're doing that, the moment arms are becoming very, very short, which is helpful because the torque that's applied to the system at its distal ends is going to be less in this particular case. Now, what I think is kind of cool is that if someone like, I can't do box three very well. I'm way too tight. I've got, you know, movement limitations and joint restrictions and things like that. If someone wanted to try to get me to be able to perform box number three, they would really need to start me off in box number one to be able to give me access to range of motion that I don't currently have. So that is one example of some of the interactions between these boxes. If you want to be able to turn and tumble like many sports require that involve the athlete being, uh, moving their body at a high velocity through space, you need to make sure that they have access to the joint positions and range of motion associated with optimal performance for those particular sports. And the highest likelihood way that you're going to do that is with well-executed drills in box number one. So now that brings us over here to box number four, which is concentric, uh, muscle, uh, positions, fast velocity movement, and a long moment arm. This is the box where in sports, this is where we launch objects through space, or we create tremendous impacts within those sports. So if I'm trying to throw a baseball, my release point is a long moment arm. It's far away from the rotation points of the joints involved. If I'm in boxing and I'm going to hit somebody, my impact point is out here. It's far away from the rotating segments, but with these actions, the muscles are all in a concentric orientation. They're not stretched out. They're short. If I'm trying to kick, a ball in football and I'm punting it, it's the same thing where the contact takes place far horizontally away from the rotating segment of the joint, but the muscles are in a short position at that point. Same thing with a Muay Thai kick is that leg is coming around. The impact point is horizontally away from the joints, but the muscles are short. So this is, you know, anything that you can think of with launching a ball, trying to hit something, uh, hitting an object with a bat, a club, a stick, uh, those are all things that live in this box right here. Number five, eccentric muscle orientation, slow moment, uh, slow velocity and short moment arm. Well, this is essentially the same box as number two. If you kind of think about it, they just flip flop each other. So in this particular example, uh, if I'm doing a dumbbell lateral raise, the eccentric position for the deltoid is at the bottom and here I'm going slow and the moment arm is short. So in some ways we don't really need to go further into this one because it's kind of already covered over here. It's just the flip side of the same coin that we discussed previously. Number six is eccentric muscle orientation, slow velocity and a long moment arm. This is seemingly the jackpot for hypertrophy exercises right now, as we're reading the science on muscle length and torque. So previously I discussed that incline curl versus the preacher curl. And this would be an example of the preacher curl as the moment arm is getting larger or longer. The muscle is lengthening and during a slow movement. So if we look at the staples of hypertrophy based training, which is very similar in some ways to the staples of strength training are classical squatting, hinging and pressing all of those movements naturally live in this box. As you're squatting down, your knees are dry are moving forward. Your hips are sitting back and the line of force is directly down through the mid foot. So the more that your knees traverse forward, the more that your hips sit back, you're increasing the moment arm length. This is happening. As you descend in a squat, the muscles are lengthening during that particular exercise. So as we're going into more of an eccentric orientation, we're increasing the length of the moment arm. This might be one of the reasons why these are such staples. Why a leg press, why a squat, why a Romanian deadlift are things that have classically been very effective from the standpoint of getting bigger and stronger. And they're probably not going away anytime soon. Pressing is similar, whereas the weight is at the top, you could see that essentially the load is directly over the elbow and the shoulder. And as you lower the weight, the elbows project out sideways, the shoulders are going into more of a stretch. All of the humerus is horizontally moving away from the shoulder. As you're lowering it, you're increasing the torque as the muscle is increasing its stretch. So the profile of loading, as we understand it being optimal for hypertrophy, is occurring in that exercise. Now in bodybuilding, one of the things that you'll commonly hear is that shows are one from the back and most competitors are always lacking in back development. And I think that perhaps if we're looking at that from a mechanical perspective, a lot of back exercises don't inherently feature this profile of increasing moment arm length as the muscle is stretching during the exercise. If we're looking at a typical dumbbell row, for instance, my arm is directly under the shoulder. The dumbbell is directly under the shoulder in the length and part of the exercise. And in the short part of the exercise, I create this horizontal increase in distance from the moving joint. So I have a large moment arm in the concentric position with most back exercises like the bent over row or a lat pull down or a pull up or, you know, fill in the blank. This is where if you want to be able to manipulate the resistance profile to be able to match more load in the stretch, it's essential to use things like cables and machines that feature some kind of a different way of driving force at different points of the motion to be able to overcome the typical limitations that free weights and pure gravity seem to apply to the system in terms of where the muscle is maximally loaded from a torque standpoint. So I think that this box over here, six and two, in some ways, like they're opposites from each other. And they are things that you have to consider when you're making equipment choices. If you want to train the deltoid, the lateral delt, and you're trying to think about, well, if I'm using free weights and I'm doing a lateral raise, I'm always living in box number two. How could I possibly get to the point where I'm living in box number six for lateral delts? And the answer there is, well, you can't use a dumbbell. You have to, well, you could potentially lie on your side on a bench so that now when you're down here, you're in a position of maximum torque, but typically the easier way is to use a cable. And when you're using a cable, the line of the cable is now the line of force. So we're looking to create perpendicular lines of force for the given muscle lengths. So right now with a free weight, the line of force with gravity is easy. It's always straight down. And here I have a 90 degree angle between the primary working joint and the bone region, the humerus and the line of pull, which is gravity. So if I'm using a cable, what I want to do is I want to create a perpendicular direction of the cable for the position where the arm is in stretch, where the deltoid is in stretch. So I would want to have the cable running this way when my arm is down. So I usually put the cable right around hip height for something like this to really put it into box six as effectively as possible. I'm always looking for that 90 degree relationship between the primary bone that's rotating through space and the line of pull of the force being used for the exercise. box number seven is eccentric muscle orientation, fast velocity, short moment arm. This is an interesting box because this is essentially what we want from people who are sprinting or trying to kick a ball on the ground. So if I am looking at people that sprint well, typically what you see is that their foot is going to be under their center of mass at ground contact. We essentially don't want the foot out in front of the body at every ground contact during a sprint. We want it under the center of mass. So when the foot is out in front of the body, the load is always straight down through the midline of the body. It's gravity again. It's my center of mass straight down into the ground. When the foot is out in front, I'm increasing the moment arm for the femur and the muscles of the femur, particularly the hamstrings. When the foot is hitting the ground at any point during running, my hamstrings are in an eccentric muscle orientation. I am in knee extension and I am in some degree of hip flexion as I'm experiencing ground contact, which creates an eccentric muscle orientation for the hamstring. If I am featuring a pattern where the foot is hitting the ground under the center of mass, I have a shorter moment arm. This is very important from the standpoint of not putting too much stress on the hamstrings during a sprint. This is also going to feature the ability to get off the ground quicker, to use more elastic recoil during the task itself, and to facilitate a better footpath during the cyclical action of the running stride. But overall, it's primarily a place that decreases the muscular stress imposed upon the tissue of the hamstring during a sprint. Now, if I'm trying to kick a ball on the ground, like a place kicker in football or a soccer player trying to kick the ball, this is also a situation where at the point of contact, the prime muscles for this task, which would be the quadriceps, namely the rectus femoris, they are in a position of stretch. You are in a place where you're in hip extension and you are in some degree of knee flexion when you are making that contact. So that's an eccentric orientation for those particular tissues of hip flexors, quadriceps. Now, this is a fast action because you're trying to drive that ball through space as hard as you possibly can. And if we get into a place where somehow the contact is taking place behind the center of mass, this is where you're increasing the moment arm length and potentially putting more stress on the tissues. You'll see this every now and then with a kicker that maybe hits the ground with their toe behind the ball. And this can be an incidence where that individual might be putting themselves at further risk for an injury. Lastly, we move ourselves over to box number eight, which is eccentric muscle orientation, fast velocity, and a long moment arm. This is the blinking red light box, danger, danger. This is the place where people tend to get hurt the most. So this could be a place where a quarterback is going to throw the ball and all of a sudden they get hit by a defender and it hits them in the arm. Boom, everything goes out the window. This is where, you know, oftentimes impacts take place and impacts and collisions in sports are usually going to feature high velocity situations. And if that impact takes place in a position where the muscle is in an eccentric orientation, that's where there's really nowhere to go except for catastrophe and some sort of a traumatic injury. This is also kind of like when I'm thinking about the foot hitting too far out in front of the body with a sprint, this is the box that that lives in. And with whenever you consider moment arms, the moment arm is the load times the horizontal distance away from the rope, the primary point of rotation for the segment that's trying to move you through space or to move something through space. Muscles don't respond to load. Muscles respond to torque and torque is load times horizontal distance. Load is a constant typically with gravitational events like sports or free weights. The horizontal distance is the factor that changes in live time with sports. And you have to understand that it's measured in centimeters. And for every increase of 10 centimeters, we're, we're changing that thing, but the multiplication of 10 on torque, this is where forces get out of control very fast and force in a stretched position for a muscle is the thing that's really scary for the system. So this is where you have to be very careful. Number eight. Now, number six, in many ways is the inoculation box for number eight. So maybe you've heard that there's research showing that Nordics are beneficial for preventing hamstring injuries during sprinting. There does seem to be some research support for a statement like that. What is a Nordic? A Nordic is essentially, it's a natural glute ham raise. As I'm lowering myself, the hamstring is lengthening because I'm going into more knee extension and the moment arm is increasing dramatically because I am horizontally moving away from the knee joint with the body on the descent for that exercise. So it's an enormous moment arm in an eccentric orientation for the hamstring. And when I strengthen the tissue in this regard, it seems to have some inoculation effect for number eight. So number six seems to be this beautiful place for, uh, driving hypertrophy and adaptation and the tissue rep per rep, but it also seems to be as a really effective place to train for inoculating yourself against the dangers of box eight, which is the scariest place to go in sports. Now, I don't think that the Nordic is a magical exercise. And in many ways, I don't believe in anything like silver bullets or magic exercises. What I do believe in is that there's profiles that you can consider when we break down the mechanics of movement. And if we understand what kinds of movements live in each box, we don't have to be married to something like a Nordic to spare someone's hamstrings in a sprinting situation. There's, you know, a seated hamstring curl can be just as effective if we're using a machine that's able to create more torque in the length and pro in the length and position. Uh, I can use an RDL because as I go into more and more of a stretch, I'm experiencing more and more of a moment arm increase during that exercise. I think that we have to move away from this emotional connection to exercises and evaluate these things through more objective definitions of the structure of the movement itself. And I think that this is one way in terms of utilizing these three variables that we can start to do that. This is certainly not the only way that we can use principles and categories to be able to build, uh, useful boxes to be able to name and define exercises. But I do think it's one avenue that you can start to look at to understand the essence of what sort of stress a movement provides and how it's different than other stresses and also provides a framework for how to sequentially move from lowest of all possible stresses up to the most stressful situation and ultimately how to protect yourself in this place where the most stressful, uh, events actually take place.