Welcome back to Bio Bros. It's been a while. Over a month. Oh, what? Like three a month? Really? Yeah. Yeah. Quite a while. I missed talking to you guys. So, we People are uh people are still commenting pig brains by the way, Derek. Good. We got to remember to do that at the end, by the way. It definitely helps. That's hilarious. To the end for a hint. Yeah, exactly. Right. So, what's up with Connor Derek? What's new? I uh I I wish I watched that full uh Jane video that she uploaded. So, there's a a girl as far and forgive me if I get some of the details wrong cuz frankly there's too many things to keep up with at this point. But this girl who's been hanging out with Connor, um I think her name is Jane if I recall correctly. and she uploaded a video today talking about how he is she claims he was micro doing Iawaska every 2 hours he she was kind of like overseeing him to make sure he didn't do anything crazy um and he was um you know what was the most recent update um he's in police custody I believe now and then I don't know if he was institutionalized or what happened but as far as I know as of a few days ago the police had him and then that was kind of the last she knew unless unless I'm uh mistaken. That's what I got from the video also. Yeah, I watched the entire thing. So, yeah. So, apparently he's in police custody and he actually went into some sort of consultation program where they admitted him, but he got out. Oh. Um and a couple days before this happened, Kenny Ko actually had a live Instagram video with him, uh which I'm sure you guys watched also, where he actually was very concerned. I mean, Kenny is very concerned about Carer's situation. And he told him said, "Get on the plane right now and I'll pay for everything and then come stay with me and let's get this resolved, you know." And he he told Connor or he got Connor to admit on camera that he was not going to touch a score or DMT ever again. Wow. Conor's really good at pretending he's fine from what I've seen though. Like when he wants to act normal, he like can turn it on for a sec. To be honest, Derek, your video and I'm I'm so glad you told me about like Connor's situation cuz I don't know much about him, but your video really touched me. I know that you didn't experience psychedelics yourself, but you know, because of my experience with my friend and like how I felt about it honestly is that there's like a lot of there's excitement about psychedelics and then there's also like commercial interest behind it as well. Like Stammits, Paul Stamits, a huge business guy. People think he's just some hippie. No, no, no. He's a huge businessman with with by the way supposedly not great products to be honest with you. not well rated mushroom products, but a lot of people behind that don't want these things to come out, especially in the weed industry. And I I'm not I'm uh very pro like having everything legal, but you know, there are some people that could be debilitated. Like my friend What's interesting, Derek, I was telling you about my friend saw the video I made in which my video about Connor, I mentioned I had a Canadian friend who's also in your country who basically used psychedelics and became bipolar and lost 10 years of his life. He's just recovering now. He and in the video I said that maybe my friend will see this but I want to mention it anyway because it may serve as a warning to other people. He saw it and he was very touched by it and even mentioned like in the video I mentioned how much pain my friend had and I could see it in his eyes those years where he was living with paranoia and and fear and all of that and he said it brought him back to that and he thanked me for doing it and said he hopes that it may prevent other people from doing the same thing, you know. But I get a lot I get a lot of comments from people saying like you you guys are trying to bash psychedelics or you're try you know that you're fear-mongering. Oh really? I mean I've I've have extensive experience with psychedelics and but again it's always in a in a time frame where there's some time in between to allow you to process not daily contact with these psychedelics or or combinations of particular psychedelics. And it's, you know, in my surroundings, I I saw people get addicted, but it was usually to weed or alcohol or cocaine or even MDMA, right? The party scene in Holland was huge. And I never saw get anybody addicted or frequent use of LSD or DMT or ayawashka or mushrooms even. And then back then in micro doing was not of the question. You know, people who would do micro doing would smoke weed all day every day. That would be considered micro doing. Um, so personally I've never really seen anybody go this far with the psychedelics, but again like I mentioned in the previous Bio Bros, I think there's some practical applications for it if you do it once in a while recreationally and and go into the trip or whatever you're going to do um with a little bit of a goal, you know, and do your research obviously previously. Like when I was taking recreational drugs when I was a lot younger, you know, 20 years ago, 17, 18, you know, 21 years old, I would always go on online and go to Arowit and Shrewy and all these websites just to get information about what I was taking. You remember the shrewy? Yeah. I was going to the same website, right? So there was a lot of good information, right? And there was there were forums there where you could interact with people talking about how to set up particular trips. But everybody would say that this is not for daily use. No, if you want to use something daily, use a little bit of weed, you know, to take the edge off life and and even then people got issues with that. So, but the interesting thing is that the the meta analyses that are not biased show that there's a dose and duration dependent effect of marijuana on risks of schizophrenia later in life. And it's it's just very it's very clear. You know, the thing is everything is, you know, short-term and long-term risks. Exactly. But the thing But so what I heard is that he's in he's in captivity now, which would be awesome because he is he still in captivity or not. I mean, is he is he is he Oh, we don't know. We don't know. Yeah. I I just know of what happened a few days ago purportedly. I don't know the actual truth to be honest. Like I'm just going by what she says and I don't know if she knows what's going on. Like I think she's just going by what she knows too, which is yeah, whatever. I haven't seen Kenny Ko uploaded anything either for last two weeks or one week besides one interview, but it Yeah, I'm not sure. Maybe maybe Derek, you can reach out to Kenny Ko, see what's going on if you're, you know, close with the guy and otherwise I can ask through Tony Huge, who still has contact with Kenny Ko. So, you know, I can figure it out for the audience. But I I just hope the guy's okay because he clearly needs help. Yeah. And um and yeah, what I'm surprised about though is because he was acting so normal, right, around other people that a lot of people didn't pick up like his close friends didn't pick up on this kind of behavior or maybe they just didn't want to touch it. You know, sometimes these guys are so far ahead that like people like I can't deal with this anymore. You know, what I'm wondering is if there's anybody cuz in general a lot of these guys are like friends with other social media guys when they go do these like entrepreneurial retreats and stuff. they typically go with like-minded individuals, I would think, in general. So, I would be wondering if somebody went with Connor who has context on what the environment was like or like if he got I don't know if the guy who was guiding him through it was not like I I honestly know next to nothing about it, but as far as I know, if you're not in the right headsp space and or you know, you have certain genetic predispositions and or the scenario is not ideal with the guy leading you through it or whatever, it could, you know, [\h__\h] you up pretty severely. I heard of uh like I thought Connor's case was like the worst case scenario. I heard the other day I was watching uh listening to Ben Greenfield's podcast, the uh I don't know if you guys have heard of Leo, you've heard of him, the biohacking guy. Um he was talking about how he's heard some crazy stories and it wasn't even related to Connor. He was just happened to be talking about it and he said one guy had such a bad experience that he called his family and on FaceTime and cut his dick off in front of them. Absolutely. I've heard of that and I've heard committing suicide also. Actually, there's a guy who cut his dick off. He's been on Vlad TV many times, but it wasn't from a psychedelic. He was on, I think, PCP. Well, PCP cut his dick off. He has no dick. He's been on Vlad TV. Crazy. So, I I think there's a lot of people that don't understand that you need to have a tripitter at at least the first couple of times when you start to experiment with recreational drugs where there's a it's like a co-driver, the guy that doesn't drink and drives everybody home, right? just the guy that sits there has understanding of what's going to happen and then helps to calm you down and put you in the in the right headsp space when you're taking these kinds of recreational drugs. But of course, Connor was probably taking them by themselves and a lot of guys take them by themselves and then you don't have a guy to kind of put you in the right direction or prevent you from harming yourself like I can fly, you know, that happens so much. Yeah, the uh Okay, so yeah, we should definitely get into some of those like I can fly. Like I can imagine some of the kind of things you'd believe after those experiences. Not that I've done it, but I can just imagine based on what I've seen anecdotally so far. But the screen sharing for Zoom, I want to make sure I don't have this [\h__\h] up because I just realized too that remember before when I was recording the videos and it would show the three of us rather and then whoever's talking in big rather than the recorder would put out three normalsized videos of each of us. What is the setting again that makes sure it's all of us normal sized video? Go to view and then gallery view. Oh, I I learned the hard way too where I was like, "Oh, where is it? I have if I go view it shows cl has a show manage participants and show chat. I don't think that's correct for me. View it's it's right up here. I can almost guarantee I will have the right recording right there. Oh [\h__\h] Okay, there we go. Got it. You're good. Okay. It's The thing is though is I'm going to be uploading clips of this literally 5 hours after we record. So I don't want to put it on Leo to be like you have to render it and send it to me before you go to bed. Although I would just so you know it would. But you know what's funny? Uh actually Derek, you you bring up the flying thing. My friend, my Canadian friend, he actually I remember when he visited us in Dubai uh winter break, the first year of college, he got this he read this book. Remember the secret? Do do you remember it Steve? Yeah. He read The Secret and he believed it because he was manic at the time. See, that's the thing. Evangelizing. His friends may not notice because if somebody's never been around somebody that's manic, you you might just think he's happy, excited, stimulated, but you can't be that stimulated for that long. That's dopamine going haywire. My friend started thinking he could will things. So I remember one time we were in we were going to a shisha place in Dubai and we're in the parking lot looking for a parking space and he was sitting there willing a parking space to appear and he was very serious about it. He really believed it and he's the most one of the most intelligent people I've ever known. So you know those kind of Now Derek you're you're in this podcast you're a younger brother. So I want to ask you has this totally turned you off psychedelics because he's the only one here who hasn't tried it. Are you? Yeah, pretty much entirely. But um I'm going to be talking to uh Psych Substance soon, who I don't know if you guys have seen his channel. Oh, right. That's cool. We uh Yeah. So, he's from Canada, too. Coincidentally, from the same product. Didn't I sent you sent you that like six months ago, this this substance? I think so. Yeah. So, have a look here. And I've known of him for a while though cuz he was one of the first people who got kind of uh he was impacted heavily by YouTube censorship talking about drugs and I was like oh I was kind of watching his channel to see what happens to a big channel who's talking about pharmarmacology cuz he also does like actual live experiments on himself essentially using recreational compounds and whatnot. So anyways, he uh he's, you know, psych substance is seen as kind of like the authority in the space of this kind of uh you know, ex Iaska trips and whatnot. So maybe he can elucidate for me some more information and that might change my mind. But as of now, I'm pretty uh dead set on steering the [\h__\h] clear. To be honest, I'm I'm glad you are because because you strike me as someone like myself. I mean, I didn't happen to me, but I could have been vulnerable. I'm somebody that's naturally introverted a little bit and take things a little bit seriously and but Steve last time was trying to convince you that you need to be less ambitious and all that stuff. I think you give up on that now as I get closer to like family age. I think maybe that might make more sense, but like right now I'm trying to like set everything up and I have like a lot of people that rely on me for their jobs at this point. people who have quit um quit like I can like see Jujim pop up while I'm talking but like people that have like quit their full-time jobs to come work for uh for Merrick or work for a Gorilla Mind or whatever. So, if all of a sudden I had ego death and I stopped being able to do what I do, a lot of people would be affected, not just me, which a lot of people think it's, oh, like you stop posting videos, it's not a big deal. Like, no, that affects a big portion of sales, a big portion of our marketing, a big portion of hundreds of jobs. It's not just about me. So, so you going to wait until a midlife crisis and when you're all financially set and everything has been delegated? Yeah. turn into a hippie like 40-year-old or something. Right. You can become Dorian Yeetsz later on once. That's right. Right. Right. Exactly. Yeah. Like live like a hermit now and then, you know, bank on it later and then, you know, do then do your recreational phase. I'm happy I got it out of my system when I was 16 to 21. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, that's what I meant about like not about losing your ego and then not being able to be ambitious enough to take care of the people around you. I mean, I wasn't talking about like having a little bit of money, but say you had a child who got because when you when people get ill, it's not that you need a little bit of money. Your insurance will not cover the best hospital. You can't you live in California, the best hospital isn't in California, it's in Massachusetts or in Ohio or some or somewhere else. You need to pay for that out of pocket. That could be millions of dollars. If you haven't been ambitious and doing all that, you have children, you have a wife, what happens when you can't give them the best medical care because you didn't work hard enough because you were busy sitting in the woods or something. I don't you know, you know what I mean? That's my feeling. But let's let's talk about guy on a on a more pleasant. Actually, I want to talk about your finger first. What's going on? Yeah, it looks pretty mangled, dude. I keep trying to share my screen. Yeah, it's hard to share the screen with one with this finger missing. What's going on? I was, you know, I take things too seriously. I was I I warned myself this would happen. But so I started working out again a little bit and of course pops into my mind, you know, I closed the COC. You know what that guy? You know what that is guys? The gripper. The captain of crush gripper 2.5. Anyway, the three the grippers, but yeah. Anyway, if you close the three, you get your name on a list. I I closed the two when I was like 17 and I closed at 2.5 with both hands very easily for many times, but I never closed a three. So I never got a certification. Everything I've ever done, I've never like take in in in lifting, I've never taken it to the level where I did anything. So I was like, so it's almost like one of those restaurants where you eat like a giant plate of food and you get on the wall. It's like the it's like the power lifter or like arm wrestler equivalent of that. Exactly. It is. It is. Your picture right there, you know. Yeah. The three list is big, but there's only there's only like five people who close the four ever. So it it's actually, you know, RVJ, the guy you made a video on, he's closed the four, but he's not certified for it, but he's claimed to close the four. Anyway, so I was doing some grip stuff and all that and I was doing some arm wrestling training and my uh the device basically snapped off my finger. So it it jumped I was moving full force and I basically poked my uh my uh arm wrestling table full force. So I thought I broke my finger like it was like it was it was really I took a picture. It was ridiculous. It was like bent. But apparently dislocated or you're like sticking out? No. Apparently I've just torn a tendon. I don't know for sure. It's really upsetting cuz I know this is weird, but I really like my hands because I I used to be really into hand strength and arm wrestling. So, this is very upsetting for me. It's like I was Don't worry, it will heal. It will heal quite fast. It happened to me as well with my pinky where just stuck up like this. And it's like three times it's been dislocated. So, every time it it dislocates and then it sticks up and I'll have to forcefully like like you're opening up a bra with one hand. Basically the same thing. So, you have to flip it underneath here. Right. This is like a little technique for for the pickup artists guys out there and just use it, right? I'm sure everybody knows. So, I had to do the same strategy on my pinky and then put it back into place, but then it would be kind of loose, you know, on one ligament, not all five. Yeah. Once once it goes off, it's it's never going to go back normal. No. Five five to six weeks, you'll be okay. Put some uh TV500. So, that's why you asked the the the tendant u question right in the show notes. Uh, no. But that's why that's why we're discussing. That would be a good segue to Antoine if we're going to talk about that now. Yeah. Yeah, that's Yeah, it's true. We could talk about So, what happened to Antoine? He hurt his other bicep. I don't I don't know. I just saw a post on Instagram the other day. I log in. He's like, "It happened again to my other arm this time." So, it wasn't even the arm he tore the first time. It was his other bicep. So, I don't know what he was doing. I didn't check. Yeah. He didn't put up a lot of detail. He was just like, "It happened a week ago and it sucks, but I'll be I'll get through it and it'll be fine." But yeah, on the positive side, I mean, he he fixed his other bicep quite well to the point it was not noticeable on stage. Was barely any size difference, you know? So, I'm sure you can fix both and and now it will probably look more symmetrical, but it's, you know, as as a big bodybuilder, you're just a little bit fragile. I love that guy, by the way. I love Antoine. I I watch his videos. Yeah, I watch his videos about addiction and stuff like that. I love him. I wish I could get him on my podcast. He just strikes me as such a good person. Just such a openhearted person like a It breaks my heart that the guy, you know, he went through all of this and then he comes back to bodybuilding and life throws him just like I mean life throws him lemons. He's making lemonade, but he keeps getting lemons. You know what I mean, right? And he makes the most of it. You know, he documents the journey back up and then he competes again. He looks absolutely phenomenal. Makes it to the Olympia stage. Should have placed way higher than he did, you know. very controversial placing in this year's Olympia and it's you know it's just unfortunate because everybody wants to see the guy succeed you know Antoine is like one of the most loved guys in the fitness industry you know deservedly yeah what did he play I think out of the out of the top 10 14th yeah for sure yeah I he has some legottom he has big leg the problem he looks great you know his muscle maybe is not so round but he's very big you know and he's tall just needs some time I mean he has a down a down period to take care of his addiction you know, then you have another down period to take care of your bicep and now you'll have another down period. So, the muscle maturity just doesn't have time to set in because he doesn't have these five years in a row where he can just kick ass in the gym and um or if he starts, you know, after this and there's no setbacks, then he can really work on the muscle maturity. And I think he's What age is the guy? 29, 30? No, he's like 33 or 32. He's younger than I am. Yeah, might be 30. He might be turning 30. I think he's born 87. So, he's 34. He's he's older than Yeah. Yeah. When I was a teenager, I used to watch him prepping for the Canadian Nationals and I was like, he was my goal physique when I wanted to crank my face off. I was like, oh, this guy is the [\h__\h] And I just like I literally watched his Simply Shredded videos and I was like, I want to look like this guy. And then I soon after realized that there was no way it was going to happen because of genetics and because of the sheer drug exposure that I was not willing to put myself through. But for a while like him was like I'm not sure you didn't have the genetics to be honest. No, I don't. Trust me. You have some genetics. You have better shoulders than a lot of I mean it's ridiculous. Yeah, boy. That's Yeah. Okay. Well, that's a lot though in bodybuilding. That's a lot. That's the width. I mean, and you also your muscles. I I think you're not selling yourself short a bit. But anyway, maybe. I don't know. I've never actually like to be honest with myself, I've never actually done like an actual offseason where I understood everything I know now about drugs like let alone basic principles about [\h__\h] like cuz I stopped so long ago at this point that I've never done anything properly realistically. So I don't really know coach you and you go on the on the on the on the on the on the triangle of gains I'm okay. Is it that as you as you learned you got more concerned about the health effects so you start backing off as you learn more or is it that you're experimenting a lot and that's how you learned as vain of a reason as it is I stopped because of hair loss and I knew that every time I tried to like I'd be like maybe I like tweak it up a little bit and then it would be like no I can't I have like no wiggle room right now I'm not risking it and above and beyond that though obviously the health stuff does scare me but as like for me like the hair thing was enough to ward me off entirely. And for me, there's like really nothing I can blast with that's like totally hair friendly unless I did like deck only cycles forever realistically, which I don't see as a sustainable strategy necessarily. So, I don't uh there to me there's just like the ROI too. Like even if I was to go for it and I did like the deck only stuff or whatever. Um I would like it inhibits my productivity so much that it's not the ROI isn't there for me to gain another 5 to 10 pounds of muscle each year. The amount of food, the amount of rest and recovery, the amount of training volume I need to do to do that totally kills my business. So, it's just there's no way I could do it. So, you're here. Yeah, if you want to be a good bodybuilder, you got to go all in. Even, you know, average, even with good genetics, you got to go all in. And like I was never willing to make that tradeoff, you know, because it's it's such an overpowering endeavor and it it takes away from business unless you have a great physique and you can market online. But, you know, in in my generation, we didn't have social media. So, we would always go with, okay, a regular job and try to make financial security that way. Because if you're not in the States and and there's no social media, there's no opportunity for you to make body money from bodybuilding unless you're selling steroids to everybody else in the gym, you know? Yeah. Even if I went balls to the wall and did like tried to literally max out my physique, it would be if I was lucky, I would gain 5 to 10 pounds of muscle per year. Like I know it wouldn't happen overnight. So think of I've only been online for like 5 years. If I'm trying to gain 30 or 40 pounds of muscle or something to actually become like a like big bodybuilder, that's like my entire entrepreneurial career that I'm potentially [\h__\h] up just to gain some muscle and inhibit my health. So to me, it's just not worth it. And then then not everybody can make the money online, you know? I mean it doesn't matter how much effort you put in if you don't have a pleasing physique or a pleasing personality to match like Antoine for example great physique great personality how many guys have that combo you can count it on one hand who have that combo right so and a lot of guys they go all into the bodybuilding and it never pays off what I found interesting is you mentioned the hair your hair is like my autoimmune condition whenever I whenever it's interesting there's a benefit to having a weakness like that in the sense that when I know I'm doing something unhealthy I immediately feel like my joint hurts or I get psoriasis. I'm like, okay. My wife won't notice cuz she doesn't have that, you know, that weakness that that she Second thing I was going to say is the first time I saw Antoine was much later than you. I was on the GH15 boards and they posted a video one day. I don't know what this is such a weird video, but I remember it like the back like yesterday. There was a video in Canada of that guy with the big forearms. What's his from from animal ads that I I had his ads post my hero when I was younger. So it was Frank McGrath, I think. Or maybe it wasn't him. Yeah, he was in it. And they trained together. And then Antoine came in and some other guy who I don't know who he was was asking them, "Do you know GH15? Do you know GH15?" And Antoine was like, "I have no idea what you're talking about." That's uh that video at the Toronto Pro with a BLP, I think. Yeah. Yeah. And they were That was the first time a pro ever vlogged uh like IFBB Pro open show backstage. And it was like next generation content like seeing what happens backstage with like open IFBB pro bodybuilders and just like filming everyone like pumping up and it was super cool. Yeah. See frame rate carbing up and then going take a nap and carbing up again and going like oh my god what what is what kind of life is this you know eating. Imagine trying to be productive and doing like that kind of [\h__\h] Not going to happen. Oh no no. I've I've coached so many guys now at the world championships who go through that same process in the last two months. It's it's the most unpredictive period of your life, you know, before a contest really. Yeah. You can't even have sex, let alone work. Like you just don't want to do anything. And you're a moody [\h__\h] to be around. You know, I was the same thing whenever I would die down. It's just impossible behavior. Well, can we comment on this because I noticed a lot of people, this is off topic. We're going to go back to the healing from the injury, but there's a lot of people commenting like the before diets in bodybuilding, uh, your wife has to tolerate you, you become so bad. It it can't just be dieting. Aren't we talking about tremble? Aren't we talking about why doesn't that too? Of course. Of course. The drugs are playing into that majorly. Like I I've done maybe 12 13 diets drug-free, right? Without without any steroids, performance, and drugs as a as a natural bodybuilder, right? Did I look like a bodybuilder? No. not in any way, shape, or form. Um, but I was also moody, you know, in a caloric deficit and doing two hours of cardio per day and then doing these crash diets because we didn't know any better. Um, or we followed the pros, but we didn't understand that they were saucing their socks off and those kinds of diets didn't work for the natural guys. And then you go do a diet with trimal sandwich and the anger management is is way worse. It's impossible. Right? And that's why I came off the trend, you know, a couple years ago because my wife said, "Listen, it's this is not going to work." When I was on trend for 6 months, I think I dated a different girl every month. Like every month I would get in a relationship, it would end within the month. I would I would break up with them thinking that they were like like angry at me or some weird paranoid delusion. It was horrible to be honest. Anyway, and how many how many good women did you let go in during this period of every Yeah. It was like they were all great women. It was just Yeah. So, it was not them. It was you or me. Was that that uh that like oil princess of [\h__\h] Saudi Arabia or whoever that 10 out of 10 chick was? I forgot who it was. There's like some famous person. No, these were not none of those. These this was in LA. But but okay, so let's talk about um recovery from I just thought it would be interesting to mention cuz we got a lot of questions from our this time for the audience to know we asked for questions from the subscribers and we got a lot of questions about recovery from injury. I thought there would be some useful things we could mention. Maybe it would help Antoine. Also, one of the interesting things I came across in research is that beta blockers used either before a surgery or after a surgery dramatically improve recovery dramatically. There's a tremendous amount of evidence about this. Basically showing you that adrenaline and sympathetic nervous drive, remember your nervous system has a parasympathetic nervous drive and a sympathetic. The sympathetic is not sympathetic, it's fight or flight. That fight orflight nervous drive hampers your recovery from surgery. Does it do the same when you work out? We're not totally sure. I think that taking beta blockers after you work out may improve your recovery. Yes. Yes. Yes, it does 100%. Yeah, it does. And that's something we should also. Yeah, tell me. Tell me. Myself myself and my clients. So, I got a lot of clients now on Nivalol which was also one of the questions and their recovery improves. Is it is it a little bit conducive to fat loss? Yes, absolutely. But, you know, when you want the most amount of recovery during the offseason. Yeah. Right. No, no, to fat gain. Yeah. So, you gain a little bit more fat. But it also prevents or it also lowers the caloric requirement because your heart rate is lower and you're not in this fight orflight state all the time, you know, or you calm down faster post-workout. So, a lot of my clients run 5 milligrams of a bivival right now. And and you know, most of my clients that don't get injuries because I always I was hammering them, listen, collagen and gelatin protein instead of the whey protein because it has building blocks for connective tissue. And I hammered in all these guys. Stop with the whey protein. switch to collagen and gelatin and add half a scoop of whey protein uh for flavoring. That's it. And it makes a world that's not about world of difference. World of difference. World of difference. really sort of relevant but as like comparable I guess was I remember I was looking at recovery modalities for burn victims in terms of in like a hyper catabolic state with high sympathetic drive presumably their adrenaline going crazy and propranolol was like one of the top therapies to intervene I was it was like anavar like test or something and then it was like propranol I was like huh inter you need to calm the whole body down systemically and then beta blockers are one of the ways to do it I how much it would contribute ute to collagen synthesis. I'm not really sure, but I think it just downregulates all the stress responses and the inflammatory responses. It's used in burn victims even in cardiac surgeries. It improves recovery, improves not only recovery but survival from the surgeries. I mean it's tremendous. The other thing I wanted to mention the main principle something Antoine did last time I remember hearing his video he used BPC57 and TB-500 if I recall correctly. Uh what's that for? Angioenesis the birth of new blood vessels. If you can get blood to the injured area, blood brings your natural growth factors in your body, not just growth hormone, fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor, not a great thing. A lot of other growth factors, vascular endothelial growth factor, which promotes angioenesis. So, you really want more blood vessels. Now, generally, do you want a lot of blood vessels? No, because angioenesis promotes cancer formation. That's the big fear. It's one of the reasons you don't take growth hormone all the all year on. Well, Steve does, but not all of us. Take a little bit. He takes a little. He likes growth hormone, but a little bit. I don't. Yeah, but if I had if I had what happened to to Antoine happen to me, I might consider it for a short period. In fact, I'm considering it for my own finger right now, even though I'm scared to death of growth hormone. But the angioenesis is really interesting. Now, I don't understand the compounds BBC and and TB that well. I haven't studied them that well, but I know a lot about I studied that a lot. I'm very interested in peptides. By the way, if anyone watches this and you're an entrepreneurial person, try to make an arthropoetin peptide. You can go to my blog and figure out how to. They're not all uh patented. And what's interesting thing about them, you can get a peptide where you don't get arythropoetus. You don't get more red blood cells. So your blood doesn't thicken and you don't have to dump your blood out. But arthropoin has tremendous angioenesis properties through the jackat pathway. So that's one thing and also that also acts as a separate growth factor for anabolism I believe and whether that's indirect from the red blood cells or the uh EPO itself. So like if you want to recover an injury there will be a temporary period with the TB-500 BPC and and perhaps anavar to promote a little bit of collagen synthesis but at the efficacious dose 10 milligrams 20 milligrams not the you know burn victim dose of 180 to 240 milligrams per day. Oh, they take that much, huh? Yeah. Wow. Very high. Well, we should talk more about anavar. We'll talk more about anavar when we get to pre-workouts later. It's an interesting subject. But another thing I want to mention is growth factors. What do growth factors do in the body? Everybody thinks about growth factors splitting our cells up. They do other things also. growth factors. And this is something I I talked to Derek about because I'm interested also in the process of hair loss and whether minoxidil can actually prevent because it's thought not to prevent hairs from from dying, but I find it hard to believe that having more growth factors from blood in the scalp around the hairs can't in some small way prevent the hairs from dying. Maybe not a very obvious way. Generally in the body, in the brain, I know very well growth factors, brain drive, neutrophic factor, all growth factors, nerve growth factors protect cells from apoptosis, from death. So when you get an injury, if you have higher growth hormone levels, you'll get less cells dying, not just cells dividing. So two different things. And you can get the growth factor from growth hormone. Or you could get your blood, as we said earlier, closer to the area, which is why right now I've injured my hand twice or three I'm trying to do three times a day, but twice a day. I'm putting my hand in ice water and then in hot water. Ice water, hot water repeatedly, and then getting the blood in there because that's the key factor, you know. And a final thing is our our question from the audience was actually about MK-677. The guy was asking should somebody use MK-677 if they do a surgery to recover from the surgery. I think that MK-677 is not really what you want. That's a ghrein mimemetic. Grein is a stress hormone. Grein will turn on your sympathetic nervous drive. If you're not using beta blockers and all that, you're putting yourself in a stress state. I use MK-677 to upregulate dopamine in the brain because of the sympathetic nervous drive. Growth hormone is separate from ghrein. We need to start thinking of MK-677 as ghrein. Grein does produce growth hormone, but it also produces ghrein. What do you guys think? Yeah, that's a that's a good point because I was at first I was thinking logically like as far as like differentiating the different impacts of GH inherently versus the downstream IGF-1 like in terms of injury recovery. what is it mainly the growth factor one that's going to be inducing the properties you want in a recovery aspect rather than the like obviously from a GH aspect and you think of lipolysis that's more from the GH parent compound right versus the IGF-1 so my thought process before getting into which is more responsible for the recovery um I was thinking for you cuz you don't want your IGF-1 severely elevated MK is like from what I've seen personally disproportion good at raising like your GH levels versus your IGF-1. So, the IGF-1 elevation is not that significant, but the GH you get, I personally notice my hair grows much faster on MK-677 than on a high dose even of high quality GH. So, yeah, most every single person I've talked to that compares the two notices the same thing. But your IGF-1 on paper will be much lower. It'll be within the therapeutic reference range, all but at the top end. Well, I have a little secret for you. My IGF-1 receptors don't work. So, it doesn't matter. Oh, I'm deficient. I could have as much IGF-1 as I want. So, I was thinking hypothetically if it mattered, you would want to keep your if you wanted to keep your IGF-1 lower for whatever reason, the MK might make sense because the actual GH properties, I do find at least in some context when it comes to the the fountain of youth qualities you commonly hear about, like the hair growth, I noticed it more profoundly from MK. However, the grein aspect totally forgot even though I've literally wrote an article on it about how it causes like literally can induce PTSD type like symptoms essentially and at least in rodents it was used in like that fear fear uh model or whatever it was to induce uh like literally induce PTSD in them. So for uh somebody trying to recover from anything obviously it's probably not an ideal choice anything that leverages ghrein specifically. So I would agree entirely on avoiding it. And do you think also that the water retention and the potential for insulin resistance would be kind of counterintuitive to recover a particular injury because if you're you know if you get additional water retention and this uh insulin resistance then a lot of the nutrients are not going to end up in the tissue trying to recover. Yeah. The MK seems disproportionately bad in terms of getting you insulin resistant quickly. You don't have to inject. So it's easy. Well because it thinks you're hungry. It thinks you're starving. That's what happens when you fast. the first two days of the fast that's empty. Like you guys don't worry about the GLP-1 agonism and chronically like releasing insulin from that. Like isn't that partially how it works? It doesn't change your blood sugar at all. I I not about the blood sugar. I was concerned about the insulin effect. Yeah, same. That's what I'm So I'm like as far as in my head logically weighing out the pros and cons. I'm thinking, okay, heavy duty stimulant abuse kills my appetite. GLP-1 agonism also kills appetite, but I don't [\h__\h] up my heart or my brain. But then I have this chronic bleed of insulin. No, it's like Wait a minute. So, so insulin still responds to serum. Yeah, I know. But I'm saying I'm saying, but bro, the thing [\h__\h] out of them. You're underestimating the power of the GLP-1. I don't think you can tolerate it. I mean, it's so powerful. The dose I took, I can't that's why I'm taking it. I can't eat if I take it. Bro, that the amount of stimulant you need to get that from the GLP, you probably micro dose the GLP, you'll be fine. Like very low dose. like really low. Okay. So, maybe I shouldn't even talk until I've tried them. It's it's it's so powerful. You're going to be so happy with it. You're going to be really happy. Yeah. And to come to come back on the insulin secretion. So, it it promotes insulin secretion in the presence of elevated serum glucose concentration. So, I've taken the GLP-1 receptor, the lurlutide one. Now, I'm experimenting with the semiglutide. So, I've taken that while fasting and my blood sugar doesn't budge at all. It's right where it should be while I'm fasting and it's postprangial blood sugar concentrations are exactly where they should be after eating a meal with carbohydrates or a meal without carbohydrates or only vegetables. I had seen minimal changes in my blood sugar levels while running these GLP-1 receptor agonist. Now you're adding clutrol right for fat loss which raises uh glucose concentrations in the bloodstream or growth hormone. Now serum concentrations are more favorable compared to not running the GLP-1 receptor agonist. So I feel that it helps with gluconogenesis. I guess hypothetically if you're using a GLP-1 even if you get some insulin bleed, it's probably negligible compared to the insulin release you get from actually eating the food that you're not otherwise eating now because you actually have the appetite suppression from the GLP, right? And and plus even even if you're fasting, you're still releasing how much maybe 20 units of insulin per day or five units. I think there's like a baseline insulin secretion that occurs unless you're type two diabetic um or type 1 diabetic that there's always a little bit of insulin release even when you're fasting because you get glucose through amino acid metabolism or or glycerol metabolism or gluconogenesis or whatever bleeds from the liver, you know, glycogenolis. No, no. Is that what it's called? I I think so. Gluc glycogen gluccogenolyis something like this glycogen released from the liver into the bloodstream. Yeah. But the I think the whole reason we're having this debate is just because Derek didn't realize how potent it is. So when it's that potent, you're not going to eat. So you're if you're releasing a little bit of insulin, it's fine. And if you take a much smaller dose, I mean, I really think plus the long-term studies don't show I don't I don't think they show any insulin resistance. Right, Steve. No, there's there's issue with pancreatic cancer and and thyroid issues, but because some people just eat through the nausea, those are people though that improves like every metric of like insulin resistance. So, I don't I don't I don't think you could gauge it by that anyways. And these like my hemoglobin H1 A1c came down, you know, a couple points, you know, to 4.7% something like this. Are you still using it by the way? like you asked me to I tried the semiglutide so I added in 0.5 milligrams last Monday but it's not as efficacious as 0.6 6 milligs of lelutide, but that's daily. So the compounding dose over the course of a week is way higher. So let me try one milligram. Not the oral, obviously. Oh, the injection. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I uh for every oral that somebody else takes, I do an injection. So Derek, I wanted to understand what happened with the you made a video about Jujim Mufu's video and then he commented on your video saying like, you know, I was just trying to explain it basically explained why he never mentioned steroids or growth hormone or anything in his video or insulin in his videos. Then Greg Ducet made also a video which I found a really interesting one in which he says like look how Derek titled this video and so so I didn't know what he meant there, right? Yo, what did that mean? I don't um so yeah like sometimes the videos like the titles are quite uh like obviously everyone knows what clickbait is. So Juji what he did by the way I you would think I know how to say his name properly by now but apparently it's is it is it Jujimu? Yeah. Like I I jiu-jitsu [\h__\h] Jiujitsu mofo. Like I said, jujimu or something and then people were like, "Yeah, I don't know." And apparently my Yeah. My pronunciation of stuff like so many people in the States will be like, "Why would you say it like that?" Like uh Yeah. For I guess Canadians say certain words differently. Like uh how do you say pasta? Is that I say pasta? No, you say pasta. Pasta. Yeah. So, like people say I'm weird for saying pasta. They're like, "What the fuck?" Yeah. So, stuff like that. Anyways, Juju Juju Mafu um he uh Yeah, basically he made a video talking about Wait, can can we accent for a second? I just want to ask you in Canada, you guys have some really interesting accents, though. You live in on the on the west side, so you guys sound like Americans to me, but what is that accent where they sound Scottish? Just straight up Scottish or like Irish? I've uh have you ever seen How I Met Your Mother, the TV show? Yes. Yeah. So, they um the character Robin, whenever she turns like into a Canadian character or like does something really Canadian, she talks like it almost sounds Scottish. No one sounds like that that I know. It's just like a huge Matt Mask. He's an arm wrestler. I'll show you him later. He sounds just like that. I hear him all the time. He cuts trees for a living. I don't know where he Maybe people like really north. I don't know. But people down closer to the border are very uh I don't know USlike. I don't know. They're very American sounding. At least I would like to think so. Except for when they say pasta apparently. So anyways, Jujimafu he uh he posted a video basically the thumbnail is him multiple years ago at 200 lb and then an arrow going to him at 260. So it's obviously not the bulk that he just did. It was like a life's worth of like enhanced gains, which is fine to be honest. I've used like my peak bulking like n like 20-year-old pictures versus multiple years later pictures as before and afters of stuff too. But his title is the main thing that everyone was kind of annoyed about because instead of just saying he was like uh what was it? It was like uh it was about his bulking that he just did and his progress, but he literally wrote how I got this big. like as in all-encompassing. This is how I got this big. I'm going to explain it all the step by step in order to get this big, what goes into it, and then instead of just saying at least one part in the video, you know, obviously during an offseason, it involves like some enhancement like, you know, I'm not going to get into it or anything, but as you guys know, I've never claimed natural, blah blah blah. Like, you could just say like a two second thing. Um, he basically talks about his diet for 30 minutes, breaks down how he titrates his calories and blah blah blah. And you know, a lot of the people in the comment section were like, I don't know why he just doesn't address it. You know, it's kind of messed up that he doesn't talk about it. And like I'm I'm sure in the past he said multiple times he's not natural. But it was just the fact that the title clearly was a breakdown of why I made this much muscle gain this offseason in particular, how I did it, and then it was just about food and sleep apnnea. And by the way, the sleep apnea portion was great cuz it gave me like a catapult to talk about sleep apnea on a post that got like 300,000 views. So, I was happy about that cuz normally my sleep apnea posts suck. They don't get any views whatsoever. So, that was cool. But the obviously the main reason everyone clicks is about the steroid thing. So, um yeah, he basically didn't say anything about his natural status or not, which to be honest, is that a big deal? You know, that was kind of the point of my video was saying like, do you even give a [\h__\h] And um yeah, go ahead. I think as you get more popular in the fitness industry, you're you got like a 40-minute disclaimer before you can actually get into each video so you can address every statement that you're going to make from multiple different angles. So there will not be an outrage afterwards. Um I think people are very hyperritical. I made a video about this. Very hyperritical of the people that they follow. And it's not like Gigi Mufo went made a video stating like AI got this big because of Go Mad and I never took any steroids, you know, and he did it in his best intentions, but there's always a little bit of clickbait involved. So, and otherwise people are not going to watch it and and if you want mass appeal, you can't really talk about steroids because the more people that follow you, the more people are going to copy you. But if he had that exact diet he followed in his video from his starting point, he would have lost muscle and got fatter if it wasn't for the steroids. So when him saying how I got bigger, no, let's be more specific. He probably wouldn't look like he works out in clothes if he did not use any steroids whatsoever. He is not somebody. This is what I wanted to talk about. This is why I was so interested in it is I've been I don't know Jujim Mufu much, but I watch arm wrestling content and Jujim Mu is what's really cool about him. He supports arm wrestling a lot. By the way, he's a really interesting guy. He goes and competes like uh trains in arm wrestling. By the arm wrestling the first couple of years, you're always in pain. This poor guy goes hurts himself, then goes does acrobatics, rests from the arm wrestling, goes back to it. Even though nobody wants to watch arm wrestling content, but he just genuinely loves it. So, I really like watching him. But I myself used hormones before and I'm not a genetically gifted person at all for gaining muscle at all. So, as you know, I have IGF-1 deficient uh gene. So, I don't gain muscle easily. So when I took growth hormone and insulin and stuff like that, I did gain some muscle but my gut grew proportionally. I didn't. And what you would see when I would gain muscle, I don't have pictures when I was, you know, my most muscular, but what you would see is I would have shoulders or a back and my arms would be comparatively smaller than my shoulders and my back a little bit. And then you would see the gut is matching my back and my shoulders a little bit. What I found interesting, I want to show you guys. So I was looking at Jujim Mufu uh recent actually. I watched that video, Derek, before you made a video on him. And what I saw was let's let's go here. So So looking at the video, I've turned the you if you look at him a little bit. I don't know if it shows here. Well, he's sucking in his stomach as much as he can, but you can see basically Well, let let me show you this thing. He has a maybe it's the end of the day where he just tries to be as heavy as possible. No, no, he all his videos are like that. You can see that section is way I know he's obviously he's carrying stuff now he's wearing a belt I know that but if you watch his videos you'll see that he has huge back huge shoulders arms not proportionally as big usually you'll see natural people have big arms small shoulders smaller well back sometimes bigger but I don't know if you'll see him at the end here but his stomach is always out and it is quite big but his pictures on here they're not so clear I don't know if we'll find a good one but he's done he's done a lot of heavy heavy lifting also in his life. So, you can expect a little bit of a wider waist and especially if you use the belt a lot, you're just always pushing against the belt. And I think that is also contributing to having a little bit of a bigger stomach uh compared to maybe like you said too is how he's naturally not a guy who's meant to be like massive. So the amount he needs to push himself to get to that point to where he looks big gets him that that visual distension quicker than the average like genetically blessed individual who might not need to push as hard to build that equivalent physique perhaps. I also had distension like this when I was 255 you know when I was 115 kilos. Yeah distension too. I just I don't I'm you know not on YouTube making videos all the time me lifting heavy stuff. But there's always a little bit of distension involved when you start to break past that plateau where your body feels comfortable and then you start to force it with food and perhaps drugs and heavy lifting and you know everything starts to hypertrophy including the face. That's I'll be completely honest with you that never happened to me till I touched growth hormone. Never. When I touched growth hormone and insulin, I remember once I was out on a date in in LA, going to a nice place with a new girl I just met and I injected some growth hormones or 10 units and I went out thinking I'm going to have a nice night. We were going like to a couple of places. It was like a Friday night and I couldn't [\h__\h] breathe. I was I was sitting there and I felt like I was pre Now my wife's pregnant so my wife tells me these stories all the time. I'm like, "Don't worry, I've been there." She's like, "You have how would you know?" I was like, "I swear I couldn't breathe. my something happened where it just bloated up and you can see guys on growth hormone all the time breathing hard like that sorry look at Milos Milos is always his chest moves every time because it's compressing and your heart is filled with water and you have the stomach compressing on your lungs so I I was heavy yeah I only ever felt that when I took growth hormone when I didn't I could overeat my I would get a bit of a belly but I wouldn't get the belly that starts under your under your pecs that just starts in the offse. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. I mean, I've tried many a peptides and especially at higher doses like or we can only speculate what Juji Mufu is is running. Uh but obviously there's some pharmacology involved and I'm sure that's contributing to his waist. But a gallon of milk per day if if your body is not really absorbing all that lactose, I would do a gallon gallon. I did I did it for 6 months. I never got that look till I touched the growth hormone. Oh, really? Okay. Never. I would do a gallon of yogurts per day because the probiotics helps you digest the lactose. Maybe you can get a leaner stomach that way. You know, one thing to clarify about his genetics though too is this is in the context of like an open IFBB pro bodybuilder. I would say personally like I don't think he's has bad genetics at all. Like he if you saw him as a baseline natural, he's better than 99% of average humans. He has good genetics by layman standards for sure. It's just by relative to like an open eye at top pro like Antoine who he's like best friends with which actually by the way is how I found Guji to begin with was him and Antoine used to do tricking videos when they were teenagers and then as they were they would always do like these nuclear summer videos where they just like do flips and [\h__\h] and do like deadlifts and like throw stuff around. Yeah. Yeah. That was like one of the first like hyped up like cool bodybuilder videos I saw back when I was a teenager. And um anyways, that's how I came across him. He was always genetically like not as responsive to gear, for example, as Antoine. Like Antoine was clearly a hyperresponder and Juji is like a a reasonable averageish, not average, like reasonable responder. And that's why Antoine's, you know, an Olympian and Juji is I guess he's starting to compete now, but prior to that he was more of like a recreational, not gym rat, but you know, he was like the acrobatic acrobatics guy or whatever. I think I would ex look exactly the same as Jujuim Mufu. I was if I was 260 in the offseason in that lean, I would have a stomach as well and a big back and have bigger arms. You have bigger arms and you have bigger just bigger arms. Absolutely do. You know, the overall structure would be very very similar. You know, you have bigger What I mean to say is this though, when I Sorry, I didn't mean to say his genetics are horrible. What I meant to say was that honestly guys, how often do you see a guy who's a natural that works out and he's wearing a shirt and you know he works out like a full shirt? Like how often do you really The only guys I've ever known I'll be honest are black guys to be honest that that were natural. I knew one black guy I mentioned on the Boston I think I mentioned him when you were there Steve. Yeah that black guy I knew a black guy in LA dude this guy's lats they hung like like this thick off his back and I swear to God all he did was pull-ups every few days he had a chest like it was so deep 3 in. He had full abs his shoulders were capped and I went to the guy and I was like what do you do? He's like, "I do a few pull-ups here." He didn't eat anything. I I mean, it was real. There are people like that. Deja vu. I literally watched this clip like an hour ago while I was eating my dinner. There are people like that, but but I've never seen a white guy like that. Like most of guys, like if I honestly, if I worked out natural, if I was wearing a shirt, you wouldn't know I worked out a full shirt. You wouldn't know. And most guys, you wouldn't know. That's what I meant to say there is that it's a lot of it is the drugs. You know what I mean? Of course, it's always involved. And at one point the guys that have a good foundation naturally at one point it will result to drugs and turn pro, you know, within three or four years. I've met white guys as well with awesome genetics, great shape, and then the everybody accuses them of drugs and then they start drugs and then they blow the [\h__\h] up. You've seen guys I always thought was weird is guys who have like very good natural physiques but then they respond shitty to gear and it's like well how but then on the and then there's guys who have not that good of natural physiques who explode. So, it's like, well, why would your indogenous testosterone respond this way to like why would your androgen receptors interact in this way with your natural production, but then when you take gear, you explode like a mutant versus the natural guy with like a good baseline, but then when he takes gear, he only ends up like a men's physique competitor at best. Like, it's it just seems odd. I think it's just you have more cells. Say, for example, one guy has more muscle cells originally. That doesn't mean he responds more necessarily to the IGF-1 receptor or the androgen receptor. Maybe there are other things that dictate the number of cells you have other than growth hormone and insulin. Right? There's so many anabolic pathways that you know if you go on cycle maybe maybe the the androgen receptor pathway is not really optimal for you but you need to look into the other pathways that contribute to anabolism. I got a video about that too guys. The anabolic pathways another exhaust. Derek, you wanted to discuss u um Dallas Macccarver's autopsy. Oh yeah. Yeah. People uh it's sort of been resurfaced as a topic because um his blood test and I was like like typically when you see these kind of units of measurement you would look in something like like you wouldn't see it in a blood test typically like it was nanogs per milliliter I believe if I'm not mistaken. And then when you convert it people are like oh 550 that's nothing. And then you convert it over to nanogs per deciliter and it becomes 55,000 nanogs per deciliter of testosterone. But then his Yeah. So if you scroll down I'm sorry guys. I'm using like a half finger. No, no worries. Yeah. If you keep going down, what's really weird is the guy who posted this, his account has been banned. Anthony Roberts from uh Medium. I don't know what happened, but anyways, if you go gets banned everywhere. Really? Yeah. Yeah, he gets banned on Professional Muscle and then this website and that website. What do you do wrong? You know, I don't know. He piss pisses people off. He's probably the first guy that talked about combining thyroxine with growth hormone. I think he's the one that brought that to the fitness industry or I remember reading. Are you thinking of uh [\h__\h] are you thinking of was Anthony Roberts, right? He used to write like steroid steroid blogs. No. Aren't you thinking of uh what's his [\h__\h] name? the guy who made THG. Is that not who you're thinking of? What's that guy's name? Oh, Patrick Arnold. No. Yeah, that's not who you're thinking of. Maybe. Or I don't know. A lot of these guys, for some reason, yeah, I don't know. Not that this guy's name is even close to that, but I mean, for some reason, in my head, I was thinking I thought this guy reported on news. Didn't do like pharmarmacology information. I think Anthony Roberts is one of those old school uh steroid bloggers. So anyway, so this is his blood test results. If you go up and you see everything's negative except for testosterone and it's kind of interesting cuz this is literally like a like a sports panel almost. Uh Leo, if you go uh down a couple Yeah. Down one more page. And then there was testosterone and then there was trenum. Yeah. So here, scroll up a little bit. So stop here. So testosterone 550 nanogs per milliliter. And then the interesting thing though is that testosterone to epi testosterone ratio. EPT is not affected by the injection of exogenous tea. It stays stable. So this is how you would detect if somebody's doping or not. And that's why it even says there it has that ratio TD less than four is considered normal. Blah blah blah. This is like a doping parameter. So, it's kind of interesting how like it his uh his ep ratio is uh like I probably have to actually sit down and math this out to see if this makes sense, but basically on paper it's showing that he has a [\h__\h] ridiculous unexplainable amount of testosterone like five 55,000 NOGS per deciliter and then an undisclosed amount of trenalone as well. But then it's also claiming the ep it was a positive. Yeah. Yeah. So they said it has like undisclosed quantity of trend balloon. So like I was thinking a lot of people are speculating how much testosterone was this guy actually injecting to get a 55,000 NOG per deciliter total tea. Surely he must have been abusing the [\h__\h] and using like you know a bottle a day or something. That's what like people are saying and I'm thinking like I don't know man like I'm wondering like obviously even if you had trend in the system to have even an artificially elevated level like inflated by the trend blowing if they were using electrochemoluminescence aminoassay to detect both compounds and you hypothetically had a cross detection you would still be on like bottles of [\h__\h] I would think. So I don't know if this was a what what I think happened and what the same thing has happened at the time is that he got tranoff because they only checked the metabolites right and they see testosterone but maybe you know testosterone can give a or trembbleone can give a false positive for testosterone so maybe he experienced trinkov when you look at the size of his lungs there were you know all his organs were uh increased and maybe there was some lung inflammation would also lead me to you know think that trembolone was involved maybe he got tren cough injected into a vein and then with his asthmatic past um he yeah he he got a heart attack in the process you know maybe couldn't breathe or or maybe he took insulin at the same time it's it seems we think he was on the borderline of death regardless though right yeah so let's let's discuss that before we go back to the drugs let's just uh sorry maybe we should share again so we can look at the top of it because the top of the autopsy report went over his organs and really shocking stuff uh let's see where Is this the beginning of it? Um, so if you look here, severe cardiomegaly severe at the age of in his 20s with left ventricular hypertrophy characteristic of steroid abuse, coronary artery atheroscerosis severe uh in and moderate in the right corner. People were saying it was minor for some reason, but it's defin no severe severe. This is very unusual in somebody that age. And then he had a thyroid cancer. Uh I nephrocerosis which means he had what uh FWL has now which is the aos the scrosis of the kidneys which happens to a lot of bodybuilders unfortunately over the years. And then he had a large liver and large lungs. Um this is something really shocking you know at somebody that age. So specifically I mean the the large organs are just shocking. They don't see that very often except on very obese people or or odd things like that. But the one I wanted to talk about guys is the severe atheroscerosis at that age. Very unusual. It's it's not easy. You don't get severe atheroscerosis from using steroids. Uh it doesn't happen that fast. You have to have genetic predispositions and potentially you have to also eat a certain way but at least severe genetic predispositions. Another thing is how big his heart was. So to think that I personally I to think that he had a trend cough and died. I mean this guy seemed to be teetering on the edge of death anyway. No, but he he was fainting many times. So what what it looks like is that all his organs were hypertrophied to a point he couldn't breathe. No, like everything was just like the chest cavity only has limited space and you can stretch a little bit with pullovers. Um but you know it's all compressing against the lungs, right? And then the stomach is bulging, so the diaphragm is going up. So the heart is bigger and all the other organs are just kind of constricting each other. And if you have, you're not suggesting that if he wasn't using trend, he'd survive still. No, it was a a a point, you know, at one point he was going to get it because he was avoiding all the blood work and the tests um that he should have been doing. I mean, let's let's talk about I mean, uh wait, Derek, please continue about your theory about the tremblone and testosterone. How are you thinking that he got that? Cuz cuz what I wanted to to to just throw out there is I have a friend who's a professional athlete and he takes 10,000 units of testosterone a week. So that does happen, brother. It's not like it doesn't happen. So I dou and that guy is not as big as Dallas and he's a professional athlete, world record holder. So and he's he's good at what he does. He takes 10,000 units of 10,000 milligrams of testosterone a week. And and and he doesn't and and that's when he's taking just testosterone. when he's not taking just testosterone. He'll reduce the testosterone five grams, something like that, and take a couple of grams of Tren or 20 anods a day or something like that. People do that. That's not This isn't made up stuff. Now, we look at Dallas. I mean, maybe he was very gifted and maybe that's why his organs grew. Maybe he had a great IGF-1 receptor and he was such a hyperresponder. But it's also possible that he took a lot of testosterone if he was just taking two drugs, right? Yeah. Or maybe it was take a lot of tremble and it was confusing the the results. I don't know. Well, the thing that makes no sense, well, I think it's partially Anthony Roberts interpretation of the report. He's saying on the first page, his testosterone levels were within normal range at the time of death despite having an elevated epi testosterone level, indicating testosterone replacement, though not abuse per se. So, he's he's interpreting this as if it's nanograms per deciliter instead of milliliters. And in that's why he thinks 550 is normal and then the ep is normally like around like well typically you wouldn't even see it in blood because it would be urine analysis. So I don't even remember off the top of my head what a normal nanogram per deciliter level is in blood. Um so this this is just a wrong interpretation by him in my opinion but it's just the fact that they are uh like I was just on it and then I got kicked off. One sec. Don't don't scroll for me. I'm like on my own screen looking at it. No, I was curious to see it again. Yeah, it's interesting that it's in milliliters. Huh. Yeah. So, like if you if you convert that to nanogs per deciliter, like why Okay. I I think Anthony Roberts interpretation is actually just throwing me off because he says he has an elevated ep, but it's like you would you would not have elevations in epi testosterone if you're injecting testosterone because it's upstream in steroid genesis, not downstream. So So I don't know if that's even a relevant point to make. The thing that I just find baffling is that he could have a 55,000 and I guess yeah, maybe people do inject that much, but how like what's the probability it's going to be literally an equal like an even number like that? 55,000 flat and then well there's there's an upper tolerable limit for many of these reference rings. So then that calls into question is this the upper tolerable limit though because this is supposed to be a toxicology report that holds up in court. So would you not have literally the exact value? And like there's some people who think this is a typo and it's supposed to be nanogs per deciliter instead of nanogs per milliliter. But then ask forensica toxicology and see what uh what the consensus is there. Maybe cuz like it's it's almost more probable to me that like okay like obviously maybe he could have had 55,000 but it's just [\h__\h] wild to me that that would be the case. But then that would also indicate he has a a 4,000 nanog per deciliter level in his blood which I would have to defer to the reference range on that. But that sounds [\h__\h] ridiculous, too. Like that doesn't make any sense to me cuz your testosterone to ep at least in urine analysis would be in a 1:1 ratio typically. So why the [\h__\h] would your blood have 4,000 nanogs per deciliter of ep if you like naturally you would only produce that means your steroidenesis cascade is producing four like eight time 10 times higher epiestosterone than testosterone. Well ep testosterone, right? But it's testosterone is injected, right? So, so that's a four that's a 400. Sorry, my math is off. Okay, so actually maybe that doesn't make sense. So, just so just so you know, sometimes people who have exaggerated cholesterol synthesis, they also have higher tes steroidogenesis. So, maybe I do see that too. But but but by the way, let me Derek, you know, the time that I found out that this athlete was taking 10,000, it really shocked me cuz I had spent years on GH15. I started to believe those guys were were lying and I thought people really didn't take that stuff. And the the athlete that I'm talking about was my hero from when I was a child. So when I when I was a teenager. So when I met him and you know I was training we became really close and he and he we were going to a competition and I told him what should I take for the competition? He said I'm taking 10,000. I said what? He said I'm taking 10 grams. I said of what? He said testosterone. I said you're taking 10 grams of only testosterone. He said yeah. And he said yeah. That's how he said it. Like Craig Titus would talk. Yeah. I was like oh [\h__\h] But I mean that it does happen. So it is more common than you think. You know, if you start talking with the competitors, you know, backstage, it's the drug abuse is is substantial. Yeah. You know, and a lot of guys downplay it. I have good genetics, I don't need so much, but they still run four grams a year, you know, 6 g and and then then on top of the six g is 15 units of growth hormone and 100 units of insulin and EPO and BPC and TB-500 year round. You know, it's I I can tell you one thing, in Dubai, it's very clicky. So, it doesn't leak. It doesn't leak. But in Dubai where people are more open, all those Middle Eastern guys you see that are very well well wellformed. I mean I used to talk to all those guys back home. The average is 5 g, four to six grams all all year. They're always on that and they mix them between things like a gram of equipoise, a gram of this, a gram of that. That's the usual there. But I never heard 10 until I met this guy. I was like is that possible? Where do you put I told him where do you put it? He said three cc's wherever I put it. You know he's just But it happens. It's it's it happens. There's another side to this though is like maybe we could talk to the audience about what do you think what would you have done uh Steve to to what would you have done if if say you know if you had a client which I know you don't you don't coach like these you know growing you know people are abusing their health and stuff like that but say you had a guy who who wanted to do that what were the things you would try to look out for to try to make sure that this doesn't happen to I mean before this happened in Dallas none of us were really thinking people could die in their 20s from aththeroscerosis and and cardomegaly. But now that we know that, what would we do to try to prevent that? Sorry, I just want to go back to that numbers before we get off it because I definitely [\h__\h] up when I was saying the uh 4,000 PPT. It's definitely it's 400 NOGS per deciliter of epestosterone. So Anthony Roberts interpretation is based on urine analysis results in doping and he's basing it off of he thinks he's reading nanogs per deciliter and then he's looking at the ratio to interpret this. So anyways, my whole point was basically this looks like a 55,000 nanog per deciliter total tea that may be artificially inflated with trend blown to some extent, but then the the best case scenario, he's still on like 5 g of like like five plus grams of test and like a g I don't know how much trend, but like yeah, ju just keep in mind that if you if you nick a villain and you inject three cc's into the bloodstream and it ends up there and you end up dying from a heart attack, it it doesn't metabolize out of the bloodstream. So the levels might be I got it. That might be artificially inflated. Yeah, that's what I said. You know, because I'm sure everybody's gotten trends at one point. Okay, I understand what you mean. So it's like literally literally seeped into his Yeah. I was like, what does that I thought you meant like that's why he died, not that's why his blood test results. I think I mean he was in the kitchen apparently and maybe he administered an injection. Yeah, that might answer that might answer why everything's so high because it's like if you had if you if you injected into a vein and then you get your autopsy report and there's like a ridiculous elevation, it could be your shot you just did like pulled right into the blood. That makes sense. Are these serum markers? These are serum markers. Yeah, this is serum blood test. Okay. At first I thought it was a urine analysis based on the fact that there was ep ratio but at the top it says blood femoral comprehensive drug panel and it says B. I'm assuming it means blood but it's really weird dude because typically you would never have a TPT ratio done in the blood. It would be a urine analysis. So like I don't and you wouldn't be looking for trendalone metabolites in blood either. You would be looking for it in urine. No they do that. They do that. They do the blood test and and run it through the same measuring uh devices as the urine but it's the urine is generally done because it's less invasive but obviously in this shaper. Yeah. But like in general but you can't from you would be looking you want to look for the urine because of the pharmacinetics it goes. So that's why Yeah. Okay. Anyway, but they're still present. This was some good good detective work. Honestly, I learned I learned quite a bit listening to you guys right here. Yeah. So, so that that's how I always interpret it. I mean, you're not going to get a blood level that high unless you accidentally leaked from the depot or injected directly into a vein. And that that might have been the onset, the compounding factor that he passed. So, let's let's speculate that there's, you know, or not speculate because his organs were tremendously enlarged. Um, and he had some asthmatic issues. He fainted on stage. So, the way I was interpreted, he injected some trembolone. He got tremendous training cough which led into a cardiac arrest and and that didn't allow for all these uh serum concentrations of testosterone and tremblone to metabolize out and now you test it and and you see that it's tremendously elevated but it's just a moment in time a very unfortunate moment in time where the guy passed. Well, let's let's Oh, sorry. Sorry. Go ahead. No, that that was it. I was just saying that yeah, that's certainly at first I thought the trend was just like well maybe that's how it happened. I was like okay that's like random you know speculation but then the fact that you're using that as like the logic for why his serum might be so ridiculously elevated that obviously makes sense like I'm on the same page now. Oh, and now we can add on to that also, which is that normally somebody wouldn't die from the trenough. But the thing here that's going on, number one, he has pneumonia. He has enlarged lungs, but number two, most important, mo most importantly, he has a very large heart with specifically severe athoscerosis around the heart. So the heart is beating extremely, it's very difficult for him to pump all day. That heart is already And what happens when the heart grows? Well, let's discuss this for a minute. What do steroids do to your heart exactly? I'll go through a list. I've done some reviews on this personally and I know Derek has done uh some videos on this, but let's summarize it. Number one is dysipidemia. What's that? They mess up with your with your lipids. Number one, your HDL shoots down because they it upregulates hippatic triglyceride lipase HTGL by about the way 140 to 230%. It upregulates in the liver. Number two, on average HDLC is reduced by 50%. And the APO A1, which is the apolippo protein that comes with HDL, is reduced by 33 to 41%. So you're getting around 50% on average of the studies that have been done, HDL lowering. What does HDL do? It's reverse cholesterol transport. So you're not able to get that cholesterol out of your arteries. The third thing it does is it increases your LDLC by on average, that's low density lipoprotein. That's the that that's that's the LDL that we're trying to minimize with statins to we don't develop plaque in our arteries. It raises that by around 36%. And it raises the apo the the lipid protein molecule that's attached to LDL by about 35%. So we're looking at A-50% decrease in HDL, a 30% increase in LDL. That's dysipidemia. That's what they call that. Interestingly, I didn't know this before. I found out when I was doing some research recently, steroids reduce lipoprotein little A. the hidden risk factor behind a lot of cardiovascular disease. There are a couple of other risk factors that cause cardiovascular disease. One is homoyine which all you guys listening to this every blood test look at your homoyine. If it's above nine be worried and you can lower it easily with nutrition. I highly recommend Chris Master John has a nice page. He's he specializes in the MTHFR poly polymorphisms. He has a nice page on his website. You can learn how to lower your homoyine with diet. Great great choice if you have polymorphisms in your MTHFR like I do. And Derek, do you have them also? Yeah, I actually use his guide for lowering my homoyine. It was like creatine, for example, to take away a lot of the methylation demands that you would otherwise have because you can't indogenously produce it very well. Um, betane and hydrris was good. Um, getting the alpha GPC helps and or getting, you know, beef liver and getting enough choline from your diet, stuff like that. So, so first you start with creatine, choline, then you get enough glycine to buffer and then you get your B vitamins. But that's one thing for homocyine. Another thing is lipoprotein little A. Now, if you have I've never checked your genes for this, Derek, but if you have a polymorphism, it can Yeah. Yeah, of course. Whenever you'd like. By the Yeah, we should look more into your stuff when we have. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Lipoprotein little A. One. Polymorphism makes some people have high lipopro. It's written lipoprotein and then in brackets a little a. And this is a mysterious thing. The person who is the foremost uh expert in the world on this, he's on Twitter. You guys can follow him. His name is LPA_DOC DOC. Um it's a very interesting subject, not well understood. You cannot reduce your lipoprotein little A with anything except potentially nasin, a PCSK9 inhibitor, repatha, or steroids. Turns out steroids reduce lipoprotein little A. Mysteriously, very interestingly. Anyway, other than this, let me let me interject. Let me interject. So, I've seen three blood work panels for guys on hormone replacement with elevated uh lipoprotein A. Yeah. No, I've seen tons of people with elevated, but it would be more elevated if they weren't on steroids. That's what that ah you know the uh what's your wife's LP little A? Cuz the the guy I know who has like he's like the male equivalent of your wife. He has like a high high lipid profile but absurdly high testosterone that's like almost indicative of like do you have a tumor like that's my wife or Leo's wife his wife your wife your wife I I don't I don't know we can't check it here because like so I can't check it on my blood work and none of my wife's either this guy's lipid profile looks like your wife's and he has like super physiological tea levels perpetually around the all year like he doesn't do any anabolics No, nothing. I How many world championships titles does this guy have? Okay. None. But he has his ganatons are all in range. Like he's totally natural and his test is like 1,600 all the time. And yeah, you talked about it. Yeah. Yeah. And his LP little A through the [\h__\h] roof. Yeah. Very concerning. So his chole his total cholesterol is very high, too, which is uh I' I almost be curious what your wife's LP little A is based on Yeah. I I called a few of the private clinics. cuz I wanted to check my gonadotropen hormone releasing hormone also, but I can't check that here. And there was one place where it was like $700. So I was like, okay, I'll buy the kissepin 10 and just run that instead. While we talk about people while we talk about people with hyper cholesterolmia, that means people with high HDLs, high LDLs, maybe you have a high lipoprotein little A, that's not a good thing. But if you have the high HDL and the high LDL, some like for example, I had a consultation with a guy. He called me about something else, but I saw his blood work and his total cholesterol was over 300. His LDL was like 200. So I stopped him and I told him, "You have to go to the hospital right now. You may have severe athoscerosis. You could die." He's like, "No, I don't think so. Nobody in my family has had has had heart disease." I said, "Seriously?" So I usually don't do this on consultation. After the consultation, I told him, "Please send he had a 23 in me. I said, "Please send it to me." Cuz I was concerned that he something might happen to me genuinely. So I looked through his 23 and me. Guess what? He had Oh no. homozygous for apoch 3 and homozygous for cep those are the two genes that that the only time a person with an apo4 I have to explain this to audience one of the worst things that you can get for your cardiovascular genes is if you have there's a thing called apo apo I am apo 33 some people are apo 34 you can also be two two is protective four is very bad for Alzheimer disease and uh plaque buildup I believe Dallas was probably an apo4 if you have an apo4 You will never reach 100 years old unless you have a CEP gene that's homozygous or an apoch 3 gene that's homozygous. Near baseli has done a lot of studies on centinarians. The only ones with a4 variants that live to 100 had those two things. They're so protective that you can have hyper cholesterol like potentially your wife does. Steve, you should check your wife's gene to see if she has cap and apo 3. If she doesn't. Yeah, we're it's in it's in the cards. We're going to do a 23 and me at one point. I'll give you a call. Exactly. So, so another thing that steroids do obviously is increase aththeroscerosis potentially because of this dysipidemia. Another thing that they do very interesting so they temporarily while you're on steroids reduce left ventricular systolic function but permanently even when you're not on steroids across studies reduce left ventricular diastolic function. So you can go on steroids your systolic gets worse but when you go off your diastolic does not recover. Why? It's thought to be and it's correlated to the increase in the heart size. It seems when the heart gets bigger, it starts to lose left ventricular function. Now, I'll tell the audience something. When I stopped using steroids, I went and did an fMRI of my heart with a die, which is the closest that you can get to seeing the heart function 4 hours in there. They told me I have a enlarged left ventricle, a thickened left ventricle. The guy didn't know I was on steroids, obviously. He told me you have an athletes heart cuz I was muscular at the time. But that is the concern. The heart grows and starts to lose function. And we look at Dallas's report. Extremely large heart. What does that mean? It doesn't function properly anymore. Then he had a lot of plaque in the coronary arteries, not even probably everywhere else too in the periphery. So that heart is working so hard it keeps growing and keeps losing function. You know what I mean? I wonder what his injection fraction was because he was also wheezing all the time. You know, but that's also the asthmatic. And of course, if there's no if the heart is so large and the lungs are hypertrophied to that size, I mean, there's not much left, not much room left to breathe air in. You know, one thing that's a good takeaway from that whole thing, too, is the year following up to his passing, Redcon was getting him like vitamin infusions and getting his blood pressure checked and his blood work checked. And they were advertising how like healthconscious he was being. He was like checking his like after that fainting episode especially he was like in videos like getting his he had a 120 over 80 blood pressure and everyone was like oh he's probably fine you know he's fine now but it's like if you get actual organ imaging done which obviously he didn't do you would see how [\h__\h] up everything is so all you got to do if you're ever scared about this is go to your doctor and get a heart fMRI. You will see how much plaque you have. You'll see if your how your heart functions. You'll know if you're on the verge of death. and you don't have to risk it all and go blind. The problem is sometimes we're scared to like when I was on when I was living about I used to smoke cigarettes and take steroids and I don't know what else I did. I didn't really want to know if I was going to die, you know, cuz I might I thought I would die, you know. I didn't really know if I was Yeah, I always wanted to know. So, I've been doing blood work since the beginning, you know, but my family is generally unhealthy. So, I was, you know, just always cautious and scared. That's why it took me so long time to actually take the plunge cuz I wanted to do the research. Of course, now I know way more than I did at the age of 26, but I was just I was a little bit hesitant, you know, and I still did my fair share of stupid experiments. Um, yeah, but you know, that's life, right? Um, I failed to mention also there's one of the effects of steroids across studies is uh impaired tonic cardiac autonomic regulation predisposing people to arrhythmias. I believe that the reason for that is because of the adrenaline signaling that comes with androgens combined with most of these people use clenbuterol which is why I'm of course so fearful of that and by the way guys how I started using beta blockers one of the reasons I actually there were a couple reasons but one of them the why I continued using them is because I know that I have that enlarged left ventricle how do you repair that in medicine you take a beta blocker for a few years the the cardiac muscle remodels and it reverses but you can't be taking clen all the time obviously I've seen some very drast IC before and afters of nebivolo causing like positive reversals like reversing significant remodeling. I'm going to do another ultrasound and perhaps an fMRI in my heart to compare you know when I was peak saw out of my gills where I have yeah well that's the comparison point right where my heart is enlarged but it was symmetrically enlarged that was during a time as I was experiencing arhythmias. So I did the full check, you know, the the 48 hour halter just like that. What is it? What that did you had on the podcast recently uh with Boston? You did like you had like all this hard monitor was being Mike Wheels, right? So I had the same thing done like years ago because I was having arrhythmias as well that the doctor explained it to me. It's just you you're training too hard. you you do too many sets to failure and then we did some exercise stress tests and you see that the heart just stops during the strenuous workouts out and then picks back up to recover, you know, the oxygenation and and pump blood around. But I was getting that while I was sitting down cuz I was taking so many sets to failure and way beyond failure that it would just reoccur during the day. And then he said it was completely benign. So we did a 48 hour heart monitor and he showed me see this is happening at night while you're sleeping while you're sitting at the desk and while you're training exact same thing and it's it's it's inherently benign but you need to you know reduce the intensity. So we so we gave the guys some ideas. You can do a heart fMRI. Um not just an echo cardiogram. If you want to see your heart, that's not going to tell you you have plaque. Um but in addition to that, you you know, if we obviously can check your blood test, you look for your homoysteine, look for lipoprotein, little A, look at your LDL and all that. You can also go do your 23 and me and then look at Apoch 3, look at CEP, look at APOE. And by the way, there are way more. My cardiovascular session in my in my genetics report is six pages long. And not even it's maybe more than that. There's two page there's one page just on arhythmias all polymorphis there there's on the QT intervals there's a lot of things like for example my only advantage genetically in terms of cardiovascular disease I have an overactive LDL receptor naturally genetically as in it's in my and that that's the one I have I don't have an APOE2 or CEP my wife actually is is hetererozygous for CEP and APO 3 but I'm not but I have that LDL receptor so there's some other things you might not know about but do that in addition to that I feel like there's some lowhanging fruit I want Derek to take this opportunity to try to give the guys the idea that maybe you could take a statin, maybe you could take a zettobe, maybe you could take something else. You don't need to let that plaque build up. You don't need to avoid all saturated fats and all egg yolks. And if and by the way, if you have those genes, you could avoid them and you'll still have high LDL. There's people hate statins, but the truth is they've saved more lives than any long-term medication other than things that deal with bacteria and things like that. In terms of cardiovascular disease, they are the most life-saving medication in history. What are the problem? They cause diabetes in like 30% of people. They cause card myopathy, which means muscle weakness. Not all of them do this. And they cause u they cause brain fog sometimes. There's something else also. I forgot what they do. But the point is, how do statins work? They inhibit an enzyme that causes you to produce less cholesterol which then causes your LDL receptor at your liver to say there's not so much I'm not getting enough cholesterol so I have to upregulate the receptor. So your LDL receptor start pulling that LDL from your blood. That LDL is what builds the plaque with inflammation. If you have inflammation you get more plaque but it's the LDL that's doing that. So statins pull it out directly. Now, the reason I'm bringing this up is Pete Rubish, our good friend, the gentleman, wonderful guy, was asking, can you give us some advice on which statins are good statins to choose from? Of course, I've studied the pharmarmacology of statins. I won't go into too much detail here. I want you guys just to understand how statins work. I take a statin right now because I went back on HCG and FSH. I'm actually taking a statin daily. I don't play games with my cardiovascular disease. I don't play games. One thing on the statins though too before. Oh, by the way, as far as the genetic stuff, you mentioned all like these really obscure things that no one's heard of like how to check if you're APOE4 and this and that. It's it has a bit of a learning curve for learning how to find this stuff. But one thing Leo and I will do at some point, hopefully in the near future, is create a way to automate finding this stuff. And there are other companies that already do this, but not to the elaborate depth that Leo has because in general Leo used to do this, like literally would sit down and manually comb through guys genomes to find this stuff that most of the genetic analysis reports would miss and weren't including. So this is a thing that I thought was a very valuable service to bring to the forefront in some automated fashion. So we would like to once we somehow muster up the time create some sort of automated program that then lets you put in your report and spits out exactly what Leo would otherwise have spent hours doing himself. So that's on the agenda by the way. So something to look forward to and something I'll be promoting quite heavily on the channel. And then as far as the statin thing, one thing that I would I think you should differentiate between two is like you mentioned the chance of diabetes goes up, the chance of blah blah blah. Like how would would your recommendations on statin use be different for somebody natural verse enhanced where they need their steroidenesis on point via cholesterol, you know, management versus a guy who doesn't have any requirement for optimized steroidenesis kind of thing. So that might talk about that from the start. Yeah, exactly. So, what I'm talking about right now is for enhanced athletes that are in danger specifically because of what we just talked about. Testosterone will half your HDL. Look, if you half your HDL and you raise your LDL by 30, you're [\h__\h] You have to fix that. You can't just raise your HDL with citrus bergammont and hope that's going to help you. You need that LDL to be flattened. Flattened means what? It's never been shown that somebody can develop plaque at an HDL of less than 70. Sorry, an LDL less than 70. So 70 potentially is a safe area. Now if you're an athlete with steroids, you probably have high inflammation. 70 may not be great for you. It's actually a woman that that was shown in so she probably had less inflammation. But the point is you want to get your LDL low. Personally, I like to keep it below 80. You can use a v. Now I'll tell you how you can do it. There are there are some methods to lower your LDL that are not shown to extend life. The ones that are shown to extend life are exactly four things. PCSK9 inhibitors, they're new. Bmpidoic acid, which is new. And then you have two other things. A zettoype. Well, you have fibbrates, but we'll ignore those. You have a zettoype and statins. Statins are so aetamy will lower your cholesterol by 15 to 20%. And how it will do it, it's so innocuous. I take a zettoype every day. I've done it for the last year. It's wonderful. You'll never even notice you took it. What does it do? 10 milligrams a day. It's so easy. You can order it. It's so easy. This is what I would say for a natural. Natural. This is never going to affect your life. You're not going to notice it. In fact, some great uh cardiologists say this should be in the drinking water in the US. It's so innocuous probably. If you take 10 milligs of aetamide, what it does is it makes you basically excrete out your cholesterol through your stool. It does two things. It prevents your liver from pulling cholesterol from bile fluid and it makes you not digest dietary cholesterol. So you can eat as many egg yolks as you want and your cholesterol won't just shoot up. And egg yolks are great for your nutrition. So a zetami can be very useful. That's my first go-to. That will lower your LDL by 15 to 20% and will extend your life. It will also lower your C-reactive protein and change your inflammation in your body specifically. Not all drugs will do that. PCSK9 inhibitors will not reduce inflammation. But as I will please go ahead Steve. Yeah. So let me let me just announce for the audience. So you recommended me the months ago to resolve the non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. So I take it on a daily basis 10 milligrams. My wife takes it on a daily basis. My clients take it on a daily basis and even during contest prep where windstrol trimolone and mastone is heavily abused lipids are still quite favorable. LDL is 80 90 to 100. So you honestly you deserve a Nobel prize for this bringing this. No I'm serious from other people and giving it to you. That's literally nobody ever talked about this and I've now incorporated this with so many clients myself and my wife and my lipids are perfect and I'm And you don't notice it, right? You don't even No, you don't notice anything. So I I've taken statins before and you get sore. So I would result to a red yeast rice. We it's a natural statin. The lovatin that or levo statin that does let's talk let's let's talk about that for a second cuz I know okay diabetes is no joke. 30% of women that take statins get diabetes. 10% of men do. It's a serious thing. So I'm not telling you to go take stat. I just want to mention something about statins though. First couple of things about statins. They reduce C-reactive protein. They reduce tumor necrosis factor alpha. They reduce the interlucans that are pro-inflammatory. meaning they make you have less inflammation. Also, they also do a bunch of other things. They activate PPR gamma and alpha. Um they have tremend they protect against cancers. I could list the cancers for you. Essophagal cancer, gastric cancer, lung cancer. Tremendous reduced risk of cancers. Statins are miracle drugs. They're incredible, but they have these horrible side effects. So, how do you get around this? There's there are you there's ways to group statins. There are synthetic statins and original statins from fungi. That's where they came from in the 80s. Um, there are also statins that are lipophilic or hydrophilic. The lipophilic statins get into your brain and they're way they have way more side effects. They're also more powerful at lowering inflammation. Unfortunately, I don't like those. Now, there is one lipopilic statin that is extremely innocuous. It's called pitavastatin aka liolo. That's the first statin I ever took. That statin is not associated with diabetes. And I can bet you you won't notice any muscle weakness if you take a low dose of liolo. and you will tremendously reduce your cholesterol and probably not notice any side effects at all. It's extremely selective. It doesn't affect any of the um enzy the CYP enzymes that normally normally CYP enzymes digest the statins not pavastatin and not ruatin. Those are my two favorite statins. Ruva statatin and pavastatin are the two newest interesting statins. I take ruaatin ruaatin is hydrophilic meaning it doesn't get into the brain. No brain fog whatsoever. For me, I'm not an athlete anymore. I'm not too concerned about muscle weakness. I've never noticed it from it. Taking rua statin, you don't have for people that are sensitive to statins. If you take rua statin, in fact, I have numbers on this. If you take rua statin, um, if you take rua statin 5 milligrams once a week, it'll lower your LDL by 23%. Once a week, if you take ruatin 5 milligrams every other day, it'll lower your LDL by 39%. I take 20 milligrams a day. I don't notice. Which which one is the lipur? Lipur. Lipur is another one. This is crestor and liolo. Lipur is probably a tovvisatin or something like that I think. So that so that's the one I took and I have very limited. So it Yeah. So I took that on a trembolone cycle and my my cholesterol is like non-existent. Yeah. On on 0.3 milligrams three times per day. Uh three times per week or something like that. Some like minuscule amount like one tablet a week. And I got sore from that. So that's my only experience with a statin. But you know with myself and most of my clients, everybody's functioning perfectly on this 10 milligs of zettoite with no no side effects. Exactly. It's like I I don't understand why every steroid using bodybuilder is not on a zetto. It's ridiculous. In fact, I messaged a coach today talking to him about it. I was saying people need to popularize this because look, I agree guys. Honestly, a question. If Dallas was on stands from 20, could he be alive today? It's it's possible because the heart grows more and more when you have the plaque. If you don't have the plaque, the heart is different. Now, maybe if he died, this is irresponsible for me to say it, but he'd be much more likely to be alive if he was on statins. Much there's no question. Yeah. All what I see what I see as a coach is that some athletes, they push the boundaries way further than you would even recommend. And some guys just that they they want it too bad. And you you have to save them from themselves as a coach, but sometimes you can't live with them 24/7, right? And I've dropped clients that are very abusive and they just keep pushing. I want to run this and this and this and this, you know, so we don't know. Is it the athlete or how come Nick Walker looks like Dallas now a little bit? Yeah, they seem to start looking like Dallas. How is it the athlete? I don't know, but no, it's under guidance. All right. So, it's so the the coach and the athletes are both involved, you know, and it's is the athlete truthful with the coach or is the coach uh preventing the or making sure the athlete stays alive, right? That all contributes to it because I send my guys for blood work all the time. Will they ever be phenomenal pros? Probably not. But they hired me specifically to do this as healthy as possible. And if I pull them out of the shelves because they're unhealthy, well, at least I live longer, you know. Now, Derek, you've been asking you you're very curious about this telman debate. Yeah. So, yeah. So it's uh you know typically the go-to angotensin receptor blocker among the bodybuilding community and um it's mainly because of its the thought around the idea that it is a mild carterine and I think we've already kind of debunked that previously in terms of its PP delta agonism being very mild and essentially negligible to the point where water determined it was so not performance-enhancing They pulled it off their watch list and it actually is not on it anymore. But the PP gamma agonism I believe is the one that you guys were suggesting might make you fatter when you use it. So I was like, huh, well that's the one I'm using. I I heard Leo say that, but all the studies that I can find say that it has some lipo uh life light effect, but it's all been studied in animal models that are, you know, induced with diabetes or obesity. So my question is if it's so not it's not the most selective ARB, it's not that potent at reducing blood pressure that I've seen personally like even like I'm I have normal blood pressure and even well I guess maybe I'm not the best example then because typically you would use it when you have high blood pressure and see how much it drops. But anyways, um just as far as anecdotally and my research, it doesn't seem like it's that potent at reducing blood pressure. Although it's good. I'm not [\h__\h] on it. I literally use it myself. But in terms of AT1 to AT2 selectivity, it's not superior to something like a Valartan. And then in terms of brute force in terms of actually lowering your blood pressure, it's inferior to something like Azulartan. In the context of a bodybuilder who's either trying to optimize longevity during a cruise or optimize longevity during a blast, would it not make the most sense to be on valart during a cruise potentially and then transition to an Azel Sartan if needed during a blast was like what I was thinking if in addition that Telmaarten is making me fatter. You know, I'm like why am I on it? Like what's what's the benefit gives over something like a valartan? So, so the interest is to avoid hyper triglyceridemia which basically means when you have fat in your blood or to avoid visceral fat which bodybuilders also have a lot of the goal here is to put your fat in where they're supposed to be the atyposites not in new adiposites around organs and things like that. So that's why I started taking but what I got surprised by when I started takingardin is that a lot of people were commenting on my page like this is great for endurance like things like I'm like what are you talking about? So loartan and uh telmartan both agonize the PPR delta but they're very minor. So some studies will show that but it's minor and the gamma is also minor. It's a partial agonism. It's but why I thought it may cause you to gain weight other than anecdotal reports is pyogglitazones cause diabetics to gain weight. Those are the PPR gamma agonist which by the way Derek we may be interested in putting in our scalps apparently. I didn't know about this before. It's very interesting but but so but by the way there's more than that too. So I used to use valsartan when I used to lift weights and I and I actually have hypertension naturally by the way like that's how I got into all this. So I used to use valartin. Why do you want selectivity of 81 over 82? AT2 is progrowth. That signal that is progrowth pro- angioenesis. It's trophic in the body and it's helpful for healing. Whereas the 81 is just what you're really worried about. So you want to block that. Valartan is the most specific. Dioan is the brand name. That's what I used to use. Azil Sartan is the strongest at the max dose. To be honest with you, you'd probably be in kidney failure if you needed that. Um, other than a sartan, herbicartan is really interesting because there are some odd studies that show that it may improve conditions in chronic kidney disease. But those are the those are the most interesting ones. Why are we using telmasartan over valartan? Then I use valartan and telmartan when I have high blood pressure. I don't just use telmicartan is just like for the PPR gamma light agonism for my health. I wouldn't be doing it if I was obsessed with fat loss to be honest. So, so I found some evidence after Victor Black mentioned it on another podcast that Toma Sartin has some evidence that it can keep hematocrit under control. So, I did some digging because I I didn't know about that and there is some evidence that Tommer Sartan um in particular cases can keep hematocrit and hemoglobin and overall blood cell count in the bloodstream a little bit more favorable. But I'm not sure in normal I'm thinking chronic kidney disease. Yeah, chronic kidney disease. And so in certain cases it's able to rise it. In other cases is able to bring it down. But I'm not sure if that makes it valuable in cases where you're using arythropoic compounds like a primabolan, like a boldenone, like EPO which raise hematocrit and hemoglobin. So that I will investigate when I get back on cycle. Um because you know right now so I'm running 20 milligrams of telmer 10 and my hematocrit and hemoglobin is all at the bottom of the reference range. Well, you're not taking androgens anymore. Sorry, you're not taking your androgens. No, no, but 630 NOGS per diliter, guys. Well, I'm very proud of you. That's great stuff. But listen, we should also mention, we got a lot of questions. It seems we're not going to get to all our questions today, so we should mention it now. We got a lot of questions about diuretics and blood pressure and stuff like that. And some a lot of people seem to be wondering, well, it actually comes around estrogen. People are asking like if I if I am not sensitive to gyno but I have high blood pressure or I am just watery is it a good idea to take a diuretic or not your blood work let's first say say one thing the worst thing for your kidneys is to be dehydrated that is the worst thing that is the beginning of all kidney failure like everywhere that's that's how it all begins so if you are not actually bloated and you think you are and you go take a diuretic for a year or so you might be destroying yourself I just want to mention that I also want to mention when I first went to doctors about my blood pressure issues some doctors were were tried to put me on kodioan actually took codioan in the beginning that's hydrochloroioide with valartan combined together um the goal there is this doctors basically look at you and they try to figure out if you just have constricted blood vessels and by if that's maybe due to stress they'll put you a beta blocker also but then they look at you and they see are you bloated and you could have a disease that makes you bloated but you could also just be a bloated guy naturally and so those guys sometimes they put them on a light diuretic it's a tricky thing to figure out personally I would trust trust a doctor with it but when people say like for example when I'm on when I have high estrogen and I get bloated you're getting bloated not via estrogen you're getting bloated via estrogen's uh modulation of mineral corticoid receptors the the way to deal with that is not really estrogen is something you want what you then I would personally I would veer to a diuretic instead of killing my estrogen reducing this antioxidant profile in my body and you know the tremendous effects of estrogen for everything for hair that Der cares about for the heart for everything. It's a big trade-off to reduce your estrogen for a little bit of vanity with and you know crush your lipid profile in the process and there's no amount of statins or esetamite that can favor your lipids right back when you crush your serum estrogen concentrations. I mean it's very obvious with steroid users to post pre-contest you know your crush your estrogen. So you know like these diuretics like you mentioned the zartan and the hydrochloroioide combination right it's also a recipe for hyperc calalemia potassium levels in the bloodstream so when I added in the tomosartan I had to discontinue all indirect potassium or direct potassium sources so much potassium though you do you do supplement potassium hard no I supplement potassium yeah but it works highly it's highly beneficial for bodybuilding especially if like I was always avoiding or have low vegetable intake, right? And now I'm eating a ton of vegetables again because I don't want this non-alcoholic fatty liver disease to uh occur again. So, my potassium intake from the vegetables is way higher. So, I don't need to supplement with potassium salt on top. But, I've always added a little bit of potassium to each meal just to increase performance and help with um glycogen storage. Right. Right. So but but then you you take nivol which I take and telmartan which I take and then if you take another diuretic on top that's hypercalemia for sure because it's the beta blocker that contributes a little bit to hypercalemia and then the telmerartin or an A or B contributes to hypercalemia. So in those cases you don't want this extra potassium salt and that's why it's always very difficult to give general recommendations because all these drug interactions are very poorly studied. Yeah. It freaks me out with minoxidil too. Like I've been considering starting it and with the micro needling protocol which may otherwise introduce it to systemic circulation easier being a potassium channel opener. I'm like on a on a talisartan is that something I want to be risking and just end up with [\h__\h] heart palpitations all of a sudden. Yeah. So I go I was getting micro cramps within 3 days of adding in the telmosan. So I discontinued all the potassium salt you know right away. So, so one thing I do for that's why by the way my none of my clients take potassium because almost all of them are on ARBs to some degree. Nobody's even I never take potassium either for that reason. But that is a big concern. I wanted to ask you Derek, what does this deal with minoxulin potassium? I never heard about that before till you till you mentioned it. Is it is it do people actually get hyperc calmia from it? Yeah. Well, that's like the literal mechanism by which it's thought to work is it's opens potassium channels and that's how it lowers your blood pressure. Cuz I searched on Google Scholar for like incidents of it, but I couldn't find case studies. But maybe I didn't look hard enough. going to see if this has some practical application during carb loading. But um let's see if clearance experiments show it affects significant sodium and fluid retention without change in potassium excretion. Um, yeah. I don't know to be honest. It's just I know people do get uh palpitations from minoxidil on its own now. Not often. Not often with topical use of course, but it's not unheard of. I got it from from oral. I did it. Yeah. But then factoring in that I used to misarten and Steve solo with that noticed that effect made me I'm not saying don't comi combine them. I'm just like a little bit paranoid of starting them is all I'm saying. Well, I am combining them right now. I'm taking ARB 15% minoxidil. I feel fine. But by the way, have you ever tried the 10 15%. Cuz I feel like your micro needling decision, you just assume you have bad genetics for it, but I I feel like you won't even need that to be honest. I mean, I don't know how effective the micro needling thing is, man. But the doubles your results, dude. And on the day you micro needle, you don't even need to apply the minoxil. So you actually have less overall drug exposure. One day of micro needling doubles your results. Oh, I thought you meant the light micro needling while putting it on to get it to absorb. Not the No, no. Like hypothetically you could do that, but that would freak me the [\h__\h] out. There's no way. I would be doing the I'd be doing the 1.5 millimeter once a week, six days, the other six days, applying it probably once a day personally cuz I can't handle a two a day topical schedule. So that would be what I want to start pending that it is safe. I just uh my experience doing twice a day and then once a day I noticed that over time it seems to be that the once a day you like you reach the twice AI mean the twice a day gets you there faster but if you do once a day at like I do it two hours before I sleep uh it seems to you seem to get the same results over like six month. Can you can you guys explain to me the the fascination with growing all this hair? And maybe it's all that Shut the [\h__\h] up, Steve. What the I don't get it, dude. Like, I'm thinking about shaving all of this off as soon as I take my first injection again in like Wait, Derek. Derek, let me break something to you, Derek. I brought this up in the Steve podcast with Boston. Okay, we can't actually tell if he has Look, if I shaved my head here, you think I had great hair? If I just shaved all of this so you couldn't see that this goes up there. There you go. How do we know that he really has unbeliev Okay, you have thick hair. I realize that. But his hair is like his hair is like gelled. It's not even dry and it has no diffuse thinning noticeable. It's just ridiculous. Okay, Steve, if that's the case, you should actually grow the sides because every bodybuilder as they grow bald, they grow a mohawk. And I mean, every one of them does. I'm just going to shave it. At one point, I get at one point I get tired of this hair and I'm just going to shave it off. It's uh it's cumbersome, dude. I like I don't like body hair. I don't have it anywhere. It's the thing is it's like people in society treat you like AI don't know like a vagrant or something if you don't have hair on your head. They treat you like especially women honestly they they treat you like an incompetent infertile like impotent man and your organs are literally dead on your head. So it's you know I could see biologically why they might perceive that. Yeah. Yeah. That's true. Well, I could, but at the same time, I feel like baldness is a is a is a masculine. It's like it's it's part of masculinity and aging. But but I I think anyone who understands how hair loss works knows it's the androgens causing a cascade of events that's not necessarily the androgen itself doesn't literally just like turn your hair on fire. It's some sort of cascade of events that's causing some unknown mechanism, which is an unhealthy thing probably. But so our friend, we have a mysterious friend who made a comment by the way on our on our questions. Like unbelievable by the way, how much I had to cut that comment down to put it into a thing, but then I didn't use it. Anyway, one guy was like saying that it's not androgens that caused the hair thing. But he didn't offer the the the pl hypothesis. So my hypothesis is that transforming growth factor beta itself and the scar tissue itself reduces blood flow to the area which makes the hair more vulnerable to oxidative stress and normal stresses which could kill any cell the Yeah. So I have like a folder I have a folder on my computer with like diagrams and studies for the past like four years of different mechanisms by which it occurs. You know, some of the thought processes around it is, oh, everything is downstream leading to hypoxia. Some think it's gravity. Some people think it's a million [\h__\h] different things. And at the end of the day, there's a bunch of different drug candidates that have been developed to intervene in different areas of the downstream cascade. But ultimately, when it comes down to it, none of those candidates, which I've literally [\h__\h] orally ingested myself or put on my head, move the needle as much as the androgen inhibition component concurrently with the estrogen, making sure it is, you know, where it's supposed to be. So, for me, it's almost like I would love to know what it is. I would love to have a drug that targets the exact thing and or be able to fix my lifestyle to accordingly attenuate the underlying problem, but the fact of the matter is is no one [\h__\h] knows. And every single person I know who's tried to combat it naturally by fixing their sleep hygiene, their diet model, every single [\h__\h] thing possible, they end up going bald still. So, it's like at the end of the day, the only thing that moves the needle in a permanent way long term from what I've seen is dealing with the root problem, which is obviously not the actual thing that's doing it, which everyone [\h__\h] knows. But it's the only thing we know how to modulate that moves the needle in a prevention context. Not a growth stimulation context, but a prevention context. cuz I don't give a [\h__\h] how many stimulants you throw into the picture. You're cosmetically offsetting the visual representation of further loss if you're not dealing with the androgen issue. So for me, what I've seen personally is attenuating it via DHT inhibition perhaps not the best thing for neurological health, perhaps not the best thing for a myriad of different [\h__\h] things, but it definitely moves the needle in hair loss prevention. Topical anti-androgens also move the needle. Obviously, if you want to [\h__\h] switch genders, that moves the needle, too. There's a lot of different things that move the needle. Modulating your HRT protocol accordingly based on your choice of compounds or like when you're blasting, like using compounds that are not as problematic. Um, a lot of different things, but like no one knows the [\h__\h] real answer. It's it's a semantic thing also when you talk about causality because or the androgen didn't cause it. Okay, say say my theory is correct like it's fibrosis and not hypoxia but lack of growth factors or whatever or even not hypoxia but lack of growth factors if if it is that so is it the lack of blood that kills the hair? No, at the end the causal factor could be the oxidative stress. I mean you could it's a semantic thing but the also by the way Derek if if I was right and it's fibrosis I don't know I've never read enough into this. I was just I read one paper and I was thinking about it. But if it is the fibrosis, there's nothing that cures fibrosis, bro. They they're trying to come up with drugs like relaxing, that thing that opens up people's abs, like Dallas's abs were open up because of relaxing. Well, relaxing, they're trying to use it right now to get rid of fibros. You can't you can't get rid of fibrosis. So once that Botox, even things like Botox that are meant to totally relax the entire scalp by literally like that's collagen, bro. That's stuck there. That's that. No, I know. But I'm saying another mechanism by which people think it's like the tightening and hypoxia of the hair follicle is another thought process. It's like there's you can find any study that says, "Oh, this is like [\h__\h] dirt in your backyard's better than minoxidol." Like I've seen peppermint oil studies that are better than minoxidil. And it's like we all know through the thousands of people who've used the [\h__\h] It unfortunately does not move the needle in that way. So, like, as much as I'd love to get on the bandwagon of fix your lifestyle and your hair loss will go away, but I never brought that. I don't I'm not into that lifestyle stuff, by the way. Just so you know, I I don't think that what I meant. You would need like a super drug to get rid of fibrosis and I don't know what kind of drug could do that. I don't think you could do that. To be honest, that the fibrosis would be a consequence of whatever the [\h__\h] happens, which we don't we don't know what that is. You know, people think it's glandon D2. People think it's a bunch of different [\h__\h] And some of it does, interestingly enough, work randomly in certain individuals, but it's very hit or miss like OC0000459 being a potent prostaglandin D2 antagonist, receptor antagonist. I've seen people stop their shedding like overnight by stop starting that, but then it [\h__\h] up their sleep and a myriad of other things. I've seen people use uh STEI pipron, fevy pipe. I've seen people use a bunch of different stuff that is um trying to hit those other downstream parts of the cascade, but ultimately they're not as effective at as the root. So, it's almost like but then again the root thing dealing with the DHT some people it's debilitating as [\h__\h] So it's like do you do a micro dose of each vector and then get a overlapping higher level of protection by kind of micro doing each vector in order to get a comprehensive approach which is less problematic starting for example that's why I recommend people look at 0.2 to 0.25 25 milligrams of finasteride to start rather than the 1 milligram dose because you can still get significant scalp DHD inhibition using a lower dose than what they will automatically hand you and tell you to take and which is something I'm trying to get through my clinic is a more micro dose format of the pill versus forcing you to take how are you going to cut a 5 milligram Proscar into [\h__\h] 20 pieces or a 1 millig into five is not really you know feasible even that kind of stuff is stuff that I feel is the most logical approach is taking a more the lowest effective dose and then compounding it with multiple different vectors that are more well tolerated. But at the end of the day, no one's stopping hair loss by fixing their [\h__\h] like nutrient intake. Unfortunately, like okay, yeah, they are when it's actually tigen oflovium caused by deficiency and whatever, but actual like androgenic alipcia in general is going to be dealing with, you know, what we know hormone interaction wise is going on. And I think there are things we don't understand with actual tissue specific hormone production. Like for example, obviously scalp DHT we've come to learn over the past few years totally different than serum. If you crush your serum DHT, it doesn't even necessarily mean the scalp doesn't have its own paracrine activities going on. You know, like there's some people that think dutasteride isn't even effective until you get to 2 and a half milligrams per day orally. Because in some studies you show even if your serum is like literally non-existent, your scalp is only inhibited by like 60% or something. That's why I think that topical dutastride is such a great idea. That's why I was like I feel like this is an organ. You have to put stuff directly on. I don't know what I'm talking about, but I I Yeah. So, that's Yeah. Like non-steroidal anti-androgens that don't [\h__\h] with your HPTA and are at least hopefully designed in a way that if they go systemic, they convert into more harmless metabolites and or you know, like what whatever mechanism by which they are like there's some more favorable than others obviously. And then topical dutasteride um seems to be pretty promising as well. There are a lot of different things that people can do if they fail with, you know, the standard 1 milligram finasteride minoxidil plus ketoconol shampoo big three approach. There are a lot of things people can do above and beyond that that are more well tolerated and perhaps more efficacious too and I talk about it on my channel all the time. So if you want to see that kind of stuff before I go down uh I could ramble on this for [\h__\h] 30 minutes obviously. One question. One question. Do you notice when older ladies like in their 70s, do you ever notice their hair seems like a balding guy sort of they they also miniaturaturize a little bit? Have you noticed that also? Yeah, but they're also menopausal and have like no hormone production. So, I would assume that plays into it largely with like minimal estrogen. Not like they have no androgen. They have no estrogen either, which is pretty critical for like some of the worst sheds you'll have are using let and arimidex like to try and dry out or something. You'll [\h__\h] all of a sudden lose a [\h__\h] ton of your hair. Yeah. Like it's has nothing to do with the androgens necessarily. You're not increasing your androgen load. You're just crushing your estrogen and then all of a sudden all this hair falls out of your head. What I was trying to wonder is like is it an epigenetic change? And like my grandfather, my my mother's side, they never go bald, but they have complete full head of hair by like 70, full, but the hair texture changed as they get older. I was always wondering, is it an epigenetic change at the dermal papa cell or is it a structural thing in the scalp? Now, I realize that potentially it's like actually forcing the hairs to Anyway, probably most people don't find this interesting, but I'm just curious. I'm not that interested in saving my own hair. I'm just curious how it works. Yeah. So, one one interjection that I have, how about moving the needle by how you perceive your hair loss? Just looking at it a little bit differently. Yeah, of of course. If you Well, you just come at peace. Eric is not okay with this one. Eric is not okay. I know I know his views on this topic. Don't be insecure. You're fine, bro. Just shave it. Yeah. Okay. Eric is not happy with that. Right. So, right, there's different ways to look at it because it's maybe the hair loss thing. You can you can push it all the way to the edge, right? and preserve your hair just in the same way that bodybuilders do a contest. But maybe it's maybe it's such an endeavor that it's no longer worth it, bro. Head shape do that. But if you don't have a good head shape, you're screwed. Okay, that's why I didn't. So, so, so maybe that's where the Aaska comes into place where you just have a little just a little bit of you just don't give a [\h__\h] anymore, you know, because people will always be judgmental anyway. They will always be judgmental. Listen, we know now the time Derek is going to try Iaska is if his hair thing ever fails, we're going to do a trip. Just deal with it. Try it. Yeah. Everything ahead of time and try it. If it doesn't, if it works, it works. He might not care about anything, but he won't care about his hair. I want a follower to go into the more plates, more dates and then start posting a couple photoshops of Derek Bald. They've already done that. They've already They've already done that. Yeah. Okay. So, then you Okay. I haven't seen it. But so there's one like for me like I always always want to get bigger bigger bigger bigger bigger right and then I'm forced to slim down and now I'm like yeah it's okay dude it takes a while but it's a process that you go underneath and then now I lo in the beginning I felt like losing identity right like you would lose identity by going bald or slowly going bald and you're like oh [\h__\h] I'm losing humiliated by people you get humiliated and plus wait Steve I want to ask you something sorry to interrupt but Stephen Steve and I have the same problem. Okay. And Derek, I you I don't know if you noticed this, Steve. I don't know why you're so confident shaving your head because we both have a bump here. I've seen you when you shaved your head, you had the bump. You have the same bump I have, which is the only reason I don't shave my head. I My wife is still going to love me. And who? Listen, my wife love me, but honestly, dude, like we have all have a lot of followers, right? But I only need to be loved by one person. And if enough followers respect me for the content that I produce, whether I'm bold or not, big or not, fat or not, there will always be enough people out there to support my business. And if if people are so shadow that are they're functioning or they're fixating on a couple grooves in my skull, so be it, man. I don't I don't give a flying [\h__\h] anymore. So, here's my answer to you saying, "Is the endeavor worth going as hard as a bodybuilder doing a contest prep?" I don't think it is. I think when you're exposing yourself to this much drug to save your hair, you obvious everyone has their own risk-to-reward ratio. Some people want to see how far they can, you know, preserve it and use pharmarmacology and some are side effect free when they use it. Some aren't and some are afraid of even the basic [\h__\h] which is fine, which is why I talk about if you care about it, like again, if you don't care about it, shave it. It's not that big a deal for some people. For some people it is. Who are you to judge if it's a big deal for somebody else? That's [\h__\h] done. If it's a big deal to you and you don't want to expose yourself to drugs, that's why there's hair transplants. If that doesn't work because you're so far gone that that isn't even a feasible strategy. I have talked time and time again how if I ever have debilitating side effects. If I was somebody who had like postfinite syndrome level [\h__\h] and I didn't know how to fix it, may I'd probably just get a hair system. What's wrong with that? Plop a [\h__\h] sick hair system on my head. It probably it looks better than what I have right now. I'd be killing it. But you still you still want the hair. So there's no scenario where you just say, "Okay, I'm going to shave it and wear it." Well, maybe there is in the future, but for now it's not uh something So that's like me being like, "Hey, Steve, how about let's just make you 300 lb fat as [\h__\h] overnight. Are you okay with that?" No. Right. So So right. So it's the same question, right? It's the same with it. You know what's funny? Me and Boston were just talking about this. We were talking about the exact same thing, but about dick size. We were just talking about how like guys feel pressured to have, you know, cuz it's the same thing. Like a lot of guys, yo, you have a micro penis. Just be fine with it, bro. It's fine. Yeah, you humiliated every time you face a woman and you you be confident about yourself. You tell her not to care. But a micro penis is a different story. But I mean, I understand how like micro penis is a is a problem really for God's sake. I'm just offering it as a solution, you know. But by the way, I have seen evidence actually progressive pictures of one guy on the PE forums back in the day who had like a 2in micro penis who got it to like five. By the way, it was shocking. The biggest booth I've ever seen. A lot of those guys are basically pseudo hermaphrodites from what I've seen who had deprivation of androgens in their youth. So I think they can just take gear to get it to where they need to be plus PE and get the five plus because that was the biggest growth we've ever seen pictured bib all those guys they never took pictures all BS. That one guy had a picture and I was like there's something going on here but it was you're right. Yeah. Yeah. So when people think of you know like oh topical DHT it's so promising. It's like, yeah, for a guy with a micro penis, you know, exactly. No, there's a starting point in Yeah. Although topical DHT is great for erections, by the way, and topical and erectile quality could definitely improve to a point where you have some level of growth for sure, but minimal compared to Should we discuss pre-workout androgens? Yeah, that would be a fun uh topic because for me, I was uh like from what I've seen in terms of anrol's tissue selectivity. Now again, it's not like I have a whole lot of uh factual data to reference here. I'm just kind of basing it off from what I've seen personally. Dianibal acts as an HRT replacement at, if I recall correctly, 10 milligrams per day, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe I'm wrong on that, but I'm pretty sure the androgenic potential of it is replacing therapeutic indogenous production at 10 milligrams per day. Anadrol, I don't see it that much more problematic in an androgenicity context at 10 milligrams per day. in terms of comparing it to Dianabal's you know five alpha reduction to methyl testosterone and its inherent parent compound activity. So what I'm wondering is anadrol first of all I don't think anyone knows what the halflife is. I think we all speculate we know what it is but I don't think anyone actually knows. So I know dianabol halfife is pretty [\h__\h] short though like it's shorter than anavar. It's shorter than what the bro forums that made up a halfife for anrol say the anrol halfife is. So if Dianabol is more androgenic milligram for milligram at least maybe I'm not saying it is I'm just saying from what I've seen it might be um and it has a shorter halflife so it's effects are more acute and concentrated why is it not more effective as a pre-workout androgen than something like an anadrol like why do you get so much more sympathetic drive from an anadrol than you do dianol is it the progesterrogenic activity or like what is uh what's going on there like it sounds like in my head I'm thinking dianol seems like a reasonable choice as a pre-worker and androgen, but practical application does not seem to translate as well as something like an anadrol. What do you think, Steve? How's your experience with Danol and anadrol? Man, I haven't used the anabol in a while, but there I mean with these a lot of these pre-workout steroids there is some of them have an immediate effect and some of them are more pronounced than others, but like not everything goes through the androgen receptor pathway and there's they all have minimal affinity for AR. So they were working through like non genomic actions I would think but then it's like is is that the the genomic actions but maybe at other receptors also. Yeah maybe the sexual binding globular receptor complex sending a cyclic one monophosphate activity within the cell and that that starts a cascade of events as well increases energy production. So maybe there's different affinity for the sexual binding globulin which then sends signals um into the cell and and that's also a lot of new science right so so maybe maybe that's part of the pathway or attaching to the estrogen receptor but foretting speculated practically which did you find the anabol did did you ever use them much as pre-workouts they weren't your favorites cuz they're harmful maybe no the anabol just gives you a lot of water retention and then extra estradiol and like with the anidadrol you would assume that it's attaching to the estrogen receptor and get a little bit of gynecomastia symptoms but I never found that to be true if your estradile and uh prolactin and progesterone levels are in range so I I would always favor anadrol over deanabol and a milligram for milligram basis and and the power output I remember watching a video of yours maybe five years ago you were talking about anadrol with Tony right oh that's the first time I saw you Steve yeah I remember I was still I Oh, you're pregnant. That's interesting. You're still baked by then. Wow. So, so as a pre-workout, I would favor. Yeah. Thank you. So, I would favor Anadrol over Deannaal. Um I I like there's there's old compounds, right, that are somehow still favored. Uh but there's new steroids out there that are like I would I would consider SuperDrol nowadays over anadrol also. Of course, it's more toxic. Oh, man. It's It's the sh isn't it? I've heard it's toxic. It's very toxic. I've heard it's basically a super anadrol like more toxic. That's why they call it like that liquor and you can't use it. And the weird thing is the appetite suppression is not that bad. So you can still eat. Oh, really? Interesting. Yeah. From my experience and all my clients, they say I can still eat on SuperDrol or maybe I can push. It's one of those paradoxical compounds where the androgenicity at least what you get from it in a performance context is contradictory to what it does on your head it seems. So it's one of the most hairs safe compounds anecdotally that I've seen. Obviously no clinical but most people most people run it for very short periods like their anidol is like a four-week use use uh period and superrol two weeks and theol people run for like 8 weeks 10 weeks 12 weeks at a time because they can still use like a big dose of anadrol like you'll notice shedding like pretty quick like if you're if you're prone and then with super draw not really even if you're not prone to be honest if you use enough anadrol you'll go bald if you look at all the power they're Maybe because the efficacious dose of super drill is almost half of that of Vanderadrol. You know, most guys would run 20 to 30 mil 20. I think there's definitely a point of like like I definitely noticed this with the uh injectable SARMMS experiment. Well, actually, I don't know if that's the best example, but a lot of these drugs really like lose their tissue selectivity at certain dosages. So, it's maybe it's just that the effective dose is like you just happen to be using less than when you've hit that threshold that your body can no longer tolerate and you start having side interactions like all over the place with hair loss and a bunch of [\h__\h] going on. Exactly. So, so there there's I always feel there's a life cycle for preworkout orals and and you would only use them in cases where you actually need them. Now, nowadays people park them like candies, right? But if you get into a position where you're eating a ton of food and you can't gain any more strength, then then maybe you throw in an oral, you know, for a particular period of time and you push past that strength plateau and then you take a break and then you, you know, you reach the you raise the bar for yourself. But it's, you know, besides a low dose of Anavvar, which I'm still in favor of, you know, 5 milligs per day for the collagen synthesis and um, you know, the the mind muscle connection that it induces, that's the only oral I would use long term if there's an you know, let's let's the the way I was thinking about it when I made my video wasn't really about anadrol or dibable. I was thinking about the idea of like there are some people taking like my friend my buddy that was taking 10,000 you milligs of testosterone all the time at night he has maximal androgen levels in the morning he has maximum androgen levels who's getting in and out of your system quick who's paying for it is kidneys what I was thinking is a short acting compound around your workout that's what I used to use personally I used to use testosterone noester and I used to use anadrol personally I used to use some a very small amount lot of anadrol, 100 milligs of testosterone, no estester usually on my most important workout days, usually around 3 days a week. It tremendous I was I was a strength guy, so my only interest was what I was lifting. It tremendously improved my gains. I I mean, for me, now I assume bodybuilders, you guys gain muscle by being stronger over time, too. So, I do think that being stronger in the gym must cause more muscle synthesis over time, but I wasn't meaning to say that the most harsh uh you know, orals should be used necessarily by everyone. Now, as a strength guy myself, anadrol is I've never tried superdraw, but anadrol is irreplaceable for me. Now, some people like Pete Rubish says he doesn't never responded to anadrol. He likes tremblone. Almost everybody I know got I get crazy strong on anadrol. Crazy. If I take anrol 10 days in a row, I'm a different person 10 days later. It's unbelievable. So, for me, I love is even better. Super is even better. You're just max it and make a video on it as an excuse. Yeah. Get a get a testosterone base. Yeah. But no, well, we'll see about that. But the thing what I what I was trying to say though is I discovered later, you know, I avoided anavar the whole time I was using steroids. I mean, I took it sometimes. But I I avoided because I was like, why would I take this female hormone when if it's an oral, it's going to damage my liver anyway. I'm going to take the anadrol so I can get stronger. Well, later I try to I get a couple subscribers that have liver cancer and I try to find out how do androgens cause liver cancer. Well, I find out residence time at the liver and androgenic nature. Trenbalone cause a lot of liver cancers. case studies all over including my subscriber. Anadrol did too a lot. A lot of other steroids did. Testosterone did. Uh I've never found an incidence of anavar doing that. Anavar seems to be not androgenic enough even though it has a long residence time in the liver because it's an oral. So personally I find anadrol to be a great drug and my idea wouldn't be that somebody would take it every day. I also like the idea of not getting used to the drug. So my idea would be like on your on your back day or on your leg day and and and then on other days maybe you would take testosterone noester or something like that. That's my harm reduction idea. But by the way about the anod halflife I have a feeling it's a bit longer because I stay strong for about a day or so when I take a pill. Maybe a little bit longer than that. So but and my experience with the anabol was it's just an anti-depressant that makes me look like a bloated cow or something like I I I used to I I take a couple of anadils. I remember once I went to the LA Fitness Expo and I didn't have I don't know why I only had Diana balls at the time. So I took some Diana balls and I went there. I see my pictures. My face was so bloated. I don't know what I looked like. Just fat just a fat guy. I just look like a fat guy. For me it's it's horrible. It doesn't make me stronger but it makes me very happy. Like I get in feel very very good. Yeah. Yeah. But a good mood. I'm killing my liver for this good mood. I don't want that. I want an It doesn't It doesn't make you stronger. Not much. Not much. Oh, it dude. Not compared to anrol. Hilarious. Yeah, of course. For me, anadrol is at least like three or four times more effective for powerlifting. What causes the dbol back pumps? That's a good uh quick little subtopic. Towerine deficiency. I really I don't know. You supplement these guys with torine 5,000 to 10,000 milligrams per day and the back pumps go away. It's the exacellar fluid in the lower back and you get the same during carpal tunnel. Oh, retention from the mineral corticoid receptors. you probably retain more salt immediately, right? So you you alleviate that with torine, which helps with the extracellular water and helps to disperse that. I mean, it's not it's not a fix for everything. But in most cases, guys that run a decent dose of torine, no carpal tunnel and no lower back pumps. And if it still persists, okay, you either deal with it or you lower the dose or take the deanal out. Isn't it weird? That's like the one water retentive compound that seems to cause like a localized back pumps though versus also can't get off also. Oh my god. Can't even do the dishes, you know. Oh my god. Do the dishes. Yeah. You walking around, you start thinking you have kidney disease like cuz your back you have such a back pump. You start worrying about your kidneys. It's crazy. So So that guy who took 10,000 by the way used to take 20 anids a day sometimes on competition days. 20 legitimately. What happened? Uh what's he doing now? He's still dropping bars on his chest. Thousand pounds bench press. Yeah, that's funny. Yeah, we might have to cut that. But all right, but I wanted to mention something. Okay, this is really off topic, but have you guys noticed that there's a tremendous amount of Egyptian bodybuilders in bodybuilding with great talent suddenly. There's Ramy, there's Hassan Mustafa, there's this guy called, they keep calling him Muhammad, but his name is, I guess, Muhammad Alim. He had incredible quads at the New York Pro. Did you guys see that guy? No. You saw him, Derek? No, I didn't. You know what I'm talking about? Oh my god. Well, anyway, my all I wanted to comment on was I find it fascinating that there's Egypt so many Egyptian bodybuilders doing so well at bodybuilding because what I noticed was that Kevin Levrone and Phil Heath had really interesting muscle. Uh, and they were they were multi-racial. They're biracial. What many people may not know is Egyptians are sort of like that, too. So, Egyptians are originally they're like Egyptians. They mixed with Nubians who are south of them, a little bit darker. Then they got invaded by Greeks, then by Romans. And then for like hundreds of years they had an empire called the Mluke Empire in Egypt in which they imported in mass the most uh tough uh uh fighters from the Balkan regions. They enslaved them and brought them into Egypt. For hundreds of years, Egypt was ruled by these people mixing with the Egyptians. I think that this is what gave this crazy genetics to Ramy and Hassan Mustafa. They all have these crazy quads also. Have you noticed that? Yeah. Yeah. I'm coaching an Egyptian guy now that lives in France and he's um he's growing so fast. It's unbelievable. He came to me for his first cycle and he's just growing and growing and growing, making progress, you know, recmping at the same time. So, he's he's going to do very well in the future. Yeah. Steve, what's your what's your fasting protocols for competitive athletes now that you've fasted so much? And you know, man, it's still difficult. It's still difficult to get these guys to fast. They're so scared. What would you do? What would you do if you had a competitive athlete who you knew was or not even a competitive athlete, but someone who you knew were was undergoing stress on his body, particularly from food, like an athlete, would you do something like periodic fast every 3 months, two months? Because we got questions on this. People were like, "Hey, can I just fast for 6 hours a day? Would that work?" And that's something different. It's different. Yeah. It's not the same, you know. I mean, it helps with insulin sensitivity. Um, but does it induce um, you know, autophagy? No. Exactly. You know, intermittent fasting doesn't improve autophagy. So, and it doesn't improve digestion from my experience. You know, because a lot of people they shorten their food window and then they eat still eat the same amount of food. So during this time that you're eating, the burden of food is actually increased because now you're trying to force more food through your intestinal tract in a shorter period of time. That's why intermittent fasting works well if you're on holiday, for example. That's the only time that I do it. You skip breakfast. You don't pick out at the hotel buffet. You go do your sightseeing. You walk around, you get your cardio in, and then you have your lunch, your dinner. That's intermittent fasting on a holiday, right? Perfect. Perfect time to do it. But if you want to have athletic performance, you know, a high level athletic performance, you need to eat. But there's also periods in time where you want to kind of reset everything, the insulin sensitivity, the digestive tract, right? And not have this chronic saturation of glycogen stores in the liver, in the skeletal muscle, and even in the brain or other tissues of the body. So then you would fast maybe five days if you can stomach it. But you start slow. You take it day by day because a fiveday fast for many people is completely intolerable. Yeah. You start a couple of days, right? So I I I read up on Jason Fun four years ago and he's like, "Yeah, do a five day fast." Okay, I did it. But I've been bodybuilding for 20 years. I I know how to suffer, you know, and and find mental cues around the suffering. Most people to do one week. He always says, "Yeah, one week." Yeah. Well, I mean, but in his case, it's it's for diabetes. Like I would I don't have diabetes. Yeah. You know, so for he's trying to reset metabolic disorders. Um and I'm sure in that case it works very well. I would do it like in between an offseason and a contest prep. So instead of the cookie cutter DMP protocol that everybody oh you start your contest prep with a twoe DMP cycle, deplete all the glycogen, you can do that in one week with fasting and it's way cheaper and a lot of uh a lot less stress when it comes to free radicals and uh and oxidants, you know, in the body. So you just stop eating for a week. You reset your digestion, you reset cravings, you optimize D loads because I feel that it it works way better. Maybe you get a little bit of autophagy, but in most cases, you know, you're you're so backed up with glycogen that you don't get any autophagy and the drug still continues, right? the drug intake and then most guys would optimize the most amount of lipolyis which actually acts as an anti catabolic or yeah anti catabolic agent because the climbrol the growth hormone and whatever other pharmarmacology is involved probably prevents autophagy as well because you always make sure that there's plenty of fatty acids available to keep cellular processes going. So there's there's there's different reasons why you want to do a fast. Is that for metabolic disorder? Is that for fat loss? understood that to optimize your digestion is it to resolve non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and I feel that now that I've experimented with real fasting and fasting mimicking diet I think for most of the things that we want in bodybuilding the fat loss and insulin sensitivity and getting depleted and and upregulating particular processes in the body I think that fasting mimicking is ideal because you still get to excrete all this bile acid that binds up with the fiber so you actively detox detoxify all the you know the the cholesterol and the bile acids and the metabolic waste products and all that stuff and if you're fasting like what I used to do like full fasting you just drink water and you get your micronutrients in from supplements then unless you're mega dosing baking soda which helps to bound bind a little bit of this bal acid in the intestinal tract and promotes excretion this also reduces the lactic acid buffer in the bloodstream which now allows all the metabolically active tissue in in the body to dump their toxins into the bloodstream and now your creatinine is skyhigh. Your creatine phosphate kinesis is skyhigh because you you remove the lactic acid buffer at which particular cells detoxify. They detoxify into the bloodstream then the liver and then the bow acid and then the intestinal tract. So there's different methods to do it and then you really have to assess what you want to do. You want to do it for fat loss. You want to optimize your digestion, you know, to to reset an offseason for insulin sensitivity. There's different strategies. Some guys that are behind on prep, I make them fast one day a week. And I've been doing this the entire time after I reintroduced the food. You have your cheat meal on Sunday, a little bit of a refeed, and Monday you do fasting mimicking, right? Caloric intake is maybe 300, 500, and then Tuesday, you continue to eat again. That's very sustainable. You don't need a GLP, one receptor agonist for that because most guys are not hungry the day after the refeed or cheat meal. You just have a little bit of vegetables to fill your stomach. That's so so that's the question then. The question becomes what's the reason to fast? I mean one thing that's fasting has become very popular. So people like to popularize on YouTube say that oh if you cut your calories down and you're cutting for example you actually will lose more muscle than if you fast for a few days. The point really to say that was they're trying to say you're not going to lose that much muscle when you fast. You shouldn't I don't think you should be fasting to try to lose body fat. That's not your I don't think that's the reason. There's I think two health reasons to fast. One is to do something called timerestricted eating which you calling inter intermittent fasting. The person who called it timerestricted eating is a guy called Sachin Panda. I highly highly recommend to the audience to buy his book on Amazon. It's a 200page book circadian code. Wonderful book very easy to read. It'll change the way you think about your health forever. Sachin Panda is actually the father of circadian rhythm research. If you think about Walker the sleep guy, this is his father, the circadian guy. He invented the whole research of circadian rhythms. He's really interesting. He's at the Sulk Institute. Don't listen to his interviews. You won't be able to pay attention. Read the book, but because he's he talks really monotone to be honest with you, but he's he's a cool guy. So that is timerestricted eating. What does that mean? You wake up, the first time you take in a calorie, you set your time, and then the last time you take a calorie, that's the end of your time. You consider that the time period that you ate during the day. What's the goal of that? Keep it the same time every day so your body knows what to expect and minimize the time under 12 hours. every hour you bring it under 12 hours, you get tremendously improved insulin sensitivity and all that other stuff. So, this could protect you, like Steve was saying, from diabetes or these kind of metabolic issues. This could be great for your health in the long term. Could probably make you have cancer less cuz you're not growing all the time. Probably less autoimmune diseases, less GI stress for sure. I can tell you that as somebody with Crohn's disease, I've been doing this for years now. The other thing that you can do is something that's been most popularized by Vulture Longo, who created the fasting mimicking diet that Steve was referring to. Um, Vultongo actually has a company called Prolon in which they sell you the actual food to take during this fast and he's done studies on the fasting diet with people with cancer showing to improve uh chemotherapy and improve uh autoimmune diseases, arthritis and so on. What is the periodic fasting interesting for? Um, what it does is puts your body in a state of nutrient deprivation. Your body has sensing pathways like mTor and kynise that sense whether you're starved or fed. If you're starved, your body goes into cellular repair mode and like Steve was saying, autophagy and you actually kill some bad cells. You reuse proteins, that's called autophagy, and you basically go into repair. On the other hand, when your body senses it's full, it's always growing. Growing is not great for cancers or for longevity in general. So, the idea being that originally it's all started with caloric restriction. Years ago, people realized that if they ate literally below their maintenance constantly, well, they realized that if rodents did this, they would live much longer, 40% longer. There are humans that do this. They belong to the caloric restriction society. They're always cold and uncomfortable. So, instead of being cold and uncomfortable, people thought, "Hey, could we eat normally for a month and then fast for a few days? And how many days would it take for our blood markers to start showing we're in autophagy?" Well, it seems that that happens for most people around the third or fourth day. So, the idea is to get to the fifth day or so that you get a little bit of autophagy every so often. I used to do this every month until my wife got pregnant and then I've been binging on all kinds of foods. I got fat and then all kinds of interesting things happen. But I used to do that all the time. I'm going to go back to it. I highly recommend you guys try it. You could try one day at a time. Just try one day, try two days. Now, another thing, Steve, is this I've been looking into recently. I've been thinking about it. Let's say how could you optimize the fast if we're guys that like peeds. How could you do this faster? So one thing I was doing for a while is using rapamy on the first date. Don't do this people are listening. Rapomy is very dangerous. It shuts off your growth pathways properly in your body. That's what a guy with androgens who has mTor shut up would need to do to get into a proper fast probably. Metformin wouldn't be enough probably either. And we could talk about how whether metformin can override those androgen receptors. But anyway I started with rapomy. Then now we were talking about MK-677 right? We know that growth hormone increases the first two days and it's via ghrelin. So maybe if you weren't that hungry, MK-677 could exaggerate it too. What would thyroid do? Thyroid would also stress out the body a little bit more. Uh some people were talking about adrenaline in the first couple of days because adrenaline also puts you in that stress mode and nutrient deprivation mode. You you uh start spending that's what happens in the first two days of the fat by the way fast by the way. You have more adrenaline so you burn more visceral fat and so on. So anyway, I was looking at doing more PEDs next time. I've only tried rapamy and alopurinol also. During a fast your uric acid will rise. You have to take you don't have to but I take alopurinol so that I don't have because I used to fast every month. I don't want my uric acid every month to go high. Uric acid is an independent risk factor. So I was just going to ask you what what is like the indication of autophagy and you mentioned elevated uric acid levels. So I've never seen my uric acid levels elevated. So, I probably never induced autophagy even though I fasted for 6 and 1/2 days in a row cuz you were so muscular and and uh muscular, right? And I usually do it in an overtrained state, which I would expect a little bit of recycling of protein, right? But apparently that never happened. But then again, my uric acid is always in range and unfortunately mine is always in range except during the fast. Yeah. So even during the fast it's in range. Um and but in most cases there's some pharmacology involved which probably prevents autophagy, right? And Right. So, there's so many ways to approach it. And I'm going to do one maybe in August or at least before I get back on cycle, you know, before I take steroids again. um and then see how my experience is then because now I've done fasting mimicking diet for 6 weeks and I I need a little bit of a break from uh from that you know even though like fasting mimicking diet with a GLP-1 receptor agonist like one week on the fasting mimicking diet felt like one day with conventional water fasting. So five days of conventional water fasting was as strenuous mentally as five five to six weeks of um fasting mimicking was way easier. Fascinating. I've never tried it, by the way. Personally, I never tried it. I'm I'm interested. Give it a try. My blood my blood work is almost perfect now. Yeah. But you did it for weeks consistently. 6 weeks. That's insane. You were eating 1,000 calories for 6 weeks. No, 500 per day. You were eating 500 calories for 6 weeks. And what do you think I looked? I I dropped 30. Fasting mimicking diet is 1,000 calories, 50% from fat, 50% from carbohydrates. I eat 100 calories on the on the on the third and fourth and 50. So, I did vegetables only. Well, you did. Wow. That's So, you didn't do fats? No, I didn't. Oh, olives. I wanted to resolve this non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. I mean, when you see the before and after ultrasound on the No, no, I'm sure it works, but but it's not. Valter Longos is really focused. I didn't read I didn't read that book. Yeah. The more you have carbohydrates, the more your insulin could be there and it could negate the fast. So, in fact, it's really they're really focused on fats. If if it was just fats and and and 800 calories, that would actually be ideal. But they put the carbs in there to help people out and stuff like I just have vegetables. So I I realized I had to brute force this non-alcoholic fatty liver disease because every supplementation protocol that I did for vegetables because you used to be eating only salmon and I'm so curious. How are you preparing your vegetables? I just make a salad. I just toss what you wait. Oh no, we're going to get the comments. Do you put like No, no, not comments. I'm just I just said tossing the salad. So um it's very easy. I I go to the grocery store. I get everything that's green and colorful and I throw it in a bowl. I rinse it and I eat it. Oh no, mine is complicated. I have all kinds of like different spices I put on it. I have hummus. I have baba. By the way, these are not my foods. Don't think cuz I'm eat. These are Lebanese all day long. So stereotypical. But I put them with my salad because when you mix it with a salad, you start to feel and I put like ground walnuts. I do a lot of things to try to make it feel adventurous because I'm not a cow. I can't graze all day, but I try to make the salad like feel like a real meal, you know, like almost like it had some meat or spice in it. So, it's like 4 or 500 g of salad and then I throw in a protein source and a little bit of fat to make it ketogenic and anabolic and then uh that's what I do now. But before then, I did had three huge salads per day and a GLP one in the morning and then I would cruise along. But to be fair, I did do a cheat meal in the weekend uh because, you know, I have a relationship and we'd like to go out. Still the same place. Yeah, same place. Yeah, that same same stuff every week. When I come to Thailand, you have to take me there for sure. I'll get you a discount, too. That's a deal. I think I think Derek is falling asleep on us. Even though, by the way, I have uh I'm finding there's these two peptides that I had. I'll put it in the chat. And it's when you were talking about mimicking a fast. I have to say, this is something I took note of like a year ago, maybe. And it was uh that's right. Yeah. Yeah. I forget. I honestly don't even remember the mechanism of action by how this works, but this is just a note I have in case you want to look into these. These were very promising for the reasons I am about to post in here, but it will not seem to let me. Uh let's see. So I have uh GHQ copper or GHK copper peptide and TB-500 and BPC-157 here ready for an experiment. Um and I will run you through them separately and then by themselves this second one I had never heard of at the time. So this is why I took these notes and um let's see honestly these might be like not even really make sense what I'm writing and this you know the people watching have no idea what the [\h__\h] I'm talking about right now. And this is like very unorganized notes, so I'm not even going to present it. I'm just giving it to you, Leo, in case you want to dig into it further. But this is I was going to make a video on this and then it was just so extrapolated and I didn't even know where to get the second peptide. So, I just kind of I I don't know. There's a lot of topics I have on my to-do list that eventually just end up being like a year old that I don't touch because I I'm just like on next thing, next thing, next thing. So much that stuff I wanted to look into. Is this coming from a Discord group? the way this is written. Yeah. Yeah. This is this is the group that uh you were potentially gonna be in. Like uh is it the group I was invited to? Yeah, I think the same one. I left that. We have we have mutual friends in it, but they um you talk to them outside of the Discord now. So, it's not like you would need to be in there to get this information out. It's very unorganized Discord groups. Um but I I get tagged in messages. guy. I don't know how to do this. I'm a forum guy. I'll always be a forum for forum guy. I kind of discords. People are talking in voice messages and that stuff, right? They send voice messages. Uh no, I haven't seen anybody do that. They just there's another thing that where people send voice messages in like a chat, like a group chat. I don't know what there's a just like there's a more plates more dates subreddit there's a more plates more dates discord that I was not aware of until fairly recently but they put a lot of I think it skews really young there though cuz there's a lot of really immature behavior there to the point where it's like I don't visit as much as they'd probably like me to but they do there are a lot of guys on there that put in like really good video ideas and sometimes it's cool to go back and forth with some of them a lot of them just like you know post ridiculous [\h__\h] but some of them are actually like, you know, fairly in line with my interest, like obviously as fans of the channel. And um I get the sense some of them skew like really young. They're like part of my really young demographic there, which is cool to see that many people in one place, but it's uh um in general, it's like a good place for me to accumulate ideas of what to post. I've actually come up with some of my best videos recently um from some of their suggestions. So, Discord isn't all bad, that's for sure. I just find it hard to read. Like it's difficult to structure, but maybe I just have to get used to the structure. Um, you know, there's like a bunch of different types of categories of topics and then if you if you want to see something that happened even 10 minutes ago and there's a lot of people talking like good luck. It's not it's way gone just so like for me what I I go to the Discord and I filter by my name and then I see like oh this is where somebody mentioned me. Let's look at that. This is where somebody messaged me. Let's look at that. I I did that, but I didn't really like what I read. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, like especially, it's kind of funny how they'll invite you to the group and then not realize you can filter by them shit-talking you. So, I still love you guys. The same group that I was invited to, Steve, you saw them shit-talking you there? Yeah, the lab rat group, I think. So, yeah. Oh, man. I was there's always token guys there that don't like you, though. Like, I have I have friends that are there. I've met some of the best patient care coordinators I have from there. Um, very intelligent group, but there's always like one or two guys who's like Eric, he's an idiot, like blah blah blah. And it's like, I can say your [\h__\h] you know? Yeah. I went in there, the first thing they said was like, I'm not going to name who, but they were like, uh, the invitation came from some random guy. You didn't tell me about it, Derek. Some random guy messaged me randomly and he's like, hey, we have a secret club for you. And he's like, listen, there are important people here. Tony Huge is Tony Huge is here and and some other people are here. I was like, what am I gonna learn there? So, I go in the thing and then I look at it and it's like it's like a bunch of people that think they're really special trying to communicate. I don't know. I I there are there are some really intelligent guys there that you you are friends with now. So, obviously, you know, some of them are highly intellectual, but there are a lot that are just there to [\h__\h] around and some will be shitalking you, too. No, I'm not. Yeah, that's such a shame. Talking necessary. We could read academic paper and then sometimes the same guys that comment on your channel are highly praising you and then somewhere else they're talking. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen people I've seen people literally comment publicly on my video something good and then I'll be watching another guy's video and it'll be a comment from I recognize the YouTube comment and it's like that guy [\h__\h] talking me on the other video. I'm like I'm like bro that why why do people act like that online? It's weird especially when you people develop people develop an unhealthy relationship with YouTubers. Yeah. And and it's so so what I noticed like I got on YouTube in the beginning, right? And and like people that know you a little bit through Instagram or before they knew me through Tony or or Derek mentioned me here and there. So that those are the early adopters, right? Very nice people. They find you from the beginning. Then as the audience grows, um you start getting a a couple guys that like your content, not all the content. And then in the beginning like, oh, I can't believe that this is for free, right? You see those comments all the time. This you're you're amazing. Yeah. Thank you for everything that you do. And then over time those comments change because they start to see you as a friend or something like that or they put a lot of pressure on you where you're somehow dictating what they're going to do next in their PED journey and then they hear something they don't like and then they they turn into their worst enemy. Like it's my fault. I've never met these people and I'm I'm always wondered like what kind of relationship are you developing with me? There's always like one guy who dislikes the video immediately when you post. He's like dedicated to hating you. There's always that one guy. I have 18. No one. Yeah, I have a couple for sure. Always like like clockwork. I'm like, how are you awake? Like this isn't even my regular posting schedule and here you are. Here you are. But anyways, there's those guys who just hate you for like whatever. But then there's the individuals who like used to say positive stuff and they slowly transition into hating you. Sort of like I don't know maybe the transition you mentioned Steve. But it's interesting because if you take their username and you plug it into your creator studio sort by comments, you can visually see the progression of them hating you more and more over the year of commenting. So you can see their first comment they ever posted on your channel like, "Oh, this is a great video, blah blah blah." Two months later it's like, "Fuck Derek. He's a piece of [\h__\h] Blah blah blah. I don't agree with this. No. So yeah, just so so that's what I do now. Sometimes I see like a disrespectful comment and I search the username to see Yeah. You can see like what his mind progression has been over the past year watching your stuff and you'll see the guys who hate you will comment a lot. So they will you can see back to like two years ago even. They'll be like a like a fanboy and then super they like start transitioning slowly into like hating your guts until by the end of it they're like posting [\h__\h] on like every video. It's so weird. And it's it's it's I don't think it's anything that we do. It's just an unhealthy relationship that people develop with us because we're on YouTube almost every day, right? And people see and especially during co I think a lot of people develop an unhealthy relationship with the people that they follow um because they see us on their time but they don't see their own friends all the time. Yeah. But you some people think that some people think if we make a mistake like an something that I don't know like a fact that they knew and you didn't know all of a sudden they don't think you're a credible source of information anymore and then they they start to think like oh can I trust this guy and then they start looking for holes in your [\h__\h] Bro, I keep getting that but they're they're posting incorrect stuff saying you're wrong, this is right and then I'm like no it's not. And if correct me I've gotten like three honestly I've gotten three comments or four comments that were proper corrections. I was very one came from your employee a long time ago. Not a correction. He told me about Neb Nebol. I never heard of him. So I was really grateful and that's why I remembered him and then later I didn't like him anymore. But when I first saw it I was like, "Oh, he's a nice guy. Thank you so much." So I remembered him. But most of the comments I get are they're correcting me, but the [\h__\h] they're writing is wrong. Like no Thomas Sardon PPR Delta, you lose weight, bro. You don't know about that? Look. No, man. Why are you correcting me? Go read. I always just say go read and I hide. hide the user permit. Go read hide. I'm like, this is too much. But the other thing is this, bro. I sometimes get comments now. I'm like, where did this even come from? Like two days ago, I got a comment. You're such a beta male, Leo. What did What gave you that idea? What do I see? I mean, maybe I seem like one cuz I have books, but I mean, why would you think that? And then why would you say it? And why would you send it? Like, what were you thinking? But at the same time, I wouldn't blame the viewers for developing a relationship because honestly, it happened to me. Like I thought I honestly thought of Palumbo as like my uncle for like five years. I I love Palumbo. I loved him so much, bro. When when that when that other bodybuilder did something wrong to him, I can't remember what his name is. Bob Chick. I was so mad. I had nothing to do with it. I thought they attacked Palumbo. This guy, he's such a good guy, old guy. He's sitting there. He has, you know, living in Florida. Doesn't have much going around and people are attacking him. I was like defending him. Little do you know, you get to know the guy. He's not what you thought. So, I understand like developing a thing and I I I hope that viewers never think that I don't care about them. I don't check my DMs, by the way, guys. So, there's just too many messages. So, I hope you never never get offended. I I do care. But I I I always wonder what the where the progression is coming from when the the quality of the content that we produce is just getting better and better and better. And are we going to be right all the time? No. But the science and the experience that we acquire over the years is going to change also. So, overall the content is getting better. But at one point everybody's going to be wrong about something and you know but you can hold us accountable to being wrong about one thing or mispronouncing like I mispronounce all the time. Let's talk about that Derek about the the the thing that pe people have been accusing you of now about the children. So the epigenetics and the children. So that's a good one. So I want to clear this up for people. So So the idea is this. All right. Should you go off if you were a guy who used steroids like we us three did and you want to have kids like and this is the idea is this not the fact is this. This is the idea not even your idea. I'm just the idea is nobody knows the truth here. So first of all let me let everybody know. So there's something called genetics. And then the way I I try to explain it to people is like imagine each of your cells in your in your body is playing poker and they have a hand of cards and they choose what card to deal each time something happens. That's your epigenetics. how your genetics are being reflected according to your environment. Your genetics are not a dichomous 01 thing. You have variety of genes that can be shown from each cell. Right? So that this has only been discovered like 10 years ago. So nobody knows anything about epigenetics. We know very little about it. In fact, one of the very few things we know about it is the Dutch famine which we can talk about. So in the Dutch famine, uh a lot of people were starving in the Ne Netherlands. Their grandchildren ended up obese. So you're starving, insulin resistant, epigenetics transferred over to your grandchildren. And we know some examples like that, but very few. We don't really know how epigenetics change. I used to use steroids. I was very concerned, number one, that I was going to have a lot of girls, have a girl. Okay, I'm having a girl now. So that that ended up happening anyway. But a lot of a lot of steroid users seem to have a lot of girls. So we're wondering why. That's one thing. By the way, guys, I'd like to mention something. Your gender of children is determined by your mother's side. This is one of the things that is actually from your mother's side. Look at your mother's father. Look how many girls and boys he had. That's going to reflect on you. Not your father's side. My father's side all have boys. My mother's side have a lot of girls. So that's one thing. But the second thing is this. So say you were taking steroids for a while. Other than the fact of gender selection, the steroids will affect your epigenetics. So you'll be more aggressive, say certain things. Do you want to transfer that to your kids or do you want to give them a blank slate? My original idea was, oh, I went off steroids for 3 years, right? I I became very healthy and all that, but was I able to go to baseline? So, I thought originally like I could go to baseline and give a baseline representation to my children. I no longer think so. And just because of the fact that when I was off steroids, I healed and everything. I had my sex drive, everything was normal. But I did notice that my beard was thinner than it used to be when I was in my 20s when I wasn't on steroids, right? I noticed some things like that and I thought that because I was exposed to so many androgens, my body was somehow desensitized like the baseline testosterone level whatever wasn't hitting me as hard. So now the reason why I changed now people have been accusing Derrick of making a mistake which is completely incorrect. The reason why I thought then now what I want to do is cuz I had a girl now it's a personal issue. I just want to have a girl and a boy. I don't want to just have girls in my family. So my and I don't want to have girls in a row. I want like a brother to be protective and stuff like that. I I never had siblings. So I just I always imagined to have I always wanted to have siblings. So I want my my children to have siblings. So my wife and I thought about it and we're like we don't want to have a girl next. Now the problem with IVF is what IVF or any kind of um enhanced you know I don't know. I forgot what they call it. There's a term in the medical literature, but when you use uh Clomid for your wife or anything else, all of that stuff has been shown, not nobody's ever talked about this on YouTube before, by the way. Um, no, all of that stuff has been shown to worsen the metabolic profiles of the children later down the line. Children from IVF have worse metabolic profiles when they're 20 than children that are not from IVF. So, you don't want to do IVF unless you have to. My wife and I have probably decided to do IVF next. And with that in mind, because we want to have bo a boy and since we're going to do it, we're probably going to get twins. So, this is probably going to be boys. With the knowledge that I'm gonna have boys already, I don't have to worry about that. Then I thought, okay, do I want my boys to be potentially hypoandrogenic because I've been used to so many androgens, my epigenetics may have reversed the opposite way. So, that's where I came to that thought. Whereas, people apparently have been commenting to Derek saying that that his What were they telling you? It was like so yeah, my idea it wasn't even my idea. I got it from you was to come off because well like there's something going on that's causing more I don't even know if it's factual or if it's just coincidental that more bodybuilders who took gear having females than Yeah, that's what I've always observed. Logically, I'd like to avoid that enhanced probability of only having girls obviously. So, I'm thinking, okay, well, if I'm going to come off TRT, then I will, you know, do a postcycle therapy and return to baseline and get off of the exogenous hormones that may be causing epigenetic changes that influence the gender of my child. Logical conclusion, I would think, but then, you know, Leo comes out with this new theory about I still think it's a logical conclusion. Yeah. But then it's like, none of us know what the [\h__\h] to do. We're just speculating. Not only we not know, but scientists don't know. The experts in epigenetics could not tell us. Nobody can know. We're all speculating and these are valid ideas. And if it ever will be studied, it will be studied in cases of HRT, which a lot of these guys take HRT because if they have in, you know, testosterone insufficiency or or fertil infertility before they even start TRT. So that probably also is not a valid sample size. So for the guys out there that are wondering what it's like to come off steroids and come back to baseline, which I've accomplished, my testosterone was 650 nanogs per diliter. Before I took steroids at 26 years old and as of 2 weeks ago it was 630 nanogs per diliter. Oh, see completely cleaned out, right? But my lifestyle is completely different now, right? Back then it was highly stressed, right? Working as a consultant, not paying good attention to my nutrition as I do now. Now I'm way more financially secure so I can afford all these tests, you know, at, you know, at the moment's notice. So, a lot has changed, but I was able to get back to baseline. Will I get my wife pregnant soon? No. At the age of 40. No, that's the question. That's what I wanted to know. So, secretly, I've been telling my wife secretly. I've never said, but I've been telling my wife. I've been telling my wife. I have a suspicion that Steve did not go off hormones because of the nap because it didn't make sense because I argued with you. I was telling you, you should be on testosterone. I had a feeling that you guys are planning to have a family. Is it true or you so no the plan is I was talking about this today my wife in the car right wait right wait so the plan is around 40 my wife is not ready yet and I don't want to force her into because I know her physique will change after the pregnancy and and so we wanted to get her competition uh out of the way and she still likes her shape now because you know when I look at her mom or her grandparents they the physique took quite a hit from the pregnancy. Yeah. You know the hips widening. Yeah. No. Right. So, I want her to enjoy her life um being physically super fit because she has a banging body and and if she wants to have kids at 40, 42, 45 even, you know, we we did our fertility checks many many times during competitions while I'm on steroids and in most cases the fertility is still good. I still produce 23 million sperm on cycle. One thing I should warn you about one, your fertility can be good. You can have a child. It doesn't mean the child is the same quality. No, of course. Of course, as a man, not just women. Imagine men's sperm develop epigenetic damage over time and children end up there's evidence, I've read this in research evidence, there's evidence that men's sperm gets I thought originally I read a long time ago in a book, some genetics book that men's sper men actually had more um something was was their children were better off when they were born later and they thought it was a genetic thing. Turns out even the men's side gets worse, but the woman's side tremendously gets worse. Yeah, there's there's a limited time, right? So, it's not about it not being born. It's about it being born. You don't know the minor things that are wrong. No. And that will manifest during puberty, right? So, like I can tell from my father's side, my dad had another kid when he was 53. Mine too. Mine too. What? Perfectly healthy. Yeah. I've got a little sister and she's like 11 years old. Me too. What? Yeah. Mine is 11 or 12. Yeah. Right. Very very very young. So and and on my mom uh my wife's side there's all these kids are healthy and got in later lives as well. Now they're of course our parents are a little bit different than we are because uh you know we were exposed to a peed or two. But I've checked my fertility. I've checked my fertility a couple weeks ago and I got millions of sperm with good mortal motility, good morphology. Everything is all good. Can it be better? Of course. That's why I'm doing this icing the testicles experiment. We checked my wife uh my wife's eggs, right? All good size. All plenty in considered saving them the eggs. That would that we thought about Yeah, we thought the IVF issues but not the epigenetic issues. That's an interesting right. So so we're looking into that maybe maybe seven weeks from now, 8 weeks from now, we'll do um you know get that resolved. Um so you know, but again I'm not really fond of IVF. I like it the conventional way. you know, try until you buy. Yeah. Unless you have in a row Kardashian house. I don't I don't want to I don't want to end up a 60-year-old transsexual. I'm trying to avoid I don't know what happens when you have a lot of girls in the house. I've never had a sister. I don't have any female cousins, but I I have a feeling we have a lot of I'm just watching the Kardashians. Something happens there. So, I'm trying to get it all mixed together. I'm making no There will be no TV in my house, man. No TV is poison. I I threw literally when I was 15 years old, I threw my TV out or at least the connection, you know, the cable. I haven't watched TV since I was 15. I played video games. I I downloaded [\h__\h] from the computer, but I've never watch TV. We have very weird similarities. This at 16, I got rid of my TV, but for religious reasons. Got rid of my TV also. No, I just figured that why would I watch all these commercials of stuff that I can't afford. Wow. Incredible. Yeah. I bought a TV when I came back when I came back to the US. I bought a TV for the first time. E E Donkey and Kazan and then Napster was already out. So I started downloading at a early age, you know. He doesn't know what Napster is. Do you know what Napster is, Derek? Yeah. Do you know what Limewire is? That's it was after it. Every time you download something, it's labeled as something else. So you still How many times I download I'd go to download a song and it would be like It'd be like uh what's that president who's like I did not sleep with that woman. It would be Yeah. It would be playing like a [\h__\h] Clinton clip for like some song I'm trying to illegally download. Bro, I used a lot of snuff a lot of snuff videos on I used to spend like five I think it was 5 to 20 minutes downloading a song on Napster when I was like 13. And and then over time you'd collect songs. So you had 20 you had two 2000 I had 2,000 songs at some point. I was like that because the time I spent to download each one, you know, it was incredible. Then if you that's it. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And your hard disk would fail. You know, you're like, end of the world, you know, and now I got gigabytes of YouTube videos that I don't even want to categorize, right? What a different world we live in, huh? Imagine we had YouTube and Wikipedia. Imagine we had Wikipedia when we were younger. My god. We' be in in a much better I'd be 10 years ahead. Like what Derek has accomplished, right? How old are you? 27 now. 28. Yeah, Derek. Let's do with I wouldn't probably be as No, but it the opportunity was there, right? But I I didn't have the opportunity to go on social media because I wasn't there. Yeah, it's true. And so so so I feel that I was like born at the right time where I still understood what actual freedom without government supervision looked like where nowadays like it like in Guy Sister Nino's case where there's a a camera present and now the whole world comment on it. He posted I don't know why he posted it though. Right. Right. So but now the whole world can watch. But I remember a day where you could just do whatever without scrutiny unless you're you're your your direct circle. And I'm I'm so happy I got things out of my system at an early age. Uh because things I used to do when I was traveling. Oh my god. People would just cringe. You know what were you doing? What is this? No, just like I would take my motorbike and just start climbing around the mountains just because I wanted to, you know, see the total freedom. And I would not call anybody, not tell anybody where I was. I would just drive around and end up at like places that are considered quite dangerous uh over in Vietnam. Um and just make my own adventure, man. But nowadays, people need to document everything. And then if I were to document what I did while I was traveling, people would like, "What the [\h__\h] are you doing?" We're so lucky that our content is like you can reproduce it sitting wherever you are in front of a wall. Yeah. Versus like guys who have to vlog all the time. I feel sorry for them. The guys have to literally bring a camera. Like when they travel, they have to worry about like it's cool to get the write offs for taxes and whatnot. And and theoretically, we could just vlog if anytime we want to write something off, too. But knowing that we can just sit here and pump out some information that's going to be more views than us literally like having to go to the gym with a [\h__\h] thing or go on a trip. Yeah. That's what I noticed also. Yeah. Yeah. Even even though you're you're under more scrutinous lens than your lifestyle videos cuz you mispronounce one word. Oh, it's picoggrams. No, it's pogs. Yeah, I like pico still, but it's Yeah, it's not pico. Oh, I get that comment a lot. Like, where is this guy's accent from? It hurts my ears. Like a lot of this stuff. I'm like, this is not my first language, man. Which is why nice. I stopped reading the comments. I I can't I can't deal with it emotionally. No, really. It's it's whether it's a good or it's just the sheer volume of it. Let's discuss. Let's go back on topic. We have to discuss pre-workout. So, we got questions about this was the question. DLM says, "What are some unusual pre-workout supplements for more strength or a better pump? PEDs and natural supplements included first of all and then he mentioned or there were a lot of comments people mentioned oxytocin, intraasal insulin, cratom, torine, alphagpc, elyroine. Notice alpha gpc and elyrocine are both in Derek's pre-workout, right? Awesome. Yeah. And uh we have Alpha GPC and Yeah. But I would something that our marketing hasn't taken advantage of that we really should is advertising how much instant strength you can get out of adequate alpha GPC deployment. So, not, you know, a 300 milligram dose, but actually using a clinical 600 or potentially the Alzheimer's 1200, I'm sure would work fairly [\h__\h] well, too. Um, concurrently with like nitric if you wanted stimulant free um like acute strength outcomes as well as obviously better pumps and whatnot. But um yeah, like that product is separate because it also it's a neutropic on its own, but then if you wanted to get that kind of effect on top of the pre-workouts, you could stack it alongside it. But yeah, the elyroines in the pre. We have a [\h__\h] ton of alpha GPC and smooth, which I actually just doubled. So now it's 1,200 milligrams, which I don't think anybody else is doing. So that's my favorite combo. 600 by the way. I didn't realize it's I have it now. Per six capsules, it's 1,200 milligrams of alpha GPC. Oh yeah, Derek. Derek, you're going to kill me. No. So, let's disc but but but Steve, these are something. Did you ever use intraasal insulin? You mentioned you me I think you mentioned inhalable insulin. I've looked into I added into the insulin ebook, but it's it's such a novel thing. Just injectable insulin works intramuscularly as well, but in most cases, pre-workout insulin will just cause you to go hypoglycemic unless you have really fundamental understanding of your blood glucose. And and listen, there's there's cards like bodybuilding and and pre-workout. It's like a card game like you mentioned. You deal the right cards at the right time. You don't need to play the joker card right at the beginning. You don't need to store everything right before you go inside. No, right. And so so some people about my pre-workout regimen. It's extensive. Right. It's extensive. When I was training at maximum capacity, I got my Gorilla Monitri and my smooth and my PC2 and my glycerol and my sodium and my ubiquinol, right? to and and injectable ATP and all that all that stuff. It works for me, but I've been doing this for 20 years. So, I wanted the reason why I wanted to bring this up is what the hell are people doing taking Phanto pre-workout? Fanabut is a GABA agonist. GABA will weaken you. Take a Valium. Go work out. If you're a strength athlete, you'll notice all your weights go down immediately after. You don't need to relax at the gym. It's a public gym, bro. in the comment section. A lot of people, not just in our comment section, but I've heard it so many times. Fenabot is not for the gym, guys. Second thing, cratom. I know you guys seem to think that opioid receptors are like negligible and just [\h__\h] them. Whatever. If I ever break my leg one day or get cancer, I won't I'll feel pain. It's okay. No, but and I know it has adrenaline activities. Sure. But you do not want to not feel pain when you're in the gym. Do you want to be one of those bodybuilders that don't have shoulders when you're 40? cuz that's where you'll end up. All those guys that took painkillers, look, I'm I'm I used to be an arm wrestler. All the arm wrestlers, we suffer with a lot of pain. A lot of guys take opioids. Those guys that take opioids get more injured over time because they don't feel the pain. You need to feel the pain to some degree, right? A little bit of a feedback. Yeah. Because otherwise, you're just going to keep pushing and pushing and pushing until it's bone on bone. Exactly. A lot of guys have issues with that in their hips, in their shoulders, in their back, you know, and then and notice a lot of those guys were the guys that used to use that drug that uh Duchain that character Newane a lot of those guys don't have body parts now. So what what would you use instead of cratum if you are suffering from pain and you want to mess with your opioid receptors? We mentioned it last time and I've been using it recently and I've been trying to popularize it in arm wrestling. Nalrexone. Nalrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist. If you use A-50 milligram dose, what they give to heroin addicts or alcoholics, you'll block all the receptors. Now, if you do that over a couple of months, your receptors will upregulate, but that's not really a sustainable thing because you'll feel more pain in the short term. What you can do instead is use what's called lowd do nrexone therapy, which is 4.5 milligs of nrexone. That does two things. It reduces your C-reactive protein and inflammation in your body, which is great for your long-term health, and it does that in the brain also, which is why I'm using it. The second thing it does is it also upregulates those opioid receptors. So what happens? Remember endorphins, many people don't know what the hell endorphins are. They're your opioid receptor agonist, the natural ones. So those things can actually hit those fresh opioid receptors that have been upregulated by nrexone. Now I'll be honest with you, 4.5 millig nrexone is not a life-changing thing, but it's something it's if you want that incremental advantage, that's what I would go for something. So, so do you notice that your post-workout um you know response is more increased to after the nrexone? I mainly not No, the big workout thing I've had honestly with cerebral but but the nrexone what I've noticed is a mood effect which I think mainly is the inflammation reduction. I it hasn't been so severe on the pain to be honest with you. But it's it's all the research is positive on this thing. You know, I'll have a look into it. I'm sure I can't source it here. So I I'll because pretty much exhausted all my pre-workout options already. We need to we need to end this cratom stuff guys because people are abusing it across the US and people are promoting it like it's some oh it's natural. Well guess what guys heroin is natural too. All of that stuff is natural. I mean I don't know why people think like if it's natural it's good for you. causes liver failure so much. I found so many case studies so many when I was researching cratom cuz I tried to understand the pharmacology a few like 6 months ago or so liver failure throughout. So many people with withdrawals, so many people with dependency. I know it's not as bad as taking like heroin obviously, but why would you put yourself in that position? It's not weed. It's not something simple. What what's weird is that a lot of people they switch from opiates toratom to get over the addiction, right? And now they're on 24/7. So take the next logical step and get off. I know it's easier said than done and addiction is something I don't understand uh because I've never been addicted besides the the bodybuilding lifestyle. Um, but it's, you know, it's a step-by-step process. If you want to use to get over an addiction, then the next step would be to phase out theratom. The problem is this. Sometimes the addiction is not like physical pain. Sometimes that's what I really try to specialize in because I'm from a family of addicts. And the issue sometimes is the I try to explain it like, you know, I wear glasses. Imagine my glasses are cloudy. I'm looking through the world, it's always cloudy. Some people want to see the world, right? When they take the cratom, they see the world, right? But the thing is the cratom is not sustainable because what many people don't realize if you use any opioid your opioid receptors downregulate over time you will feel more pain that's why heroin addicts have to keep upregulating their dose it's not every drug like that opioid receptors really downregulate so it's not sustainable you have to find a different method and and to be honest I was consulting with somebody recently who has some um sexual dysfunction issues and I've been consulting with him for a couple of months and giving him some advice he never mentioned to me that he was using 2 months later I find question randomly I found out he's like by the way bro uh is theratom bad I was likeratom is listen guys in your hypothalamus you have your gonadotropen releasing cells they don't just have estrogen receptors for the negative feedback they have more opioid receptors they that is a direct shutdown everybody that takes opiates has fertility fertility issues testosterone issues and sex drive issues that's known any has numbed my dick more than when I take that literally impossible to get off. Horrible. Horrible. Well, things I've never taken. Well, some people use that as like a PE dude, but yeah. Oh, for PE for for sex. I mean, yeah. So, like guys who prematurely ejaculate, they're like, "Oh, I'll take on top of like seialis plus you know what? That's like their stack." Fascinating. I never even knew about that. It's like a lower It's not as intense as depositine, but it's like pretty intense to the point where you could like sex is not even enjoyable because you'll just never get off. You can't even like feel anything almost. So, let's talk about gynecomastia. We got a bunch of questions about this. Salow says, "Does Roxifene plus AI stop anal gyno?" Oh, we should talk about that. Steve, you were mentioning earlier the anidol gyno. So, I was somebody very prone to gyno. I had, by the way, guys, I developed gynecomastia as a as a teenager. Minor, very, thank God it was minor. It wasn't so obvious, like you couldn't see through my shirt, but I had basically like puffy nipples for like, you know, years. It was it was horrific to be honest, by the way. Like, you know how you're sensitive about your hair, Derek. I was so sensitive about these this thing. It like it really bothered me as a teenager because I was a normal man. I'm not masculine in any way. and suddenly my nipple. So I really empathize with anybody that has gynecomastia and I really understand how it works because I took hormones while I had it. So I watched everything change. I can tell anadrol did something unusual. When I before I got my glands removed, I couldn't rem I couldn't take an and the first time I took an I felt my glands the next day. It was very potent. It does something progtoenic, I think, to the glands. Something odd. I don't know what it is. But anyway, back to this. So he says does roxophene plus AI stop anodol gyno heard it cause gyno by other means rather than E2 yeah it does not relax will a serum will but uh for me honestly even novidex wouldn't stop the anodol gyno it was something unusual that was going on now generally uh generally if it's estrogen novidex will if you take 10 milligrams twice a day in women it will stop their breast from growing even with cancer so for mo for me I used to take novdex the whole time I was taking hormones but sometimes with andadrol it wasn't enough. So, so I noticed that with the androgal ginal doesn't occur when you run master and I have no idea what the mechanism behind it, but during a contest prep when you generally run master at pretty high dosages which of course was prescribed in case of breast cancer nobody experiences gynecomastia from anadrol. Interesting. I didn't know that. I mean I think I have run it with mastron and still had that effect but very sensitive. So you see that during the offseason when you're generally a little bit more puffy when estrogen concentrations are generally a little bit higher and you perhaps compound that with nandrolon. So now you have a progesterrogenic compound that raises prolactin and then androl is kind of like the the you know the cue to set the gynecomastia growth off. So there's a lot of compounding factors but yeah gan or andadrol by itself can induce gynecomastia. Um I forget uh somebody I don't remember who told me but somebody told me that anadrol and this must be speculation cuz I can't imagine there's a study that shows this in humans but it supposedly inhibits the clearance of estrogen too which I don't know if it has to do with its apatotoxicity or if it's inherent effects on estrogen receptors in some way but there's there's thought that it agonizes estrogen receptors inherently as the parent compound and then somehow downstream inhib inhibits the metabolization of estradi 2. So then it makes it clear slower hence increasing the estrogenic burden of whatever you're using multiple fold could be. So my approach to gynecomastia like when I talk to consultations or something people first of all I honestly tell people that if you really want to use steroids you should go get to surgery first. uh if if you have and and I know Steve hasn't had the surgery yet, so he doesn't agree with me maybe, but I really No, but it's No, I do agree, but it's I just didn't have time for it. And I at this point, I really I kind of don't care. Once I got the surgery, man, I felt like free like in the '9s when they didn't have uh social media. I felt wonderful. I could take all the steroids I wanted. Nothing happened. And interesting, one of the questions we got is when you when you remove the glands, do you become less estrogenic in overall? Do you have less other side effects? It was weird when I did remove mine. I did. I had less estrogenic side effects, less water retention from estrogenic compounds. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. And the drugs work better for me. May maybe the breasts are just the primary source of aromatization leaks like it leak like like the hair also has its own five alpha reductase in uh activity, right? So, right. So, maybe the hips and the breast tissue just have a little bit more aromatiz activity compared to other tissues. And by removing that particular tissue, like a lot of guys that are very low body fat, they don't have so much aromatized activity anymore, right? But also the guys that went through a contest prep, they got nasty, shredded and dry, and then afterwards, even when they do get fat, they don't get so much aromatized activity anymore. Fascinating epigenetic, right? So, but I think it's just the aromatiz activity within particular fat cells that are you know more susceptible in particular areas. But in in particular also like if somebody refuses to do that then some sometimes people will what I used to do is I always used to have novidex and I would just not control the estrogen. The problem is there's so much evidence of ocular damage and so many people have booked consultations with me with eye floaters because they took Clomid or Novadex for 6 months. Oh really? Okay. so many people. So, so the because of that reason, what I think to do and especially if you don't know if you're sensitive, if you're not going to get them removed and you and you don't know if you're sensitive, if you control estrogen like between 20 and 40 on the metric, I don't know what it is in the US metric, but between 20 and 40 or something low like that later. Yeah. If you keep it there and then you feel this is how you feel it like I don't know, Derek, have you ever had itchy? Have it ever happened to you? Yeah. Yeah. So, like the worst time happened to me was the classic Decadel test cycle and I was in my car putting on my seat belt and I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] that is really sensitive." As I was like getting in there and that was the only time I had it like really actually one time. The another time I had it pretty bad was combining GH with MK-677. Interestingly enough, MK really exacerbates gyno with prolactin. It raises prolactin tremendously. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. So anyway, that for me was uh I've never had like knowing it's itchy or something or like feeling it tingly, but like I've definitely had any kind of like touching of it extremely irritating. Yeah. Yeah. So Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. So I developed my gyno after I broke my leg in a motorcycle accident. I was completely drug free. Oh. from the I I I have no idea what happened, but I was at, you know, peak physical strength and then I was bedridden for three months trying to recover from that. And then after after a while, my nipples started hurting. I'm like, what the hell is going on? And I was trying, you know, I was on my broken leg.com trying to read everything about how to resolve a broken leg. Yeah. Best website ever, dude. I I was walking in three months, three and a half months. I was walking the broken finger, right? No. And I and I did it without pharmacology, you know, because I actually act for asked for a script of growth hormone uh because that has been shown to help in in you know bone fractures and then do some sonic therapy concurrently where it just radiates some sonic uh sound waves into the bone which helps with growth as well but doctors in Holland they didn't really bite to uh those kind of practices. Um so I was able to resolve that quite quickly but that's the during that time I developed gynecomastia out of nowhere. I was just sitting there raising my arm and I was like, "Why does it hurt so much?" I had like a huge lump which I did an um an ultrasound and of course the doctor accused me for steroids. I I came in in a wheelchair. I said, "Dude, I broke my leg. Why why would by running steroids? Come on." Yeah, you have a history. You do all this blood work, you do steroid. All right. Another reason to get the [\h__\h] out of that country. Um so I developed gyno just naturally at the age of 24. It does in depression also by the way. and depression. It happens also from marijuana sometimes. I didn't smoke. I wasn't depressed. I think my hormones I think my serogenesis was completely messed up because I changed my diet and of course I was inactive all the time and the only activity I would have was you know like therapeutic movement to uh get a little bit of feeling back in my feet cuz I couldn't Yeah, we're we're running over time. I I just my Okay, wait about this gyneic. I just want to say that if I think what people should do is keep if they're going to do that, which I don't think they should, they should remove the gland if they're going to do it, but if you keep your dial 20 to 40 instead of running Novadex all the time, you just feel your nipple. If you feel it being sensitive or at all itchy, even just sensitive, you'll notice it if it happens. If you feel it every couple of days, if you notice it that day, you can take 10 milligs of Novadex twice a day and then do it for a few more days and you can up the uh anti-estrogen or aromatase inhibitor dose or remove the progesterrogenic compound that you're taking and then you can take off the novidex. You don't have to just keep running it all the time just for at least Yeah, at least until blood work proves you. But the problem is a lot of people they're hyper paranoid and they get this phantom itch or phantom pain. Oh, that's true. Oh, see that so much. Yeah. I I I threw and then they crush their estradile. They're they take everything out and they still have this nipple sensitivity. Like they're overly self-conscious, right? Then they send me videos and I'm like, dude, there's there's literally nothing there. Just a lot a lot of guys are critical about that too, you know. So if if I would just if you're really worried about it, I would go on a gynecomastia stack of test debol and andone and weed and cratum and just hit it from all angles. Grow it. No, grow it and then go for you're developing for the surgery. you're developing a specialty in like creating these like stacks for people things people don't want like right but there's so there's compound a lot of people don't realize that right so there I'm going to take this this and this and this and I'm going to make the best gains possible but it's like a it's a very potent recipe for side effects right so so that's what I would do if I ever wanted to do the gynecomastia surgery test deca deanal and well no weed here no cratom here but I would find another way to raise my prolactin and then you know mix it up with the growth hormone and Then freedom in Thailand, isn't it? Legal here, but that's where it's from. No, it's from Malaysia and the Philippines. Oh, but it used to be in Thailand originally. It's available here. I just don't want to take the risk. I'm a public figure. I mean, I'm not going to take any drugs here. Are you crazy? You wouldn't you wouldn't use Roxifine over Novadex? No. Roloxifine is superior. Absolutely. Yeah. From what I've seen. But a lot of people get me a lot of people get mental side effects comparable to Clomid as well. And that's pharmaceutical ruxophene. So I've heard guys said they feel depressed. They get the estrogen-like effects on 60 milligrams per day. I feel terrible. Just like on That's because it's more potent as a as a Yeah. Because Clomid is a very potent serum. So it's in it's it's also lipopilic. It's getting in your brain, right? And it's inhibiting some of estrogen's effects on serotonin. That's what's that's what specifically So So there is a trade-off there that you will feel horrible potentially when you run to get the gynecomasty under control. Hey, I'm sorry guys that we didn't go through so many topics today. I realized that why Dererick's tired. I didn't know the time cuz for you because I'm this is not my normal time of day. So, I had to take some coffee and all this stuff. So, I didn't really notice. But I saw Derek's tired. I'm like, "Wait a minute. This guy's usually awake till 5 in the morning." So, this is a three and a half hour podcast now. Yeah. With with few topics. It's an actual podcast. It's Yeah, we beat we beat our record, I think. Oh, man. I'm sorry. This is This is good. I'm just like uh I'm not even I'm sometimes if I am inactive for a long period of time, it might look like I'm tired, but I'm normally up for another like 3 hours anyways. So, after we're done, I'm going to be after we're done, I'm going to rip this whole thing, clip it all up, post at least a handful of them because I have no videos filmed for tomorrow. So, I need to use this. I don't know if there are any clips in it. But Derek, by the way, you guys keep So many clips. You guys keep chatting at night and because I have a different schedule, I always miss your your question or like discussions that you guys have. I feel left out and I wake up like I wake up and I see I'm like, "Oh, the conversation is over." So, I just I don't mean to ignore you guys, but No, it's okay, man. Every We're all in our different time schedule, right? Like I I I'm a little bit I handicap myself just being in this time zone because I have to do consultations in the morning and in the evening because most of my consultations are coming from the western world, you know. Also, most struggling for the time zones. The word this time is recipes for side effects. Steve's new video ideas. Recipes for side effects. That's what you got to write down if you made it through. Absolutely.