 regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding regarding going into it. He said these devils are whispering in your ears, but it happens to be snakes. I was like, I don't know if he knows the joke. And then there's a few more things going on. Supposedly he's faked his death before, Leo. Yeah. When you watch his interviews, he comes across as a 100% con man liar. There's nothing he says seems to be true. Nothing. But there's more things. I wanted to ask you guys something. Have any of you worked with Milos directly? Not Boston, but other guys. So I want to ask you guys, what do you think Milos can do with Regan? Because a lot of talk has been about how he did well recently. Do you think he can grow Regan to become competitive in men's open? And if not, why has he never grown anyone before? Like for example, the Matt Jansen, this is what I want to talk about also. Remember the Matt Jansen, Brett Wilkins two-year transformation picture? That transformation picture I thought was isolated. Like there's Dallas, Nick, and then there's him. But then there's this other guy just came out called Justin Shire. Justin Shire also has a two-year transformation. Crazy good physique. Crazy transformation as well within two years. Blue also have a client in that class. Blue has a client and I have a client in the same class. Oh, really? At Nationals. So why do you guys, do you guys think that Milos can develop athletes over time aside from getting them in condition? Because I've never seen him. I know Blue will have an opinion on this, but I personally don't because Milos is crazy volume in the gym. And he, it's just overuse of crazy, crazy insulin pre and post. And it's like, it's obsessive a little bit like 20 pre, 20 posts twice a day training and with like giant sets. And I, like, like you said, man, I don't see his clients putting on muscle. You know, he doesn't grow anybody and the people that he peaks on stage, me and Boston have talked about this quite a few times. Like I tell everybody, do your research. It's maybe one out of 20 guys that peak, you know, some of these guys go to the hospital. Some of them just look horrible. I mean, some of my clients paid him as a coach before they hired me and he, he took their money up front for like six months or a year and barely ever gave back to him, never changed the program. Didn't pay him any attention. So his, his normal guys don't get any attention. I don't know if you've heard that either, but everyone, everyone that has worked with Milos, that wasn't a pro has nothing but bad to say. I mean, they say the guy doesn't, doesn't respond to emails. He just sends them one program and doesn't, you know, doesn't do his job. Well, even his pros end up leaving him. I mean, it's look at high T day guys that he's worked with. I mean, he just ruined their physiques. Well, he did. Todd is really the one blue. Let's stay on that for a second. If you look at he did. Todd, the guys, I did. I'm a Gishi. What do you see happen over time? His shoulder, his arms got smaller. His appendages got smaller. I believe from the insulin resistance. It's sort of like Palombo at the end of his time, but he did. He thought it didn't have a gut, but his arms kept getting smaller. And I think it's from the insulin resistance of this crazy, just, you know, just banging insulin all the time. His insulin protocols are insane. He's trying to fill up people as much as they can be filled up constantly. That's going to cause insulin resistance over time. Right. You know, blue, he worked with that Ryan Crowley kid that I fucking troll. He did three of the shows. He did like, he did nationals, USAs. And then he did some show in another country, I think to try to go pro. Literally the guy was bragging. He was three Oh five on stage. He looked like fucking shit. You've seen me troll him. He calls himself the big rig. That's what I'm talking about. Milos. The reason people hire him is because he was a legend as a bodybuilder, but as a coach, do some digging, do the research. You'll end up finding out that, you know, he nails it about one out of a hundred times, you know, but I see him like, you're right. He doesn't actually nail it with the pros in all competitions, but he did right now. He did a great job. I just, I feel like of all the people that should have went with Milos, wouldn't Regan. I mean, he's not in such bad conditions. His main issue is also muscle, right? Yeah. No, Regan's six foot tall. He's more size. You guys think he has 20 inch arms? Pull up and arm. I've never seen him in person. Good night. Thank you.