In this video, I'm going to tell you how to use brain growth factors to improve your progress as a strength athlete. But before I do, please subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. Like the video and comment on the video for the sake of the algorithm. Now, let's get started. The product cerebralin is a purified extract of brain growth factors from the brains of pigs. its use has never been associated with pron disease before you ask. And I have a video covering uh in detail the research on cerebralin. If you haven't watched that video already, close this video, watch that one. Just search cerebral leo and longevity. You'll find the video and come back when you're done. When I learned of the power of cerebralin, I quickly became curious about whether it may improve progress for strength athletes that are working at the edge of their nervous systems efficiency. I thought of this probably because of my past in amateur just powerlifting and later in competitive arm wrestling. One of the walls that we run into in training as strength athletes in some way is our nervous systems, particularly the recovery of the nervous system from extremely fatiguing training sessions and the improvement of the nervous system over time because the nervous system becomes efficient at certain movements that we do over time. Because cerebral lyin has such a regenerative effect on the nervous system, I imagine that it could at least improve recovery from strength sport uh training activities. But even more interestingly, I thought that it may be able to improve super physiologically our nervous systems activity. Since triing cerebralin myself and in particular because I've been going to the gym recently, not that seriously, but I'm able to see some effects of the cerebralin, I've noticed some effects that are consistent and that other people who have also tried cerebralin recently commented on as well. First of all, from the research, we know two interesting things. Cerebralin raises IGF-1 levels in all studies that tested for IGF-1 in children and adults and rodents and so on. Second, cerebralin consistently lowers inflammatory markers in studies including tumor necrosis factor alpha. This is interesting because it means that in some ways cerebroly is reducing the uh activity of the immune system and in particular pro-inflammatory components of the immune system. Inflammation is necessary to the recovery from training but chronic inflammation harms recovery. Now let me take you through a list of some of the effects that I've noticed while trying while lifting weights. First of all, a great improvement in sleep quality and duration. Cerebroly's effect on sleep feels somewhat similar to the effect of growth hormone. And as we know from a video I did before, growth hormone seems to reduce sympathetic intervation, meaning it reduces the likelihood of our nervous system to be in that fight orflight state that keeps us up at night. Cerebralin seems to have a similar effect, which makes sense because neurogenesis in general also has a similar effect. Second, fascinatingly, cerebralin does not have an acute negative impact on strength. So, for example, if you take something else tranquilizing like a benzoazipine uh in order to make yourself sleep better, you may find that the next morning you're a little bit weaker. The same may happen if you're using marijuana for example or any other kind of tranquilizing drug that you're not very used to. Cerebralin, interestingly, doesn't have this effect. While it calms the system down, I I noticed absolutely no negative impact on my lifts while taking ma major doses like 10 milliliters a day of cerebralin. Third, I noticed that cerebral has a synergistic effect when combined with MK-677 or growth hormone both in terms of the aesthetics as well as in terms of recovery. And this is a little bit interesting. I should comment on this briefly. So, as you guys know, MK-677 and growth hormone will make you retain more glycogen in your muscles due to water retention, extracellular water retention. I think that cerebralin has a similar effect. Maybe because of its increase of IGF-1. I'm not exactly sure, but it causes a little bit of a of a difference in the way muscle looks when you're taking 10 milliters a day. That's for sure. The second effect is this synergistic effect when combined with growth hormone or MK-677. By the way, why is MK-677 interesting? When MK-677 increases our natural growth hormone secretion, the kind of growth hormone secretion it causes is not inhibited by somatin, the natural inhibitory uh molecule for growth hormone synthesis. On the other hand, if you inject growth hormone, you could potentially have somatin rise and lower your natural growth hormone production. That's why there's so much synergy in adding MK-677 or another ghrein analog to growth hormone uh treatment. But in either case, I tried both. I was using a little bit of growth hormone because of my finger. I damaged my finger and I noticed acutely a profoundly synergistic impact of taking like two units of growth hormone with 10 mill of cerebralin. It does not feel like 15 mill of salin cerebral. It feels like something else. So that's a very interesting note as well. Fourth, cerebral seems to speeden the recovery from nervous system burnouts. Like on max effort days of training, I've noticed this myself. I recovered a little bit faster. It's not so easy to pinpoint, but it's there. It's sort of similar to how growth hormone would make you recover a little bit faster, almost equivalent, honestly, in in terms of power of like four units or two units of growth hormone. And because of this effect, it seems to reduce the need for back off weeks or uh down cycles in periodization because the nervous system can recover much faster. This is what I noticed personally and other people that I've spoken to who are strength athletes who have used cerebral and noticed as well. So, what does this all mean? First of all, I think that cerebralin treatment may increase hyperplasia through its effect on IGF-1. So it could potentially cause you in the long term to be bigger because of the effect on IGF-1. Second, I believe that cerebralin treatment can greatly improve nervous system strength if used over a long period in strength athletes off seasonasons. Third, I believe that cerebralin can improve recovery in athletes because of its impact on sleep and because of its impact on chronic inflammation which it consistently reduces as I said across studies. How valuable is it really? I think cerebralin at 10 millit a day or 5 millit a day with maybe a couple of days off a week is at least as valuable as MK-677 for a bodybuilder or powerlifter and potentially as valuable as growth hormone is for a powerlifter or more valuable honestly. But with that said, obviously the caveat is that this is a large solution that has to be injected like 5 to 10 milliliters a day for it to be very significant and most people do not want to inject that much and really that's one of the reasons MK-677 for example is popular and this has to be injected intramuscularly unlike growth hormone. So the whole thing is a little bit arduous except for the people that are very determined and want really an edge over their competitors that their competitors do not have. So that's a summary. How would I use cerebral if I was a strength athlete? I would use uh at a minimum two milliliters twice a week, say on my heavy days and I would do this across my offseason and pull it out a couple of weeks before the competition to reduce the the inhibition of sympathetic nervous activity which will be useful for the competition even though it doesn't seem to acutely weaken people. I would still remove it personally. But I would use up to honestly 5 to 10 milliliters at least you know twice twice a week but up to 5 days a week. I noticed the greatest impact from cerebralin when I used at least 5 milliliters a day at least 5 days a week when I did so and by the way it builds up. So if you use like 10 milliliters 5 days a week for 3 weeks after that you could maintain it with a lower dose you can maintain the neurogenesis and the growth and all that kind of stuff but nonetheless we're talking about heavy doses at least twice a week up to 5 days a week on the offseason. Now, if any of you guys do use it, please come back to this page and let us know how it goes. Particularly if you're a strength athlete that pays attention to your progress and use enough of it. Obviously, not just a couple of weeks of a a short protocol, but like if you used it for 6 months or so, please come back to this page and let us know how it went. I'd be very curious to learn about your your stories. Anyway, guys, thank you so much for bearing with me and I'll see you next time.