 theseviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia I've never been I think so grateful in my life before. I am truly grateful to all of you. Another thing I want to thank the subscribers for is when you tell me about something that the channel has done that may have helped you in life. For example a couple of days ago I received some of the most beautiful messages I ever received about someone who was trying to quit marijuana for a long time and finally succeeded. I've received similar comments from people trying to get over addiction and find other common addictions like opiates or alcoholism and finally been able to. I've received comments about people curing their anhedonia or anxiety or getting relief from anxiety or depression. Also even the comment especially although my channel is limited to people 18 plus sometimes I receive direct messages from teenagers who are able to avoid poor life choices thanks to the channel. These comments that you send me I don't know if you guys realize how much they really mean to me. Dia's mission was clear to improve human performance and longevity. He believed in a unique approach combining the power of biohacking genetics nutrition and lifestyle to unlock our fullest potential. Leith had a degree from Carnegie Mellon and the London School of Economics and his academy prowess was just evident. But he wasn't just about the degrees or the title. He was about the genuine desire to help others. Leith was a fan of biohacking and often experimented on himself. He loved the idea of being in full control, changing his look and style with a zest that was uniquely his. Over his life he embraced so many different looks and style that you might not even believe or even recognize him from one face to another. I'm happy to share some photos showcasing the multitude of faces and facets his persona that you might have not known. Leith was a father. Leith was a father. But like many people, and many of us, he wasn't without his struggles. He faced his own challenges that tested his spirits, solved. Yet, through it all, he remained strong with his convictions, always striving to leave a lasting legacy of knowledge and inspiration. It really is the principal goal of my channel, is to help others avoid the mistakes that I've made. The other goal is to learn together. And that's why I'm so into the democratization of knowledge. That's why I have my how to research video. I love that element of being on YouTube, learning from each other, and having a common sort of society. Tragically, Leo's journey was cut short. He was taken from us under very mysterious circumstances in Thailand. His untimely departure leaves a voice that words cannot fill. As we grapple with the weight of his loss, we urge anyone with information about Leo's passing to come forward. Justice must be served and closure found, and I will not rest until I find out what happened and who's responsible for it. As we all remember Leo, let's honor his legacy by continuing to seek knowledge, to help others, to live a life with purpose and passion, and stay around as we embark on a journey to ensure his memory and mission is lived on. Booboo? Arabella just sent her first words. What did you just say? Hello? Hello? Well, anyway, we almost recorded. Rest in peace, slave. We miss you so much. Happy birthday.