 Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss Swiss because most of the research has been done on Europeans and not other ethnicities, so it may not be as applicable to other ethnicities. Unfortunately, we can't simply talk about optimal levels in Europeans or optimal vitamin D supplementation because vitamin D's effects on other biological processes other than bone mineral retention are not so well understood. They can't guide us in our supplementation. And in fact, even for bone mineral density, optimal levels vary quite a bit. So what we've been doing is trying to determine a lower bound on vitamin D supplementation and an upper bound. On the lower bound, if you're supplementing too little, you experience what's called osteomalacia or eventually rickets, a softening of the bones. At the upper bound, as you'll see in a couple of videos, you experience a plethora of health issues, beginning with hypercalciuria, which means having excess calcium in your urine, causing a lot of kidney stones in people, and including hypercalcemia, which means having excess calcium in your bloodstream, which can then lead to calcification of soft tissue in your body, like the calcification of vascular tissue. So there's a lot of dangers. In the last episode, we discovered that on the lower bound, there is no really lower bound for vitamin D supplementation. That's because if you're consuming enough calcium and phosphate, you will be able to maintain normal bone mineral density even through development, particularly if you're digesting the calcium well. If you're not lactose intolerant, maybe if you're supplementing with lactose, it will help your calcium digestion. So there's no lower bound on vitamin D supplementation in Europeans because it's not really an essential vitamin. It's not completely necessary in the face of calcium and phosphate. But the actions of calcium in the biology of humans depend on magnesium. So before we get to the upper bound analysis, before we get to the concerns about hypercalcification, we have to understand how other nutrients affect calcium status, the status of calcium and phosphate in particular, that safeguard us from low vitamin D levels because they replace some of the functions of vitamin D and signaling, particularly with regard to parathyroid hormone and FGF23. So in this video, what we're going to learn about is one of these minerals, magnesium, its role in modulating calcium status. This video is not going to be a video about molecular mechanisms and faraway hypothetical issues, but we're going to look at magnesium in a practical sense, leaving you at the end of the video with enough knowledge to know how to manage your magnesium supplementation in order to get the best calcium status and the best out of your calcium supplementation. To begin, your body has about 24 grams of magnesium spread throughout it. Grams that, by the way, are redistributed when you exercise. About half of these 24 grams are in soft tissue and about half are in your bones. Only about 0.3% of this magnesium is in your bloodstream. Unfortunately, serum magnesium is not very informative. That is because it's very tightly regulated by your body. You see, magnesium is one of the most important nutrients that your body manipulates in order to enact its biological processes. In particular, magnesium needs to be distributed to the brain frequently. So blood magnesium levels are tightly modulated. So you can easily find somebody who's hypomagnesic and has normal serum magnesium levels. So the first thing we have to establish about measuring magnesium is that serum levels are almost entirely unindicative of status. Before we leave the subject of serum magnesium, be careful with the reference ranges. Although I said serum magnesium is tightly regulated, in the cases of people with severe magnesium deficiency, it does get reduced sometimes. And the current reference ranges for serum magnesium are based on populations that are broadly, in the majority, deficient in magnesium. So you can't really trust them. Probably the reference range should be around 2 mg per deciliter instead of what it is currently. There are two other measures of magnesium that may be useful. One is urinary magnesium. Urinary magnesium reflects better how much magnesium you're consuming in your diet. It also therefore may be better associated with cardiovascular disease, in particular in relation to serum magnesium. But probably the most trustworthy test is called the magnesium retention test. In this test, people get an injection that's either intramuscular or an infusion of magnesium. And essentially what happens is over a 24-hour period, urine is collected, and clinicians basically have arbitrary cutoff numbers at which they check to see how much magnesium you retain in your body. With the assumption that if you have sufficient magnesium status, you will retain less magnesium. If you retain something more than, say, 30%, they consider you to be hypomagnesemic. But these arbitrary cutoffs change according to the paper, somewhere around 40 or 50%. Note also that with the magnesium retention test, it will not work effectively at judging magnesium status in people with true critical illness or chronic kidney disease. Chronic kidney disease really affects the parameters in particular. Next, let's talk about the epidemiology. That is, how is magnesium status reflected, in particular across the US? So in America, about 40% of people supplement with vitamin D, but only just over 20% of people supplement with magnesium. The reference ranges for magnesium consumption among men are actually based on the amount of magnesium 100 kg man would require in order to have good calcium status, which is about 430 milligrams. So the recommended daily allowance of magnesium is about 420 milligrams for men in the US. But men in the US average about 357 milligrams of magnesium consumption. People who supplement magnesium in the US tend not to be deficient, but about 70% of Americans are deficient in magnesium. That is a much higher number than vitamin D deficiency. Since the 1990s, Americans have consumed more and more calcium. The amount of calcium that they've consumed has increased maybe 2 to 2.5 times more than the amount of magnesium that they consume. So over time, they've become less deficient in calcium, but particularly comparatively deficient in magnesium. Recent figures indicate that Americans' calcium to magnesium ratio is about 3.3 to 3.4. The calcium to magnesium ratio is the amount of calcium somebody consumes per milligram per day divided by the amount of magnesium that they consume per day. When that number goes higher, it means you have more calcium per amount of magnesium in your body. Normally, if populations don't have high consumption of both calcium and magnesium, they tend to lean towards a relative calcium deficiency. This still exists in China, for example. In the US, because of the increasing supplementation of calcium and changes in food consumption, the ratio in the US has become particularly high. In other countries, it's quite a bit lower. Now, let's talk about why magnesium may modulate calcium status. I don't want to get too much into the molecular mechanism so we distract ourselves. We could do a series on magnesium later. But what's important to know is that throughout our evolution, magnesium has been the counterbalance to calcium. What magnesium does is it prevents excess calcium influx into cells when there is excess calcium. And it also prevents calcium from leaving cells when there's a deficiency in calcium. It's a calcium regulator and a natural calcium channel blocker. And this function of magnesium has been shown in single-celled organisms all the way to humans, which means it's a very ancient relationship. Now, in practical terms, how does this relationship work? First of all, I want to make a note. Studies that don't supplement or consider both magnesium consumption and calcium consumption are a little bit less useful. This, by the way, should remind you of the vitamin D studies, which have high heterogeneity between the studies, likely because of people's differing levels of these different nutrients, as well as where they live in the world, as well as their genetics. But the amount of magnesium someone has does also affect their vitamin D levels, as we'll talk about in our next video. Now, first, we have to consider how supplementing calcium affects magnesium levels. So, for example, if you eat calcium, like from cheese, for example, if you consume about 400 milligrams of calcium from cheese in your diet, you will increase your urinary excretion of magnesium. Whereas a much higher number of supplemental calcium is needed to inhibit magnesium absorption, something over 2000 milligrams. Also, I want to make a note, because calcium supplementation is very popular among women, particularly women that are going through menopause. Women experience this reduction in magnesium status from supplementing calcium and even from drinking milk. It is a particular concern among these women, as we'll talk about shortly. But how does magnesium supplementation affect calcium status? They're a reverse relationship. Say you're not supplementing with calcium like the majority of people, but instead you're only supplementing with magnesium. Your supplementation of magnesium affects your calcium status according to your calcium to magnesium ratio. When your calcium to magnesium ratio is lower, meaning you have less calcium per magnesium anyway, supplementing with magnesium will cause you more urinary excretion of calcium and less absorption of calcium that you eat. Whereas when your ratio is higher, you're a little bit more protected. If your ratio is higher, you may need to supplement with 500 milligrams of magnesium to experience these effects. Whereas if the ratio is lower, you might only need 250 milligrams to experience these effects. Now let's review what we learned so far. Calcium consumption reduces the absorption of magnesium and increases the excretion of magnesium from your stored reserves. The reverse also happens. Magnesium does the same thing to calcium absorption and calcium excretion. So these two things modulate our ability to absorb the minerals and our ability to retain them in our body. But also, by the way, if you have a magnesium deficiency, you will also have a problem in calcium retention. So with magnesium, there is an absolute sufficiency that's needed and there's a balance with calcium. Both of those issues are critical. So think of it this way. People with a high calcium to magnesium ratio, somebody with relatively higher calcium than magnesium, when they supplement calcium or drink a lot of milk, they may get particularly less healthy because they get less and less magnesium retention as a ratio. On the other hand, if you were somebody with a low ratio, like the average Chinese person, supplementing with magnesium may actually harm your calcium status. It may yield a net negative effect on your health. So your ratio really matters with regard to how supplementing any of these minerals will affect your health. And speaking of ratios, how do these ratios affect human health? Well, it's mainly the high calcium to magnesium ratios that worsen human health as opposed to the low ratios in general. So high ratios of calcium to magnesium are associated with coronary heart disease mortality, and they're associated with heart failure. They're associated with prostate cancer. They're strongly associated with prostate cancer. They're strongly associated with colorectal cancer. In fact, high calcium to magnesium ratios may also play a part in cognitive decline through their effect of modulation of methylation of the APOE gene. That's the gene that predisposes some people very strongly to cardiovascular disease, but also to Alzheimer's disease. High ratios are dangerous. And in the US, we have a particularly high ratio. As I mentioned to you before, the ratio is somewhere over three, somewhere around 3.3 to 3.4. Ideal ratios from the various studies, and I've surveyed many of them, by the way, a lot of them are actually published by Chinese researchers in the last decade. This is not a very well-studied subject, but it seems quite clear that the ideal human ratios are somewhere between 1.7 to, say, 2.6, with the ideal ratio potentially being 2. That means consuming twice as much calcium as magnesium, two times the milligram amount, and that is of the molecules. So if you're using, for example, magnesium oxalate, you don't look at the elemental level, you look at the total magnesium oxalate level. Finally, before we conclude, I also would like to mention, again, that women are particularly endangered with regard to being hypomagnesemic. The reason, again, is because they consume a lot of calcium, it seems. In women, magnesium status is directly associated with bone mineral density, but not in men. And also, women are much more likely to be hypomagnesemic in America. In fact, women who would particularly suffer for this, if you guys have relatives that are menopausal or older and supplementing with calcium, they are most likely magnesium deficient. And surprisingly, gastrointestinal reflux disease is a major contributing factor to low magnesium levels in people. So if you know somebody that's in their 50s, say, that's a lady that has acid reflux, they most likely have very poor magnesium status. And we'll learn very soon about how that may affect their health. Now that we're done with our brief survey of the literature, let's review what we learned. We learned that there is widespread magnesium deficiency, that magnesium deficiency affects calcium absorption and calcium retention. Magnesium and calcium have reciprocal roles in modulating each other's functions. When you are low in magnesium, calcium is less controlled and can cause more damage to your body, leading to serious diseases like colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, and cardiovascular disease. We also learned that a healthful ratio of calcium consumption to magnesium consumption per milligram is between 1.7, say, to 2.6, with the ideal ratio probably being around 2. But there is something else to mention, which is you need sufficient status of calcium and magnesium. You need to consume somewhere around the recommended daily allowance. If your ratio is good, but both of them are low, you will still suffer with more ill health. Anyway, friends, I hope you found this helpful. I tried to make it as succinct and practical as possible. All you need to know is that you need to consume no more than two times the amount of calcium as magnesium, and you need to consume enough magnesium, which as a man is at least 500 milligrams per day. By the way, myself, I actually do better with supplementing more than 500 milligrams of magnesium. But if you do so, you will have to maintain that ratio, remember. Anyway, friends, I hope this was helpful for you, and I look forward to seeing you again this afternoon. Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go, Go