 P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P we may prefer EPA from fish oil as opposed to DHA. But before I do, please subscribe to the channel if you haven't already, like the video, comment on the video, and turn on closed captions to support the channel. Now let's get started. First of all, fish oil, the omega-3 source, has two kinds of fats that are relevant to us, EPA and DHA, which I've covered in much more detail in my extended video on fish oil, which is a really comprehensive video, which you guys might want to check out. Today, I wanted to distinguish between them and really discuss why we might be supplementing with fish oil that has EPA and DHA, or supplementing with a fish oil that only has EPA, like omega-V, which I highly recommend. Now there are pharmaceutically produced fish oils that contain both of these formulations. So for example, there are around three pharmaceutically produced fish oils that have both DHA and EPA in what's called an ethyl ester formulation. So those include Lovasa, for example. There's also a pharmaceutical version called Vasepa that only has EPA, also an ethyl ester formulation. And then there's also Epanova, which is a triglyceride form of both EPA and DHA. So we have a few options on the market. First of all, what's this issue about ethyl ester versus triglyceride form? There's an important issue. So the absorbability of the fish oil that you eat will, or that you consume, sorry, will depend on the form that the fish oil is in. Fish oil is naturally in triglyceride form. But to purify fish oil, to get the mercury out of it and so on, by the way, this is not done for cod liver oil. So if you're drinking cod liver oil, you are likely poisoning yourself with mercury. But for normal fish oil, they go through a process to get rid of the mercury that turns the fish oil into what's called an ethyl ester form, which is slightly less absorbable. Some manufacturers then convert it back into a triglyceride form, like in the pharmaceutical version Epanova, but most don't, like in Vasepa or Lovasa. The form that the fish oil is in really matters in terms of how much of it you have to take. If you have an ethyl ester form, you might have to consume more of it than if you've had a triglyceride form or if you had a krill oil form or something like that, for example. So why have pharmaceutical companies went out of their way to make EPA-only forms? Well, the main reason is that DHE consumption from fish oil can alter lipids quite significantly, especially if somebody's mega-dosing the fish oil, like they used to in the original fish oil studies, where they used to take over 10 grams of fish oil. If you're doing something like that and consuming DHEA, you may notice your triglycerides rise and your LDL cholesterol even rise from the consumption of the DHEA. On the other hand, consumption of DHEA on its own has not been shown to be so protective. For example, even though DHEA is known to be a building block in the brains of people, and the consumption of DHEA is thought to be very brain-healthy, it's never been shown to, for example, produce an antidepressant effect when given supplementarily to people in a study, whereas EPA has. EPA has such an anti-inflammatory effect. Note that both EPA and DHEA have anti-inflammatory effects, but EPA is maybe stronger. EPA has such an anti-inflammatory effect that when dosed alone at up to 2 grams a day, it produces an antidepressant effect in people in clinical controlled trials. So for people who are very concerned about cardiovascular disease, maybe people who have already developed plaque, have some kind of calcium score, these kind of people might be concerned about mega-dosing DHEA. And for fish oil to be very protective on cardiovascular health, as we've seen in studies, it needs to be mega-dosed. So that's why I might think that people may want to use more EPA initially, and then maybe supplement with another fish oil that has both EPA and DHEA. So you can get the major amount of your fish oil from just the EPA, so it may not alter your cholesterol levels as much, and you can get a small amount of DHEA if you want. There's a couple more things I want to talk about before we finish. We talked about the ethyl ester and triglyceride forms and how that relates to the purification from mercury and so on. Basically, any fish oil supplement that you find on the market is usually an ethyl ester form unless said otherwise, and it's usually purified from mercury. You don't have to worry about contaminants. However, you do have to worry about oxidative status of the fish oil supplement. I have a blog post about this and another video on the subject. However, a large minority of fish oil supplement products on the market have oxidized fish oil. That may genuinely provide a net negative benefit on your health. If you haven't checked your fish oil supplier for a third party reviews for oxidative status, or if they don't have any, you probably don't want to consume it. Anyway guys, I hope that was helpful. I just wanted to point out that supplementing with DHEA only in studies does not seem to have a potent anti-inflammatory effect, at least not enough to get in the brain, which makes me suspicious about how valuable it is on its own as an anti-inflammatory aid. On the other hand, EPA does do that, and high dose EPA only studies show massive cardioprotective benefits. On the other hand, we have the concern about DHEA raising cholesterol levels. So for these reasons, some people choose to supplement mainly with EPA in order to not raise their cholesterol levels while lowering their inflammatory markers, as well as actually their clotting factors and so on. Anyway guys, I hope this was helpful for you, and I hope to see you again tomorrow.