 advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise advertise recently made about me. I'm doing so because the vast majority of the subscribers said that they would like me to do so, although it's not the normal content that I make on my channel and will not be in the future. Let's get started. Before we do, please subscribe to the channel if you're not already, like the video and comment on the video to help with the channel's growth. Now, let's get started. I'll play the video and I guess I'll pause where I think I may be able to offer some commentary that clarifies things for viewers. I thought he was above that, beyond that. He's such a smart, intelligent guy. Why is he resorting to drama for views? Why does he think he needs to be Superman flying in to save the day to save Derek? Derek's doing great on his own. If Derek has a problem with me selling terkesterone, let Derek talk about it. Okay, so that's, I guess, the thesis of Greg's response. In this video, what I'm going to tell you is, number one, that I don't lie and I didn't lie in my criticisms of Greg Doucette, or at least knowingly lie. I could make factual inaccuracies, but I didn't lie. Number two, the reason why I made these commentaries on Greg Doucette is to protect or stand up for a friend who wasn't standing up for himself. And number three, I still believe that Greg Doucette committed an unethical action in starting the terkesterone company, knowing that he would harm a friend's welfare. And I guess we'll talk more about this in this video. Coach Greg, and what happens when you put three smart men in a room? They start talking about Coach Greg. Have you watched the latest clip between Derek, Leo, and longevity, and vigorous Steve? Well, how could I not watch this video? So I watched a video, and what I noticed was a bunch of lies. And a reason I think that this is happening is because Leo is a smart, intelligent man, and he knows how to get views. I've watched some of his more recent videos, in particular on vitamin D, and he knows what he's talking about, has some quality information. However, he wants to get more popular. He sees how many followers I have, Derek has, and he wants to be like us. He wants to be more popular. But he knows if he causes drama, talks about other people, I've done it before, that you can get a lot of views. And so Leo is doing exactly what I've done in the past. However, he lies about it. He goes a little too far, spreads lies. Okay, there's a few things we should comment on there. First of all, I noted that Greg twice so far has commented on other people's intelligence. He said specifically that the Bio Bros podcast has a bunch of smart people, and that I am a smart person. I just want to make clear that I am not a particularly smart person. And I don't know how that's relevant really to the discussion. Actually, this is a great point to make. I noticed historically, although I haven't followed all of Greg's arguments with other YouTubers, I did follow his argument with Lee Priest, who's a personal friend of mine. In his argument with Lee Priest, I recall Greg calling himself intelligent and using that as a basis for his argument against Greg and to lend credibility to the validity of Greg Doucette's opinion. So basically, he said, I'm smart, therefore I'm right, something like that. I've seen this elsewhere. I'd like to just point out that this is a kind of manipulative tactic that some people who are very capable at manipulation use. I would highly recommend to the audience, especially younger people, to read the book called Manufacturing Consent by Noam Chomsky, the founder of linguistics. The book Manufacturing Consent changed the way I read the newspaper. It changed the way I respond to information. It really enabled me to get down to beyond the structure of words, what's called semantics, rather to the meaning of words. And in fact, I'd highly recommend also some books by Robert, I think his name is Cialdini, if I recall correctly, it's been many years. He has a book called Influence, which is fantastic. And he has a book called Persuasion, which is newer and I haven't read. I highly recommend you at least read Influence. If you do, some of these calls to credibility will not be as weaponized or not be as successful weapons for you in argument. So if somebody says, hey, you're a smart guy, you would interrupt him and say, that has nothing to do with what we're talking about. Let's please speak about the actual things we're talking about. Or if somebody is arguing with you and says, I'm smart, therefore, let's take a step back. Whether you're smart or not doesn't have any impact on the actual meaning of what you're saying. Let's analyze the meaning and not our assumptions about you. Next, I'd like to acknowledge that I have gotten many more subscribers and views because of commenting on Greg Doucet recently. This didn't happen to me before. I made several videos criticizing Greg's advice to people before. And in fact, Greg Doucet also made videos mentioning me and I never really got a boost from it before. When Greg specifically made a video including my name here a couple of days ago, I was shocked. And then I saw the subscribers go up and I was very happy. So first of all, I want to say I'm very happy of the growth I've received from mentioning Greg. It wasn't my intention, but I'm very grateful for it. And any subscribers that decide to stay, I'm very grateful for your presence. And to be honest, I'm also grateful that Greg made a video with my title in it. It's helpful for my channel. I honestly didn't realize it would be that helpful. However, there are a couple of other things that Greg said which were a little distasteful. I am honestly not somebody who decides that I would like to have something because somebody else has it. It's just not in my natural inclination. We all have different inclinations naturally. We have different, so if you think of it in a biblical sense, we have different sins that tempt us. Jealousy and envy isn't the sin that that I'm most tempted to naturally. I don't know why. I've just never been that much of an envious person. While I would love to have a much larger channel, the reason why is because the main goal of my channel is to help others avoid the mistakes I've made or to help others learn along with me. So those are the two goals. And to help people, if I have a larger channel, I help many more people. So in fact, every time I introduce my videos twice a day, I ask my subscribers to comment on the videos and to subscribe to the channel, the people that are not subscribed, to help the channel's growth. And I also frequently ask my subscribers to please tell others about certain videos that I've made that I'm particularly proud of. And the reason why is that's the best way to make the channel go and make the content valuable to society. So I certainly do want to grow, but not because Greg grew. It's not like I look at his subscriber base and think, oh, I dislike him having it or I wish I had it instead of him. Those are not my natural inclinations. And finally, also the fact that Greg mentioned that he's done this before. I think just to put in perspective for subscribers, among us YouTubers, we consider Greg Doucette to be, at least in the fitness world, to be the channel that most grew off mentioning other people. In fact, before Greg, there was no big fitness channel that developed most of its following of talking about other people. There were channels like Jason Blaha, which got to 100,000 talking about other people. In fact, Jason Blaha may have promoted the first natty or not videos, I think. There are channels like that, but most of the channels that got very big, like Rich Piana or Boston Lloyd, were talking about their own experiences and not so much about other people. It's Greg who's almost unique and really a lot of his growth came from talking about other channels. At least that's our impression as other YouTubers. So comparing me to him is really, I feel like it's a manipulative, you know, way to speak because even if I had made this video in order to grow, which I hadn't, even if I had, it would be such a small portion of my videos compared to Doucettes that you couldn't really compare the channels like that. Anyway, let's continue and see what else he says. When I talk about other famous people, I'm giving you my honest opinion and I'm not lying about what they're saying. And so he pinned this comment and I read it and it is full of lies. Anyone, and I do mean anyone who's watched my videos, knows it's bold-faced lies. But I don't think Leo cares. I think he's just playing a character to get views. Just to comment briefly there again, I am not knowingly lying. I have never knowingly lied on my YouTube channel to my subscribers and I certainly am not playing a role. A lot of people have been suspicious that Greg Doucette was playing a role on YouTube, especially when his entire personality seemed to have changed a year or two into him making daily videos. But that doesn't mean that he can say the same thing about other people. I'm very much the person I act like I am on YouTube. My personal friends from back home from childhood are subscribed to the channel also. In fact, they comment sometimes when I do things like this, you know, comment on other people's behavior to protect my friends. I've always done that. I'm the same person I've always been. And really, if I was playing a role to get more subscribers, one would think I would play a role that would be more advantageous. Instead, most of the videos I've made criticizing the actions of other people have led to distaste among a portion of my subscribers and may have harmed the channel. But I did it anyway because it was in line with my ethical values. So we're going to watch some of his comments, see what they've said, and I'm going to squash some of the lies spread about Coach Greg. The only reason I started liking Doucet in the first place is because of Derek. And then this guy like, anyway, it's just shameless. I hope he sees this by the way. You're a punk. So apparently I'm a punk. He liked me, didn't like me, liked me. He's like Oprah Winfrey's weight. It goes up and down. Leo, just pick one and stick with it. This is a great example of the bullying that I talk about Greg Doucet doing. I hope his subscribers will notice this. He just made fun of Oprah Winfrey having trouble maintaining her weight. I'm sure that Oprah Winfrey takes this to be, if she heard this, a hurtful comment. Something that makes her feel poorly. Maybe like somebody talking about Greg Doucet's hairline. But he doesn't seem to mind when he does it to other people. Usually I've noticed women. But anyway, to correct the misinformation there, no. It was not that I grew to like Greg and hated him and liked him and hated him. I've always, to my knowledge, since first knowing about his channel, first I found him to be not very informative and not very useful. And then very quickly after that, I began to become suspicious of his moral character. And I spent basically the entire time thinking he causes more harm than good in the public sphere, especially in terms of health, and thinking that he is a commercially driven, self-maximizing person who would trample on anybody for his own welfare. I've thought that consistently. What happened was that my friend Derek, for no reason, not for his own welfare, went out of his way to speak up for Doucet, saying, hey, I talk to him every so often. We give each other advice and stuff like that. He seems like he might be a good guy. Maybe he's not doing these things annoyingly when he does this harm to other people. And basically, I gave him the benefit of the doubt in order to not make things awkward for my friend Derek, who's also friends with Doucet. So it's not like an up and down thing. It was me disliking Doucet and then me giving him the benefit of the doubt and then me realizing he's the same. I normally notice this because of Doucet. I don't watch his videos because he really annoys the hell out of me, but I've seen recently on YouTube, he has like a drilled on his head. And so he doesn't watch my videos. So he doesn't know that I had hair transplant surgery, but notice there's something different going on. So he asked Derek, did he get one? Derek? Yeah, he got one, dude. Like, yeah. Yeah, dude. Because that's what I noticed about Doucet. I've been watching this thing. I'm like, wait a minute. I didn't watch the video, but I can see from the thing that it's like, it's a little off. What is it? So he hasn't been watching my videos, but has studied my hairline enough to know whether it's good or bad. There is nothing wrong with my hairline. I'm 100% satisfied with it. So he doesn't watch my videos, but he watches my videos? No, again, to be clear, I started watching Greg Doucet's videos when he first appeared on the RX Muscle Show with Dave Palumbo. He had maybe 50 to 60k subscribers at the time. I watched a few of his steroid profile videos. I found that I could not learn anything from them and that they didn't have much informative content. And so I, actually, that's not even when I stopped completely checking on the channel. I stopped checking on the channel when his voice changed, when he began doing the screaming stuff. I could no longer watch his content. So it's not just not informative, but it was difficult for me to watch. That's my personal experience. So I stopped watching the channel. So I used to watch it a little bit, stopped watching it. I checked in every so often, maybe a year and a half ago. And since then, I haven't watched almost anything. That has no impact on my ability to view things from my home screen. I'm subscribed to Greg Doucet's channel because I'm a YouTuber that makes content related to health and his content is related to mine. So, and I'm also just to explain why I noticed that in the first place, I have a bizarre peculiarity about me. I'm very naturally observant and a little bit OCD about things being straight. So like every time, for example, I come to film here, I have a table in front of me. Sometimes this table moves slightly such that the center of the table is not in the center of the camera, which is not in the center of the bookcases behind me. And this takes me like 15-20 minutes some mornings trying to fix it, which has no impact on the quality of my videos. So I have this kind of issue going on personally. So what happened was I observed something on my home screen. And I always personally was concerned about the similar thing happening to me because I've long thought of tattooing my head. So I brought it up because I don't mind if it hurt Greg's feeling slightly because as we can see from his comment on Oprah Winfrey, he doesn't mind about others as well. And that's, I brought up because it's interesting to me. It's not because I'm secretly watching his videos and something like that or anything else he said. And I don't want to talk about this more in this video because I don't want it to be about putting down Greg. It's not about that. It's not about making him look like a fool or making him insecure. Although I think that's fine to do morally because he does that to so many other people and may teach him a lesson. But that's not what the video is about. Let's not get lost here. The video is about him wronging people, acting unethically, and me trying to point that out. That's what the video is about. Which is it? And so in the comment section, he says, Greg Doucette is my antithesis in every way. So apparently we're like polar opposites like Superman and Lex Lewis or Batman and the Joker. Really? He writes, he lacks curiosity for learning. Really? I have a master's degree in kinesiology. I've been studying my entire life. I was 100% natural, learned all about PDs enough to make videos of it where millions of people have seen them. But I lack curiosity for learning. Really? He lacks interest in health. My entire channel is devoted about teaching health. I constantly promote cardio, how to lose weight, to be healthy, lift weights, and so on. He seems to conflate low body fat percentage with healthy. Yet I have probably promoted being at a healthy body fat, 15% for men, 25% for women, more than any YouTuber in the world. I have specifically made several videos saying the dangers of having low body fat levels. Recently, the Tristan Lee videos and Alpha Destiny, among others. And so what do I tell people? Close your eyes. Imagine your dream physique. Open them. You're not getting it. I preach getting halfway there and having realistic expectations. So what Leo's saying is the exact opposite of what I'm actually saying. Okay, this is too much screaming around and stuff. Let's address these points point by point. First, I noticed that Greg Doucette mentioned that he has a master's degree in kinesiology, and that is evidence that he likes to learn. And well, let's address that first. Having a master's degree has nothing to do with your interest in learning. What I meant to comment here on, by the way, was not a person's studiousness, but rather somebody's interest in actually learning, as opposed to winning arguments, or using rhetoric to use one's knowledge to get above somebody else or make money from them. There's a difference there, right? I was talking about genuinely wanting to learn. People who genuinely want to learn, sometimes when they're in an argument, they sound very confident and sure of themselves. And then they learn something from the other person. They say, wait a minute, what did you say? And they think, oh wait, I have to revise my argument. In the middle of the discussion, people who really want to learn are people who sometimes when you ask them a question, they say, I don't know. Or sometimes when a subscriber sends them a correction to a video, they say, hey, thanks you so much. I've never seen this paper before. And he goes and reads that paper and then revises his opinions. That's someone who wants to learn. The reason why I don't believe that Greg Doucette is somebody who really wants to learn, one of the best examples is actually my detailed review of his cookbook, which taught some lessons about health that he never, ever incorporated into his channel afterwards. In fact, many people have done similar criticisms which taught Greg things that we assume he didn't know before, but he doesn't seem to grow or incorporate these things in his channel. Now about the master's degree in kinesiology. I also have a master's degree. I don't bring it up often because it's irrelevant to my work here. You knowing I have a master's degree should not impact how you analyze and criticize the information that I provide on the channel. It should not impact whether you trust my opinion or not. You should look at the content itself, the way I analyze arguments and then decide whether that content is valuable. And also, if you ever do take something I say for granted, only do so over a period of months and months of seeing my analysis and thinking, okay, this guy analyzes things well. Sometimes when I don't have time, I'll take his word without checking it out. That's what I mean to say. I don't know how to say it exactly. But the point is, don't rely on a person's educational background for that. And if you did, a master's degree wouldn't be the degree you're looking for. Master's degree in general are professional degrees. There are some academic master's degrees, but most often they're professional degrees. What does that mean? They're like MBAs or master's in education. MBA gets you the ability to work in business. Master's in education gets you the ability to work in teaching. A master's in kinesiology, usually what a PE teacher will get. These are usually professional degrees. So a lot of times people get master's degrees, not because they love to learn. Usually people love to learn. They might go into a PhD or they might get a master's degree because they didn't have great undergrad grades and then do a PhD. But it's not evidence that somebody wants to learn or loves to learn. And about the argument that Greg brought up in this discussion, he said that, I mean, it's shocking. It really shocks me. When I watched the video the first time, I was stunned by this commentary because it seems like Greg literally doesn't even know what I'm trying to say. In this case, I don't even think he's trying to be manipulative to his audience. He seems to think that I'm, that I think that he encourages people to be too low body fat, meaning they have a body fat level as a man below 15. That I think he's causing damage to the public health by making people too skinny and making people have too low body fat. That's not at all what I was talking about. I'm not talking about aesthetics and superficial things like that. I'm talking about the idea that foods or lifestyle patterns that cause somebody to be lower body fat don't necessarily cause that same person to be healthy. What I mean to say, for example, if somebody eats every two to three hours of the day and eats protein every two to three hours, they will probably never go into an AMP kinase dominated biological state. That is, AMP kinase is a state in which our gene pathway in your body that encourages your body to focus on cellular repair, as opposed to growth. If you don't go into that AMP kinase state much, you will age faster over time during your lifetime, your cells will keep dividing and eventually they'll reach senescence, which you can learn about online and search about the word senescence. It's a little hard to spell. But anyway, senescence causes those cells to become highly inflammatory. It's one of the reasons that people when they eat many times a day and eat protein a lot during their lives, end up with aches and pains in their 40s and 50s. They feel more pain than other people because their body wasn't able to get into that cellular repair pathway. Instead, because they were eating protein, especially animal protein, every few hours, they turned on the mTOR pathway. That is the major growth pathway of your body. So when you're growing, there's always a growth and longevity trade-off. Greg doesn't comment on this to his audience enough. He focuses on two concepts. One is eating frequently during the day and eating protein or maybe three concepts of eating frequently during the day, eating high protein diets, and also on eating what he calls dense foods, which are literally the opposite of being dense. Doucette often says that dense food is a food that is large. Basically, he means a food that is high in satiety, but low in calories. Really, if anyone is talking about health, when they talk about foods that are dense, they're talking about foods that are maybe low in calories, but high in micronutrient density. So that is what a dense food is. And when you're focused on foods that are in fact the opposite of dense, these are foods that have low amount of micronutrients and a high protein diet and eating several times a day, you're working against the major discoveries about health from the last three or so decades. You're publicly actively teaching people something that's wrong. It's not good for their health to eat every few hours. It's not good to eat a high protein diet. And by the way, for the audience that's listening to this that may have not have heard of this before, it's not really the time really here to get into details. But I would love to make a video of you if you're interested in how high protein diets or even eating frequently during the day age people in a cellular way faster, not only bringing them closer, faster to death, but also faster to frail and painful living before they reach death. So they age early. In the meantime, please go on YouTube and search Valter Longo. That's V-A-L-T-E-R. And the last name is L-O-N-G-O for some great interviews talking about how you can live longer by lowering your protein consumption. It's actually only after the age of around 50 to 60, where slightly higher protein diets, meaning higher than 80 grams per day, may be more healthy. Before that age, one of the greatest things you can do to extend your life is lower your protein consumption, eat less frequently. So this is the misinformation that Greg spreads, which can only be due to either a lack of knowledge or a lack of interest in presenting the true knowledge because it doesn't suit him. I mean, there's no other reasons to have such major mistakes in understanding of health. When people like David Sinclair go on the Joe Rogan show all the time, and people like Valter Longo are interviewed frequently, and there are channels like Peter Atiyah's, Rhonda Patrick's. People don't need to have this misinformation and this lack of knowledge. This is what makes me think that Greg Doucet is not interested genuinely in learning. Also, the fact that when he argues with people or when people try to correct him, he doesn't ever seem to change his opinion. And if he does, it's not about major things that really impact the health of his subscribers. I hope that was clarifying. All right, so whether it is the fact that Greg doesn't know this stuff, or whether it is the fact that it won't help him make more money or won't suit his commercial interests, in either sense, he seems to present as somebody who doesn't have a genuine interest in health. That's at least what we can see as YouTubers who are very interested in health. Let's continue. Which to me proves he does not watch any of my videos. If he did, there is no way he would have this belief. And then, and I'm paraphrasing, that I didn't do well early in my career because of distractions such as cheerleading. Early in my career, at age 22, I was a full-time school teacher. I was also setting records winning national championships in bodybuilding and powerlifting and was very happy and successful. And so I have no idea what his idea of success actually is. I felt I was very successful at an early age. I was winning shows, triathlon champion. I was very good at sports. Everything was great in my life. So I don't know what he's talking about. Then he says, with me, what you see is what you get. But Doucette, I'm the exact opposite. What? I quite literally just talk. I just talk off the top of my head, telling you what I think. What I am is what I am. Yeah, I yell and scream a little bit in videos, but what I think is what I think. I've always been this way. Okay, here I think there's two things to comment on. The first is, I did not mean, I don't know how much this really gets to Doucette because he, you know, he often picks on other people and seems merciless and ruthless on YouTube. If my comment actually did hurt his feelings, it was not intentional. I was not trying to say that he was a failure in early life. Let me try to explain. First of all, I don't think you can say that anyone is a failure without knowing their objectives. You can't say that somebody is a failure because they don't have money or they're not famous or whatever because these people might not want that. And so how did they fail? I really don't like the idea of calling anybody a failure in life without that person staying there so themselves. And even when somebody says they're a failure, even though sometimes I think the word is useful to teach with, I don't think it is at all useful to say about yourself or about anybody else. It's a demeaning thing that has no value to it really. But with that said, what I meant to say in that comment that I pinned, and I think some of you will understand this, is that let me give you my perspective. I used to see my goals in life as being monetary and I used to grade my success through my monetary achievements. So in undergrad, I was technically in a business school. In graduate school, although I got distracted by academia a bit right after graduate school, I chose my first job according to its salary, literally. I chose the job that was the highest paying job in the country that I worked in, that I knew of. A couple of years into that job, I realized that having money didn't make me happy. And in fact, that parts of that living in that lifestyle where everybody at work was trying to optimize themselves to try to make money, everybody was a politician, everybody knew what everybody else was doing, it was hard to make real friends. This kind of environment made me hate my life. And so I eventually decided to change my goals. And I went through honestly a spiritual crisis, trying to learn about what are the values that I should really have and so on. When I joined YouTube many years later, which the kind of content that I present on YouTube is sort of like the content I used to make on a blog that I used to write on. Unfortunately, many people don't read these days, so it's easier to make videos. But anyway, when I started on YouTube, I was surprised, actually, initially, I didn't notice this. But over several months, and I got to know YouTubers more as I invited them on my podcast, I was surprised to notice that there were some YouTubers, particularly doing content in the health arena, which I find to be particularly sacred. When you're talking about somebody's health, you can first of all, really harm their health if you're wrong. And second of all, if you're trying to maximize your commercial interests, I feel like it's almost impossible to do so without being unethical in the health arena. And that's why I think doctors have particular moral obligations. And that's why we're all a little bit harsh on doctors when they're influenced by pharmaceutical companies and so on. So I was surprised to notice that there were some people on YouTube who appear to be there, mainly to make money, like it was their best option to maximize their financial returns in life. I thought that if somebody had a health YouTube channel, they'd probably be really passionate about health, and really care about helping people with health or really like communicating with people or something like that. I was surprised to discover there were people on YouTube, mainly there to maximize their returns, like their goal in life is to become a millionaire or become a famous millionaire. And the best way to do that for them is to be on YouTube, making videos about health. That's what I found shocking. And that's what I was referring to in that comment. I can't be sure that that's why Greg Doucette has his channel and that it's not that he is interested in the public health. I think not the public health is the main, I don't think his main motivation is to improve people's health or lives. Because if it was, you would think that he would learn on his time on YouTube, he would start to know that some of the things he was pushing were incorrect or bad for people's health and so on. But this doesn't seem to change. So also, there's other things I know about Greg that make me think he's like that. Like for example, I noticed that earlier in life, I don't know if maybe his motivations changed, maybe now his interest is more financial when he was in his 20s, it wasn't. But if somebody was mainly interested in maximizing their wealth, you would think that they wouldn't choose a master's degree in kinesiology, you would think that they wouldn't be a PE teacher, so on. So maybe he did change his motivations, maybe in his 40s, he changed or in his late 30s. But at some point, he ended up on like a vice documentary, which you could tell us clearly just to attract attention or fame or something like that. At some point, Andy was like making Guinness records, which everybody knows, I mean, in powerlifting and those sports, people don't look at the Guinness Book of Records to compete. That's for fame. So there were some things he was doing that seemed to be to make a career or famous career for himself or something like that. And this is my impression, I could be wrong, I could be wrong. But it's my impression. And most of the YouTubes I've talked to also feel the same way about Doucette's intentions. Oh, and as to the second point about him being himself on camera, I'm not talking about him on camera. I'm talking about private conversations that I know about Doucette and compare or private actions that I know about Doucette and choices and comparing them to his public persona. I don't find these two to match each other. So that's what I'm saying there. Manuel, let's continue. And remember, this is the guy that in the past has stated that I do not have a twin brother that I lied about it, that there is no Alan Doucette. Twin brother teaches chemistry at Dalhousie University. Made it up. He said that I ratted out my friends and put them in prison. Another lie. He's also said I have a cancer cookbook. He said I had a cancer cookbook. You've probably seen the video. And he's also stated that I must be lying about being on growth hormone and that my HRT dose can't be what I say. All lies. Those are not lies. Let's talk about that in detail. And remember, again, I'm defining lies here as being intentionally misleading. I could be wrong about something, but I didn't lie about anything that I know about. First of all, I don't know what the story is with his twin. I don't remember. I do have a bad memory. So I could have thought that he was lying about his twin. I did certainly think that Doucette would lie if it suited him. And I still do think so to his audience. And so I don't know. I don't remember. If I did say that I thought he didn't have a twin, then I certainly thought he didn't have a twin. But I don't remember thinking that personally. Also, I thought his twin had a PhD in statistics, not in chemistry. So this is new information to me. But I don't follow his personal life that much in the first place. Second of all, about ratting, I have to explain this. So although a lot of YouTubers, including myself, think that Greg Doucette did snitch on his colleagues when he got arrested for selling steroids, I guess, or something like that, whatever he was doing. I don't know the details of what the crime was, but it was some kind of commercial crime in which there was some kind of money to be made. It wasn't a violent crime. And so basically, a lot of people think that he snitched on people. And there are many reasons why. The reason why I said so on video, I wouldn't say so if I didn't have proof. But at the time, there was a gentleman named Nick Tregilli, who used to go on my channel frequently. Nick had been researching the subject and said to me that he had a contact who was the actual person that Doucette had ratted on and the person who got a worse sentence or whatever because of Doucette. And he was trying at the time, he told me to get the guy to agree to an interview on my channel. Because of the time, I trusted Nick Tregilli quite well. I let him come to my channel because Nick was changing his life. He was a former drug addict. He'd gone sober. He'd hurt his reputation on YouTube and needed someone to help him out. So he was on my channel and I trusted him and so on. I believe that he did have that contact. And therefore, I believed quite certainly that Doucette probably did snitch. Now, after I learned more things about Nick, I don't know if it was completely true. I think it probably was, but I'm not sure. And I certainly don't have the evidence myself. If anyone does, it's Nick. So I can't be sure about this. If I was wrong, I apologize. If I was. Although I don't think I was, but I might have been and I apologize if I was. This is why I was. But let me just say something for the audience's information. I've unfortunately been arrested many times in my life. The first time I was arrested, I was 15 years old. I've never been arrested for the crime that Doucette committed. I've never been arrested for trying to make money or scamming or anything like that. We're doing illegal things like that. All my arrests were for violence. I've been arrested at least four or five times. Now, in the times that I spent time in jail, I've been with people who were drug dealers. And those drug dealers, the majority of which, even in Los Angeles, when I was in jail in Los Angeles, the majority of which were told on by their partners who were also arrested. So what I'm saying is that there were gang members, Bloods or Crips from LA that were arrested and whose other Blood and Crip gang members ratted on to avoid a two-year prison sentence for drugs, something small. So knowing this, knowing how common it is to snitch, because a lot of times you don't have to testify in court. There's no proof that you did snitch. There's no actual paperwork. It's this confidential informant. It only is shown if the person takes the case to trial. Most people don't take it to trial, the person you ratted on. So it's very common. Do I think that the bodybuilding world, in the bodybuilding world, people who are breaking the law to sell steroids are more or less likely to snitch than gang members? Pretty sure more likely. In fact, the amount of snitching in the bodybuilding world is huge. And I, anybody who I've heard snitch in the bodybuilding world, I investigate it and either I have nothing to do with them or I believe them. For example, my friend Boston Lloyd, a couple of YouTubers told me that Boston had snitched. They called me trying to convince me that he snitched. In fact, Nick Tregilli was one of them. I interrogated Boston, this was months ago, privately, and I concluded that he did not snitch knowingly. That's why I have a podcast with Boston. But I don't spare anyone from this. I believe that snitching is a very unethical thing. I believe that if someone is a criminal, they shouldn't be snitching. Do the time for the crime you committed. Don't betray your friends and be an even worse person. So what I'm trying to say here is, I don't know for sure that Greg snitched. I know that very tough criminals snitch for lesser sentences. People who have been to jail before, people who have had hard lives. Greg Doucette, I assume has not had that much of a hard life and probably would lose more if he went to prison than those people. So do I think he would have snitched if he could have? I honestly, personally, certainly do. And this, I'm even more confident of this now that I've seen how he treated Derek with the company. I mean, he will harm a friend to make money. Forget about avoiding prison. So for me, I don't know about this too much. But I don't have proof anymore. I don't have solid proof. And I do apologize if I'm wrong. But personally, I believe that Greg would have snitched if he had the opportunity, honestly. And finally, the two more points that Greg brought up. The first one is that after Greg's last competition, I had been still watching a few of his videos irregularly, although the screaming was making it difficult. During those videos, maybe the first one to four months after his last competition, he stated what he was taking in terms of PEDs. I believed for a variety of reasons that he was not taking those PEDs. I still believe so. Although I don't believe that's the case now. I believe that at some point later than this, he really did start to look different on camera. He really was probably semi-natural taking 140 milligrams of testosterone, something like that, maybe with no aromatase inhibitor also. But earlier, for a variety of reasons, which honestly, we don't have the time to get into now. I believe that Doucette was certainly lying to his audience about what he was taking. I believe this very strongly. I still believe this now. And finally, about the cancer cookbook, everything I said in that cancer cookbook was evidence-based and correct, and I stand by it. And I'm appalled that Greg Doucette has not taken into account some of those. I mean, how the processed foods being unhealthy, the choice of bison over beef with the iron content, the high protein diet, the advice to eat these grains, constant breads and things like this with processed foods, with artificial sweeteners. It's just, it's a cancer cookbook is what it is. If you're prone to cancers, if you are a person that might develop cancers through a normal life and you follow that cookbook, eating the way Greg does, you will be more likely probably to develop cancer, unless the alternative is extremely unhealthy. Unless your alternative is eating 5,000 to 6,000 calories a day from KFC or something like that. But if your alternative is to follow, for example, the diet that you could make out of nutritionfacts.org, which is another YouTube channel, or a diet you can make from Walter Longo's book, The Longevity Diet. Those diets will make you live longer than Doucette's diet, almost certainly. All right, let's continue and see what else Doucette says. But hey, anything for you is anything to get popular. But that's all right. But this time, he's going too far. He says, he'll sell a product his friend basically invented. The same friend that is the only reason I stopped talking about him. So apparently Leo actually hates me so much that Derek had to go and convince him, Leo, leave Greg alone. He's not such a bad guy. Did Derek actually have to say this to Leo? Leo hated me this much in the real world? He despises me that much? Yes, this is... Derek didn't have to do it. That's what I also like to point out. That's... Derek is a good guy. If he thinks that someone is good and potentially being wrong, he might not be confrontational in person, especially not on camera, but he'll stand up for that guy. And this is really a great point to point out how good of a guy Derek is. Let me tell you guys something. If you are a fan of Derek watching his channel, he is way better off the channel than he is on the channel. He's a really good guy. So Derek, he didn't have to do this, but he did this because at the time, Derek had a good... he thought he had a good relationship with Doucette and he thought that Doucette may be a good guy because Doucette seemed to be doing some small nice things to him privately. And the other thing about me hating Doucette, it's not so much a hate, it's a can't stand. That's why I said I can't stand Doucette because he represents to me the things that are really the opposite of what I wish I could represent, which is the massive misinformation and incorrect information about health on his channel, which honestly, I believe mainly he was interested in fitness, not health. I think the reason he's making all these mistakes is because he realized commercially it was more valuable to say both fitness and health. And that's where he made the mistake and he stuck to it because it suits his commercial aims. If he just removed health from his channel, he'd be fine. Everything would be fine in terms of the information. But that spreading of misinformation, which I believe is for commercial gain, I dislike it. I dislike the manipulative language, how he and the mercilessness and ruthlessness by which he argues with people that he thinks are stupider than him. And he really tries to humiliate them. I hate the fact that most of the channel is made up of making fun of or commenting critically on other people. There's a lot of things I dislike about it. I feel like Doucette represents the kind of man that young men shouldn't aim to be, the self-maximizing man. You know, after Samuelson revolutionized the field of economics, economics really influenced our view in society of how people should act. Specifically, the idea that if we are the economic rational man and self-maximize, at every point we choose whatever is best for us with no consideration for others. In economics, we think that the society will be best for that in the long term. If I maximize for myself, in the end, my wife will be better off. This I don't believe to be true. And I believe it to be one of the unfortunate things that happened with moral relativism and with the spread of self-maximization from economics. I believe that there are better morals to live by. Morals that include not copying your friend's company within the first month or two months or whatever. Morals that include not misleading your audience, not using manipulative language. Morals that include not maximizing for commerce only. There's more in the world than your financial returns, such as the impact you live on others. I concluded personally, for example, that if I always chose for myself, I would end up unhappy. I had to live to serve others. And if I served others, I would end up happy. So it just really, he represents the opposite of what I believe in. And so has Derek actually invented Terkesterone? Well, from what I've seen, Terkesterone was around years ago, but it wasn't made popular. And Derek more recently started talking about it. And then Andrew Huberman went on the Joe Rogan podcast saying, hey, it's kind of been as comparable to DECA and D-ball in mice. And it got people really excited about it. I started researching it. People wrote me every day saying, what's this with Terkesterone? Do a video on Terkesterone. Can you start making Terkesterone? And in case you're wondering, we've actually contacted one of the leading researchers on Terkesterone. He said you could increase its bioavailability through three methods. Derek has one of those methods. And I have another, biopairin. And in case you're wondering, Derek is saying over a hundred people have come up with Terkesterone since he's popularized it. Okay, there's a lot to comment on there. And I feel like this was intentionally misleading, honestly. First of all, just to be clear about Terkesterone, nobody was talking about Terkesterone before Derek basically popularized it. Derek, through his really detailed research, which is the reason I knew about him in the first place and invited him on my podcast and eventually became friends with him, he has some of the best videos using academic sources to strengthen our knowledge about subjects. So Derek, one of the things he discovered was this Terkesterone chemical. Of course the chemical existed before, but for your information, the chemical has never been used, at least majorly, as the main ingredient in a product. For example, Dante Trudel had a product which has a minor part of Terkesterone in it, but it's not the backbone of his product. Nobody had a product that the backbone of the product was Terkesterone because nobody believed it really worked. Derek was the reason that people began to believe it worked. He worked so hard in testing it out on us, on different employees of Gorilla, of the company, on friends, on athletes, on so many people. He researched it so much. All of us that are prone to research, that are friends of his, also researched it. There was a lot of work done and he manufactured it in a particular way that increases the bioavailability of Terkesterone. Now, what happened was when he released the product, it got sold out very, very quickly. When it got sold out, a couple of small companies tried to basically satisfy the demand of Derk's and get his customers. There was maybe four or five maximum of these small companies, if I recall correctly. They did not have Derk's viewership or his subscribers or his customer base. So they weren't really competing directly with him and they didn't have a particular loyalty to Derk. They didn't know him. But interestingly, within a month and a half or so, of all people, the guy that Derk was telling me, hey, might be a good guy, Doucette starts a product with Terkesterone as the backbone. In fact, he just added a few other chemicals to it, which he thought could accentuate the effect, which I don't want to get into too much details because I know a little bit of private information maybe. But the point is, he added a few other chemicals and released it to the market. Now, for those that were saying that this had no impact on Derk's bottom line, it certainly did. Derk was out of stock then. And then when Doucette released the product, the reason why Derk was out of stock, he had Terkesterone. He could have put bioperine or something with it. He wanted to complex it the same way he was before. He didn't want to reduce the quality of the product. So he waited. When he waited, Doucette released his product and got a lot of sales, of course. And then after that, actually, for those that don't know, Terkesterone has never been out of stock again with Derk. In fact, it never happened again because so much of the demand was taken by Doucette's customers and still is. I think, although I haven't really inquired with Derk in detail, I think that Derk probably lost several million from in the end, from Doucette's entry into the market. Now, Doucette certainly knew this. I can show you proof that he knew this, in fact, by the email that he just quoted. You can see in the email, which by the way, let's comment on this subject. It's a little ridiculous to ask an academic who specialize in Terkesterone research. What would make Terkesterone more bioavailable? There's a whole different specialty. The audience may not know this. There's a whole different specialty in academia about increasing the bioavailability of compounds. I know about this because I'm mainly interested in things that affect the brain. And so I have tons of research papers that I've saved and studied extensively on making things like nanoparticles, different lipid connections to part. There's so many different ways that you can increase the bioavailability. And this subject is constantly researched. So if you were smart, you'd go to those researchers and tell them, do you have any ideas about this Terkesterone thing? And you get advantages that the Terkesterone researchers themselves don't know about. But look at the email that Doucette put up there. Notice that he showed the bio-perine, which by the way is just pepper. Pepper increases the bioavailability of compounds mainly, mainly potentially, many academics believe by causing irritation in the gut lining, causing more of the compound to get through the bloodstream because of the irritation. That's one theory of how it works. But anyway, he mentioned the bio-perine there. He shows it. He shows Derk's thing. But the third one, he covers. So you can't see it. Well, if there was no issue with having competition in this, if it didn't affect Doucette's bottom line, he wouldn't have to cover that because he doesn't care if you enter the market. But he does care, just like Derk would care. And just like he knows Derk cared. Now let's continue. Let's see what else. A certain channel introduced something basically and popularized it almost single-handedly. I would feel a little bit disingenuous to a month or two later make the exact same product. And so Leo lying again saying, I would feel a little disingenuous making the exact same product. Do you think he's even looked at my product? Has he tried it? Has he read the ingredients? No. Be like saying that me and Derk have the exact same pre-workout formula. Mine has beta-alanine, one of the most popular ingredients in the world. Derk doesn't even have it. And does Derk own the rights to all pre-workouts? Once somebody makes a pre-workout, can no one else make a pre-workout? I sell an anabolic cookbook. Remington James then made an anabolic cookbook. Should I be mad at Remington James for making an anabolic cookbook? Hey, I started it. I don't own the rights to the world of anabolic cookbooks. And did his cookbook hurt my sales? Of course not. Made it better. Why? Greg seems to be intentionally missing. I don't know. He seems to be missing the point, but I feel like it's intentional. I don't think he's missing the point at all. Actually, I think he's intentionally arguing this way to justify his behavior. First of all, he says that I'm lying and saying that he has the same product as Derk. This is not true. He knows I'm not lying and he knows exactly what I mean. Before Doucette's product and Derk's product, there was no major selling product in the entire supplement market, whose main ingredient was terkestrone. So if you compare Derk's product or Derk's product and Greg's product to all other products in the market, they are the most similar to each other, right? So therefore we can agree that there are some similarities. Second of all, no, I haven't went out of my way to read his ingredients. I know his ingredients already because I know people who work to, you know, anyway, we won't get into too much detail, but we know what his ingredients are. And let me put it to you this way, just to make it easy. If he removed terkestrone from the product, how would it do? That's all, right? So we're talking about similar products. Now about pre-workouts, this is very misleading. This is not a similar example. Pre-workouts are a commodity. I talked about that in my second video. There are kinds of supplements that are in a commodity group. They may not be a commodity, they may be different from each other, but the idea is that a lot of companies have pre-workouts. A lot of companies have intra-workout nutrition, protein products, products, carb products, so on. Very few companies had terkestrone products. Let's say none before Derek did. So it's not the same thing. And second of all, to be honest with you, everybody knows that Greg Doucette's pre-workout was at least, I think, clearly designed off of Derek's. Like he took Derek's and he changed some things. And to add beta-alanine, one of the most powerful ingredients, what does that even mean? I don't even know what that means. And finally about the cancer cookbooks. Cookbooks are not a new product. So there are tons of products in the cookbooks in the market. That's not something new that Doucette introduced. Maybe the idea of having like a cookbook that's... Even cookbooks that are also building focus, they already existed. So I don't know what he's talking about here. This is very misleading. All right, let's continue. Because it makes it more popular. It becomes a thing. If only Derek has terkestrone and every other YouTuber says, it doesn't work. It's a scam. It's snake oil. Like Jeff Nippert's video. How would that do for sales? If Coach Greg, rather than selling terkestrone, made videos like Jeff Nippert say, oh, it doesn't work. It can't work. What would that do to sales of terkestrone? In comparison, Derek's making it, says it works. Look at the thousands of people saying it works. The repeat buyers as they talk about in this video. At this point, do you think people would continue recurring buying it if it didn't work? Okay, this is also very misleading. Why would Doucette have the choice of either copying his friend's product and introducing it to the market within the first month or two that he gets sold out, being one of the first six companies that copied it? The first big company. Why would it be that or him saying it doesn't work? I don't understand that dichotomy that he created. And second of all, I don't think anybody needs Doucette to say it works to help with Derek's sales. I think that people trust Derek. He doesn't lie on camera. I know him personally very well. I've never seen him lie on camera to sell anything. I've never even seen him exaggerate, to be honest, to sell anything. I don't think people need that. And also, there's tons. I have, I've never used terkestrone. I have tons of subscribers who've commented on my videos without me mentioning it that, hey, I tried this terkestrone thing. It really works. I was surprised by how effective it was myself. So you don't really need, that doesn't really make sense. People saying it doesn't work doesn't matter if it does work in real life. Everybody will know that in the end, and so does Doucette. Doucette knows that himself. Instead, let's talk about the truth. The truth is that Doucette didn't have a choice of either saying it didn't work or selling it really quickly, like like Derek, like his friend did. And moreover, other people saying it doesn't work doesn't really matter if it does work. And if people trust Derek, which they don't even need to trust Derek, because so many people know it works already for people that are natural or that, you know, could not compare to heavy steroids maybe, but compared to obviously not taking anything. So that's not the issue. What is the issue? Well, let's get back to the issue. When Derek was out of stock, his friend Doucette introduced the same product without telling him. And Derek, I can say confidently, lost millions and his sales of his product never recovered once his fellow channel, who has the exact same subscriber base, decided to offer the same product plus additionals. That's what took a lot of sales away, I'm sure, without even asking Derek from Derek's product. And I'm sure that if what I've been saying is incorrect, Derek would go out of his way to correct me. So no, the issue is not that Doucette had either bad mouth it or sell it. No, dude, you could have not sold it and waited a few months, you could have waited six months, you could have waited long enough long enough just for yourself, to be sure that it's a good product. You can't know that fast, because we were researching for months before Derek was talking about it. So you could have waited for just ethical reasons. But you could have also waited for your friend, say, let this guy get some sales for the first six months to a year, because he did all the because he did all the work on this thing. I'll introduce it later when it is a commodity, when a lot of other companies have turkestron products. But it isn't yet that I'm not going to be the one to make it a commodity to take away revenue from my friend. That's a normal, logical, loyal kind of response. Like you would try it, you would see no translation in effect, and you would stop buying it. If you buy it and it doesn't work, you're not buying it again. If it was snake oil, would you continue to buy the snake oil? Of course not! Well, I notice all the companies copying, but, and when they don't mention me at all, and they act like discovered it or something, but I mean... That's the fitness industry, you know? Nobody gives each other recognition. I have mentioned Derek more than any other YouTuber on this world. Did you start selling turkestron because of Derek? When I first heard about turkestron from watching Derek, I've been aware of turkestron ever since Derek first spoke about it. And more recently, Derek was researching it and said, wow, that's pretty impressive. This stuff is good. You can support whoever you want. I'm not twisting your arms on buying it for me. Or Derek, buy the one that you want. Yes, yes, definitely. If you look at every channel in the world and say, who has mentioned Derek the most? I have. Even on Will Tennyson's channel. Did you start selling turkestron because of Derek from workplace mortades? Yes, yes, definitely. So if you want to buy Derek's turkestron, you can go to Gorilla Mine and buy Derek's turkestron. It's made different than mine. It's not even the same product. In the same way I've said, if you don't want to use my pre-workout, which has beta-alanine, you can go and buy Derek's. I promote other people. If you've watched my videos, you would know this. So this was very manipulative stuff. This is where you need the book, Influenced by Cialdini, or Manufacturing Consent. Seriously, it's like, he's very good at this. He seems to be genuine and he's enthusiastic in what he's saying and he believes in it, but it doesn't make sense if you think about what he's actually saying. So he's saying that, first of all, I quoted a segment where Derek was saying that, hey, what really bothers me is a lot of people talk, introduce, they sell the turkestron product, make videos about it, and they don't even mention me when they do so. And what Derek was doing there for the audience to realize is Derek is a really humble guy. He doesn't, he doesn't, he's not, he's not going out of his way to say what he really deserves from people. He's just saying, at least this? Just, I mean, every time. So that's what he was talking about there. That doesn't mean that Doucette never mentioned him at all. The reason why I believe Doucette has to mention him is because they have the exact same subscriber base. While he could fool a portion of the subscribers into not noticing that he just stole the chemical that his friend popularized out of nowhere and sold it within a couple of months of him introducing it while he was out of stock, to help his subscribers not notice the weird behavior he's doing, he's got to say, hey, it's Derek. You know what I mean? It's the same way as when his video started, he said, me and the bio bros are smart. You know what I mean? He's, it's to make you think he's not taking from that person or he's not criticizing them. It's, I'm not saying he's doing this, but this is a common strategy. Of con men who use language to get across what they want to communicate. Also, by the way, if you guys haven't checked out Neuro Linguistic Programming, NLP, check that out also, as well as Cialdini's books and Manufacturing Consent. You'll see much more of this. So Doucette is giving credit in order because of he has to, but there's no, it's not unavoidable by the way, and it's a fact. So that that's not, but that's not the issue. The issue is why we talked about already, introduce the product, take your customer, your friend's revenue, not even mention it to them, all of that stuff. That's the separation. But let's talk about it this way. Imagine Doucette came up with, found a chemical while he was up late at night studying old papers. Imagine he did that, and he found a chemical that was very interesting, and he researched it, and he had his friends try it, and his athletes try it, and he really researched it. He talked to Huberman about it. He did all of this kind of stuff, and then he introduced it. He called it a deuce 10 or something like that. And imagine he goes out of stock, and three or four weeks later, his friend Derek introduces the exact same product, deuce 10, and says, oh, I'm glad Doucette told me about this. Guys, I have the same product. I have not the same product. It's not the same product. My product has additions, right? Just like Doucette just said, if you don't like beta-alanine and want a pre-workout like mine, but without one of the most powerful ingredients, get Derek's. My terquestro isn't the same as Derek. It just has some powerful additions. Do you see what I mean? So it's really quite misleading. I don't know if I can get and explain it any more so, but I hope most of the viewers will realize by listening to this. Let's continue. But when people start saying that I've stolen Derek's terquestro and copied his formula and never given him any credit, that is a lie. You can say an opinion. I think he did this. I think coach Greg is probably on growth hormone. That's your opinion. That's fine. But when you say things like Greg has ratted out his friends and put them in prison. No, I did not say that Greg Doucette never gave him credit. Or if I did, that was not my main point. My main point is that Greg Doucette stole Derek's chemical. I mean, when I say stole, what is the definition of steal? I don't mean he went to his house and stole an item from his house in case Doucette wants to get really lawyerish with us. What I mean to say is that it was Derek's creative idea. There was no other major company selling it. And Doucette decided to go and sell it while Derek was out of stock. It's just, I'm commenting on the ethical nature of the choices. Like not the fact that you have a channel that probably your main interest is to get money from your subscribers, not to affect their lives positively. Not that stuff, not the manipulative language, all that. The fact that the only guy standing up for this guy, Doucette, I mean, he has no friends on YouTube that I know about. I've heard of this Johnny Shreve guy, maybe he's friends with him. The only guy I knew that he was friends with was Derek. Imagine working in a place for years and you made zero friends, even though all of your work is about other people. For some reason, you've decided all of your videos, you're going to make them about other people, almost all of them, 70% of them, 50%, whatever. And you've made, I mean, Derek is the friend that he made. So to act like this with Derek, I was like, what kind of person? I mean, imagine what you would do to, if you would do this to Derek, imagine what it would do to people, the other people, the people he makes videos about and ruthlessly so like me and others, what would he do to us or subscribers? I mean, Derek is a guy standing up for him. And he's like, Oh, out of stock. Let me introduce you. And now he's saying, you're saying I copied the same product. It's not the same product. That is such manipulative language, dude. There were no products on the market. Their main ingredient was terkestrone. No major ones from major companies, except Derek's and then yours. And you guys have the same viewership. I mean, what are you talking about, bro? Because you added a few things to it, you say it's a different product. No, if it was a different product, people wouldn't have stopped buying Derek's because yours was introduced when it was out of stock. And they just got used to yours. And now a lot of them still buy your product. Now that's the reason why it's because it is a very similar product. It's it replaces the activity of the other product. If there if if one product can be used instead of the other one, and there are no other products in the market that have the same ingredient that are from big companies, then what are you saying, bro? And they have families. And that's a lie. That is going too far. Actually, to be honest with you, that's how I started disliking Doucette again. Did I say I invented terkestrone? Have I ever said that? When I saw that product with the terkestrone, I know you guys like them, you guys like them, but I saw this product and I said, what the the only reason I started liking Doucette in the first place because of Derek. And so I'm trying to understand Leo a little bit deeper here. So he's only going to be friends with other people based on their recommendations. He can't decide who he likes or who he doesn't like on his own. So if Derek says Greg's a good guy, then he'll start watching me start liking me. If Derek says I don't like him, then it's that I don't like him. This is a crazy part. Let's comment on this. Does Doucette actually believe that there is somebody out there who is asking people their opinion on other people and then deciding if they like them or not based on that? I'm sure there are people that are influenced by others or maybe don't have strong opinions, but he doesn't even mean what he's trying to say here. And for the audience to know again, remember, I disliked Doucette and was suspicious of him, thought he had a majorly negative influence on the health arena, thought he was a person maximizing his commercial interests, bullying and belittling the weaker YouTubers who couldn't argue as well as he could. And recently, I saw some appalling behavior in terms of how he treats people that consider him their friends or his friend or whatever, however you say it. That's how I think of him. And what happened was that before this last point, Derek, my friend, stood up for Greg and said, hey, give him, basically give him a second shot, give him the benefit of the doubt. And so I did so. My benefit of the doubt is removed now. And my friend will probably never say that again to me, I'm quite certain, because all of us us now know how Greg really feels and how he acts. So again, that's really misleading. Like, how does that make sense? And so I comment on his wall, I watch a few of his videos. See, I'm telling you, I still watch his videos. And I made a comment. And I said, just like my cancer cookbook, pretty much everything causes cancer if you look hard enough, because he's always talking about cancer this and cancer that. And his comment responds with, please stick to commenting on women's bodies. Before we comment on that, just to be clear to the audience, that's a great example of how Greg Doucette doesn't like to learn. That video was called the vitamins that cause cancer. You can't watch that video without realizing that, hey, there's only two vitamins that may cause or worsen the incidence and the ability to survive cancers. There are vitamins A and vitamin E. Doucette commented on that video saying, ah, looks like everything causes cancer. No, bro, that's the point. That's why your cookbook was so misleading. You can spend the time to learn these nuances. You can spend the time to learn about health. If you really are interested, curious, want to learn, or want to help people. You don't have to just say, ah, everything causes cancer. My cookbook's fine. You know, anyway. And stealing supplement ideas from others. I mean, very habit. How can I win this argument? This is from a guy who doesn't watch my videos, but comments on my hairline, talks about if I'm pretty or not. Talks about the redness in my chest. Says that proves that I'm on growth hormone. Doesn't believe my HRT doses because how could you have this physique on only HRT? Is he jealous? Envious? I mean, he's approaching a hundred thousand followers. He's doing pretty freaking good. If you ask me, a hundred thousand followers is a lot. He's a smart guy. Again, we're back to the smart thing. Let's stop calling each other smart. I am not smart, Greg. So in your response is please stop calling me smart. I am not smart. Stop using manipulative language to your audience. I have average intelligence. I just was a person I try to kindle curiosity, develop curiosity and fulfill it to please myself as my hobby. And second of all, I'm a person that tries hard. I'm a try hard. I'm not an intelligent person like yourself, like you claim to be others. Okay. First of all. Second of all, I stand by what I said. Very misleading here. He says, I want growth hormone because of the redness on my chest. No, Doucette, you know that's not what I said. And you know, that's not what I meant. Redness in the chest would indicate androgen signaling or steroidal hormones, not growth hormone. There are many reasons, specific reasons, why I thought that Doucette was lying about what he was taking. Won't get into them too much here. But let's remind ourselves of something, right? I went to jail. I was first arrested when I was 15. I was extremely violent in high school. They tried to suspend me so many times, even though I tried to become a better person in my life, even earlier in life, I became religious. I tried to do so many things. I still, when I became an alcoholic, I still ended up getting arrested for the same damn things, for violence, different cases of violence, but always violence. So I've been arrested many times for violence. Now I ask all of you to give me a second chance because I am a person that really tried to change, really tried to change. I did a lot of soul searching. I did a lot of meditation. I did everything I could do to not be the miserable, immoral human being I became in terms of mistreating others. But even though I ask all of you to give me a second chance, the government of the United States won't. I am a felon. I'm a felon forever, unless I can get this thing expunged. And if I was arrested, say walking down the road, I didn't do anything wrong, but somebody called the police and said, Leo just punched me. When the police arrived there, because of my history, they're going to say, ah, maybe he didn't. He is supposedly innocent to proven guilty. But once I go to court, the DA and everybody else will give me a much worse deal because they'll say, you did this before. And the jury won't believe you. Because why? Because most people don't really change. Really changing is very difficult. It takes a spiritual experience. Carl Jung would say so, you know, if you look into Carl Jung's writings, you'll find that he says sometimes the only solution for somebody that is morally depraved is to have a spiritual experience that changes them. That could be religion. It could be an ayahuasca trip. It could be some, but it has to be a very emotional experience that changes your mindset. I believe I've had those experiences, but I might not have. I don't know if Doucette has, but only if you've had those experiences usually does someone really change. Because of that reason, the law will consider your previous crimes against you when they see new crimes. With all that said, let me tell you guys the truth. I have changed. In the last couple of years living in Los Angeles, I was approached on the street and attacked twice, at least. I don't remember exactly how many times, but once without my wife. And once actually my wife was there, and I didn't even remember this. My wife recently commented on it. I was attacked, punched in the face, and I said, please stop hitting me. I cannot do this anymore. I'm a felon and I don't want to be arrested and I don't want to do anything. If you need anything from me, just tell me, let me be. And this is, in both cases, I could have easily defended myself. It was not an issue, but my fear was that I commit violence. I become okay with it. And then one day I commit violence that was not justified. That was not self-defense. So I actually have changed. But even with that said, what would you potentially expect if I've not changed? Well, it won't influence you guys. Because I've never been caught for, I've never been arrested or even done this. I've never broken the law to make money. I've never cheated or scammed. Honestly, I never cheated on a test, even from grade one till grade 12. Not one test did I ever copy of somebody. Ever. It's just not in my nature. My nature is, my sin, if you're biblical, the sin that I'm tempted toward is more violence. I don't know why. I could get into the psychology of it later. I'm not tempted toward cheating as much. And I'm also not driven by financial considerations as much. I don't try to make money through doing illegal activities. That's just my personal temptations, right? So if you expected, for example, that I gave up on my daily spiritual work, if I lost the memories of my spiritual experience, if I became the bad person I used to be, what could you guys as subscribers expect from me? Well, nothing really, unless you met me in person and said something offensive to me. I'm not going to hit you through this. I couldn't become violent on the videos, right? On the other hand, what would you expect of Greg Doucette? So Greg Doucette has been arrested, obviously, as you guys know, for some kind of commercial illegal activity, which was commercial, right? So we know he's willing to break the law to make money to some degree, right? How would that influence you guys? All you may know is that he's willing to do something that society considers illegal for financial welfare. Now, he may have changed, so he may not be willing to do this anymore, but he was before, right? How would that influence you? Well, maybe not at all, because Doucette may just not respect the prohibition on drugs. Like a lot of us steroid users, I'm not a steroid user anymore, but a lot of us also don't respect it. So we just don't follow the law. That could be it. But what's much more revealing is that Doucette has been caught for cheating on tested athletic events, which is shocking. For those of you that don't use PEDs or aren't in the steroid world, the first time I started reading about steroids was in 2003 on these online message boards like anabolic muscle and anabolic minds. People who remember those boards, comment down below. So I used to be in the sort of the steroid subculture for maybe, I guess, almost two decades. And in all those years, I've known very few people who have cheated on tested events. In the subculture of the PED steroid world, there is nothing worse than somebody who cheats on a tested event. It's worse than snitches. It's considered the... It's like stealing from your mother. It's really evil because PED users and steroid users, we get so much hate because most people think we're cheaters. A lot of us are not cheaters. We compete in untested things like me in arm wrestling or other people in powerlifting or stuff like that. They don't compete in tested events. So we're not cheaters, but we get so much hate because of it. So because of that reason in the steroid world, the people who actually cheat, they're hated so much and they're so rare. Like nobody would ever admit to that. Now, I'm not saying Doucette is still a cheater. I'm not saying he's willing to break the laws for financial reasons. But what I am saying is if Doucette didn't have a major spiritual experience, the kind of motivation that one needs to cheat on a tested athletic event while taking drugs is really scary. It's that kind of willingness to cheat on anything when you're not caught. And the motivation is fame or success or getting one up on somebody else. Trust me, if any listeners here are PED users, comment down below how... for others to know because others don't realize how immoral of an action that is. That is nothing like cheating on a test in high school. It's nothing even like cheating on your midterms in college, which you could get expelled for and shows you being unethical and companies won't hire in the future. This is way beyond that. This is a true lack of ethics. Now, is Doucette the same way today? No. I hope he had a spiritual experience, but I have zero evidence that he has had a spiritual experience and his behavior on YouTube is the behavior I would expect of somebody that still prioritized money over everything else and was willing to cheat when needed. And remember this, the supplement industry is completely not regulated. Completely. So of all business owners, who are the ones you want to care most about their ethics? The people who have your money or have your health. And the supplement people have part of your health and are not regulated at all. So beware of people with questionable ethics in the supplement industry. I'm not saying that Doucette has products that are contaminated or don't contain the exact amount of products that he says they do. Not saying that. But if somebody was to be like that, maybe not Doucette because there's so much of a bright light on him. But I have a feeling that he would be the person tempted to do those kinds of things that so many other supplement company owners do. And if you don't know about these things, go join consumerlab.com so you can get third-party reviews of supplements and see how often those supplement company owners lie. I don't know why he's resorting to doing these things. He says he's my antithesis. If he's truly my antithesis, why is he causing drama talking about other men with other men in a podcast? Why would he stoop to this level? I thought he was above that. Beyond that, he's such a smart, intelligent guy. Why is he resorting to drama for views? Why does he think he needs to be Superman flying in to save the day to save Derek? Derek's doing great on his own. If Derek has a problem with me selling terkesterone, let Derek talk about it. And I gotta admit, Derek is deflecting here. He's not very comfortable in this conversation. You can see him scratching the head when they're talking about it. He doesn't want to talk about this. All right, let's end this here because it's gotten a bit long. I'll try to just respond to the last things he said and we can end it. So first of all, he's now a body language expert. He knows that Derek is uncomfortable because I brought it up. Trust me, if I was a good friend and what I'm talking about mainly here is Doucette being a bad friend. If I was a good friend, I wouldn't put my friend in an awkward position. I certainly have not. You are not a body language expert, Greg, Doucette, whatever your name is. Please stop assuming things and telling your audience that my friend is uncomfortable by my behavior when he's not. First of all, really. Second of all, please stop calling to people's intelligence or remarking on their intelligence. It's not your job to say if we're smart or stupid. It was not your job to say you're smarter than my friend Lee Priest. It's not your job to say I'm smart. I am not smart. Please stop doing it. And about me being the opposite of Greg, I don't know. He's talking about now, why is he making videos commenting on other men? I didn't complain about Doucette commenting on other men. In fact, Doucette, if you remember, my comment was about you criticizing women's bodies. I find that very bizarre and I find it bizarre. You're so merciless in your ruthless arguments with other female YouTubers. About why I'm creating drama, Greg, I mean, this may be difficult for you to understand, but there are some people that are making videos that they just believe in. For my sake, if I make a video that's not about an informative content, it's either because I think there's a moral lesson that I've learned personally that maybe my young subscribers could benefit from or because whatever I'm doing on the video is something that I want to do. And in this case, I wanted to stand up for my friend, somebody who is not, as you noticed correctly, not confrontational and may not stand up for himself as much as maybe I believe he deserves to. But that doesn't mean that I think Derek should change his behavior. Derek lives a very morally great life. I respect him very much so. And that doesn't mean that I can't stand up for my friend if I want to. Limitedly, I was not planning to make tons of videos on Doucette, but he happened to respond and my subscribers would like me to respond also. And I get aggravated by the manipulative language here. So I wanted to set it all straight. So to be clear here, the actual motivation is to stand up for my friend and comment on and outline what I consider to be morally bankrupt behavior, Doucette. And to be clear, I am not friends with Greg Doucette. And so this is not something against my ethics or anything like that. And I truly believe that Doucette has been merciless and ruthless toward people who didn't deserve that mistreatment. I believe he is a force for evil on YouTube and represents some of the worst content in the fitness industry. And finally, I'd like to point out to you, recall when I mentioned that I didn't like Doucette and that Steve and Derek did. Steve interrupted me and said he didn't. Steve very rarely doesn't like somebody. I still haven't talked to Steve about it. But think about that. Why doesn't Steve like him? Steve likes everybody. And by the way, I highly recommend also you subscribe to Steve's channel. If you like Greg's sort of informative content and less drama, Steve's channel provides really high level quality informative content. Anyway, friends, I look forward to seeing you again tomorrow morning back to more informative content. See you guys next time... Thank you.