 Ifr 2020 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – being the former director of MIT Mind Machine Project, and as a professor of computational neuroscience and functional neurology at the University of Oxford. There, he also led the Oxford Computational Neuroscience Laboratory, and his influence extends to the MIT Synthetic Intelligent Lab and the Center for Advanced Defense Studies. As the Sherman of the Brain Science Foundation, he has been instrumental in advancing our understanding of the brain. So from his early years, Dr. Howard's journey in science and technology has led to remarkable academic achievements. His contribution, notably to the theory of intention awareness proposed during his tenure at the University of Oxford, and his work in neurodegenerative diseases accumulating in the brain code barrier, have had profound implications across various domains, including military law enforcement, with his intent-centric approach revolutionizing decision-making. His research has significantly advanced our understanding of cognitive processes, particularly through his mood-state indicator algorithm, which offer insights into human speech and emotional states. Dr. Howard's ongoing work include exploring functional brain and neurointerfacing. His theoretical model, like the fundamental code unit, enhance our understanding of a brain disorder and aid in developing pharmacological and therapeutic tools. More notably, he's working on the Kiwi chip with his company, NI20. As we begin our conversation today, please keep in mind that we had some time constraints and technical issues in this episode. Not only I wasn't able to ask all the questions I wanted, but we also didn't get into depth on some of the things he mentioned. And as much as I wanted to, there were some more pressing questions, so I went over some of the things that he had mentioned. Dr. Howard already agreed to come back for another episode, so feel free to comment with any questions you might have for him next time. So join us as we embark on this enlightening journey with Dr. Newton Howard, exploring the intricate working of the human brain and the remarkable advancements in neuroscience. Can you hear me? Yes. Perfect. No problem. Today, it's great. All right. Dr. Howard, thank you so much for coming on the podcast today. I am so excited to have you on. Our audience is also very excited. I received so many questions to ask you from them. Unfortunately, I know we only have a little bit of time, so I kind of try to combine them all at once. But let's start with your journey and knowing, I mean, let the audience know a little bit more about you. So you moved to the United States. It has been a significant chapter of your life. So can you share with us, like, what makes you come to the US and how this influences your decision to start it in the field of neuroscience? Sure. I had always been interested in science and technology. When I was young, I participated in a science talent show and worked on a small hydrogen engine that was noticed. And as a result, I was invited to come to the state. And I was 11, 12 years old. So it's a long time ago. So you started young. Yes. So once in the US, like, what was the pivotal experience you encounter that shaped your career path? Like how this US experience contributed to your specific interests within neuroscience? You started in mathematics, right? Yes. Sorry. Yeah. My earlier studies was in mathematics, modeling actually the human mind and the human brain in an apparatus known as intent. And I created the theory of intentional awareness at Oxford that we later were using in military setting and other governmental settings, government systems. And then I pivoted after I received the TBI, traumatic brain injury myself, and wanted to understand how do we go about solving these problems and, you know, helping others that are having similar type of injuries. Okay. So you had a unique and active role in Afghanistan. Is it where you got your TBI? And can you just share a bit more about this journey and how it got you where you are now in terms of your research on the brain? Right. Well, actually, it was the location is not something that we're supposed to talk about, but it is received around that time. I wouldn't call my experience in Afghanistan like extremely significant period, but it had significant impact on how I saw things in national defense and in supporting this nation that nation building in Afghanistan. I worked on a few projects that relates to getting rid of crops like opiates and whatnot and, you know, other things that help support against settlements in the US and whatnot. Okay. And how those experiences got you into neuroscience? Was that like the fact that you had a TBI experience and that all those experiences like really influence the groundbreaking theory you had such as like the theory of intention awareness or the development of Kiwi? Right. So, you know, when you experience TBI, you go through a slew of treatments and treatment strategies depending on the practitioner or whatnot. And I noticed that some of the most obvious steps were kind of ignored. And I felt that some other strategies like an electroceutical, not in pharmaceutical were underutilized in treatment and that they should be, you know, an attention should be brought on some of these electroceutical methodologies like TMS, TDCS, DPS. And I started pursuing that in my personal journey of building the Kiwi chip and building a solution that can actually be used in those treatments. Okay. So could you share a bit more about what treatment you were giving for your TBI? What did you end up doing on your own in order to help repair your brain? Mostly, most of the treatments were pharmaceutical agents like your standard SSRI, SNRI and, you know, stimulants and these type of things. Um, they don't really work most of the time. They work sometime, but not all the time. And, uh, thank God I was lucky that, um, I was able to substitute that with TMS, Transmagnetic Stimulation and TDCS, Transcranial Stimulation. Um, and, um, I saw great results, uh, and I saw returning back to, uh, to normal, uh, from that. So before we dive deeper into, um, TDCS and TMS, um, have you experienced with anything else in order to try to repair your brain and, uh, for your TBI, something like, uh, agent like cerebral license, for example? No, no. No. Um, yeah, I, um, I, um, I've been just like mainstream. They use mainstream strategies with me. Okay. Um. So let's dive a bit into, like, TMS, and for those who don't know, it's Transcuraneal Magnetic Stimulation and TDCS, Transcuraneal Direct Currant Stimulation. So how do these treatments, can you explain a bit more, how do these treatments work in layman's terms? What potential do they hold? And in what condition can they be used? Uh, TMS has higher penetration, obviously, because the energy is about, it's about transferring energy into your brain. Okay. Um, so, um, in one case is magnetic and magnetic form, and in other cases, direct current form. Um, they, um, the brain needs harmony. Uh, you need things not to be under firing or over firing. Uh, so with these, um, uh, with these type of electraceutical solutions, uh, come in, they help the excitatory areas to be, uh, suppressed a little bit. And, um, the areas that are underperforming to come up to par, uh, creating a harmony in the brain. Uh, they don't work right away. They have to do multiple sessions, obviously. Um, you know, on average about 14 sessions. Um, but you start seeing effect, uh, uh, almost immediately after the first few sessions. Is that what your experience with your TBI? Yes. Yes. Okay. So in terms of like TMS, I'm curious, um, what condition can be treated? Is it only for people with TBIs? And what would be, like you say, you see results immediately in terms of comparatively for different things that you can treat, how effective or what's the percentage of effectiveness compared to regular treatment? Let's start with TBI and then we can look into other conditions that you can treat. Right. You know, according to the literature, the effectiveness is really, really high. Okay. Uh, greater than 80% response. Um, the, the treatment can be used even in autism spectrum disorder and has been used in that, uh, as well. And as, as well as OCD, anxiety, plemian nervosa, depression, uh, uh, PTSD. Um, so it's, it is, it is, it is really broad in its use. Uh, the same applied with, uh, TDCS. Uh, although TDCS has lower penetration because the lower energy, um, you have to use higher number of sessions to get the same results. Okay. So TMS works with magnetic and TDCS work with current. Yes. Okay. And so you mentioned a lot of things that it can be treated. Is it needed the same amount of sessions in general? And is it like the same, let's say a pattern or like intensity for each different, um, things that you can heal? And what's the, is it 40 sessions across the board, the average to see the results and are there permanents or do they need other sessions after? No, no. Uh, they, the intensity duration, um, power, uh, in the location of the stimulation, uh, differ from one condition to another. Mm-hmm. And the number of sessions also differs from one condition to another. Um, on, on average, uh, you can reach up to like 36, 40 sessions, uh, and you would have to do maintenance sessions. Okay. Uh, like once a month or so. Okay. And what's the difference, uh, in terms of results or like why there is, is magnetic better than the current or is this better for one specific condition to compare to the others? It really, it really is a convenience. Like if you, if you're using the TMS, you have to go to a clinic and, uh, you sit in like sort of a dental chair, like a dental chair and, uh, the, uh, magnetic one. That she is like focus on the area that he's stimulating. Well, TDCS, you can do it like while you're running on your treadmill or watching TV, um, or, you know, sitting in your own, in the comfort of your own home. Okay. But it takes more sessions, correct? But it takes a little bit more time. Yeah. Yeah. And so I learned first time about TMS because a friend of mine had a TBI and he was doing sessions. But other than that, I've never heard it for any other condition, brain condition and brain disease that you mentioned. Can you, do you know why is it not as popular as it should be? If it's high, that much effective. It's just, it's just young. Um, okay. Um, okay. It's a very, it's a very, uh, uh, new, uh, type of treatment and strategy. And it's gaining, it's gaining its momentum. Um, not, you know, not right away known in all circles, but there's a lot of, um, research that was done on specific populations of, um, um, uh, mental health and conditions. Okay. And so it means like not a lot of places are offering, offering those services. So it's hard for any patients to go and try to use treatment. Yeah. Are they usually, um, covered by insurance in the U S? Um, I am not sure if there's an insurance code for it, but in some cases, uh, I did hear that. Yes. Some places do cover it with insurance. Um, on average. On average is it's, it's still relatively expensive. Um, but TTCS would come the second substitute and it would be much cheaper to own the device and to do it yourself. Okay. Um, yeah, I think I saw some, uh, TTCS device out there. Can you tell me what's the, or I'm sure there is a difference, but how is it differing from vagus nerve stimulators that we can see out there? TTCS, not TMS, obviously. Um, it's just the power. Okay. The power and the penetration, um, is, is, is very, um, is weaker in relation to TMS and ECT and others. Uh, yeah. If we have to class them basically like the first, the lowest one, lowest level would be vagus nerve stimulation than TTCS and TMS. Yeah. Okay. Um, I want to talk about the brain and some of the disease. Like we see obviously an increase, uh, globally of neurological, neurological disorder, such as like Parkinson, Alzheimer, but also like increasing depression, addiction, PTSD, anxiety, just to name a few. Um, in light of this, like, I know your research involved the brain. I know you have some research involving Parkinson. Like what are the current non-surgical treatments available and ideally non-pharmaceutical treatments available? So we talk about TMS obviously, but are there any other ones, anything that we can look for in the future? Which one are the most effective? I'm really interested to hear like about your opinion, your research, but also your, your input on this. Right. There is also ECT, which remains to be the most effective, um, of all. Uh, and then there is, um, the, uh, new classes of psychedelics and, um, uh, things like, uh, ketamine infusion and whatnot, uh, which seems to be effective, but a little bit higher risk. Uh, and, uh, they've been, uh, really good in cases where suicidal ideation is a high risk. Um, they, um, they, um, there is, uh, relationship between the gut, obviously, and the brain. And there's a microbiome type of things that, um, uh, coming, uh, uh, you know, uh, useful strategies, uh, to, to resort to. Um, uh, in the case of neurodegenerative, uh, the, the gold standard is obviously that treatment too is low ADOPPA, but, um, uh, the gold standard in surgical is DPS. And, um, um, that seems to be far more effective than anything else. Uh, there's a lot of devices out there that are coming into market, um, and, um, should be, uh, in the market soon. Uh, we're working on such some devices like the Kiwi chip, for example. Yeah. I saw your presentation. I was blown away. Like really with that close. Like it's just, it's there. I, I, I, when I, I, I didn't know about the Kiwi chip. I first heard about the chip with a Neuralink and I heard they were doing the first human trial and I'm like, when it first started, it seems like a world far away, but we are closer and closer. Yeah. How close are we to seeing, starting seeing human having chips integrated in on them, like as a treatment option. And then how close or far you think we're going to start seeing people having those chips integrated in their brain when it comes to just improve their cognition. Or like just controlling different computer and machinery. Okay. How far is this? Within, within two to five years, uh, we'll find a higher adaptation for, uh, treatment conditions. Mm-hmm. And within five to 10 years, you'll find a higher adaptation into, um, uh, brain augmentation, uh, just casual brain augmentation. Um, the challenge remain in the surgical and invasive nature of the surgery. And, um, that, that kind of represent a huge barrier. Okay. Yeah. As long as well, I forgot which movie where they just plug the chips, tiny micro chips in. Hopefully we get that, uh, in my lifetime. Yeah. I want to talk a bit about brain and cognitive enhancement and cognitive abilities. I'm curious, do you have any, what do you do for keeping your brain as performant as possible? I'm sure you do some things. Uh, there's a lot of herbal things. Um, I, I take omega three, uh, 2000 milligrams. Same. Uh, and there's, uh, you know, other supplements out there. Uh, I wouldn't belabor it. Um, you know, um, saffron, uh, obviously is understated in that, in that, uh, space, but saffron tea, uh, works magic on the mood. Yeah. Yeah. Unfocused. So. Yeah. We had a whole video on saffron and the studies that were on there. So I actually take saffrons, uh, when I need to, a boost, a cognitive boost in the morning. Good. Good. Yeah. Are you taking the omega three, like the medical prescribed version? Yes. Or are you taking the regular? 1000 milligrams. Yeah. Yeah. And that's all you do. That's it. Do you do like in regular meditation, any brain exercise? Um, music, uh, cello, uh, instruments is, is highly, highly encouraged for the brain. Um, exercising, although I'm guilty of not doing that. Uh, but exercising is really, really good for the brain. Uh, and, uh, yeah, that's it. You know, not a lot of, uh, you know, not a lot of, uh, not a lot of things. So the audience we have, they are very used to having stacks for different things. And I recently came across somebody that gave me their stacks for, because they were studying medicine. Uh, and everything is based on research, obviously. And I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to have to read it for you because I found it absolutely impressive that somebody has a dedication to actually take all of this. And I want your opinion on that. Um, a lot of them are pharmaceutical, but, um, this is a gentleman. He didn't disclose his age, but he's currently in med school. So he's taking in the morning in empty stomach, uh, 4.5 milligrams of Naltrexone, 5 milligrams of the napazole, 2 grams of EPA, 1 gram of NSE, 1 gram of L-theorine, 25 milligrams of DHA, 10 milligrams of propenolol, uh, 30 milligrams of zinc, B complex. Um, and once a week, he does 150 milligrams of testosterone, uh, 500 IU of HCG and 2.5 milligrams of letrozole. And when he needs to study, he adds propubium, uh, uterine monophosphate, alpha GPC, paracetam, uh, dextroamphetamine, uh, subling, sublingually, and four milligrams of nicotine gum. Wow. That's, that's one hell of a, one hell of a load on the kidneys and, and, uh, the liver. Yes. So they do also take, uh, he mentioned, uh, he mentioned the rest of the day. This is just when he studies. So in order to counter those effects, he does take some TOTCA. And I'm guessing if he's a long-term follower of the channel, he probably does, uh, intermediate fasting and also quarterly, like five to seven day water fast. So I guess this could counter interact, um, on the liver, uh, not much on the kidneys. Yeah. But what, what do you think about those people that are more and more inclined of improving their cognition, their memories, or getting any acid? Like it's something we haven't seen before and people were studying the same way. More and more, we see people being very interested in enhancing cognition. So they take things like amphetamine, even if it's getting less popular or modafinil to give them an edge. Like what's your opinion on that? And what advice would you give somebody that is not doing anything yet and wants to still improve their cognition memory because they feel like they're behind? Very risky, um, obviously because everything that we take has a counter effect in, uh, on the cellular level. Um, they, I would say that a much simpler thing is just to do TMS sessions regularly, uh, organize these ions and these electrons and get your brain in harmony. Um, that's probably, uh, uh, an easier, far more effective and cheaper way to do it. And then all this, uh, pharmaceutical agents and supplements. So, so TMS also work in terms of improving cognition and performance. Yes. Yes. Does it also help? So can you dive into more technical aspect of how does, how, how can it be? Like how can magnetic field can reorganize that? Does it like create new BDNF in some areas that we're trying to control? Is it working through like rewiring, uh, some of the neurons? I'm very curious. It excites, it excites things and trigger corticogenesis, which is process of actually building more, um, uh, neurons and building more connections. Okay. Um, among other things, as well as organizing, you know, ionic organization and, um, um, putting breaks on excitatory, uh, areas and that kind of stuff. So, um, it works in multiple mechanisms. Some, some of which we don't even understand, but it works. And it, it, it has been studied for cognitive improvement as a work also for, let's say people that are athletes. I'm guessing, I mean, the brain is so important in terms of everything we do. So it's like, if I'm an athlete, I'm trying to improve my performance with TMS sessions and that's how that helps me achieve that. Um, in a sense one would arguably say yes, but, um, they, I don't think this is the specific study that I can point to that. Indirect way, obviously like if I'm more cognitively sharp, I can achieve like probably higher goal, push my body a bit further than normally. normally yeah okay when can you do some TMS sessions we will be we will be opening a clinic in Encino soon and hopefully we can you know get you there and get you try it absolutely I would love to and you say you feel results from the first sessions I'll be happy to reports everything and then tell you how it works not really it's like I'm a single mom I have a lot of past trauma that I try to work through on through more holistic approach and also try the psychedelic approach as well in a tiny dosage which helped a lot but I still feel like I'm not performing to the best of my abilities like I used to at least my early 20s my brain was the powerhouse no it's it's good it's not where I want to be yeah but I'll be happy to try first do you have a date of opening for the Encino clinic it's not too far approximately six weeks from now okay so very soon yeah yeah look like being there yeah so now I want to talk about more about some upcoming projects so you mentioned you're opening your clinic for TMS only or would I have as well yes as well yeah okay so can you also give us a glimpse of like what you're currently researching what any projects are coming up or what are you involved in terms of neuroscience and cognitive and enhancement currently working on the Kiwi chip the one that is implanted inside the brain for Parkinson and Alzheimer and that's been occupying me for quite a bit we are hoping to go through FDA very soon and get that process behind us so okay nice um and finally um I was genuinely curious um I want to understand like you have accomplished so much and you're still doing a lot yes okay so yeah I'm generally curious um to understand what's your ultimate vision and what legacy you wish to leave behind because it feels like once you have accomplished something a lot of people stop in what they're doing because they feel satisfied it seems like your satisfaction level is uh or your curiosity level is at all-time high from anybody anybody else have seen so do you have a like long-term goal or dream or anything some kind of legacy you're trying to leave behind I like to see that um brain health becomes a very uh common uh place that you go you know for brain tuning similar to how you go to the dentist um I'm hoping  gimpatrion,semsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsem to be as healthy as possible so I can live longer to see how the world and technology is going to change and how as humans we're going to evolve. It feels really in this era with AI and how the technology has evolved and where it's going. It really seems like we are going to experience a lot of changes in our society. We already do. Yes, yes indeed. All right, well Dr. Howard, I don't want to take too much more of your time. Thank you so much for coming on. I really appreciate you taking the time and coming in. For the audience, I will link all the link in the descriptions of his company and Dr. Howard if you want to look at what is done, which is a lot. You're going to spend a lot of time. I read a lot of papers before this interview. Other than that, if you have any questions for him, let me know in the comment sections. We might have him again to answer more in-depth questions about maybe certain disease and other brain things that people want to know. Thank you, Lucy. Thank you so much. Have a good day. Bye-bye. Bye.