 naringin,liśmyumbrinex,liśmybrinex,liśmybrinex,liśmybrinex,liśmybrinex, Let me ask the question. So Transdisballad69 says, I don't know what that name means. Very interesting. He says, for Armand, he says, you guys know it's that time. Drumroll. What does Hani do? That's the quote unquote, the magic that these other coaches don't have. All his guys have a specific identical look to their skin and muscles when he gets his hands on them. Any special protocol given that you've worked with him? Boston mentioned 300 milligrams of provirin or multiple. I'll talk about myself. And then I had four close friends work with him. OK, so first of all, he won't work with you unless he thinks at that time, the prokary, unless he thought he could turn you pro, he wouldn't even work with you. I hooked him up with a couple of my friends that that they had good genetics, too. He just he's like, no, I don't like this about their structure. I'm like, I don't want to work with them. I'm like, whoa. But then he eventually did work with them and turn them pro. So what he does, he doesn't he won't he won't work with somebody unless he knows you're super hardcore. And then plus the price, the money you were paying him at that time was insane. So you would have to be super hardcore and do it. No one was going to pay him that kind of money unless they really wanted it. And at that time, a pro card meant making money and getting a contract. So he takes individual by individual and it's not certain certain some protocol, because when I got with him, I was he was very the gear was not much at all. It was more than I ever took, but it wasn't much at all. And then other people working with him at that time, he had them on more stuff. OK, and I would ask Connie like about insulin. We didn't use insulin at all in two years for the offseason pre-contest anything. Provider and we never took more than 50 milligrams. He just, you know, and I liked him a lot because he kind of prepped people similar to how I did at the time. Like he would take on that person. And, you know, certain people like certain people are known as like high carb guys, no fat or Dave's known as a keto guy or high fat. You know, I like fats in the diet and I like a lot of food. And, you know, I don't have to do cardio to get in shape and shredded. And Boston seems seems my conditioning. I get crazy condition. But really, honey had me doing a little more cardio, not a little more, a lot more, but had me eating a lot more food. And I do think that does, you know, instead of doing less cardio and less food, when you're doing more cardio and more food, it does make your physique better and fuller and all that. But there's no really secret. There's not there's no secrets. It's just he gets the person. He pays close to close attention to you. Makes, you know, make sure your guys are talking every week. We spoke, you know, twice a week on the phone about an hour each time. He makes sure you're mentally OK. You're mentally there. You know, make sure he was really big on staying off rec stuff. So make sure you're not doing any rec drugs. He was really big on that. And he was just so there's not really any secrets. So I. Oh, good. My friends that worked with him. They weren't doing much gear either. It was they were very light cycles. But this is what he does. So the first year when I got when he got me, I told him what I did, like cycle wise. I don't think he believed me because it was like not that much because I was coming from Dave helping me. And Dave is very light. You know, a thousand milligrams of 10. And at that time, he was very light, Boston, as you know, with the cycles. So, you know, I just wanted to hire honey. I was between honey and George. And I clicked with honey because honey really was only prepping, you know, a few clients like he always does. He never took on a lot of people. So he just invests a lot of time and effort and makes sure you're doing it right. And, you know, he's one of those guys like if you get on the phone and you didn't do something right, he's going to make you feel like shit. And you're not going to make that mistake again. And, you know, and then and then he's at the show, you know, like I know Chad doesn't go to a lot of shows. He's at the show. He's back. He's not actually backstage, but he's right there with you. Hey, do this. Then you're going to do this. You know, so he's just on it. So there's no like super tricks. And like I said, you know, when he was working with my friends, Chris Jalali, Chris Jalali did pass away from oxycodone when he had a jaw surgery. But honey was working with him. He dropped him after two years because he suspected he was using more gear. And he was he was using way more gear than honey was telling him to use. And honey just knew he was. And he dropped him completely. So there's no secrets. People ask that all the time. I just he's just there for you and just and then, you know, I know how like Matt is and goes with people and stuff like that. But honey really knows what he's doing and he can take any physique and just make it. That's why I said like if Matt Jensen went with him, I don't know what he would exactly do, but he would make him better somehow. You mean Nick Walker? Yeah, I mean Nick Walker. So I'll try and he has that experience and he had any he's older. So, you know, Matt is what he's he's not that old. What is his 30s? 32. Yeah. I guessed it right. Holy shit. I just said he looks 32. Holy shit. I'm good at that shit. I look for. Yeah. So just the experience and just, you know, like I said, I was I was like, honey, can we push a little harder with this or this? He's like, you don't need it. You don't need insulin. You don't need this. And you don't need this. And I'm like, OK, like Anadrol. He had me taking a half anadrol on prep. A half. Just 25 milligrams. He wouldn't let. He wouldn't let Blue take insulin either. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. But then I was talking to Jason Hugh and he was taking four Anadrols a day. And I said, honey, I told you to take four Anadrols a day. He's like, yeah. So he's just totally different with everybody. And he doesn't. Like I said, he won't. That's a good sign. That's the best. Yeah. He doesn't send you a program with your protocol on it. Like your gear. He will. You'll talk about it on the phone because he wants to make sure you're doing each thing like you're supposed to do. That's why he was. Remember I told you about that? Yeah. Won't put it on paper. He'll call. Now, this is the thing, though. I want to know. Wait, boss. You wanted to comment. Yeah. So I wanted to comment because I had a good I had a friend, a teen bodybuilder, Seth Sandler that worked with him. Dude, honey flipped out on this kid. This kid was like honey. Instead of I'm having I'm having the meal. This is my salmon with meal four instead of the meal two. And the honey loses it on him in the gym. Just flips on him. What the fuck are you doing? Like over bringing the salmon like two meals up. Right. Like he's real structured. So this is the secret with honey and the arm and hit it on the head. He's only going to take you on if you have good genetics and a good response. So he's not going to have any slouches. He charges an insane amount. So if you're crazy enough to pay him that much, you're going to follow everything to a T because most of these people that pay coaches don't follow everything. But everyone follows what he says because he charges you that much and he's known to be the best. So people listen. So it's those two things, the structure that he has and how and how he makes people listen. And he has that authoritative figure to him where people are like really like going to listen to him. And two, he only works with people that actually have the genetics to do well. Only. Yeah. But the thing is, Boston, him picking people that are winners, if you think about it, it's pretty like, look, a lot of kids want to go to Harvard. Harvard. But Harvard only accepts you if they think you're going to succeed in life. And then they want you to take their flag and take it up the mountain and plant it there for them. So really, all these places, they want to pick a winner and then help them get there in a way, you know. And at least if Hani accepts you, you know he really believes in you. Right? He wants you to. But the one thing about me, why I never was attracted to him. He believes you're going to be very well. Yeah. And, you know, you have to get along too. Like he has his favorites. You know, like we became close because, you know, he's Persian. I'm Persian. You know, I would go to train. I went out to San Jose, get trained with him for a week, go eat Persian food. But so, I mean, he did treat different people different ways. I was supposed to keep working with him. And we had a plan. He's like, you can go to the top. You have, you know, what it takes. Don't worry about the Nationals. You got messed over on. We're going to USA's in six weeks or whatever, six months. And if you bring the same, the judges said you're going to go. But that's when I had to have two shoulder surgeries. And that pretty much would end my career. But if I stayed with Hani, which I would have, I wouldn't have went to any other coach. I would have gone far. But, you know, it was different. The industry changed. The money left. How much better was Hani than Dave? Well, you know, when I went to Dave, I was like 23. I didn't have real coaches before. I won four shows on my own. My first four shows I won. Okay, first. That was just my genetics and my metabolism was super fast and I would come in crazy condition. When I got with Dave, Dave, I did learn from Dave. Okay, I learned certain things just to make it very simple and you could look good, you know, keeping it really simplified. Um, we did start the keto. I said, Dave, my metabolism is crazy. I got to eat a lot of food. He understood that. And he fed me differently than all the other cookie cutter diets. But when I had a couple years with Dave, I just like, I need a coach that's just hard on me. Dave's like, every time I send a picture, man, you look freaky. You look crazy. You look nuts. And, you know, so everything was good. I was like, I want someone telling me I'm not good enough. I'm not good enough. I need that to go forward. So Dave is, honey is a coach. Like that's his main, you know, was his main deal. Uh, Dave was coach part-time supplement on our RX. He had all these things and he, and his mindset was like, well, you know, they're just different. So, and then at that time paying honey, that money was worth it because like I said, when you were turning pro honey, we had the same, would have the connections to, to be like, Hey, we're going to get you on the flex. Like he was already talking to people at flex for me thinking I was getting my pro card that show and then going on. So it's not only that he had your best interest and, you know, I really, you know, was bummed out when I had to have shoulder surgery and pretty much. And then when I came back, I didn't hire honey because I was just doing it for fun. I had Dave help me a little bit and, you know, but yeah, honey's the best there is. And, you know, unfortunately he doesn't work with that many people. So just to give people an idea about how much honey charges in 2012, he walked into max muscle Walnut Creek when I was working the front desk and he brought in a bunch of EVP. He only had one product at the time and I asked him how much he would charge me. I was a teenage bodybuilder at the time. And he offered 3000. I remember I was like 19 years old or 18. He offered me $3,000 for six months. That's how expensive he was back then. Oh, wow. That's for everybody. That's nothing compared to what I pay. Really? Wow. And you paid more than 3000 for six months. Yeah. Wow. So I came to him, I sent him pictures and he was just like, okay, he didn't think much of my physique. I was clean. I'm sure he didn't, you know, so many people lie. So I'm like, I've been completely clean for four to five months. He's like, why have you been clean? I was like, I just wanted to come off everything and just here's my physique clean. So when we jumped on and within a couple of months, he's like, oh shit, your physique's nuts. And so I paid him, I think it was, I paid him for, uh, offseason and prep. So it was a full year, but it was 8,500. Okay. And then after that, once he saw how serious and good, I would have hired Amina live for just almost that price. You missed out, bro. Anyway, sorry. I spoke to Milos at that time before too. And I was like, Hey, I was thinking about working with you. He sent a one word back said $5,000. Bro, I said the same thing. My only experience with Milos, I said like, I have a question about a consultation or something. It was just, it was a money answer. I was like, I didn't, the question wasn't that deep. Like to be honest. Anyway. So I cut you off. So you, but, but Hani, I want to ask a couple of things about that. One was how Persian is like you're cause you're half American and I know you don't, it's not like your first language. It strikes, it strikes me that he's also like that, right? Like he's more Americanized grew up in very, very, very Americanized, but he still goes and eats Persian food and says, Salam Chaitori and like gatherings. His wife's Persian. And yeah, that's how it's cool in the Persian culture here. They still maintain like the family gatherings and all that. Even, even when they're not speaking Persian. Okay. The other thing I want to ask is this. My issue with him, the only issue I ever had with Hani is that when he started his YouTube channel, I first started to see his interview or him's discussions. Just struck me as it's not so transparent. Like I couldn't, I didn't feel like he was saying exactly what he's thinking. I felt like it was a businessman talking to me or presenting or something like that. Is that just like, he's just formal maybe or something like that? Like what's he like? Does he, does he just open up, put down his guard ever with people and just be himself or he's quite formal? You gotta know him. You have to, if the podcast is completely formal, he doesn't want to get into gear, this, that. He's not one of those guys. Yeah, that's what I mean. Like. Unless you work with him and you're, you know, you're paying him and he tells you, hey, this is between us and this. Then y'all are shooting the shit, joking, this, but, but outside that. Cause when I first tried to work with him, he was talking to a tamer and I think they were about to do the USAs. And it was a wrong time to talk to him. I went up to Hani. He's like, Hey, I'm interested in working you. He's just like, I'm like, okay. And then I spoke to him a little bit afterwards. He gave me his contact and we spoke, but I sent other people to him too. That had, um, I sent a couple of my clients to him also that I did well with, but they, you know, thought that he has some special secret and they, he wouldn't even work with them. Um, so a lot of people, like I said, both, if he didn't think he could turn you pro and make you a good pro, he, he wasn't going to work with you. I got into it with Hani at the 2013 San Jose, uh, pro. He had a booth there. We actually got into it. It was pretty good. How come? I didn't, I didn't, I didn't back down from him at all. What happened? Uh, so I was working at the max muscle Walnut Creek and they were selling EVP for insane amounts of price. I mean, crazy amount. And I had sampled it and I just didn't think the product was that great for the amount. I mean, it was a good product, but for the price he was charging. Right. So this is when he first came out with his company and I made a post saying the most overrated overpriced bullshit on the market is Evogen by Hani. And, and I had a decent following at this point because it was right after I won the Contra Costa and I just had came out with a steroid transformation video. So he saw me at the fucking, uh, at the show and he approached me and he was pissed, dude. He was like, and he, he like got in my face and stuff. And I straight, I was like, and I, I didn't back down for a man. I gave it back to him. I'm like, dude, the shit's way overpriced. I said, I'm telling you, it's just junk. And dude, we got into it and we ended up shaking hands and it was, it was done. And then we were fine after that. But it was actually like in the middle of the fucking expo, dude. He has that middle Eastern blood. Like at nationals that year, I was supposed to turn pro. He's, we were up on the rooftop the night before me, Phil Heath, Lee Thompson was, was the state. And then we were like, Hey, chairman and honey. They're like, you got the show. No one can beat this. Nobody. And, uh, well that day, you know, I told, I think I spoke on a different episode when I got the legal trouble, all that the judges all knew when I got that call out. If you guys haven't watched that episode, go watch it. It's a cool story. Sorry. Just thought. Oh, I think he got taken down with the other. Oh, it's on that. Well, we probably get it back up someday when they're not looking. He was sitting right behind the judges. He stood up. He was screaming like a maniac. The judges had to turn around and calm him down, but that shows you how passionate he was. He did that for honey also. Oh, that's cool. Yeah. This, he has a good, cool character, right? He lets his emotions go. He really invests in you. If you're with him and you pay it, of course you pay him, but it's not, it's more than money to him. And it was expensive, but he really wants you to succeed and do well and cares about your mental health. Makes sure you're staying off the rec stuff, you know, all that. So, you know, he's the best that, you know, there is possible. Yeah.