 ab excuses, ab It's good to talk to you brother. It's been a long time. Yeah. If you remember last year, I made a reaction video to one of your videos about Subrite because I found the video fantastic. Yeah, and you know what? Not many people, I guess, I'm not in the bodybuilding industry, but adjacent to it. Not many people make videos that are that deep about the struggles that people face when they were through it and somebody who's went through it on the other side relates to it. And I thought it was fun to comment from both of our experiences. Yeah, for sure. Because you have a different perspective on some of the stuff regarding drug addiction and recovery too. So I think the mix of both of our experiences is going to be good. Yeah, so just for the audience to know, recently Antoine messaged me to ask about this event that became well known in the bodybuilding industry, which is that one of the bodybuilding coaches was actually just to give you guys a timeline really quickly on what happened. It all seems to have happened in March 2021. So quite a while ago, in March 2021, I had known this bodybuilding coach also myself. And I had learned at that time, which I'll get into more details, some things that really bothered me about the way he was coaching about ibogaine. So I contacted him to ask him to please let people know a couple of things so that they could protect people. At the same time, he got a bit upset with me about it. And his colleague Dave Palumbo invited me on Palumbo show to discuss this conflict we had. So on that on that show, which also happened in March, coincidentally, same month that all of this began, we had this one discussion on Palumbo show. And then right after that, the it seems that the case was opened by the DEA on the on the coach. And at the same time, the same month, at the same time, allegedly, somebody died under the care of that coach. So it seems all of it happened in March. I don't know if it had something to do with each other, the public stuff, of course, my intention was never to have the coach caught by the police or something like that. But I don't know if me talk about it publicly with Palumbo. And then at the same time, maybe they looked into the coach and saw somebody died in Colorado around the same time. I don't know how it happened. It's very mysterious. Yeah. Well, for sure, I think any private investigator is going to look at all the angles. And we'll probably research everywhere again, turn at YouTube and gather, you know, when they make a case, I think they probably go through all angles. But yeah, when this came up, I've seen this, what's his name again, the coach? I mean, a lot. Yeah, I've seen him around like in thumbnails, like with Dave Palumbo, but I never really clicked. So I was like, so curious, like, so this guy, pretty much was a hosting people with need, need help with addiction and offered like the service of using the Ebo gain psychedelic to help them overcome their addiction as a fix for it or something like that. Right? Exactly. Yeah, let me present you what the business model was. The reason why I know about it, by the way, because about six months before I stopped talking to Amin, because of some of these reasons, Amin had asked me to help him in coaching his clients, because Amin had some difficulties in his personal life, didn't have much time. So I empathize with him and I helped him for a while. And our work together was good. He was a bit distracted and stuff, but he struck me as a nice guy and a genuine person, a kind person. The problem is, I don't even ever notice this before. And the audience might not notice this unless they've been to addiction treatment facilities and sober livings. And sometimes even AA societies will do, see someone come up to you and say he wants to be a life coach. There are some of these people, unfortunately, a lot of addicts and alcoholics become sober and embody the principles of the program, which a lot of them are rooted in religious principles, altruism and so on, and service to others. And they embody them and they can even have a career based on that that's legitimate. They're really helping people. But some other people are somewhat slight, like sometimes in AA societies, you hear about someone being 13 steps, it was always called when, when like a guy will try to like recruit a girl initially, and that she's a bit sensitive because she's new to sobriety. And then you hear about these guys around. So sometimes there's also like, sometimes guys will sometimes take, I've noticed this person, I don't know if this goes around the world, but I went to sober living once where there was like an ex heroin attitude and sober for 20 years or so. He I could clearly tell you a soul, but he was so obsessed with money and getting money from the different people in the sober living, like it was so obvious, like he would, he would separate them from their parents telling them that they need to not have that support, but then he would leech out money from the parents, and they wouldn't be getting it's not for our stuff. So I could see that sometime before. Yeah, so I'm just going to add something is that we have to understand that everybody that went through addiction, if you see it as a disease, they are sick people, including myself, right? And the thing is, are you really 100% fully not sick anymore, wants to stop doing drugs? It's like a long life program where you have to work every day at getting better. And as soon as you slow down, your disease and your, your stinking thinking can catch, catches up to you. So, and because we're talking about human beings, there will be people like they will maybe have good intentions, but they maybe they're still addicted to other things, and maybe they have ill intentions too, because they're just human beings, right? Have some stories that I, you know, that I thought I trusted people that, you know, that had like, rehab facilities, and I, they pretty, it's not because you stopped doing drugs that you're fixed. I'll just say that. So it helps. It's a good beginning because you have a clear mind, but stopping drugs and having a recovery program that is, that works really well, and that is always improving is two different things. So I totally believe that this guy was like, probably addicted to money and maybe power, and maybe he was sober, but was he living a program of recovery aligned with like, his truth? Who knows? To say this just for the audience that I'm, that one of the, this experience, I think what Antoine is referring to is, there's a certain state of mind, which some alcoholics believe or addicts believe that it's has some things in similarity that cause you to end up becoming alcoholic. But also I think just being an alcoholic and using those drugs changes your brain over time, making you by definition more selfish on a daily basis, because you have to, you have things that you're, you're concentrated around yourself. So that also is there. So you have to have a program to continuously nudge yourself in the right direction and catch yourself through the help of someone else who can look at it outside your perspective, to catch yourself going back into these habits. And some people are what we call dry drunks, where they get sober, but still act like they used to before they got sober. So that's definitely the case. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. The dry drunk example is really good. And I also call it white knuckling, where you just like, stop doing drugs just with like pure hate and just willpower, but pretty much your, whatever thing that gave your relief is not even there anymore. So that you don't even know how to deal with life on life terms, because you've never learned it before because you use drugs or alcohol to do it. So you're just in front of this, all these emotions and these challenges and these problems in life that happen to you, and then you have no way to deal with them. And you're just going through life, like just so angry and stuff like that. So it is, it is a thing, you know, but there's another thing, this is a bit maybe controversial, but what I noticed in my personal experience, not to judge most of my friends that are former addicts or heroin addicts, but what I noticed is among them, a lot of them, the heroin addiction is so powerful, like the mental addiction towards stimulants, it's mentally so powerful. But this does it does a there's a joke in LA that a meth addict will, will take your drugs or your money and then help you look for it. And the heroin addict will take your stuff and not help you look for it. That's the difference. But what I've noticed, and this is a joke, of course, I'm not true. But what I've noticed is this, the heroin addict will sometimes lie to you to the depths of the end, like, there's a kind of, I don't know what it is, it doesn't, I've noticed not found it among alcoholics, among other addicts. But so without all said, I just wanted to say that I saw I mean, when I knew I mean, it was a good guy, but we seemed like a good guy. But the one thing about Amin was that he had a great experience with ibogaine. So years before, he went to Mexico, and he did one of those in house treatments for ibogaine. I think he did it more than one section. He had great personal experience, like one of the ones he had was Amin had been, he told me, and I think he says it's publicly using hormones from a young age, like teenage years. So he thought he could never get a girl pregnant. So after he went to ibogaine, the first time he was able to do that. So it was life changing for him in so many ways. The biggest life changing way was that he was addicted to opiates for over a decade or whatever before, and suddenly he could just take it or leave it. So this is what a lot of addicts experience since the 60s when they first started trying it. By the way, just so you know, this only works with opiates, unfortunately, it doesn't do the same thing with stimulants, it's much less effective with stimulants. But with opiates, the withdrawal is gone, and the obsession is gone. The obsession for stimulants is gone, but not as much in comparative studies, cocaine or any of those. But so it was life changing for him. So years later, I think he started to import it into the country through a company called Iboga World, which I mentioned all the time, not out the company, but because it's quite secure and everybody that does use ibogaine mostly uses it from Iboga World, which I think they get it from a country called Gabon, which is in Central Africa. So he had used, at the same time, I didn't know, I mean, two years before I started using Ibogaine myself, but very carefully, I was not using it to get off drugs, I was just using it to know what it did, and I use different amounts. The standard way to use Ibogaine, maybe I should mention now, Ibogaine is a root, it's Iboga root, you can get different purifications of it. People sometimes combine different purifications, but there's one molecule called Ibogaine. This is the really active molecule. Usually what they try to do is what's called a flood dose. They do a tester dose to see if you're allergic, then they raise the dose to over a gram or over 900 milligrams in a day or two. Now, the recent rodent studies from like 2017, 2016 show something very interesting. If you don't do the flood dose, the rodents don't have this extended lag of change in their brain. Finally, we know what that change seems to be. But if you try the flood dose yourself, you'll notice this. If you don't take a flood dose, you'll notice something different, but it won't totally quell the withdrawals and it won't just shift your mind from addictive behavior. For example, if you smoke cigarettes, the day before you use Ibogaine, the next day the cigarettes are not enjoyable, you don't want to smoke them, so on. Naturally, you would think this means that Ibogaine is blunting your dopamine signaling. So somehow, you're not getting that dopamine from smoking. That might be true, but the scientific studies show that the flood dose, but not lighter doses of Ibogaine cause a long-lasting lag in what are called growth factors in the brain. The same factors that SSRIs, antidepressants rise and the same ones that cerebral lysine rise, but they lag for weeks, which is why if you talk to an Ibogaine clinic and say, I want to get off heroin, they'll say, you may need a booster dose a month later or two months later, because it isn't a full solution. It's a little boost to get you past a couple of weeks. The problem is a lot of the people who talk about Ibogaine represented as a lifetime solution. I have never met anybody who uses Ibogaine that does not really use it every month or two months, and some of them microdose. So this is one thing there, but I mean had a great experience with it. And when I was knowing him, he was coaching clients for normal things, and I was helping him sometimes with helping him with some genetic analysis for the clients, and he wanted to open this Ibogaine business. I knew about it already, and I basically told him that it's very dangerous, you're on the risk of fatalities, which we can talk about later. And I just was, oh, it's illegal. So I wasn't very interested in doing it. So I should give you an overview. So I mean partnered with a lawyer, and I won't leave these names out, lawyer and a nurse of some kind. And what they did was organize a system, which I think was popularized by Palombos channel, which was why we may take everything with a grain of salt. But the system was to introduce people to the Ibogaine. Originally, I mean told me when I knew him that he would have the Ibogaine sent to the person. And so he wouldn't be sending anything or selling any drugs. But him or someone else would go there to sit them through the experience of the Ibogaine psychedelic experience, which by the way, I should comment on here. When you take Ibogaine, even at the flood dose, you really just feel like you're dying. It's no, you're not going out of your mind. There's no colors. There's no nothing interesting. It's not pleasant either. You lay in bed. And basically the main issue that you would need someone to take care of you other than health issues, is to help you walk to the bathroom physically because you can't walk. You're just going to shrivel up in bed, feel like your soul is dying, have this very big experience that you don't really understand. You don't need someone to talk to you through it. You want to know what they're saying. That's the truth. But what you do need is a defibrillator, which is something that can shock your like your heart to restart your heart rhythms, because Ibogaine is shockingly one of the most complicated molecules that can affect the brain. It affects almost every receptor we think of in some way. And it's not even clear yet. When you take it, you feel like your brain is too busy. You can't think. You literally can't hold any thoughts. And that's really what's happening. Now a lot of these brain hormones like dopamine, serotonin affect the heart rate. If you take Tremblone, one of the things that happens is adrenaline and dopamine, both neurochemicals raise your heart rate. When you take Kline or stuff like that in the pre-contest, there's a rate danger. Just because your heart rate is higher, it could also end up with a different rhythm and end up with a rhythm which happens to some bodybuilders. Now that's just from a stimulant or from amphetamine or anything else. Now what about something like Ibogaine? Ibogaine doesn't just raise the heart rate. It changes what's called the QT interval by definition. Now what could you do for a client if you really wanted to do this dangerous thing and he didn't want to try any alternative first and he didn't want to start with a lower dose, whatever. On his genetics, you could find out his genetically determined QT interval. This has been one study. That's good, but you could go get him in for a heart performance test to see how his intervals are doing also. But then you could maybe get him on a protective medication. Now when you use Ibogaine, your blood pressure will shoot up also, which puts more stress on the whole system, but your heart rate is a concern, especially if your blood pressure is not low. So a beta blocker like Nibivolo, which is 24 hours, some of these things may be useful, maybe potential, but they weren't planning for any of these things. I told them you should consider them, but they weren't at the time. And then, yes, all of that. And then how the business worked is basically they would charge exorbitant amounts for the people to have this in-person treatment and go to the place. I didn't know how much the amounts were while I was working with Amin, but one day he had a really nice guy client who hired him for coaching generally. This is around the time that I realized Amin was not working under my ethical level, but he took $30,000 cash from the client as a payment for Ibogaine treatment. The Ibogaine cost $300. This client had already helped him for weeks and weeks, this was a difficult time for him. So he took $30,000. And I felt so bad, I didn't know what to tell Amin, that I went by myself because I was working with Amin. And I did like a six, seven page genetic analysis report for the client for free. It took me three days of constant work, more than them even watching the guy. But I felt very bad because this is totally unjust yet. You know, now if the guy has a lot of money, but at least you could tell you're paying for services is not expensive. But I didn't know about any lies or mischievous stuff, just charging a lot. So I didn't think about it much. But a little bit later, things got a little bit confusing. Or did you freeze on my screen? I don't think you did. Oh, there. Oh, there it is. Sorry, I'm trying to get to my notes here. Okay, so things got a little bit, oh, also I should mention, Amin was thinking that in Colorado, they would decriminalize psychedelics, which is true. They were decriminalized mushrooms, LSD and Ibogaine. I don't know if they decriminalize all of them, but it would have happened later than the 2021 alleged death, which we don't know if it's really caused by this. So the next things that happened, I stopped talking to Amin, I told him, brother, if you get your stuff back in track, I'd be glad to help you. But some things I can't work with and so on. And we separated in okay terms. A couple of months later, I realized Amin had done, I asked Amin, please don't do the Ibogaine treatment. You heard of Big Lenny? You know, Big Lenny? Big Lenny has unfortunately some substance issues, but he has a very good heart and you want it to work through them. The problem is he has liver failure and ejection fraction from his heart. At the time was around 30. So he has heart failure. So I asked Amin before I left because I introduced Amin to Lenny and I asked him, please don't do the Ibogaine treatment on him. He could die really genuinely. Unfortunately, he did the treatment like a month later. So I was like, well, somehow Lenny lived. This guy never dies. It's thank God, but he lived. But I was like, whoa, this was really reckless. Like he knew I told him, I knew he knew. Now, a couple of months later after that, I got a client from Orange County. I used to live in Orange County in California. And there's a client next door to me, a neighboring client. He was a very nice guy. I bought a consultation and he was suffering with addiction issues. So I spoke to him for a while. He told me he had booked Amin before me. And he told me specifically that he said, I can't get Ibogaine and I can't afford Amin. I said, why can't you afford the Ibogaine? He said, well, Amin wants me to pay 3000. I've saved a certain. Oh, I didn't mention one thing. The main thing before I left Amin, there was a former incident before Lenny. One day, so Amin was working with the lawyer and the nurse. One day he wasn't speaking to the nurse. I mean, the lawyer. So I asked him, why, what's up with the lawyer? He said, the lawyer is a little bit depressed. I said, why? He said, well, we had a guy on the east coast who was heroin addict who was accumulating 3500 or 3000 to pay us. He had gotten 2000 or so. But the other, the lawyer will remain nameless. Told Amin, you know, he has this money. And Amin said, wait it out, he'll collect more. So in the waiting out, the guy overdid on heroin. But I didn't know that they were telling him that you can't find this drug Ibogaine anywhere else. So fast forward to the OC guy. He tells me they're charging me the 3000. I have less money or whatever. But he said, I can't afford the Ibogaine. He's I said, why? He said, there's no source online. It's only through Amin. So I said, what the hell? So I said, what do you mean there's Ibogaine world? He said, no, I mean, specifically told me Ibogaine world is fake. So I was like, whoa, I know Amin orders it from Ibogaine world. So that's when I went and made a video without mentioning Amin just saying Ibogaine and in the video, I took a big personal risk by mentioning Ibogaine world. It could hurt my channel. But I wanted to see if somebody it has no other option and thinks this thing costs $3000, it costs 300. So you could potentially afford it and you could go about it different ways, but it's still dangerous. So that's the background there. You know, I wanted to mention really quickly here. So people don't think like this is some antagonism toward Amin. The only reason why I mentioned these things initially and then when Palombo invited me on discuss it publicly. First of all, I talked to Amin privately and told him, please brother, tell the people the truth. Just tell them Ibogaine world is real. Stop telling them you need to pay over 1000 to get Ibogaine. Just say it's for my help. And by help could be useful. You could say that. And then stop telling people you're sober because you're not sober and we both know it. You've never been sober while I've known you. Then he said, like, first he said he's going to do it. Then he told me give you two days. Two days later, he said, I can't do it. I don't want to excuse my kids sick and I'm sick. I said, bro, it's too long. It's been too long. You're literally harming people. Your people are going to die or we screwed up because what are you doing? So I made some video on my channel. So Palombo invited me in his channel to discuss it. On his channel, he told me this is your truth. I told him somebody's already died. Because it is your truth. We don't know if it's true. Basically, they implied that I'm a hating guy, whatever. The truth is I'm not AI actually like the guy. But I feel particular when it's an addict that's being preyed on because it could be me. And addicts are the people in the worst states mentally in the world. And they may feel they have no other option. And they may literally take this option because they trust you. And they could die. And it's because you want $3,000. You know, if it was less money, would you do the same work? You know what I mean? So some people will say, for example, where do you draw the line between a diet coach that someone died from, for example, and someone like selling iBooking? I think where you draw the lines this right? Diet coach, first of all, diet coach, if somebody usually nobody dies in one go, it's something from years and years, you can't specify what caused kidney damage, heart damage, so on. But if it did happen in one go, it's not something that usually kills someone in one go, like thyroid medication, clambutoral, sometimes people accused Shelby Stantz, for example, before the competition too many people were getting ill or whatever. But maybe it's a bit reckless. But it's the difference when you know, okay, certain people die from this for sure. You're taking an opioid addict whose heart is already in bad condition. And you have a choice. I spent six days with him, and I started 300 milligrams a day. 300 milligrams, let the heart adapt somehow, take a beta block or something, or I make my time two days, giving the flood dose, which also, even the Mexican places, they do the same thing because they want you in and out. So they give you the flood dose as high as possible, you feel the total relief, here's a booster go. But that's the easiest way to get that heart attack goes. So it's different. I feel like a diet coach does never give somebody, like nobody gives somebody 1500 milligrams of DNP. And it's like, wing it. I think the where it gets really risky for those diet coaches is near the show with the diuretics. Yeah, diuretics. And yeah, because they will trust the coach, they'll be like, take that, take this. And there's some diuretics that they, they kind of loop the potassium. So they put that some sparing and too much potassium, like you could explain it in me, but you can make this hard stop. And that's not like that's just like a couple bills away from happening sometimes. And I've heard about a lot of bodybuilders and coaches that sent half the sort of hospital. And be careful on the one by the way, if you're taking a blood pressure medication, almost all the blood pressure medication slightly raised potassium levels, almost all of them, which most people don't notice. If you ever notice, take a blood pressure medication on the offseason, and you slightly flat crap, but it's not that serious, check your potassium level, because they'll get rid of some sodium and the potassium will go a bit higher. But what you're talking about is like when they would shoot someone potassium, they would die. Yeah, the injection. Yeah, I've heard of this before. It happened to Macau here or something, I think. Yeah, but also like when they actually, when they get the lethal, you know, when you get Oh, yeah, it's potassium. Yeah, true. Yeah, on the chair. I didn't hear that. Not the electric chair, but yeah, those of like, what other chair, I think it is. Yeah, I think it is potassium. I'm not sure. But but yeah, so no, so some of those coaches do some of those coaches do reckless stuff like they start out that on three weeks before and then they're using two or three diuretics and it's on a woman. And it's usually women know less about the diuretics than than the male competitor. And she may be more suggestible. I agree about that. But if you're giving someone something that you know, I've told someone's going to die, you know that someone's going to die. And you're not taking any of the precautions, but you're also lying to the people, they can't get it somewhere else. And then you're charging the crying part is very, that's the one that stopped me. I told him you can't lie. That's not but you can charge what you want. I would prefer you tell people you're not because one of the things you would do is he would say that I'm sober. Well, I knew him very well because I spent a lot of time with him. And he didn't hide it from me. But the thing is, basically, what I mean learned was really convenient. He basically became an eyeball gain addict. So what he would do is he would go on cycles every week, like three days, he would use not hard drugs. He was not using heroin and stuff like that, but create him mushrooms, stuff like that. Later, I would fill in, but I knew about creative mushrooms marijuana. Then three days later, if he feels I'm not totally on point, he'll do one eyeball gain at that date. And so for sometimes, for example, once when I was helping him, I went to Florida to visit him. He never showed up at Florida. He asked me to come please to accompany him. I didn't need to go. I came. When I was at the airport, I was talking to some of they said, I think I mean, it's not going to show up. I said, no, it can't be. I've talked to we booked him the flight. I booked him the flight. So then I arrived in Florida, but he's not an addict. So it was confusing. So I arrived in Florida, he didn't show up. So what are you doing? He's like, I'm doing an eyeball gain. You got yourself stuck again for three days. And you're doing this again. So I tried, by the way, while I was with him, I tried it at the time I was completely sober. I tried to get him completely sober off marijuana was his main I tried, but it wasn't possible. So there are limits to what this eyeball gain thing is not like God sent it's not going to solve your problems by itself. I think for me, what I what I've got from from that is that so you're an addict. And then you're like, Okay, there's this thing that's going to help you and keep you clean, whatever, right, or get you clean and reset your brain. But it's like, the easy way the easy fix is never the thing that's going to work because the easy fix to feeling better is what got you in trouble the first place. You know, like you feel bad, I've always been the fastest way I could feel good. Take this right now. Within seconds or minutes, you'll feel more than just normal, you'll feel great. So that mentality of like, going and seeking out something to like, fix everything is just, it's not the right motive to take that. And I think as for me, I never tried it and never considered trying it because anything that's going to alter my mind. I gotta be like, away from it, you gotta be really, really careful because it falls under the whole umbrella of like the substances that I need to avoid. Because even even like even in 2020, I tried drinking again, just like here and there. And I could drink and then nothing bad would happen. And then I'm like, okay, I'll drink in two weeks. But the thing is, I would drink that my drink and I'd be like, okay, when am I going to feel something like that's not the drink. So to me, they'll taste, they'll laugh. I was like, dang, I'm like, okay, what am I going to feel this? Can I give you another one? They eat after the drinking, the drinking and eating a burger. Like, what are you doing? Then you won't feel the drink. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So, so all I would think about is the next time that I could drink that's like acceptable to be reasonable. So but that led to like a full relapse, eventually, of course, because if I start drinking, I can't have my recovery program at the same time. So it's like one or the other really, you can't have both, in my opinion, where I'm standing. So yeah, for me to get clear and sober, it was just a lot of suffering. A lot of like rock bottoms, getting humbled by life and my mistakes a lot. And like five rehabs and lots of failures and relapses and just not giving up and just keep going at it and having like a strong recovery program. So I think people, they try to seek out what's the easiest, what's the less work, what will take less work to give me the results. It's like, Igbo gains seems like a good thing. But the things I don't know enough about it, I just know that psychedelics sometimes they do help the brain reset some stuff. It could be a clean slate for somebody. But for me, that would be like a last resort. Like I did five rehabs. Okay, maybe after eight, go try Igbo gain if that's gonna work. But you don't get cleaned right away. It's just it's not a one shot deal. All right, I'm gonna stop. I'll take this being buying it's like clean slate. I'm good. It might reset some of the stuff, but it might remove the obsession. But I've lost the obsession as many times I was surrender. And then the obsession was removed. And then I was do my rehab, get out and then if I don't do work the program, at some point, I can start the obsession against kick again. And I've had a few times like in the year and a half, the obsession was like twice it really happened. It was there every 15 minutes, I would think about drugs every day. But then I worked through it. And I knew that sometimes it's normal for an addict that this happens. And I just use my reprogram to deal with that and then it went away. But in the past, it would come back that I would like fail. So yeah, maybe you could remove the obsession for a month, whatever. But your brain is like, it's not going to be fixed one dose of something. It's a lot of like therapy and like rewiring your brain with just like conscious habits that you're going to do every day. I think this is the key point. Yeah, I think that's what's going to be the most effective and plus community having a good, you know, because I'm a 12 step guy. So 12 step for me from what I've seen.  all the rehabs I've done and all the meetings I've done and the people I've talked to is the one thing that if you go 100% with it, chances are it's really going to work. And another thing I could say briefly is that in all the rehabs I always hear about like, oh, 98% of the people here right now won't make it and will relapse. And then we're like 60 people to rehab and they tell us that. And my last rehab, I heard it again and I said, okay, yeah, but that 2%, what does that 2% do? If I do exactly what they do, then it's 100% it's going to work. But nobody wants to get out of a rehab and have an exit plan, do 90% in 90 days and just do everything right because it's a lot of work. And sometimes it's boring and it takes discipline. But 98% of the people, they won't do that. So it's going to fail. So I would be really curious how the Igbo-Gain thing really transfers to a long life of learning how to deal with life on lifestorms and having a really good life and not just white-knuckling it and surviving. You know, Antoine, everything you just said, I have strong opinions of and I agree with you and I see them from a neuroscience perspective also. So for example, in the brain, the basic psychology of the brain is called association theory, which means neurons make connections to each other. Thing is, no associations can be removed. That's why an alcoholic stops drinking for five years. Within a month, he's drinking the exact same amount he was before because we've associated that and even though you haven't used it for a while, it's not that strong. It's there. And if you let it go there, it'll go there. The problem is the only way to remove this association because you can't remove it is to strengthen another one and that can only happen with action. Can't happen with even a spiritual experience. Now the other thing you talked about was A, and for people that don't know the 12-step programs, you know, they're based on a lot of fundamental wisdoms that have come from religion and other places like and insights about human happiness and also a lot of 19th century literature, including the ideas of having solidarity, community, close friendships, working in service of others, some concepts from perennial philosophies. One of them is the spiritual connection, which was what they call a higher power. But this spiritual connection has to yield what they call a spiritual experience. And this was originally observed by one of the founding authors of A, who encountered a religious man who gave up drinking and was beaming and happy. And he was confused because he thought most people give up drinking, annoyed and just wide-knuckling it through life. But this guy looked at it completely happy and they were able to replicate that with A, taking some of these fundamentals out of it. So the spiritual experience, Antoine, is where I think the value of those psychedelics is. Some people cannot experience that subjective, it's just in their brain, experience that makes them look at the world from a different way. And for those people, sometimes it's useful to do these, I don't, I wouldn't do them personally, and does they're risky also, doing these like infusion therapies of ketamine or the different things that they do like that. But Ibogaine is not like that. Ibogaine is not a spiritual experience. Like I said, you won't remember anything. Ibogaine, nobody really was talking about how it works. I tried to figure it out myself because I didn't want to use it anymore. I really realized from the research it seems to be the most obvious thing, is this boost in neurogenesis. Why does that matter, by the way, Antoine? First of all, I tried with cerebrolysin, another way to get very high amounts of neurogenesis. Maybe not as much cerebrolysin as an injectable, purified version of pigs' neurotrophic factors for their brain. Sounds weird. It's a water-based solution. It works very well. It gives you basically what an SSRI or antidepressant will. People think SSRIs work through serotonin. The real effect is from these growth factors. They're like GH for their brain. When you have growth factors in adult, your brain can adapt. The problem is when you're using drugs, by the way, or any drug, dopaminergic drugs, opioid-ergic drugs, they make you blame because there's so many activities in your brain, they make them plastic, they can change. So your brain's constantly adapting to your addictive life till you get so suddenly when you get sober, you have a paucity of all these hormones in the brain. You have this rigid brain. The idea with ibogaine is just before you stop, you get this hit bolus of growth factors. It goes for weeks, even in rodents. Now, those growth factors seem to block dopaminergic need. So right now, if you take a circle, for example, quietapine, if you take enough of it, if you take enough of it and do a dopaminergic drug, you won't even feel it because it's blocking the dopamine receptors. It seems when you have very high growth factors, it does that a bit. Does that, but also makes your brain malleable. So there's some value there. Now, you were talking about in AA, there's this concern about using other chemicals to replace other chemicals, which is a very justified concern. In fact, there's a group. The thing with AA, they only talk about alcohol. So you can actually, there's people smoking weed in AA, they can still do the program. But I'm, I do an a, which is like everything. You have an in AA that don't like the guys that smoke the weed. It's called weed maintenance therapy. Yeah, but they just like sometimes they just don't care. There's been people that they smoke weed for years that do the AA and they just maybe don't talk about it because they see alcohol as the problem. But my program is like, englobes all the substances. And the thing is, if back in the thirties and the forties, when Bill and Bob did the World DA program and went through all that, if back then there was the fentanyl crisis, it would have been an AA back then. It's just back then, alcohol was killing people more than anything else. And a lot of people were using drugs, but they would still put it under drinking in the original stories at the back of the book. Yeah, yeah, you can know the thing, the story of like Dr. Bob's, when he was a real addict, he wasn't just like, up and downers and so this story. I was surprised when I read that, I'm like, oh my God, this guy was wild. He was actually shooting up like these like, yeah, like just to go to sleep. He was going to sleep, they would wake up and take some pills, and then drink all day. It's like this guy was wild. I mean, brother, I don't know if you know this, but the first time that there was a big popularity of ecstasy and amphetamines in the US was in the 30s and 40s actually. In the 30s and 40s, there was a literature group in the East Coast that popularized that they used to take inhalants and take the parts out of the inhalants, which at the time, I guess, was stronger or something, and put them in teas and drink them. There's a long history of this stuff. You know, opium was still an addictive thing in the 1800s, even the US, especially among the Asian communities. But yeah, what I was going to say is there's another group though called the Pacific Group in U.S., they will not accept you. First of all, you have to wear a suit whenever you go there. I've been to a couple of these organizations, and they will not, if you take an antidepressant, you've heard of them? The Pacific Group. I don't think so. They're in the US. We've heard about the AMAs in the US where you have to wear suits. Really? That's them. That's the Pacific Group. Oh yeah, so if you take an antidepressant, they want you out. And they say if you have dual diagnosis, which means you have depression or something, then you don't belong to part of the society. They're very strict on that. I have different views about this myself, maybe because I had some anxiety from before alcoholism. And for me, alcoholism was sort of a treatment for anxiety. You can work on the anxiety through my meditation, religion, so many other things, friendship, all of the things in A. But sometimes, for example, just having a slightly higher neurogenesis level for a period of time can make some people feel much better as long as it's not a drug you can abuse. So an ibogaine is something you can abuse. It's exact. It's fast. But SSRIs, for example, raise the neurogenesis level just slightly and keep it there. And so for me, they were really helpful personally. I don't know. We got a bit off topic, but this was a very interesting discussion. No, it was. Yeah. But the thing with the antidepressants and the program and all these medications is that it's also the motive. You have to be honest with yourself. What's the motive behind you wanting to take that? And it has to be prescribed. And sometimes there's a part that says it's outside issues, which means it's like mental issues. Like you got to deal with that on the outside of the program. So there's more compared to the Pacific group, I guess, like NA and even A nowadays around here, it's like a lot more flexible. There were the, they're tolerated more all kinds of people, especially NA. I mean, there's people in there with like, because the thing is like, addiction and mental health, there's never just, this is only that and only that. There's always like a mix of both most of the time. If you look at, for example, like I've been watching these videos about LA downtown LA and all the, I lived in downtown for six years, four, five years, literally by Skid Row, two blocks. And I was sober. Imagine that, bro, I would walk by that, that, because I was a friendly guy and I like talking to people. So they would, some of you be outside smoking crack. I never seen some smoke. You're smoking crack. You want to come inside the tent? Okay. I go inside the tent. I'm not smoking crack. I'm like writing notes. I thought I'd write a, I'd write a book like, you know that, that YouTube channel that, that interviews. Have you seen it? I just saw the podcast at Logan. Oh, okay. That, that channel, I lived right next to it and I had that idea. I was there with this. South of the belly. South of the belly. There was that. Exactly. I lived right next to him for years to meet the same people. I thought of doing the same interview. Bro, I'll tell you one thing about that place. I've talked to hundreds and hundreds of homeless people in Skid Row by this open air drug market right in front of the police station. Yeah. They don't care. Bro, I asked them why many of them have section eight housing and different Palmdale Lancaster. I said, why don't you live in section eight and come later? So no, this is fun. And then I've asked a few of them, did you ever hear voices before you started using meth? I've never heard someone say yes. So there's a lot of mental illness there, but having high dopamine levels, produces schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. That's why there's so much bipolar disorder among Hollywood actresses that have used a lot of cocaine back in the day. And in my experience, I've known so many, even gangsters in LA that became meth addicts just change. Oh yeah. That's true. And the thing is, I know that even in the rehabs, all the people that were schizophrenia, that were diagnosed with something like that, they were all like white guys between 20 and 30 and weed fucked them up. It was weed for them. We'd also do that sometime. But that was weed mixed with amphetamines, both of them together. It would mess them up. But everybody that was like, that came in just for weed, I'm like, oh yeah, that's going to be a weird one because if weed brings you to rehab, because most people smoke weed, they're just going to be lazy in their life. It's not too imaginable. You know, it's not a death threat. But if weed is a death threat to you, what kind of brain do you have to end up in rehab? But obviously, we don't, and I'm being patient, they were, you know, I was friends with a lot of them actually in rehab because they were a little bit different. Wait, wait, Anton, Anton, that tastes not funny. So when you're in rehab, when you first come in, you start to judge everybody. Like, am I in the right place? Like, are these people's hardcore? Is it me? Can they save me? And you meet somebody who has like a masturbation addiction, in your mind, because you never heard of it before, you're like, I do that, I get away with it, so you can't handle what I could do. So if there's something, that could solve me, or like a weed addiction, I was like, I was fine when I smoked weed. So you have this judgment of like, no, no, no, they can't handle me here. I got to go somewhere else. Your brain naturally will doubt everything when you want. So I think that's what you're talking about, right? Yeah. Yeah, but when I first came in the rehab, you always have two days where I'm more quiet than I just tried to like, seize everybody up. But the last one was pretty tough because I, it was mostly people from the street, or alcoholics that were a little bit older, or people that came in from the court, you know, court ordered. Oh, it was a government one? Yes. Government one, there was a government one, another one. Yeah, court ordered, like, yeah, oh, I said, like going to jail, you go there. Yeah. Um, and then I couldn't relate with these people because me, I went there and I wanted to get, I was full on recovery, especially 12 step, but then I, there was a friend of mine that came in and well, he became a friend. He was like a family dad of like a lot of kids and he was just like a drinker. And I was like, you had a business and I'm like, man, find somebody I can talk to, but it's pretty hard. But the thing is what, what they teach us in the program also is that that really helps me sometimes is that don't look at the differences. Look at it. Yeah, look at it. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah, but it's an initial thing. You have that. Yeah. Yep. By the way, I had the same thing. My last one was court ordered and it was hectic. I didn't know how to who to talk to you because nobody wanted to be there and they weren't trying it seriously, but they would give free food. So people would just come eat the food and go, I was like, I don't know what to do. I gotta hang out with nobody because I'm really serious. I gotta, I gotta, this can't happen to me again. I know, I know. And I met a couple like you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of, um, I think it was my second rehab. It was mostly people from the street and sometimes what they would do, they would actually, during the winter, they would just go in the rehab or even like a, around like a second week of the month, go in the rehab, check themselves in, sleep for five days, eat the food and then the first of the month, gone. Because they do that in jail. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get out of jail. Oh, they'd be, they'd check themselves in jail when it's cold. And then, no, they, they like do a small crime and LA has like overcrowding. You get, if you're cold, you can go and like to eat if they're, it happens. That's interesting. What can I comment on something though? There's something like really puzzling about opioid addiction, which makes a unique problem, which is, I guess why I book in is somewhat helpful, which is that, you know, the opioid receptors, which respond to a natural hormones called endorphins, dinorphins, and some of them with the K, but these three opioids, these opioid receptors, when they're agonized and by the endorphins released when you exercise to lower the pain, they're, you feel it. Once they're agonized, they downregulate. So now nicotinic cholinergic receptors, which respond to nicotine when you smoke, they upregulate. So you can potentially absorb more nicotine with time. The opposite happens with opioid receptors. That's a problem because the withdrawal comes from the opioid receptors. So the, the, the more, and there's tachyphylaxis, what they call it in biology, the more you use the drug, the least effective it is. So by definition, when you're using the opioid, you're going to get more and more of withdrawal with time. It's going to be harder and harder. At the same time, the dopamine receptors, remember all, why we call all drugs dopamine is because they all indirectly affect dopamine transmission. And that's the addictive part, the abituating part. Dopamine receptors, due to being very fragile, that's why people get Parkinson's, they need to protect these dopamine receptors and dopamirgic neurons. They also not only die, but they also downregulate as a consequence to dopamine. That's why the first, you're always chasing the magic dragon. That's why the first high is always the best high also cause some of the cells die, keep in mind. Like if you use a lot of stimulants that when everything's bright, that's stuff dying in your head, you know, and never come back, but it's not that much dying. It's not, not to be depressed about. We have cognitive reserve. The point is this, with opioids, you have tachyphylaxis at two ends, both toward the withdrawal and toward the lower, lower dopamine signal. So it's burning the candle at both ends. And I think it makes it really difficult for people to get off it. Sort of in the same way that benzo's, you're getting this fear of seizures, seizures, seizures, death, and at the same time getting way less reduction of anxiety or higher dopamine. So for these guys, sometimes in their mind, it's, if I could get through the withdrawal, I'll be fine. So I think they're thinking of the ibogaine, like if I could just get through this for two weeks, I can handle the rest. But most of the guys I know have done it, keep doing the boosters and stuff like that, because they don't realize what was about the ibogaine. Every time they do this, they're putting that change in QT interval, the heart rate and all that stuff, kind of stuff. Just not really sustainable. Yeah. The thing that's crazy though, it's like, I mean, as, you know, addicts will do that. It's like, I've done that before you take stuff, you don't even know where it's coming from. So I don't, I'm not surprised they would go into the ibogaine and do it like almost mindlessly and just trusting whoever's going to give it to them because they've been doing that in the street for like, maybe years, right? But the thing that's, that should happen is that I've always heard about that. I know I learned about ibogaine years ago and I saw you, you got to go somewhere, there's a doctor and a nurse and they just help you like, not choke on your vomit for 12 hours or something. So that's what I heard. So that kind of makes sense. But as far as like being on, what's your, like, what are you like? What's your profession? And you're going to, how host people and just give them that. There's, you know, it's a very sketchy. So I don't know, I feel like there should be something with the, with the ibogaine involved because it's a very strong drug obviously if you think you're dying, it should be like way more emergency room technicians, literally. It's the only way emergency room technicians like you need the defibrillator there. If this stuff happens, how's that happening? You need the staff there. It's in fact, you don't even need honestly just an ambulance outside. You need the technicians there in case something happens. Just do it in the, is there centers for real? Like, no, these are Mexico and Canada are the best, but they're sort of not fully, Canada has, by the way, I heard. Well, I thought it was one in Toronto or something. I think so. You guys have interesting laws. You guys also have like, I've heard this is true, but I don't know if it's true. They give, do they, is heroin legal, not just methadone? Or is this Europe they have that? No, I just know that in DC, there's this one guy. They're trying to change that. Yeah, they tried to change a bunch of laws for like under 2.5 grams. It won't be criminalized. So there's this one guy who's like trying to open up a store to give clean, clean stuff. But the thing is, is like, I was a phantom. Yeah. Well, yeah, because sometimes with that stuff is that you don't even know if it's laced with something else. Then I've heard people dying. They were snorting something there or they take the street Xanax and then in it, it's laced with like lethal dose, which is a pencil tip, right? So I've heard people dying of that. So it's like, you think you're going to just, oh, I want to relax and go to bed and then you're just dead. So it's like, I've heard of them putting it in wheat. Why does someone smoke in wheat? No, it's like, what? Yeah, cocaine. And what the thing is, if you have a scale, I measure it. I measure it. They say this is a scale. Oh, you're going to measure your little pieces of fentanyl, whatever. And then, okay, bag it. And then, okay, well, let's put the rocks of something else on it. I'll wipe it off with the rocks. But the thing is, you just get in here a lot to kill somebody who's not been using it. So sometimes I think it's like just things like that probably happen. You know, like, or maybe the guy took a used baggie and put the stuff in there. But they were spending it in the bag before. Just like, stupid as that, because obviously, you know, there's people making this shit. There's like, people bringing the country. There's like the big names and then there's all the little dealers. And then at the end, there's the street dealers. These guys are sometimes addicts. So they will like fuck around and be like not very strict with their stuff, right? So this is where like, they say something that could happen. And now with fentanyl, people can die from simple mistake. Bro, have you noticed someone was telling me, so I have, I've been around addiction for so long in my life. I can catch funny things about all our different addictions. So I used to be a severe alcoholic. I've done other things also, but I never stuck to one other thing. And I've had friends who were ex heroin addicts. But I'll tell you like, sometimes they lied to me for no reason. I know these funny things they do. I have sometimes ex stimulant addicts. Sometimes what I notice about them, sometimes their jaw will dislodge slightly. And it happens to everybody. Even while they're using a stimulant, sometimes you don't notice your jaw will be like, and it's impossible to correct. It's so annoying. So I've talked to my friends about that for a while. I was going to see the fentanyl addicts. I have some subscriber telling me this, but I never saw it because I moved out of Dantanle, thank God, around COVID. But it was just starting to attack women on the street, random women for no reason. Just like, yeah, if you have a girlfriend coming to your place, she would get attacked on the street or chased down the street. Yeah, monsters there. Yeah. So, so, but I didn't see this, but apparently recently when the fentanyl really suck in, sunk in with people, people started to develop like punches. Have you seen this? Where people are like, hunched or? Look, if you're smoking with a tin foil multiple times a day, you're like that, your body will be in the shape of a... Ah, because they're not shooting. No, they're smoking it on a... Ah. That's why. That makes sense. But even if they're shooting, they're like on the ground, they're all like hunched up like that doing their stuff, mixing it. They're also falling asleep, they're nodding off. Yeah, nodding off consistently, it just got stuck there. Yeah, this is chemical warfare. This is chemical warfare. Like the war on drugs is real, you're just never going to win that. Yeah, but this drug is... How are you going to... This is serious. Oh, I think it's the thing that kills the most men between certain age of like... I don't know that the data... Younger man? Yeah, but like 20 to like, I don't know, 35, kills the most people, most men, and compared to anything else, driving, the drunk driving, cigarettes, anything. It kills the most people. People talk about like pandemics and stuff like that. Dude, the fentanyl, the pandemic is the real thing happening. It's just been going up and up and up. Have you ever seen someone that moved eventually to only using fentanyl and got off it completely for a period of time? Off, off, off opiates? Yeah. Oh, so it happened, it's impossible? It's not that... It is possible, yeah. It happens all the time. Is it like methadone where they're in pain for two years, that kind of thing? Some people, they just go through the withdrawals and it's terrible. And they just for two weeks a month, they're kind of fucked in bed, but they have like support, like family or they go to detox, and then they go straight to a program and sometimes they stop that and they slowly stop everything else, or sometimes they just are on a seboxen for a long time, or methadone for even longer time, because the program to taper off is long. But yeah, no, it is possible. Like in the rooms, there's a lot of people that stop opiates, fentanyl and all the stuff. And yeah, it's possible. I think it's very actually common. A lot of the addicts, the meetings I do around here, but probably half of them is like opiates. Yeah. But okay, I didn't know fentanyl was doable, because methadone is hard. If you've been on it for a few years, or even suboxone, they're much harder to give up. No, I think maybe due to half-life. As soon as you decrease one milligram, you fucking have a minute withdrawal. So we're like, I don't know. The thing with me, I never went through that, so I'm lucky in that sense. But if you would just, what's better, stop everything, and then go to detox or be really like a supervised, suffer for two weeks of the worst 40 times the flu that you ever felt, like times a thousand, and just you feel like you want to die. You just, there's no way in hell you can be comfortable, plus you're suffering all of that. You do that for two weeks, or you do like a 10% of that every month, but it just kind of never goes away, because you're always going down one milligram, feel like shit. And then you're always like, you rather just like rip the bandaid off, or just... That's what I saw. Yeah. That makes sense. That's what I'm saying. But the methadone program is, I think it's suspicious sometimes. I've never really saw somebody that was like, yeah, it's really worked. Worked for me. No, no, no. It's liquid handcuffs. You're stuck to this place. In the box, then, I can understand why you could help people, because you go and acute withdrawals if you use while you're on it. So you're going to kind of like right away feel weird. And so people just stop for three days and wait. But also, it's also like you can taper faster without feeling too much. They usually tape really fast, ideally, yeah. And it has, you're right, it has like one of the opioid receptors agonize, another blocks. So there's some... There's Narcan in it. Oh, really? I think for the to revive the people that are with those, there's a little bit of Narcan in the Suboxone. Naloxone, okay, okay. Yeah, it's called Naloxone, I think, right? Now, you know, then tell me why we leave before we leave the opioid discussion. So what do you think of Kratom? I bet you have a similar view as me about Kratom. You know what Kratom is that? I had somebody said it to me. That's actually a big online persona. I guess I won't say his name, but he had an opioid addiction and he used that. So he sent me a bunch. I'm like, man, that's like a mind-altering substance. I can't... What's my motive? So I just threw it away. I didn't use it. So I've actually never used it. But... No, it's not... Yeah, I knew somebody was like... She had like... She was taking pills for her bag, but I think she was misusing them. Somebody that... I was in a relationship before and she would use that the other days, but then it was like... What I saw was more like... She would do that as a crush before waiting to get her stuff. But I've heard things that it can help with withdrawals. And I know one person who actually... He wasn't even using paints, but he was like whatever. He was using drugs and then he's like kind of like transferred to that. To like... But it's like a gray area. Also, it's like... But I've seen it help some people. But I think sometimes it's like why do you want to still use something? That's the question. Why do you want to use something still? The addict thinking patterns, that's what needs to be fixed. Like why... We're seeking out something that's not good. So if they're using it for recreational reasons, I completely agree. If you're going to do something recreational and you're not an addict, for example, marijuana must be much safer for you than to use an opiate. Even if cratum is somewhat safe for some people, is agonizing... Not all... So some of the molecules in it affect adrenaline, which is why there's an upper kind of one. And of course, cratum has different strains. So one of the advantages of strains, right? You're not getting the exact same drug each time. So the receptor can respond to a different molecule each time a little bit. So your tolerance doesn't seem to get worse. Usually the cratum guys who use it all the time for pain, they'll change their strain every day. So they, like marijuana, use as well. So they keep getting a feeling. So in that sense, because it's not a medicine, it's not isolated molecule, you can't adapt to it as fast. So hopefully the tachyphylaxis, the reduction in value of the drug, should be slow. But the problem at the end of the day, we go back to this issue of the opioid receptors and the dopamine receptors. These receptors downregulate. So what I would... So yeah, there are a couple of... Actually, I'm friends with one of them. There's a couple of people in the industry that promote cratum also. And I've mentioned this to them directly. But at least if you're promoting it for pain, my issue then is just this. If you have pain in the gym, you should feel it. Because if you're not feeling it, you're just going to burn that joint. It's a signal that they're in danger somewhere. Pain is like a signal that your body is telling you that something's wrong. Bro, a lot of the guys you used to use that drug that Duchenne popularized, that was opiate? Dumbain, nubain. Nubain. Nubain, yes. The guys you use, nubain, if you notice, a lot of them had joint issues. If you use it later. That could be coincidence. But they were pushing themselves hard. And if you feel pain from a joint, like I do sometimes from my shoulders or something. If I just don't feel it, I can lift more. But I stop, right? So that's one thing. But the other thing is maybe you have chronic pain or something, or it comes once in a while. Maybe cratum, maybe safer a little bit than opiates, because it's not so isolated. But the danger is this. You're still going to develop that down regulation. So I suggested actually to one of these guys, I said, hey, if you want to promote this, maybe an ethical way to promote it is to say, your receptors for opioids will down regulate. Look at the research on low dose naltrexone therapy. Have you ever heard of this? So naltrexone is like naloxone, similar drug. I think it's longer acting. Naltrexone blocks opioid receptors. When an opioid addict goes off, opioids usually will use like 200 milligrams to totally block the receptors. Makes you depressive a bit. It's not pleasant. Or an alcoholic uses it too. Or they'll use.  low-dose amountis 4.5 milligramsis, a very small amountis. Just enough to block the opioid receptors a bit. There's a ton of research on this in the last 10 years over 10 years, showing that if you block these opioid receptors a bit, you actually get an up-regulation of the opioid receptors. Your standard pain levelis actually lower. But interestingly, I don't know if you know this, when you agonize opioid receptors, you weaken your immune system, which is not really good for everything. low-dose natrexal therapy lowers your inflammation by improving your immune system's ability to fight viruses and bacteria, including potentially the virus we just dealt with for the last couple of years. So it's pliotropic and upregulate your opioid receptors instead of bashing them down. Is it mind-altering? No. No, you'll not notice your take-it. Just like, like if you have some pain, it should be slightly less because your receptors are upregulated. And so, but now that's a great solution for someone long term. But if somebody was using Kratom, I can't convince them that it's a bad thing, but if you're not a good choice, maybe overall, maybe for people like me, but, and by the way, I don't respond to opioids well. Like I don't get addicted to them easily. I'm not one of those guys, but still, I wouldn't play with creating too much. But if you did, and you did like three times a week, maybe one or two days, you do the low dose naltrexin, upregulate the receptors. So you're not burning the candle at both ends because it's going to go badly eventually. Yeah. I mean, ideally, you take the less things possible, just to open a solution, right? And something that doesn't have an acute effect. Like when you take low dose naltrexin, you shouldn't feel it. It should be like a supplement. You're healthy. That's totally fine. But like anything that's like, that will make you feel a certain way, you gotta be really careful because the brain loves patterns so much. Take it once, maybe you're fine twice. Chances that you'll do it a third time, do it a third time, fourth time is guaranteed. Anything that activates your dopamine. And once you agonize the OP receptor, dopamine will be released. Like and so anything that you're, you're taking, or actually thinking of doing, you're going to ask yourself like, in your heart, is this really the right thing for me to do with it? If you really take a moment and get out of your fucking head a little bit, we try to feel like this is the right thing to do right now. What's the best for me? Would I get this, this my five year old daughter? Would I give that to her? You know, what? Can I ask? Perfect introduction. Listen to this song. I guess, do you believe that there are some people that really think that there's something magical about drugs? Like there are some people, I swear to God, they think marijuana can cure cancer. And they really, oh, actually, one of them is I mean, I mean, had huge arguments with me about the strain of marijuana can cure cancer. I'm trying to get it. It will do it. And I'm like, brother, this doesn't make sense. It's nonsensical, even through the cannabinoid agonist, it doesn't make, but there's other people that tell you marijuana just changed my life. Or like, to be honest with you, I don't know how spiritual you are, but even the DMT stuff, I don't give drugs this kind of secret thing. And I think it's dangerous to do so because, for example, I won't name who this person is, just, but this person was another person about building coach who was into iBergen. This guy, I, he told me this, I didn't ask him about he told me thinking, I don't know that I wouldn't judge it. I told me this is insane. What you just did is reckless, unbelievable. And you may cause your child autism. But what he did was he gave with her permission, his again, reckless girlfriend, iBergen, at a thought dose while she was breastfeeding the baby. Now, the baby is much older, you can almost clearly tell the baby's autistic. And autism, by the way, one of the theories of it is high serotonin signaling as a baby, or high growth factors in the brain as a baby. In the belly or as a baby? No, no, no, while it was in the belly will be protected while it was breastfeeding. And the belly is more protected. Yeah. So that's just to show you like, some of these people, they're, they may believe that this thing is God sent, but you shouldn't fall into their trap. And the thing is, fuck, the baby doesn't have any consent. No, bro, you may have just ruined the child's mind for life. For life. This is all speculations, obviously, like maybe, you know, the child is fine, or maybe if he has autism, it was just, that's how it was supposed to be anyway. But yeah, you're literally like you are what you eat. So if you take something, you know what, when you piss. No, no, no, he told me I saw a difference in the child's actual behavior afterward. He was very happy about it. If you take a drug and you piss on the drug test, you're going to piss dirty. I'm pretty sure if you were squeezed that milk, yes, 100% bro. I've researched this so much because I had a child reason. Moral of story. Don't, don't fucking take drugs when you're breastfeeding. Wait, no, no, they did it intentionally to put it in the breast milk to give it to the kid. It was planned because they believe it's a magical thing. Oh, they're crazy. Yeah, I'm trying to tell you and I'm leaving the person name is because I'm not a prevention person. The only reason I ever talked about it mean was just to protect you. Like that's pretty much my opinion. Child abuse or something. Yeah, it is child abuse, but there are people like that. So and these are coaches that you, some of you guys trusted and would ask for this kind of help from. So keep in mind, people have different perceptions. It may not be just that they're greedy. It may be they have them. They think this thing is good. And they think even if you have no consent, you should take it. I know, you know, we started the podcast, so you're like saying that there's all kinds of human beings or even a recovery and people were sober. There will still be all kinds of crazy people. So the thing is you have to understand that human beings that they vary from one end to the other. If you're around the middle, usually like, there's like always outliers in all different aspects of life and all different industries of life, including fitness and bodybuilding. So I wouldn't put your trust fully into somebody unless like you're doing like your own research of like their track record, what they're giving you, ask questions. And maybe you're like, you know, be really, really careful because the thing, the thing with bodybuilding is that because of the, you know, I started bodybuilding like 2003 when I was pretty much 14, 15 years old. And then in the magazine, there's already ads for supplements. Take this, you will do that. Some from the get go when you're bodybuilding, you have a mentality that things that I will ingest will make me better. So people keep that mentality for their whole career. And then there's people in there that will be like, take this, take that with that mindset. But who are they? The crazy thing with me, with these coaches is that where did you like, why? There's some top coaches that have been there in the 90s, the 2000s, top guys, like even like Olympic winners, they coach all these guys. I'm like, why, why are people listening to you? Who are you experiencing like road finds? Like, I won't say the guy's name, but it's like he coached some of my friends and he coached some of the top guys. He's still coaching today. And he's doing like kamikaze, like everything under the sake stuff and just like, so does it make sense to me? But sometimes he was hit. It seems training like 10 guys. And now maybe one guy's really nail it. That's why you always got to check the tagged photos. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's the trick. You're right. Otherwise, you're just going to see that most amazing. If you have, look, there's a book called, I love this book, if you ever get a chance to read it, it's called Fooled by Randomness. It's really short. Fooled by Randomness tries to convince you that you see patterns when they don't exist. He said, look, something like this 10 stock managers, imagine they don't know crap, they're flipping a coin every year, even with 10 of them, one of them is going to get the right winnings, whatever you want with the flipping the coin, like 20% returns year on year and year, and you had A-50% chance each year, you just don't look at the rest. So if any coach can have a guy that just by accident works great. I know. Yeah, you always, you know, that one guy who just nails it, but what about the other fucking eight, the spilled over or it's too flat or things like that. So we have, well, the story about that, would you be really careful? Like, obviously, like, the rest in peace to the person who passed away at, I'm not sure exactly what is the truth yet. No, I don't know if that's the only thing we know is that, because Dave Palumbo made a video about it, I checked it out, he apparently has the documents for the from the DA, and they specified there's a victim named H. He's also specified he talked to that family. I don't know these people. I don't know the details of it. All that matters is from this video is not to demean, I mean, also by the I don't hope that he suffers in jail or as any kind. I don't even think he has an evil bone in his body, but he was genuinely a danger to society. So it's important that people understand that, at least in the case of Ibogaine, one time and your life can be over. And is it really worth you don't need it? By the way, opiate withdrawal does not commonly kill people. Benzo withdrawal does, but you don't need it. And you might die. And why not try other potential if you had to use it, don't use the flood dose immediately. There's so many ways to be careful. And like you said, the most important thing is. So one thing you said, one thing I wanted to say is that, I said earlier that, okay, there's some shady characters around the community. There's also another kind. There are some of the best people you ever meet in your life that act like religious people that do things when nobody knows they're doing them will drive you to the airport when nobody knows late at night will have your back will do everything for you because they live for the moral principles like religious people live for. When it's not convenient for them, they'll continue to do it. And not just that out of self interest. At some point, it becomes a spiritual life. They're like monks. There are these beautiful people there. If you search enough and pay attention, you'll find these people. And you can trust people very much. But if you don't know when someone's giving you something interesting, I have a video on my channel called How to Research. It's very short. We have scholar.google.com. I didn't have that when I was a kid. Because of that reason, it's actually it can be pretty easy for you guys to start to realize, like different treatment mechanisms, do they work? What does this ketamine therapies do? And you'll understand some of the mechanisms behind it would at least help you understand when you're hearing pitches. Like nowadays, I hear a lot of people saying, not for treatment resistant depression, but anything. I want to go do a seal, psilocybin, heroes dose. I want to do four grams of mushrooms. I tell them, like, you know, I have a friend who is still schizophrenic from that one time. Like, did you know that most of us carry genes for schizophrenia? How are you going to know it's not going to happen to you? Why don't you try 800 milligrams and see how it reacted to you first? I mean, don't run these huge risks. I'm not going to give you a deep breath. Even my opinion on that is like, why do you want to do that? And why ask yourself why exactly exactly. Yeah, ask yourself why to yourself and then see yourself in your head and also why aren't you doing therapy instead? Oh, it's a lot more work. I don't want to dig the past where there's trauma. This is where you need to go. Where it hurts the most, where you're the most afraid to go, you need the courage and go there and face it. If you take mushrooms, a hero dose, yeah, you go, they'll be crushed. You'll maybe go there. You'll be forced on you, then you'll go through it. But that's like a kind of easy and then you can like, maybe it will help you for two, three, four weeks, six weeks. And then it fades away because you go back into the environment, we made you fucked up in the first place. So I think you need the tools to handle that fucked up environment and learn how to deal with it, clean and sober. And then you need to do the therapy to deal with all the past that makes you how you are right now. So I think people are too focused sometimes and I'm an addict in recovery. There's nobody else you know, that loves drugs as much as I did. And all like to be honest, and every addicts would say the same thing. So I get it. I would research about drugs. I would be willing to do whatever. But the thing is now that I'm on the other side, like why are people so interested in getting fucked up, even under the motives of like, spiritual enlightenment or just like that. It's very suspicious. Yeah. Yeah, what's the reason? You need to step back and like, what, what can I do actually to improve myself? What's the work? It's like bodybuilding. There's a difference between like, Oh, you know what is this as on the muscle tech, for example, they would back then, Oh, this a tweet, so she's with transformation. I was 30 pounds. I'm all jacked now. That's the easy fix. That's bullshit. Well, why would like, so what's the real thing? Consistency, discipline and hard work. That's how you get the results, right? And bodybuilding sampling with like improving your, let's say inner self, or your life, it will take a lot of work. It will take a lot of discipline and it will take a while like therapy, CBT, even the 12 steps, there's a lot of shit that you can do for yourself. If you didn't see a one on one shrink, it can help. There's a lot of things you do a group therapy. So it's like, it's stuff people don't even want to do. I don't want to go to shrink. Why? Yeah, I don't want it for me. Yeah, I kind of wanted, but I don't want to cry. Why don't you want to cry? You know, show weakness in front of somebody else. Yeah, because it hurts. No pain, no gain. Yeah, right? One thing I was thinking about, this was really brilliant. One way to look at it, right, is I feel like sometimes x addicts are always thinking about how can I change? Because you know, they think about drugs, all our life, a natural human being. And sometimes I say, I don't think all addicts are like this, but some addicts have this unique phenotype. There are people who have like low dopamine signaling naturally. When they get excited about something, they do usually better than other people. They go ahead with it. Sometimes they won't be consistent like two, three months, they'll get bored. These are the kind of people I'm talking about. These people sometimes when they do get passionate about something really take it to the, they go very far or kill them. The kryptonite, kryptonite like Superman for these people is encountering drugs. Why? You've always had low dopamine signaling. Now a normal guy comes in, has a drink, he was okay. He went a little bit above okay. He's like, that's okay. I'm tomorrow, I'm okay. You went from actually shit, but you never knew to being, whoa, I could do this. So the difference for you is way bigger. So logically, you're always thinking about this difference. Now the problem is this, your whole life, you've had low dopamine signaling. So you've been struggling always making your way, changing your environment around you to make it okay for your dopamine signaling. Once you took control, internal locus of control, and you can just smoke something and you're fine. Now this is a huge problem for the human being. The human being was not evolved to do this. We're evolved when we have a problem to change our environment around us, to build a career, to build a family, to build friendships. But if you could just smoke or drink or whatever, and it doesn't matter at all. First you feel this awesome power that nobody affects you. You can, whatever could happen today, you can't get me. And then you don't care about the environment around. No, right? So I don't care about like feeling that whatever you felt because for once in your life, you felt like, wow, this is actually, it means, it's like me. I tried some stuff when I was younger drinking, then I went to my first rave. And took some stuff like a bunch of stuff. And then I was like, holy shit, this makes sense. Yeah, this makes sense. Now like, I get this now. And then it's like, I've always like, this is what I want to do it more. It didn't just, there was other things that I added and it was even worse. So now the thing is, I was not comfortable in my life ever, you know, scared. You know, my bass sound was like, kind of scared, uncertain, worth less a little bit. And you know, and because my friends got divorced, you know, as a kid, it's like, for me, it was traumatic back then. Because I didn't want any better. And then you kind of, my whole life was like that. And then, boom, I go there because of drugs. Normally it's there, I go there. I've always like, chased that. And then the thing is, once you stop, boom, you go like even lower than this. I was like, why? Everything was so dull and boring. And even my definition of like, excitement and fun was only related to being there. There was a lot of adjustment. And it took a while. And there's a physical basis of that for you, because you're using a drug that causes physical ecstasy, even the physical sense of it. So for the audience to understand, don't ever use this drug, because it may make you feel like you don't feel the same pleasure from normal things again. I don't know if you ever felt that. Or is it long lasting? Like, I don't want to get into details, but you know what I mean? I'm actually feeling the best I've felt since I stopped doing drugs. Wow, fantastic. Great. Yeah. I think it's just because it's related to, there's no chaos in my life, and I'm okay with it now. And I'm just, my recovery program is good, and I'm surrounded with people who are just positive. Because obviously, the people you hang out with is going to be a big influence on you, right? So I just think that up really nice in the past few, few years. And but yeah, but for sure, the first few months, once you stop doing drugs, it's like, it's kind of hard to. Empty in the brain. So it would take me, if I would go like really hard and I would go to rehab, it would take me maybe like two weeks to smile, four weeks to feel like I'm actually feeling all right. And then during those first three weeks, I hated myself more than anything in the world. I know it's to be able to smile like you in a camera, you try to smile, you look weird, right? It doesn't go up. You feel like a weird, awkward guy. I wouldn't want to smile. I had no sense of humor. There was nothing going on, right? But yeah, the self hatred was the probably the worst part. I brought into trouble. I got kicked out of so few rehabs because I was like becoming like very defiant against the authority and I would like be violent with like the environment. And I never, never was violent with people really, but it was more like verbal with like the people in charge. I would be breaking stuff because all this hate inside me was just spilling over like a glass that's spilling over with the water, with the faucet that you keep pouring in, just falling over. So I suffered, it was so, so big. But you know, that took a lot of work to deal with. Plus, my brain being all like depressed from like the drop. So it was just terrible. But I think after four weeks, I would feel somewhat okay, you know, depending, right? That was like back years ago. And then over time, you just learned to like enjoy the normal things, the little things. But for sure, bodybuilding and training really helps. For me, like pushing myself, pushing myself in the gym gives me a purpose. And one thing I've really noticed in the rehabs is that... Well, it's changing all those chemicals in your brain. It's literally giving you the... So, you know, when you, when you squat, you get adrenaline. When you, when you, when you do some cardio, you get endorphins. You get gaba also after cardio, so you relax a bit. If you ever try the sauna before bed, it's wonderful. You get like a relaxation feeling. And all these growth factors from ibogaine all come from cardio. Same exact growth factors. So it is a real difference. There's doing something there. Oh yeah. Yeah. And the thing is, as soon as I was... Funny, funny thing, maybe it's related to that. As soon as I would start partying, the last thing I wanted to do is sleep or train. I would not train when I was partying, do drugs. And then I would go to rehab, sleep it off. First thing I do when I wake up, go to the gym. Surprising each other. Yeah. Yeah. Was never at the same time. I've never done it at the same time. That's a good indication. Well, yeah, that's why I was... I was gonna mention... Yeah. Oh, sorry, interrupt you. I was gonna mention something. Also, a lot of times, so we're talking about people looking for this magic pill to solve the thing. And I was saying, once you internalize control, you're removing this whole thing of, I need to change my environment. If you've been addicted to something for years, like you were talking about, there's gonna be a lot of issues you haven't worked through emotionally, but also in your environment, there's gonna be a wreckage. And the solution isn't like, I have to just bear the wreckage. You have to clean up the wreckage and physically take action, also the action re-associating your brain. But there's another thing, people sometimes have this overwhelming, like, I have a friend here in Thailand who thinks this way, people can probably guess who it is. But he seems to think that when he uses marijuana, he's very creative. And I'm like, oh, do you know that I have like musician clients who will not use drugs at all because it affects... It makes you think you're making better music, but you're not. It's just a perception. And if you train yourself to be creative, you don't need to use a random drug to randomly mix things in your head. Like creativity, do you know what that is? In my opinion, obviously obnoxious. But my opinion is creativity is thievery. But artistic thievery. Like any real artist that paints this, he's taking little things from everywhere he's seen. And he spent his whole life looking at those things. And he's doing it soberly. What drunk artist, well, maybe there's a couple of things, what drunk artist, you know, that was really that awesome and prolific and continuous. They're usually chain smokers like Picasso. They weren't doing LSD and just doing crazy, I think a lot of artists will be really, really... Maybe I'm wrong. Yeah, well, I think everybody's different, right? So it might be good for somebody, but for anybody else. But I think why a lot of artists are good is because they have a lot of suffering in their life. They're like suffering a lot. And what happens when somebody suffers a lot, they can do drugs too. So I don't know if it's a drug like in them created, or it's actually just their whole traumatic life that they had maybe. Because I think that's that's more likely they come together. It's not that doing the drug is making me do this. They're really like, in pain and suffering too much, they can't use do their art. So they will use something to relieve them. But then the whole fucking life of shit is what drives them to express themselves with their art form. But my buddy's like, Hey, if I'm going to make a YouTube video, I should smoke some weed and come up with ideas. I'm like, No, no, no, no, you don't need to do that. It's not the best way I swear. Whatever you I do, creativity you have, you'll miss some spelling or something. It's not ideal. Like, yeah, anyway, not the thing I want to mention. Just one more thought I want to mention just for the audience. Antoine and I disagree on something briefly. I'm not completely sure I'm right or he's right. But his right is the main his view is the mainstream among sober people and probably what is what you should follow. The one thing that I had, because of my experience with the Pacific Group, and because of my personal experience with I had a very bad anxiety disorder, when I first got sober, which was made much worse by the fact that I was experiencing delirium tremens from the alcohol use. So basically, I was having tremors, which even happens in childhood, it was very bad. I was told not to take anything that could try to deal with this, not not talking about benzo or anything acute, but something like affecting my neurogenesis for the long term or something like that. And I found myself practicing the principles of religious, the religious principles that are important, solidarity, confession and accountability and all of these things that we have in AA. But I found that later on by accident, basically, I encountered some of these other medications for different reasons. And I found that it seemed for some people, there must be many reasons why people how people end up with drugs. Some people like, for example, myself, I had a very unusual childhood. If you like look into my child, like the kind of child that I had in Google dot scar dot com or scar dot go dot com, you'll find people born like that have smaller amygdala or more not smaller, but also more pronounced, but more disconnected amygdala. The amygdala is this ancient part of the brain, the lizard brain that basically tells you when a lion is about to attack. It's supposed to tell you it's to fear or to jump this anxiety center. Yeah, from childhood, I'm always ready, always, I move fast, I'm always not comfortable. And that's just how I am. So this thing builds up over time, some kind of angst. Now, if I was to use a drug that one of these medicinal drugs that makes you feel better, like GABA panthen or something like that, I'm just gonna end up, I don't know if you know this book, but if you take volume, three months when you take value, it lowers your cortisol. Three months later, at the same dose, you have normal cortisol levels. Now, if you take out the volume, you're below baseline, just like we were talking about before. All those drugs that work acutely or through the GABA system, most of them work like that. But some like antidepressants, the standard ones for some people, like myself, made a huge, huge benefit. What they made me feel was like, the way I would describe it is, well, there's three things I noticed. One was neurogenesis, like having just higher growth factors, even if it's the sauna and exercise, or if it's SSRIs, low dose with under the psychiatrist, or cerebral license, which is even cerebral license less risky than SSRIs in some ways, because it doesn't mess with your systems in your brain, it just gives you the growth factors. So if you take like cerebral license with GH on the same day, you'll sleep will be crazy good. Next day, your brain fog will be a bit there. And that's the feeling of the growth factors. And you'll notice like over time, if something usually would bother you a lot, but then you would think about it two hours later, and you'd have to prey on it or something, someone turned on you in a car. This time you turned on you, an hour later, you just get along with it. That's the plasticity. It's very small. Nobody would do it to abuse drugs. But it's a small advantage for me. It was very helpful to adapt. And then another one, which is common, which doesn't affect feelings in the brain was the non loadable style tracks, one example, anything that lowers inflammation in the brain, being neuro inflammation, you know, you have your immune system overactive, because whatever, like especially if your body belongs to somebody, you have a lot of stresses in your body, your immune system might get overactive, might turn on your joints, might turn on your gut or something, right? A lot of people call us and that's up. Anything that can lower your inflammation in a healthy way, like fish oil, EPA from fish oil, can potentially lower inflammation in the brain. Two of the ones that have done it in double blind placebo controlled human studies is two grams of NAC a day, or I think NAC, or imagine has shown antidepressant effect in eight weeks, just from lowering inflammation. And EPA from fish oil also does it. And it's shown, you know, if you take a rodent and inject it with one of these, what are called inflammatory cytokines from the immune system that get high when your body's stressed, it'll act depressed and anxious if you just inject it with it. So lowering inflammation, what's the possible bad side? Well, if you're lowering it with drugs, you could lower it so much that your body misses cancers. But if you're lowering it with fish oil, low dose naltrexon, which is that you're not going to get a huge advantage, but your brain will be a bit calmer, you're excited to be a bit lower. That and the neurogenesis I think are somewhat helpful and then for myself. And then for some people, not if you have experiences. And by the way, I believe most wholeheartedly in cognitive behavioral therapy, and also psychoanalysis for people that are good at meditation, mindful meditation. But for the for the CBT, if your brain is neurogenic, you see, in childhood, your brain can grow new neurons everywhere. So it can change. In adulthood, you can't teach an old dog new tricks, because the brain can't change. Way harder. Yeah. Not not. It's just there's only two parts of the brain that still grow new factors. So they can change. And they're small. But when you take an anti-depressant, they like quadruple or more than that, 10 times more. So when that happens, when you go to CBT, I did CBT on myself, by the way. So for example, I had this anxiety problem, right? But my shaking was a problem. And then the anxiety, if I saw you seem me shaking during the withdrawal, I get more anxious, like a stuttering person. And then I see you see me studying and I can talk, right? Or every time it happened in public, it would get way worse. Because now I remember that time, it's gonna happen next time. And I'm not a coward. I don't know how this was happening to me. It was physically couldn't control my body. So what I did was, I didn't I didn't use the value. But what I did was, I increased neurogenesis. So I increased neurogenesis enough for a period of time through an anti-depressant that made neurogenesis by itself also was anxiety. Some people, if they were not addicts and had this problem, they could do CBT with like short term the short term with a acute Benzo or something like a 2.5 milligram Benzo, if you're not an addict, under doctors. But what you would do is this, you ever heard of a society called Toastmasters? So Toastmasters. Yeah, it's a society for people who are scared of public speaking in the US. You can just go for free. They meet, they're very nice people. And basically what they do is they clap for you and stuff while you give a bad speech. So I went over there, nervous as hell. Yeah, I was very nervous. But I was not anxious that I've been taking for two months, that's impressive. So I felt a bit better. And this was my theory. Psychiatrists didn't tell me to do this. I went there and I said, the worst thing I could do for my anxiety thing is go speak in front of these people. But these people are cool, not to laugh at me. So it should be good. So I went  ab excuses. a little bit but nobody saw it and then the next time I went to talk they said oh there's one of the best speeches we've had the last few weeks of the war nobody saw anything and within a couple of months the shaking went away but I had the neurogenesis and I had the positive feedback and I made this I really believe in this yeah yeah just to clarify I am all for medication that will help people like and in a like most people are on medication but the pacific group because one of the three main values that we have that we always mention is open-mindedness, willingness and honesty and open-mindedness is the first one so we have to be open-minded so everybody's recovery is different a lot of time mistakes that I've done in the past or I've seen people do is that they will judge somebody else's recovery oh it's not the way that it no focus on your own you need to focus on your own what works for you because remember life was unimaginable you were suffering you were pretty much killing yourself so for somebody else if they will use a medication and have a nice life it's going to help them go on track and not do like drugs that will kill you this is a win so I think all these antidepressants and all that stuff is very good but it needs to be of course supervised with a professional a doctor and has to be prescribed and the motives because the thing is it's so easy also to go to a doctor and be like oh I need this benzo I'm very stressed out in public blah blah blah but it's all a lie and you're just getting that for yourselves because the thing is very a lot of addicts and for myself it's very easy to like convince yourself you need something but if you dig to what the really what the motive is oh I just want something to feel different that's not yeah yeah specifically bro any medication that they could feel within two weeks is not going to work it has to be medications that don't have an acute effect like SSRRs you don't even feel for a month that's why it's not addictive you don't notice when you take it you don't notice they took it that day but over time you notice maybe I'm shifting a little bit those kinds but the promise the addict can never choose it for himself he really needs expert psychiatrists to guide them otherwise you're gonna you're gonna do the same thing like he's saying one more thing I just want to mention do you ever notice we thought way longer than a plant but do you ever notice that people have this reluctance about accepting the higher power and one of the things that they'll do is there's these a groups that are like no higher power have you seen this yeah there's a lot of like motivation there's even one yeah and Ali there's one yeah there's a one that's like a even the buddhist and there's one it's called smart recovery it's smart different smart yeah yeah yeah plus they do like step stuff without like the higher power but the thing is it's integral to it I don't I was like I was so like desperate to like change and find a solution they told me in my first rehab they have to believe in a higher power I don't even want like I just believe in whatever so I chose the the Thor the God of Thunder just to have like something to like practice I'm gonna your necklace yeah yeah yeah I always have that and then eventually it changed and now it's like I do have a higher power I just don't know I can't explain it with the words I have because it's where it is it's these words or were created on this material plane for example so I can't use things that are created here to explain what's something I don't even know but I just know that with something out there and I personally I should pray more and use it more in my program but it's not my first reaction and the the only times I prayed with all my heart was the time that I was like suffering the most I was like okay now now please help me this is like I went on my knees and stuff a few painful times in my life but I but that's the point of it right is to remind us constantly that we are so fallible and small beyond what is such as something greater than us and it's not whether the higher power is listening to us it's for us to sit in gratitude and admire because think about every society we've ever come across in the world experience the same kind of religion they sacrifice they pray to rich to idols they have rituals why it's a by accident or did every society that didn't do that die off is that part of yeah part of like an evolutionary design thing that keeps human beings it's like mass therapy for some maybe countries or groups of people well yeah but for sure but the thing is that I've seen people in the they everybody's higher power is different though that's the part of the thing too like some people they just believe in karma some people they just believe in like a so the the athiast version of god in the meeting is called good or delete direction god so we're righteous way good or delete direction so you ask yourself what's the most righteous way so for those who don't believe in in the sky daddy because whatever you know like they will use that good or direction or I've also like a in a group of drunks because the yeah greater than yourself that's more than you so people they will have different versions of higher power but in the program if you just try to have one you open the mind it enough you'll be uh you'll have a much better chance at staying clean but it can't be anything it can be nature whatever it doesn't have to be anything it's a big people put a lot of pressure on that but me I was really willing to like do whatever took took it's like I didn't care hey you would have to tell me like hey Al-Twan you have to believe in the in god so you can get this bag of drugs I'm like so now why would I not be as willing to stop doing drugs right so I had this I had this yep no no because the word the word god scares a lot of people that's why we actually use higher power a lot because god is is attached to religion but it's the thing with the 12 step it's not a religious program it's a spiritual program that's the thing but it's just the AA was inspired by some religious principles from the Oxford group and stuff so some are inspired by them but then they just change the wording so it would be available to anybody from all creeds of life all religion all races all status so everybody can do it but um you know I had a tremendous tremendous difficulty for the people that are listening to us that think they're gonna have a difficulty with this I had a tremendous difficulty my brain was very stubborn and at the time I was convinced that I that I could not get this god thing the way they're describing it to me it caused me a lot of problems initially like complete reservations I couldn't deal with anything over time I developed this I think this is hard to disagree with honestly and I don't want to take more much much more time but if you think so say you believe that there's no god and you're you have the feeling of like the militant atheists right so you think the world was created by randomness okay whatever this random occurrence that created the entire universes this thing you don't understand right and you don't need to understand it it's just something so much beyond you that you're nothing compared to it right say that this whole universe thing we can call god it includes everything and on the universe including you this whole system which works somehow by itself without you doing anything about it and not understanding anything about it say this whole system has never listened to you once in your life it doesn't matter when you're praying to god or consoling or commuting commuting with god is that that when you're doing that you're not really you're talking to god but it's not that god should need necessarily talk back to you what you're doing is showing gratefulness because you were given this existence that you didn't deserve that you don't know how it happened and what you're supposed to show is what we say in arabic subhanallah which means praising god to say you know thank you for what you've done for us i don't understand you but i respect you and i see that all your creatures in the world seem to work in unison in a way that goes with the flow of the river of life and not swimming against the river i have been swimming against the river clearly i don't know what i'm doing because i'm about to die so maybe i should look at the river of life observe nature and pray to god in the sense that i am learning from god from the universe god is what i don't know and that's everything and so it gives you respect gratitude communion these are maybe the most important parts of religion what do you think right it's hard to disagree with that no it is all right because the thing is your the trips them up is the word god that's all no that's that's what you mean you just describe god pretty much yeah that's god to me that's some people would would describe the same god using different words yeah you know what i mean so it's the thing is it's all the same thing it's that's my opinion too it's like all the religions are they they try they're trying to explain what you just try to explain it's just really hard to other people get really caught up on this idea that there's one religion he says he has a beard and he has calm that okay back off don't get stuck on that one if somebody told you there's a guy listening to and you don't believe him does that mean that this whole universe this grand beautiful thing that nobody understands is not before you if you see a nice car don't you see wow it's a beautiful car if you said wow this is a beautiful life every day you wouldn't drink you know that's what they're really saying to you at the end of the day right yeah well if you didn't like it i mean if you liked it you accepted fully as it is we want to change it yeah also and you would want to go with the flow of life like in my mind if we do things that are very unhealthy for ourselves even in that way we're going against the flow of life i tend to do it naturally so which is why my child's called leon longevity you could say it itself will and then going with the flow of the river is kind of god's will in a sense true and how you know god's will by learning god by watching the flow of the universe also which is that gratitude and and meditation and observation this is a good note to leave it wait before we do so anton so anton told me that i should make this video although originally i thought i shouldn't but i thank you for encouraging me but anton i was thinking before i was supposed to do another reaction video to you so maybe once in a while if there's a topic that relates to addicts or stuff like that we could do this series which i haven't concluded on the name yet i'm going to poll you today because i have so many more names but some of them are cool like anabolic's anonymous redemption and recovery anabolic's anonymous because it makes it less you know lighthearted and then it says redemption and recovery but this this is a bunch of others i'll send you the full list after so potentially that and otherwise i wanted to congratulate you on 2022 you i know that you had a lot of setbacks to bicep tears and stuff like that but your condition was fantastic and the entire world saw it and especially the competition leading up to the olympia the one before that i don't remember which one the chicago where you're looking can see people thought you could have won the last competition or something right yeah it was fantastic you did a great job brother we're very proud of you thanks yeah thank you what are you planning are you planning to compete earlier in the year uh no i think i'm going to do the opposite that i'm just clearing off the blood work getting healthy you know and just like doing everything right you know and getting another heart scan and um yeah just to be safe you know and i i think i'm gonna just after all that i'm gonna gain some muscle to have a the right improvement to be more of caliber against some of the top guys and uh really give it a good shot because i probably only have like what three four years maximum competing because i've been competing like since 2004 early yeah i remember so well it's fine so um so yeah so i think i've got to get the year off to just gain some get healthy gain muscle and so i when i come back i have there's a drastic improvement give it a give it a shot but then after that you give it a really good go have the muscle i need and then just refine that for a couple years and then just hang it up because that's i want to do my best reach my full potential and i think i just need another three years to do so three four years to do so so i'm going to compete that i'm going to try to get an invite for the 2024 Arnold Classic oh fantastic okay great are you going to do a calcium angiogram with dye yeah i did it last time i'll do another one now or did that one also yeah yeah i did that and i'm gonna do a or was a CT score just of the corner was it a detailed one would they pump the dye or just the there was no no blockages but my my calcium score was elevated but i always wondered is like is it because of like all the fucking shit i did because my blood pressure must have been in the 200s for days on end when i was partying no no it's because of the it's because of the stimulant absolutely i if you didn't know that absolutely bro that was the stimulant yes because look what happens when you're when you're when you're when your blood vessels tighten up which always happens we don't even notice it heart rate rises blood vessels tighten up all that little blood pushing on the blood vessel because a little tear and the calcium is healing it yes now that's the problem with people that were had high high heart rates and stuff but yours wasn't as high as i thought right no i think it was like we talked about it it's really high for my age is 130 but the 130 not 1000 130 oh yeah not 1300 no 130 oh we talked about it okay yeah i was worried and he thought no no it's supposed to be zero right supposed to be zero but bro 1000 was like almost a death sentence no i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know me there's like it with the with the angiogram with the contrast dye there's like no blockages so i want to do it again after competing for a whole year see like what the numbers are because it because it might have been the same thing for like five years and never change it well it might it what it might be keep in mind right the calcium gets put in about 10 years after the damage so it might get worse but you don't want to do it that often you want to do it like it because because that does damage the area but yeah can i see something real quick yeah do you take uh do you take fish oil because you know they approved fish oil for this treatment right it's called vasepa yeah uh i i use four grams epa a day reverses reduces heart attacks by about 40 percent or so and people have already had one in the last few years it's massive yeah no i used fish oil but i just ran out like two days ago i got a grow grab on but i use a really good one but keep in mind the dha raises your LDL cholesterol the epa barely does the epa is the one that really really improves heart health i can send you the names of them later yeah i just said to be here all right brother it was great to talk to you this was very insightful