 So if you do notice suddenly that your nicotine is unusually powerful today or your alpha gpc is unusually powerful today. It may be Good afternoon friends. In this video, I'm going to tell you how I would go about supplementing nicotine to get better cognitive performance. Like for an exam or for study. But before I do please subscribe to the channel if you're not already. like the video and comment on the video to help the channel's growth. Now let's get started. First of all, I hope you saw the last video from this morning which introduced nicotine to you. In this video, we're going to talk about how to go about supplementing nicotine. We're going to go across the considerations that you should make and then consider some supplements that I take and what I do specifically myself. First of all, the considerations. There are three considerations I want to bring up. The first is the U-shaped curve effect of nicotine. As we learned from the previous video, nicotine has cognitive enhancing effects that have a U-shaped curve even among drug-naive people and nicotine-naive people. That means in someone who's never used nicotine before, one milligram in studies in humans will almost always improve cognitive performance. So will two milligrams. But on average, four milligrams will worsen cognitive performance even compared to someone who doesn't use nicotine. So what does this tell us? This tells us there's an upper limit on the amount of nicotine acutely that can improve cognitive performance. And let me tell you, what does that feel when you reach that upper limit? You feel too much salient, too much activity of the salience network in the brain. Things in your surroundings are too salient for you. You may be concentrating but you have a lot of energy. You feel like, oh I should go write maybe my to-do list on the board or maybe I should go clean something over there. This is the salience network becoming overpowering in your brain. That's one feeling. Another feeling maybe of too much excitatory activity in your brain. A feeling of like maybe some thinking pollution or brain fog slightly. Or a feeling of slight anxiety. That's what will happen when you go too far. You won't have to guess too much to be honest with you. You'll notice when you've gone too far on the dose. But let me point out another thing. Unlike many receptors in the human body, the nicotinic cholinergic receptors both in humans and other mammals upregulates when it's bound to and agonize. Agonism is binding to and activating the receptor. So the nicotinic cholinergic receptors are expressed more when you use nicotine. What does this mean? This may mean that you become more sensitive to higher doses of nicotine if you use it more often. Or it may mean that you have a higher threshold for tolerance of how nicotine may be helpful for you. That means that you may be able to use four milligrams and get even better performance. Or you may be able to get the same performance that someone gets out of two milligrams from one milligram. It depends on the situation. We really don't know too much about this. But what I'm trying to point out here is not only is there variance between people about what the upper limit of nicotine supplementation will be useful, but even within a person according to how much nicotine they use over time. Second, we have to consider the vitamin choline. You see, if many people I think are actually deficient to some degree in choline, at least in regard to optimal function. I think most people are. And I think that's one of the reasons that so many people have such a boost from baseline cognition when they use nicotine. So there's reason to think that people really need to raise the amount of choline supplementation that they're doing. Choline is a vitamin. Remember, choline is what the neurotransmitter, the hormone in our brains, acetylcholine, which nicotine acts like. But acetylcholine is made out of choline and it's made out of dietary choline. What I was saying here is most people probably don't consume enough choline in their diet to have proper function in general. But the most important element of supplementing choline other than brain health is the development of liver disease. If you're choline deficient, you will develop non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which will progress into non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH, on its own, just from the choline deficiency. So you can't be choline deficient. The recommended daily allowance for men is about 500 milligrams of choline. So say you wanted to take the minimal amount of choline required to not get liver disease, like 500 milligrams or so. If you did so, you would still increase. And by the way, you have choline in your diet as well. But what I'm saying is, if you had to increase the amount of choline you're consuming, you would increase also, by definition, and I've experienced this myself, I know this is true in reality, more acetylcholine synthesis in your brain. What does that mean? That means that the highest amount of nicotine that you can tolerate without reaching the other side of that U-shaped curve, where the nicotine starts to harm your cognition, the highest amount you can take may be lower now, because you're supplementing with choline, and you have more acetylcholine in the brain. Do you see what I mean? So you need to have choline in your diet, but that may lower the max amount of nicotine that's valuable for you. Also, this will change something else, which brings us to the third point here, which is the circadian rhythms. Acetylcholine is transmitted in the body in a circadian fashion. That means in the daytime, in our daylight hours for humans, we have more acetylcholine transmission in our brains than at nighttime. In rodents, it's about 33% more, in their case, in their nighttimes. So there's a circadian fluctuation in cholinergic signaling. And this makes sense, because acutely, choline improves cognition quite a bit, and you probably need less concentration and cognition later in the day, right? But here's the important elements here that I want to point out. First of all, when you supplement choline in your diet, remember, now you had a lower maximum amount of nicotine you might benefit from acutely when you're trying to study. Well, also, you now have a higher baseline acetylcholine level in your brain throughout the day. Now, your body will control that in a circadian fashion, but nonetheless, it means that you're going to have a higher amount of acetylcholine at night than you did previously. Now, why does that matter? It matters because the change from a baseline state to whatever nootropic kind of thing you're using, not technically nootropics, but the difference in the baseline to going to higher cognition is important to get the most out of your studying sessions, for example. Usually, you want to study or do your cognitively demanding tasks earlier in the morning so that whatever drugs or supplements you use that affect your circadian rhythms, they do so in the up part of the circadian rhythm in the morning. So if you're doing something to like nicotine, you would probably want it in the morning in a circadian way. But now you know that you have more cholinergic signaling later in the day, which makes the difference in the morning less significant for you. So these are just things to consider. Now, how do you go about doing this? Well, to discuss that, let's go into our sections next. First, with nutrition. In regard to nutrition, we want to, and this is nutritional choline. We're talking about choline specifically with your diet. There are two aspects we want to think about here with supplementing choline. You may actually want some supplemented choline actually for your cognition in the morning, but we're going to get to that level quite easily. The thing we have to consider when supplementing choline is the liver disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and second, dangers genetic issues with methylation. So first of all, to avoid non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, you can do that taking 500 milligrams of choline a day, or if you take enough choline in your diet already, which many meat eaters do already. But some people like myself and like Derek from More Plates, More Dates have genetic polymorphisms that make them, make it very difficult for them to methylate methionine. Remember methionine, the dietary protein that turns on mTOR? They have difficulty methylating that across its cycle. So they end up with higher homocysteine levels on their blood work, for example. These polymorphisms are exceptionally common and really well studied and certainly affect our health. For people with those polymorphisms, like polymorphisms at the MTHFR gene, these people may want to supplement with even more choline than is protective for their livers, because that reduces the burden on their body to methylate and go through this cycle. So these people may be, like myself, supplementing with more choline than 500 milligrams, even though it raises their baseline choline level and may diminish the cognitive enhancing effects of raising cholinergic stimulation, particularly when studying in the morning. To find out if you're one of those people, by the way, Chris Masterjohn has a channel on YouTube. He has collected the SNPs associated with methylation issues from academic papers, and he has it somewhere on his website. You can visit them there. I have the same thing also for my genetic analysis, but he's already published this there. You can go visit them. He also has on his website some nutritional recommendations for people who have this issue. I differ from him in my opinion of some of the recommendations, but only very slightly. So you can really, you can, and he's a good resource of information in general. I only disagree with him about some things. So I would highly recommend checking him out and checking out your 23andMe or another genome analysis to find out whether you have these methylation issues and should potentially supplement with more than 500 milligrams of choline. Okay, so check that out in case. But if not, then we're probably looking at supplementing around 500 milligrams. Now, how would I supplement with choline? Personally, I like to take a hydrophilic and a lipophilic source of choline because I've noticed, not particularly with regard to research on choline, but with regard to research of different kinds of supplements that lipophilic and hydrophilic forms sometimes get distributed differently in the body. So to ensure that I get good distribution of choline because I have these methylation issues in particular, I supplement with CDP choline, also called citicholine. I will attach two links, one to a cheaper supplement that I somewhat trust and one to a more expensive supplement that I trust in the video description below. So I supplement with CDP choline or citicholine. I usually try to take about half of my supplementation or a little bit less from that. And then I supplement with phosphatidylcholine. I'll also include a link to a source on phosphatidylcholine in the bio below. So I supplement with both of those. You can supplement with one or the other. You don't have to be as specific as me. And you may not have to supplement with as much as I do because you may not have the methylation issues that I have. So that's how I would go about dealing with the nutritional side of things. And by the way, if you don't have your genome sequenced yet and want to know ahead of time have methylation issues, check your blood tests. Your blood tests may likely have tested your homocysteine. If your homocysteine, which is C-Y-S-T-E-I-N-E at the end, if that is, let's say, 8.5 or above, you are likely one of the people with the methylation issues that may have better health long-term or may potentially live longer if they supplement with more choline and therefore have a better methylation cycle. Next, let's talk about supplementation. How can you supplement to get more out of using nicotine through the same system, the cholinergic system? First of all, I want to point out a supplement called uridine monophosphate. I'll attach a link to a supplement below because people have been telling me, by the way, that it's hard for them to know how to spell these words that I mentioned. And some people are unfamiliar with the supplements. Uridine monophosphate upregulates cholinergic signaling and upregulates dopamine transmission through the cholinergic system. You'll find that 300 to 600 milligrams of uridine monophosphate taken in the morning with your nicotine will significantly improve your concentration. You will notice the effects acutely. It has only acute effects. They don't build over time, which is one reason, by the way, I usually don't supplement with it daily. I try to take at least two days off from uridine monophosphate. So you'd supplement that with your nicotine in the morning. Say you wake up at 6 a.m., you start working at around 8 on whatever you're working that's cognitively demanding. Around 8.15, after you've started, you take these supplements. You take the nicotine or depending on how you take them. You take the uridine monophosphate. Next, we'll talk about alpha GPC and that would be with the nicotine. So let's talk about alpha GPC. Alpha GPC is a kind of choline that basically for people who don't use nicotine, it's the only way that's commonly available to significantly upregulate cholinergic signaling acutely. By taking alpha GPC as a supplement, you get the effects of nicotine plus some more effects that are sometimes a little bit different, but it's more comprehensive. Why? Alpha GPC is a form of choline that appears to have these acute effects, unlike citicholine or phosphatidylcholine, because it causes reserve stores of choline in the body to be released into the bloodstream, whereby they quickly go to the brain, past the blood-brain barrier, and as acetylcholine become a neurotransmitter. So taking alpha GPC 15 minutes after you begin your studying will upregulate acetylcholine signaling in your brain acutely. For some people, taking too much alpha GPC will cause them to develop anxiety because of that element that I just mentioned, which is alpha GPC does more than what nicotine does as well. So it's not just the anxiety of too much stimulation from the nicotinic cholinergic receptors, but the muscarinic cholinergic receptors that nicotine doesn't bind to and are less involved with cognition, except for one of the receptors, basically, those receptors are involved in anxiety in the brain. So too much alpha GPC, for that reason and other reasons may cause you to develop anxiety acutely, or also those other feelings of the salience and stuff like that. Now I've noticed a wide variance in people's ability to tolerate alpha GPC without developing that U-shaped curve effects, without developing anxiety and feeling poorly. But for me, for example, I can't tolerate 400 milligrams of alpha GPC. I can almost never tolerate it, unless I'm taking something that is what is called an anticholinergic, something like amitriptyline or cirroquil or something like that, or Welbutrin, although Welbutrin is quite a bit weaker. I don't think it'll do this to me. So basically, I can't tolerate 400 milligrams usually. Sometimes I can tolerate 300 milligrams in one dose. Usually I do better with 200 milligrams or 100 milligrams. I think for people that are supplementing with nicotine also, which in my opinion is superior to alpha GPC for cognitive purposes, I do think alpha GPC would be synergistic with it. I've tried this a lot myself, but I think at a very low dose, something like 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams for most people, maybe even 50 milligrams, something like that. So, so far we've discussed in terms of nutrition, we've discussed supplementing citicholine or CDP choline and phosphatidylcholine. We're splitting our choline requirement between them and supplementing them with food, but not for acute effects. These are just things you supplement with all the time and they won't have an immediate effect on you. Then for the acute effects, we supplement uridine monophosphate and alpha GPC in the morning when we're working on our studying, right? Next, let's talk about the two drugs we may want to consider. So we talked about two supplements, well, four supplements actually. Now two drugs. The first drug is paracetam. Now, paracetam is probably the best studied of all the racetams. It's the only racetam that I trust because it's so well studied. Paracetam can be found from websites like Nootropics Depot, but I think that they make theirs out of Chinese sources. Theirs is certainly, in my experience, weaker than pharmaceutical paracetam. You can find pharmaceutical paracetam in Eastern Europe. For example, a website, Cosmic Nootropic, which I have a link to on my website and a discount code. It's L-E-O. Cosmic Nootropic carries several versions of pharmaceutical paracetam, including an injectable form. And I actually use their oral form. So there's a variance in the quality of paracetam, first of all. Paracetam raises cholinergic signaling or improves cholinergic signaling, thereby increasing dopamine transmission also. Somewhat similar to uridine monophosphate. So paracetam is also a consideration. What I would do, a lot of people use much higher doses of this. Keep in mind, we're using sort of polypharmacy here. What I do personally is I use between 400 to 800 milligrams of paracetam orally once. Just the first. I don't redose it during my time of studying. Once. By the way, I sometimes redose alpha-GPC and I sometimes, though very rarely, redose uridine monophosphate. I don't think it's as useful. And I redose, obviously, nicotine. But paracetam, I don't redose. I take it once and I take a couple of days off a week. I do notice diminishing marginal returns if you keep using it every day, this kind of tachyphylaxis with the drug. I think it's quite safe and worthwhile taking. The second drug I wanted to mention, I mentioned in the first video too. That's the main drug given to Alzheimer's disease patients to deal with their symptoms. It's not thought to slow down the progression of Alzheimer's disease. But honestly, I think that's because when Alzheimer's disease presents itself, it's such an advanced disease that like, you know, you can't really slow it down that easily. There are studies that evidence that donapazil may slow down the progression of neurodegenerative disease if it's taken early enough in some models. So anyway, but the point is it certainly relieves symptoms of it. By the way, why may it prevent the degeneration of the brain? The same way that smoking does for Parkinson's disease. It's just not been as well studied and people haven't used it as early in life and so on. But it certainly improves the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, which is the memory deficits. What does donapazil do? It does what ginkgo biloba, huperzine A, bacopa monieri, berberine. It does what they do. It is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Acetylcholinesterase is an enzyme that breaks down. An enzyme is something that modifies proteins. It's an enzyme that breaks down that neurotransmitter in our brains that nicotine was copying. Remember, acetylcholin. So acetylcholesterase breaks down acetylcholin. So donapazil and ginkgo biloba, berberine, all these things inhibit acetylcholesterase so that acetylcholin can't be broken down as quickly. So there's more acetylcholin in the brain that can bind to the nicotinic cholinergic receptors and activate them, improving memory. I've never heard of anyone taking donapazil that wasn't above the age of 70, personally, except myself. I was the first person that I know or read of taking it. I'm sure that other people have tried it before, but I'm pretty sure I'm the first person who's definitely made videos about it or talked about online. I think so, at least I don't know. Anyway, I've tried it extensively. The reason why I'm saying this to you is to point out that I've done all of this myself. I know this works. This is not hypotheses. Donapazil improves cognition in people who don't have Alzheimer's disease early in life also. However, I have noticed acetylcholinesterase inhibition is less valuable the younger you are. I think because younger people have better cholinergic systems. Like some of my 19 or 20 year old clients get less of a benefit from donapazil than somebody 25 or 30. But donapazil certainly improves cognition and it does so, so much better than supplemental versions of the acetylcholesterase inhibitors like ginkgo biloba, berberine and so on. There is still reason to supplement with those supplements because they have other effects. Like for example, ginkgo biloba is very, very, very healthy for the brain. You would still want to, I still take it daily, but donapazil is just incomparable to it. The way you would want to use, by the way, I used to get my donapazil from clearskypharmacy.biz. What I used to do is I would, well, now I'm just used to the same dose that I take. But initially I would take like a 10 milligram tablet and cut it into four pieces. And I would take 2.5 milligrams say for a week or so, then raise it by 2.5 so that I'm at 5 milligrams. Then I might stay at 5 milligrams for two weeks before I go to 7.5 and then 10 milligrams. I think most people can tolerate 10 milligrams and get the best function or better function out of 10 milligrams than 5. However, I think many people do get worse function out of 15 milligrams or 20 milligrams. Those doses have been, are used in Alzheimer's disease patients. But for me, what I notice is that those doses, the cholinergic signaling throughout the day is so high that it harms the circadian function and also lessens the difference in my cognition that I want in the morning. So I'd be careful with that. You might do best at 5 milligrams or 10. You will do better with 5 than none for sure. Almost everybody. I can almost guarantee this. So how do you get your cholinergic system signaling in beast mode for the studying that you want to do in the morning? Say you want to do really well on your exams or you're preparing for the CFA or the LSAT or something else. What would you do in totality? First of all, your baseline cholinergic signaling would be driven by your supplementation of CDP choline and phosphatidyl choline as well as your use of the drug donapazil. The more you do those two, the more you'll have an even, not so much with the nutrients, but more with the donapazil, but both of them. So the more you raise nutritional CDP choline and phosphatidyl choline, the more your circadian rhythms will be hampered a little bit, but less so than donapazil being risen. But generally, you will have more higher baseline cholinergic levels no matter what when you raise both of them. So first of all, your baseline cholinergic signaling is driven by the dietary choline, either dietary or in the two supplement forms and donapazil. Second, acutely in the morning when you want to work, what would you do? Five days a week, I like to take two days off this to get everything fresh again and to have the, basically to exaggerate the difference between the baseline nighttime signaling and the daytime signaling. Taking two or one day off does a similar thing. These receptors don't downregulate like dopamine receptors, but it still has increases the impact of the acute signaling in the morning. So what would you do? You would get prepared, start working. Once you've been working for about 15 minutes, you would then take your acute supplements. So you take 300 to 600 milligrams of uridine monophosphate. You take 50 to 200 milligrams of alpha GPC. You take 400 to 800 milligrams of pharmaceutical paracetam. And then once you take all of those, you take your nicotine. Now, how would you take the nicotine? You don't want some kind of like, well, you certainly don't want a nicotine pill that doesn't localize the nicotine in your brain. You want it really localized in your brain. That's one thing. But the second thing is you want the nicotine to be released sort of smoothly across the time that you're studying. So cigarettes are really horrible. Cigarette would be a horrible option for most people because you can't smoke indoors while working. In the 1940s and 1930s, cigarette smokers were probably functioning better cognitively. They probably aren't anymore because now they go outdoors to smoke, get their nicotine signaling, and then go back in and have a lower nicotine signaling while working than they do at other times. You see what I mean? So the ideal thing I think, and personally, I don't like nicotine gum. It's very expensive, huge ripoff, way more expensive than nicotine pouches, although I've heard some are affordable. What I like is I don't personally like nicotine pouches, but if you like them, there's several brands of them. I would check out Chad from snubi.com. I have a podcast with Chad. If you search Leo and Longevity, snubi snooby, you'll find the podcast there. Chad recommends the best nicotine pouch brands. I don't like those as much personally. I find that the nicotine release is a bit quicker. I like tobacco, and I'm willing to take the carcinogenic risk to my mouth a little bit, at least with snuff. I wouldn't take oral American tobacco, but I like tobacco, so I use snus. But in either case, what you would want to do is take something between two to maybe six milligrams total, depending on your biology. But for most people, two to four milligrams, maybe three, maybe not actually four, even though many of these pouches have four, something like that. And you would put it in your mouth, this pouch or snus, while working. So you would have it there for about 30 minutes or 40 minutes before you get tired of it. And then you take it out and put it back in maybe the next hour. And you can keep doing this throughout your studying time. Now, I would also consider redosing maybe the alpha-GPC and maybe the uridine monophosphate three hours into your studying session, or two and a half hours, maybe two hours in. And then I wouldn't redose it again, because it will cause issues in your circadian rhythms. Those are the things that I would consider redosing. So that's what I do. Now, here are a couple of tips. First of all, when you raise your nutritional choline or donapazil in particular, you will find that that nicotine pouch or snus or your nicotine gum that you normally used will be much more powerful acutely. It'll take you about two weeks to get to the maximum effect at any individual donapazil dose. But you'll find, for example, that if you try, if you get used to 20 milligrams of donapazil a day, you won't be able to keep the pouch in your mouth for more than two minutes. You'll notice. It is. So this system really does work. Everything I'm telling you is true. They're all connected. And that's why I have these considerations for you about baseline choline levels. So if you do notice suddenly that your nicotine is unusually powerful today, or your alpha-GPC is unusually powerful today, maybe your donapazil and your dietary choline that's doing that. And as such, a second tip is that you'll have to iteratively change this. The more you raise your donapazil dose, the more your acute dosing in the morning will change. And maybe also the more your dietary choline supplementation might change. These things will have to be changed iteratively for you to decide on your individual body what the best combination of doses are. And finally, you may notice that you start to dream much more vividly. For those that don't know, I have a video called, I don't know what it's called, but the protocol on lucid dreaming. You can make yourself dream lucidly by raising your cholinergic signaling at night. If you raise your cholinergic signaling generally, you'll start to notice your dreams are more vivid. That means you're entering into REM sleep better. This may be by the way, one of the ways that marijuana smokers can protect their brains from the damage of inhibiting REM sleep. If I was a marijuana smoker, which I was and sometimes encounter marijuana once in a while, I would use donapazil, which I do. Anyway, friends, thank you so much for bearing with me. Let's review really quickly here. How do you optimize this system and use nicotine to get the most performance out of your study? Well, first of all, nutritionally, you supplement with or eat enough choline. If you supplement probably from CDP choline or from phosphatidylcholine, taking at least 500 milligrams of choline in your diet. Second, you take donapazil daily. Although you may take your donapazil in the morning, it doesn't have so much of an acute effect. This builds up with time. The dietary choline and the donapazil set you up for your acute effects of turning on the cholinergic beast mode in the morning. That comes from using your uridine monophosphate, your alpha-GPC, and your paracetam, and your nicotine in some combination. Anyway, friends, thank you so much for bearing with me. I look forward to seeing you again tomorrow morning to discuss the five supplements that I think teenagers should most consider supplementing with. See you tomorrow.