 ffiediediedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfiedfied something clear the reason why i thought to bring this up is first of all i recently got this audio recording that i never even knew existed it's fascinating but the reason i'm bringing it up is this as you guys know from yesterday's video i have some criticisms of the bodybuilding coach milosh sarshev in particular milos used to be friends with nasil and apparently may have advised him in some small way during his career or even in a big way but they ended up hating well at least nasil ended up hating milosh and died hating him now the problem is i feel that recently milosh has been taking credit for nasa's progression between 1994 to 1995 and in fact he's been claiming that this progression came because of him recommending that nasa increases protein requirement or double his protein consumption rather this is a fairy tale in reality nasa massively increases drug usage between 1994 and 1997 and he says so in his own words moreover i find that milosh claiming credit for nasa and especially attributing to something that's not the real reason but claiming credit for nasa's progression is distasteful he knows that nasa died hating him and to be honest with you i really believe that nasa knows more about nutrition and drug use than milosh i really do and i think nasa was more intelligent than milosh i believe if he was alive today he would have a response to the interviews that milosh has been doing in which he takes credit for his stuff but he can't respond because he's dead so i'm going to for him just to play the audio for you guys a little bit before we get started so you know it's real too too of testosterone per week and I have no problem to say it. Even have the original, but I have a recording of it. It's not that clear, but I have like a nine minute recording and from that recording, instead of playing it all for you guys, I'm going to summarize what we learned from it. Exactly. And I'm not going to paraphrase or add any kind of words or anything like that. We're taking the words straight from Nassil. So let's get started. First of all, Nassil said that after several years of training at the age of 22, he began using steroids and he was using 1.5 grams. So 1,500 milligrams of androgens in total. So that includes both orals and injectable steroids. Regarding his progression and androgen usage, Nassil explained that it's a natural progression for pro bodybuilders. He said that if they use 500 milligrams, they'll try and it works for them. They'll try 700 to see if it works. And if 700 work, they'll try a thousand. And if a thousand work, they'll try a thousand five hundred. He said it's a natural progression. He himself progressed from 1.5 grams of androgens total to two grams, he said, then to three grams, then to three and a half grams. And then he says he got to a point at which he was using per week, 5,000 milligrams of just testosterone. And he said, I quote, everybody does it, but no one says it. And that's why he's not embarrassed to admit it. Next, in terms of growth hormone, Nassil said something very interesting. So he said there's a famous, they're talking about dosages. He said there's a very famous, very tall bodybuilder who had retired. I believe he's talking about Lou Ferrigno, but I'm not sure. And he said that bodybuilder lived in California. And he learned from that bodybuilder that he was taking 30 units of growth hormone per day. And this was after he had retired. So Nassil tried to use between 30 to 35 units. He said for five days. He said he felt horribly. Instead, Nassil took on average 18 units of growth hormone per day in pre-contest season for up to two to three months straight. Now the interviewers asked Nassil Sambati, what are the average doses that professional bodybuilders use? He said that the average professional bodybuilder uses between two to three grams of androgens total. And that really this doesn't differ between amateurs and professionals. And also smaller guys sometimes take more than bigger guys. In terms of growth hormone, Nassil Sambati said that the average professional bodybuilder uses around 10 units per day in the off-season. And pre-contest, the average professional bodybuilder in his time early 2000s was using between 15 to 20 international units of growth hormone per day. By the way, then Lee Priest interrupted and said as a joke that he needs to up his dosages. Now in terms of side effects, John Romano asked Nassil Sambati, when you're taking five grams of testosterone only, aside from the other androgens, and you're taking 18 units of growth hormone pre-contest, did you experience any side effects? Nassil said, honestly, none. And then hauntingly, he said, I hope that they won't appear later. Nassil said that everybody has a different constitution. And then he named Ronnie Coleman by name and said Ronnie has a constitution of a horse. He said for this guy, it doesn't matter if he takes one gram of testosterone a day or one gram of testosterone a week, he's not going to experience side effects. Speaking of different constitutions, Nassil then said there are some people who take only one to two anadryl 50s a day and get nosebleeds. He said he has issues with ephedrine and clenbuterol. However, with anadryl, he said, and I quote, I have no problems, whatever the dosage may be. And by the way, guys, the dosage can get very high. As you guys have heard from before, my close powerlifting friend used to take 20 anadryl 50s a day. That did happen. And this was around the same time frame as well. Finally, Nassil said, if I really think about it, maybe my shoe size increased by one size. And he said that in general, sometimes people's ears and jaws grow. And then he pointed out Jay Cutler pointing out his jaw. But then he said he doesn't know what Jay Cutler's jaw used to look like. Now, this discussion didn't involve insulin and it didn't involve other androgens. We don't know how many anadryls he ended up taking in the end. We don't know how many other injectables he took. We do know he was casually using five grams of testosterone and 18 units of growth hormone pre-contest. He may have been using much more than that. We don't know what the total is. It may have been something similar to what Dallas was using. And of course, he did die of multiple organ failure, kidneys and heart at the same time. Just everything got destroyed. So what's interesting here, you know, is like Milos's recent comments, they remind me of the old days. In the early 2000s, we used to read Flex magazine and these magazines where pros used to BS about their diet, changing everything about their life. Or like Fouad Abiyal's channel, they all claimed that they used 100 milligrams of trenbolone max per day, which man, I don't accuse anybody. But look at Brett Wilkins. I mean, there's some very obvious indications that this guy is using a little bit higher levels of androgens. Same for James Hollings said. I'm a little bit surprised that these guys all claim they use 700 milligrams of testosterone pre-contest and they use, they've never used more than 100 milligrams of Tremble. Just like Nassar said. He said it in his own words. I'm not a bodybuilder, but Nassar was. He said if a bodybuilder used 500 and it worked, he'll move to 700. If that worked, he'll move to 1000. If that worked, he'll move to 1500. And that took Nassar all the way to 5 grams of testosterone. Those are the kind of people that are competing, trying to win. So it's very interesting. You know, after hearing Nassar say all these things, you start to question things. Like when Dave Palumbo said the max he ever used was 8 units of growth hormone. I mean, Nassar was making fun of Dave Palumbo for his growth hormone use. So if Nassar was using 18 units, see the thing about Nassar is he's so honest. And that's why I care about him and I want to preserve his memory. So the point is, Nassar was a very intelligent person. If you see his discussions elsewhere, you realize very intelligent, very capable, probably knew more about drugs than Milos. He may have learned some things from him, but he was very capable of managing his own self. And no one deserves to take credit for a man's work. You know, maybe if Nassar attributed credit publicly to Milos, that would be different. But don't take the credit of a dead man. You know, anyway, guys, I hope you have a great day and I hope to see you soon. Thank you.