 The problem is that if you let someone be in that state where they're unable to sleep so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so the channel's growth. First, before we get started, I wanted to let you guys know that in making this two-part series on how to inhibit insomnia that's driven by usually overactive sympathetic innervation due to anxiety, due to being too vigilant. In making this series, I had such trouble recording the videos. You see, my friends, for those of you that don't make videos yourself, you may not imagine how often we make mistakes that are really inexplicable. I was talking to Derek and Steve for quite a while after our last podcast without recording the conversation, and it was actually very helpful for me. I didn't realize that others had the same kind of problems. For example, sometimes I'll try to pronounce the word whom, and I'll say whom repeatedly. I'll say whom, and I'll have to re-record that exact sentence. So I have to say the whole sentence over again, and then I'll say whom again. So this sometimes happens a few times in a row. You get frustrated because the task of both of researching, saying the things correctly on camera, even though you know what you're trying to say, and then editing the videos takes so much time. And on the last time I was trying to record these videos, I was planning to record with Derek and Steve right after. So I anticipated that I would have very little time in the afternoon to edit properly. So I ended up not finishing the videos on time, took a day off. But thanks to Derek's advice, I've now reinstituted my consultations again at a higher price, which I don't advise any of you that can't afford it. Please don't buy it because there's other ways that you can learn from the channel through free content. There's no reason to ever push yourself financially for this channel. Please don't. But through reintroducing the consultations, hopefully I'll be able to hire an editor who can help me and lessen the stress and the workload. I'll still be making these stupid mistakes in front of the camera saying whom, but at least I won't have to worry so much about how many times I'm going to have to edit that exact footage. So without further ado, let's continue with our video series. Here, what we're going to talk about is supplements and medications that can be used to attenuate, which means lessen insomnia acutely. What I'm really talking about though, is a solution. It's sort of like a bandaid on the problem. The reason for the bandaid is that if you don't sleep well, specifically, it's actually, in my opinion, non REM sleep, not the REM sleep. You see many people sleep, but don't get into good REM sleep. And that's most people's concern. But for people that have serious anxiety, that's driving their insomnia, it's the non REM sleep that seems to be the most important in retaining your physical health and preventing the insomnia from getting more and more accentuated with less sleep. And it's also the non REM sleep that prevents the positive feedback loop of you being anxious, and therefore being unable to sleep. But then you being unable to sleep, making you more anxious, making you more unable to sleep. So basically, what I'm trying to say here is that we're looking for a bandaid to the problem to get a good night's rest and get a few good night's rests for some people in order for the person to not deal with as much stress accumulating in themselves. A long term solution will probably, depending on the person's state, this is why I don't want to comment on long term solutions. So some people may have issues in their life that are currently causing them stress, they may not need medication to get over that stress. And so these people may be a little bit different. There may be some people that need medication, some people's problems may be rooted more in their circadian rhythms than actual anxiety. But something like in the long term, using an SSRI or something like sodium valpoate, which is one of my favorite medications, will allow a person with anxiety in the long term, instead of trying to get over the anxiety by themselves, think of getting over the anxiety by yourself as sort of trying to climb a mountain while one of your legs is fractured. So you don't have a cane, you've got to walk on that leg. But every time you walk on that leg, you slightly damage that leg more. And in fact, you sort of prevent it from ever being able to heal fully properly again. However, if you had some kind of cane to where you wouldn't have to lean on that leg as much while climbing the mountain, that's your SSRI or sodium valpoate that helps you regulate your sympathetic nervous system over a period of months. If you had a cane like that, you might not have to lean on that leg as much while climbing the mountain, you could finish your task, which in your case may be living or taking care of your family without causing yourself more of a deep scar on your psyche in regards to the anxiety. So these are not long term solutions, bear that in mind. These are short term solutions. But I bet you'll find some interesting things among them things that you didn't know before. And I'd like to also caution you that in the supplements that I'm about to review, you can essentially combine most of these supplements together. There's very little to worry about in terms of dosing these supplements, except maybe for the magnesium. I didn't even include zinc, by the way, because it's, in my opinion, not as useful as the rest of these, although zinc is certainly useful. Maybe if you are going to take zinc, take it on an empty stomach before bed, take between 25 to 50 milligrams, depending on the kind of zinc. For those that haven't heard of it before, zinc picolinate is slightly more absorbable. So if you're using zinc picolinate, you may need slightly less. But generally speaking, these supplements, if you use higher doses, you don't have to worry too much about them. In the case of magnesium, if it's too high a dose, you're going to get the runs and have to lower the dose till you adapt to it. And you can sort of combine them together. Not so with the medications. Some of the medications I'm about to mention, you should not combine together because they work through similar mechanisms. You won't end up doing so if you speak to a good psychiatrist or a good physician who knows a little bit about these medications. But these medications are very useful. The supplements and medications I'm about to bring up are things that I've used in my personal life. Remember, I suffered with insomnia for days at end. I have not slept for five days more than once. And I understand your pain. You can completely inhibit that five day insomnia with only one of these medications if you wanted to. That's how powerful they are. And in fact, this recently happened to a subscriber of mine who I spoke to and they tried one of these medications completely inhibiting their insomnia acutely. So let's begin with the supplements. First of all, I advise you to consider taking or having whoever has the insomnia take melatonin at two to 10 milligrams. You could use less than two milligrams. Your body produces far less than two milligrams. But I don't recommend using more than 10 milligrams. If you use doses higher than 10 milligrams, you may have the opposite effect of what you want, which is a very potent REM sleep and an inability to get into non-REM sleep. I mega dose melatonin, but that's for different reasons in an attempt to prevent or attenuate neurodegenerative disease. If you want to learn about that method of using melatonin, you can search melatonin, Leo and longevity. And what you'll find is probably the best melatonin video I think produced so far, but that's a different way of using melatonin here. I just recommend that use a low amount of melatonin, two to 10 milligrams, instant release about half an hour before bed regarding this kind of melatonin. You shouldn't expect some kind of dependence to the melatonin such that afterwards your body won't be able to synthesize melatonin with the behaviors we discussed in the previous video, the manipulation of light and temperature, your body should end up quite quickly producing melatonin if you stop supplementing with it. But don't put this exaggerated stress on your body at the time it's already having such difficulty regulating itself. Using melatonin at the same time every day will at the very least force your body into a kind of circadian rhythm whether it likes it or not. Next, take my hydrophilic anti-inflammatory supplement stack. If you look a few videos ago, you'll find that I have a supplement stack that I take two to three times a day. In that video, I didn't mention my use of tatka. I recommend you use around 500 milligrams of tatka or atka. Atka being preferable actually because atka comes in pharmaceutical forms which are more reliable. The tatka preparations that are available on the market in my opinion are underdosed and poorly prepared. So if you can get atka, it will be superior even though tatka is actually better than atka. But nonetheless, so my hydrophilic anti-inflammatory stack, consider taking this twice or three times a day with 500 milligrams of tatka each time. The purpose of this is to lower reasons for your immune system to feel like it should be hyperactive. And that immune system when it is hyperactive will keep you awake because of the systemic inflammation across your body. This will make a major difference also in the sense that the stack will also specifically affect your inflammation in your brain, your neuroinflammation. And that causes stimulatory activity in the brain. So this is helpful and useful generally for your purposes for sleep. I would take the supplement stack with tatka and I would also add 15 milligrams of saffron. I haven't yet made a video on saffron. I think I was one of the first people on YouTube to talk quite a bit about saffron. Saffron's mechanism of action is still being understood. There are certain phytochemicals in saffron that seem to modulate the serotonin system very effectively. Saffron may be one of the most useful extracts of plants to be used to treat depression. I highly recommend taking 15 milligrams of saffron. By the way, higher doses don't seem to be more effective. 15 milligrams with each time you take that supplement stack. Also, I highly recommend you take magnesium both times. As I said earlier, when you start supplementing magnesium, you're going to experience an effect that will make you want to go to the bathroom. If you use too much magnesium, this will happen too intensely. You have to slowly titrate up the magnesium. Now you're taking this supplement stack at the very least twice a day. So I would consider using something like 150 milligrams of combined milligrams of magnesium, not elemental magnesium, twice a day. And if you can, I would separate the magnesium I'm consuming according to types of magnesium. For example, magnesium L3 and 8 may pass through the blood-brain barrier better than other kinds of magnesium. But all kinds of magnesium seem to be distributed slightly differently in the body. And there have never been really comprehensive studies that compare all of the different kinds of magnesium in their absorption and distribution. Sometimes magnesium aspartate or aurorate or bisglycinate will be superior. So consider consuming two or three different kinds of magnesium and supplementing them twice a day along with the saffron and the anti-inflammatory stack. Next, consider supplementing. I rarely hear about this actually. Consider supplementing with a gram of phosphatidylserine. Phosphatidylserine to reduce neuroinflammation and to reduce the stimulus for cortisol synthesis and secretion during the day. This is an excellent way to affect the structural integrity of cell membranes without using what's technically an antioxidant, thereby reducing the signal of stress to your body. So I highly recommend taking a full gram of phosphatidylserine right before bed. Again, everything I'm about to mention now is supposed to be taken right before bed, I believe. Next, we want to talk about rosmarinic acid. Rosmarinic acid is an adenosine receptor 1 agonist. That is, it does the opposite of what caffeine does. Throughout your day, there's a hormone called adenosine that accumulates. It's sort of your exhaustion or tiredness hormone. This rosmarinic acid will exaggerate that feeling, doing the opposite of what caffeine does to you, keeping you awake. You can find rosmarinic acid from rosemary extract from the plant, or you can find it from oregano leaves, which you can eat directly. This is also something I rarely hear about. Next, we're going to talk about some supplements that increase inhibitory activity in the body. But keep in mind, these are not healthy things to be taking in the long term. The reason why, well, some of them are, but some of them are not. The reason why is when you increase inhibitory activity before bed, which means you increase the GABAergic or glycynergic or GHBergic kind of inhibition, you do a couple of things. One is you usually decrease the ability of someone to get into REM sleep. So for example, tranquilizers that really calm people down before they go to sleep, usually inhibit REM sleep. But the second thing you do is you give someone and their body an expectation that they have some help inhibiting excitatory action, which makes the body over time, because the body tightly regulates inhibitory signaling, it makes the body over time produce less inhibitory signaling itself. Sort of like if you got addicted to a Xanax or a Benzo. After a few months of taking some kind of Benzo, you end up where you were in the first place, but with the Benzo in your system. And then when you take it out, you're more anxious than you would have been otherwise. These supplements are sort of like that. But in this case, we're not too concerned about it because we're only taking them right before bed. Our purpose isn't actually to relax someone, but rather to regulate their circadian rhythm. We know their body is going to produce less inhibitory signaling slightly at nighttime because it's going to expect this. But it's also going to regulate the body to think that it needs to be more inhibitory at nighttime and that it needs to go to bed. So we're doing this to set the circadian rhythm, not because these things are helpful, not because someone should have these in their sleep stack all year long. That's not what someone should do. First, one to three grams of glycine, that is an amino acid that binds to glycine receptors in the nervous system. The glycine receptors are inhibitory. But this supplementally, what it really does is modulate the glutamate NMD receptors in a way that is anxiolytic. So one to three grams of glycine plus one to two grams of taurine. This will also activate the glycinergic inhibitory receptors and reduce inflammation in the nervous system. These are healthful supplements that are valuable and helpful for sleep. They have hypnotic effects, but they're also very helpful. And finally, 200 milligrams of L-theanine. This is a phytochemical that's found in teas. You've likely heard of it before. It modulates the GABAergic system and has been studied quite extensively. I've used it a lot myself. I think it's a little innocuous, very helpful to set the circadian rhythm for its hypnotic effects. 200 milligrams of L-theanine. And if you want to go further and actually take GABA, that is the amino acid that eventually becomes this inhibitory neurotransmitter, the way you can take it is with a drug actually called picamilin. P-I-C-A-M-I-L-O-N. That has GABA attached to a niacin molecule as a B vitamin. Combined together, they pass the blood-brain barrier and the GABA gets in your brain. You can find picamilin from Cosmic Nootropic with a discount code L-E-O. And you can take something like 25 to 50 milligrams of it before bed instead of supplementing GABA. Supplementing GABA is stupid and inferior to supplementing picamilin for sure. The question is whether you need to supplement any of them. But if you are going to supplement one, picamilin is superior for sure. Next, let's talk about the medicines. The medicines that can help someone acutely alleviate insomnia and regulate their circadian rhythm. We have to start with the positive side. SR-9009. SR-9009 is a REV-ERB receptor agonist, which means that it sets one's positive circadian rhythm. Unfortunately, it is not orally bioavailable. If you've ever seen a company that sells SR-9009 as an oral drug, you know that company immediately cares nothing about their customers because they haven't even read the very limited research reports that existed before this drug was introduced. So if you see a company like that, certainly never buy anything from that company ever again. This immediately gives you serious suspicions about the company. Most of these companies already have heavy metal toxicity and their drugs and all these kind of things. So if you see something like that, surely avoid it. Unfortunately, it can only be injected. Therefore, it has a little bit of an issue getting out of the depot wherever you inject it. It takes a little bit of time to get activated. And it may end up having too long of a half-life, keeping you sort of up at night. I think this is a little bit more helpful for people with narcolepsy or things like that. But nonetheless, if you wanted to positively set your circadian rhythm in the morning, probably the ideal scenario would be if you woke up naturally an hour and a half before you actually wake up to go to the bathroom. By the way, I'm not going to talk about dosages in this medicine section because they differ a lot between people. I want to talk about it if it's very, very relevant. You inject SR-9009. When you wake up, go back to bed. About an hour and a half later, you'll wake up truly awake. You know sometimes when you haven't slept properly, you wake up but your mind isn't fully there. That's the difference that you'll feel with SR-9009. So that's the first thing. Next, we have to talk about the growth hormones. Specifically, growth hormone, pharmaceutical human growth hormone. Specifically, in my opinion, the only brands that are acceptable are Nordotropin, Genotropin, or Sizen. And if you don't have those brands, don't do it. It's that bad. I mean, these are the best brands for sure. I wouldn't even use Cerostim myself even though it's legitimate growth hormone. It's just so unbearably bloaty and stuff like that. And I would certainly never use a Chinese growth hormone for this purpose. If you use two, I mean you can use actually much higher units, but if you use about two to four units of growth hormone taken an hour before bed, you will experience a deeper kind of sleep. Both improved non-REM and REM sleep. Growth hormone is one of the only drugs that improves both, along with Mirtazapine, which we'll talk about in a little bit. But it improves both of those forms of sleep and it sort of returns you to the kind of sleep that used to get when you were a teenager. You know, you could go out partying and come back home and you go back and go to sleep at four in the morning, but you sleep deeply to the point where people can't even wake you up the next morning. That kind of deep sleep, that sort of resilience against sleep disruptions, that's what you get back when you use growth hormone. You feel sort of younger again. But growth hormone also potentiates the effects of cerebrolysin. Cerebrolysin is a preparation of growth factors from the brains of pigs. It has the same kind of growth factors that we have in our brains. They have similar amino acid sequences, so they can attach to and bind to the receptors for the same growth factors in our brains. What this allows us to do with cerebrolysin is sort of get the effects of an antidepressant, which increases growth factors in someone's brain, increasing their brain's flexibility, but also acutely reducing their anxiety. It allows us to get that effect acutely without messing with our neurotransmitter systems. So you don't end up with lower dopamine signaling and issues with your sex drive. And also so you don't have to wait months to get that effect. If I was dealing with serious anxiety, being unable to sleep, I would immediately and consistently be on about 10 milliliters of cerebrolysin immediately. I would not even doubt this part. There's such a low cost to the potential benefit. And the potential benefit is not harmful. It's not taking something away from your body in the long term. You're not becoming dependent on anything. The feeling of cerebrolysin, once you get to the point where you have a lot of neurogenesis in your brain, that means a lot of the creation of new neurons, is you feel a kind of calming effect, resilience in your mind, and a slight shift to positive affect. That means if you look at a glass that's half empty, you're more likely to see it as half full. This happens immediately within about 10 days or so. Once you have that, and generally when you're taking this, if you combine it with two units of pharmaceutical growth hormone, at the same time, you inject them about an hour before bed or so, you will have much better sleep. And this kind of effect on sleep is irreplaceable. No drug does it other than these two. Before we move on on the growth factors, I'd like to point out that MK-677, that is a ghrelin mimetic, that is something that mimics the hunger hormone ghrelin. Ghrelin keeps you awake, and ghrelin modulates adrenaline. It has different effects than growth hormone. MK-677 raises your growth hormone levels slightly, about 80%, and raises your IGF-1 levels about 50%. But in itself, ghrelin also has effects on your brain, which do the opposite of what you want to do here. They really wake you up. And that's one of the reasons it's hard to sleep when you fast for the first couple of days. So do not try to be cheap on this and take MK-677 instead, thinking it'll do the same thing. And don't even think to combine them because it works against you in this scenario. Moving on, we want to talk about agomelatine next. Agomelatine is a psychiatric drug that is from a new class of drugs that are combined melatonin modulators. That's a system that's downstream from the serotonin system and serotonin modulators. Agomelatine, I want to recommend to you guys in, you should speak to your psychiatrist about it. Why I want to recommend it to you guys specifically, because it's a melatonin receptor agonist, which means it acts like melatonin, but won't give you the kind of hangover the next day that melatonin does. Why doesn't it? Because it has a shorter half-life. That's not why I want to recommend it to you. Why I wanted to recommend it to you is because it helps with anxiety in such a unique fashion. It does something that very few things do and something that's so relieving. If you've ever had anxiety and haven't tried this, you will find it a godsend, which is that it blocks the serotonin 2A receptor. The 2A and 2C serotonin receptors often work together. They are the targets of LSD and of psilocybin and magic mushrooms. They're the reason magic mushrooms can sometimes make you freak out. Blocking that 2A receptor, the one that really makes you freak out, combined with agonizing the melatonin receptor produces a wonderful anxiolytic, meaning anxiety reducing. Lytic means reducing something. Lipolytic, reducing fat. Anxiolytic, reducing anxiety. Produce a wonderful anxiolytic effect before bed. This is really a valuable medication. I would love to combine personally agomelatine with other medications just because of its effect on serotonin. Personally, for example, so far, I would certainly have taken cerebrolysin, growth hormone, agomelatine, and I'll be moving on. These, personally, I would have combined them together. Now we're going to be talking about some drugs that I wouldn't certainly take. One is mirtazapine. Mirtazapine is a kind of SSRI that has unusual effects. One of them is that it modulates the opioid system in a way that improves, that produces a hypnotic effect. But it's not addictive. It doesn't modulate the opioid system in a way that's going to make you an opiate addict. It just modulates in a very slight way. It seems to be the way that is responsible for mirtazapine's unique effect on sleep. Mirtazapine improves sleep more than any other antidepressant known. In fact, it improves sleep so much that it is unsuccessful as a treatment for depression on its own in people that don't have sleep issues because they get so sleepy all the time. They also gain a lot of weight. It probably causes the most hunger and weight gain of all the antidepressants. But I want to let you guys know that mirtazapine exists. If you wanted to go on something like, if you were willing to go on something like an SSRI for the sake of sleep for about two or three months and then go on to some other kind of SSRI later, mirtazapine would be the best choice. Your psychiatrist may not know that. And that's why I'm telling you that here. Now, some of my subscribers have been using beta blockers, which are adrenaline receptor blockers that block the beta receptors. There are alpha adrenaline receptors and beta adrenaline receptors. The beta receptors are very much involved in our heart rate. So drugs that try to control our heart rate for heart disease without trying to affect our psychology, try to be as selective as they can on the beta receptors and also not pass the blood brain barrier by being hydrophilic. Hydrophilic mean, meaning they're not lipophilic. They don't attach to fat particles very easily. So those are the drugs like that are like atenolol, for example, that is a drug that controls the heart rate very well. There is a non-selective beta blocker that I take often that also affects one psychology called propranolol. If you're trying to take something to control adrenaline for sleep, which there is a concern with in the long term. So many people actually get off beta blockers because they experience nightmares because of the beta blockers. Something about blocking adrenaline potently in the brain when you're asleep causes nightmares to some people. Why doesn't it cause nightmares to me, for example? Because I probably have higher adrenaline levels in my brain than you guys do to the point where when I take a propranolol, which I don't do before bed, but if I did, I usually don't get nightmares. But if you were trying to take something to modulate adrenaline for sleep, I would instead recommend an alpha receptor blocker. For example, prazosin is a hydrophilic alpha receptor blocker that is a bit short-acting. So it really works very well for sleep. Doxososin, which I mention often for erectile dysfunction, is a bit longer acting and therefore works better maybe if you have a serious issue with staying asleep in the long term. My camera just shut down. It seems that this video is unduly long. So I'll try to wrap it up very quickly. The final two things I want to talk about in terms of medications are histamine modulation. You may have heard of histamine because of allergies. Histamine is actually a neurotransmitter in your nervous system and it is excitatory. Blocking this excitatory receptor histamine produces a hypnotic effect in people. So the early generation anti-allergy or whatever they were called drugs used to pass the blood-brain barrier and get to the histamine receptor in the brain, like Benadryl for example. Benadryl gets into the brain. The recent ones don't. If you use something like Benadryl, you'll slow down this excitatory signaling at night in your brain. It could be useful if you're combining with something like prazosin and maybe another medication so that you're trying not to take a medication that either directly affects inhibitory activity. Notice, I haven't mentioned any medications that are GABAergic like Xanax or anything like that, GHB or gabapentin. We haven't mentioned those because those are dangerous drugs, but rather we're mentioning drugs that instead of increasing inhibitory signaling like the supplements we mentioned, these drugs are inhibiting stimulatory signaling. So the antihistamine does that, the beta blockers or alpha blockers do that. But if you wanted to, now say you tried the histamine blocker or the alpha adrenaline receptor blocker and you found they were very effective but not quite enough on their own and you were in an extreme scenario, the final medication I want to mention, which is not the best medication to use in the long term, is in my opinion very safe for acute use. If I had an emergency and I was unable to sleep completely, it took me say once every three months, I find it completely impossible to sleep. In that case, I would consider taking between 25 milligrams to, depending on your tolerance, maybe 100 milligrams or 150 milligrams maximum, usually 100 milligrams, of something called quietiapine, also called Syroquil. Syroquil blocks excitatory receptors broadly. It's an antipsychotic given to schizophrenics, but at doses of over 600 milligrams, usually 1,200 milligrams, something like that. At 100 milligrams, it blocks these same excitatory receptors that cause problems for schizophrenic brains. But, and in the long term, if you block these receptors in the long term, it'll do the opposite of what neurogenesis does. You slow everything down in your brain, your brain can't grow. It'll actually atrophy. But in the short term, this allows you to sleep deeply in non-REM sleep. It is very relieving. If I had somebody that I knew, a friend of mine that was manic, and that was very anxious and couldn't sleep, and I saw it getting progressively worse, I would ask his psychiatrist, could you consider giving him 50 milligrams of Syroquil for a week before bed? Just 50 for a week so he can rest, and then we can see if this can be stopped, the progression. So Syroquil is a last case scenario option, but it is very effective. If somebody cannot sleep, they will immediately sleep if given 25 to 75 milligrams of Syroquil that night. It will work no matter what. Anyway, friends, let's try to review what we learned in these two videos before I end. First of all, an anxious state promotes insomnia because it promotes hypervigilance. When somebody is anxious, their evolutionary biology is telling them to beware. They may be killed at any moment by a tiger or by some warring tribe. They can't sleep deeply because they need to be aware of what's going on around them. The problem is that if you let someone be in that state where they're unable to sleep very well, but also anxious, over time the anxiety worsens, and the consequences to their health really worsen. Second, it's not a good choice to try to increase inhibitory signaling, to try to use a Xanax or Gabapentin or things like that to put somebody into sleep. If you do so, and you do so with supplements mildly, that may be okay. But with drugs, you should really always try to go to the opposite, to try to inhibit stimulatory signaling. And before you even get there, you should think about lifestyle changes that you can make. The goal with the lifestyle changes is to simulate the diurnal and nocturnal rhythms in a person's body, using temperature, using physical activity, using meditation, using light, and then using eating patterns. Now in terms of supplements, we first want to supplement almost surely with melatonin. Second, we want to supplement in a way that lowers neuroinflammation and increases the activity of some systems like the serotonergic system through saffron. We want to suppress cortisol levels acutely. We want to agonize the adenosine receptor system. We want to increase GABAergic activity, and we want to regulate the glutamatergic receptors. Then when it comes to medications, we want to again with the SR9009, try to replicate the diurnal rhythm when possible. And then we want to increase neurogenesis for the acute anxiolytic effects and the improvements in sleep quality that are really pervasive before we block the serotonin 2A receptor, which is highly problematic and will be very valuable to you if you block it. Then we want to maybe potentially modulate opioid allergic systems for sleep like through mirtazapine. We certainly want to lessen adrenaline signaling. And by the way, lessening adrenaline signaling is a very valuable approach to healing this anxiety in the long term with a long term plan. Your long term plan, if it included valproid or an SSRI, should include something that controls adrenaline in the long term will be valuable for you. But this is a bit off topic. And next, you want to consider if you need to block stimulatory signaling, like for example, the histamine receptors. And we just talked about adrenaline. But you may also need to use something that's more powerful, like Seracul, which will certainly solve your problems if you need to use it. Anyway, friends, I hope you learned something new in these two videos. Please send the video to anybody you know that has suffered with insomnia. I am sure there's something in these two videos that they've never tried before. And I'm certain that these two videos can really help them in their lives. If I had heard these two videos when I was 22 or so, I would have never been awake for five days in a row. I could have just stopped it. But I didn't know these things before. So please do send them to others if it can be helpful. Also, please include a question that you want a video made about below. Remember, I'll be trying to take the questions that are the most upvoted every week to make a video on them. So please include your question below. And if you like a question that somebody else added, please upvote it so I know which questions to make videos about. Thank you again, friends. See you again tomorrow morning. thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you