 Well there are some people that have high cholesterol levels that are healthy, that will live into very old age, but these people tend to have Hellef, I made a recent video on how to protect yourself from the kind of heart disease that developed with plaque, the kind of heart disease that caused Cali muscle to recently have a heart attack. In making that video, I failed to realize of course that a lot of subscribers watching the video haven't been watching my videos for very long and therefore may not have heard some of our earlier discussions about how genetics affect how cholesterol affects heart disease. In this video, I want to tell you guys why blood tests are more informative over time as opposed to in a single moment and the reason is genetics. But before we do, please subscribe to the channel, like the video you haven't already, turn on closed captions and leave a comment to help the channel. Now let's get started. I want to give you guys two examples of what I'm talking about in this video in order to make clear that the number you have in a blood test only matters within our understanding of your genetics. And because most doctors and other people don't know your genetics, that number really mostly matters as it changes over time. You can't make such a clear decision on how someone's blood test affects their health from a single snapshot in time because you don't know their genetics. Let's take an example from androgens. For example, people who go bald. Men who go bald know that the reason they go bald is because of the levels of testosterone and dihydrate testosterone in their body, mainly dihydrate testosterone called DHT. Now I've had consultations from people before who are going bald. They went to their doctor to get a prescription for finasteride. When they went to the doctor, this happened several times that I've had consultations with people about it. It's shocking to me. They go to their doctor and ask the doctor, hey, I'm going bald. I need you to get finasteride. The doctor will sometimes ask for a blood test for their DHT levels, but not for the purpose of getting a baseline and seeing how it changes with finasteride, but rather to actually determine whether the person is eligible for finasteride, which doesn't really make sense if you think about it. Why would you need to know a person's DHT level? When DHT is the main driver of balding, it's always the main driver of androgenic alopecia, and you already know the man is going bald. So you don't really need to determine whether he's going to go bald from it. He is going bald from that X level of dihydrotestosterone. But that level of dihydrotestosterone may not cause me to go bald. Why? The androgen receptor, which is where dihydrotestosterone causes signaling to cause balding, dihydrotestosterone signals that the androgen receptor in the scalp, which then causes a release of transforming growth factor beta, which causes development of scar tissue and other things like that. That androgen receptor has in humans over 90 genetic polymorphisms that massively determine how the androgen receptor responds in terms of response elements to DHT. So I may have an androgen receptor that's quite unresponsive. In fact, sometimes when people have androgen insensitivity, they actually have even higher androgen levels because their body is not sensing the androgen. Whereas someone else may have a very robust androgen receptor where even low amounts of DHT cause him to go bald. Now let's take another example from the subject we wanted to discuss, which is cholesterol. I wanted to draw your attention to a researcher named Nir Barzilai. Nir Barzilai is an Israeli researcher based in Albert Einstein University in New York. Nir Barzilai has been doing studies on centenarians to determine what kind of genetic polymorphisms most impact our exceptional long life. What he found was that there are a lot of people that smoke, live unhealthy lifestyles and so on, but if they have certain genetic polymorphisms, they often live into old age. Some of these are like the Cert I polymorphisms, the FOXO3A polymorphisms, and so on. Some of these polymorphisms particularly regard cardiovascular health. In particular, I'd like to draw your attention to APOC3, that's A-P-O-C, and then three I's, and then CETEP, C-E-T-P. Now there are many other genetic polymorphisms that impact cardiovascular disease, just so you know. In fact, for example, Derek and I are working on a cardiovascular genetic report, which is where you'll be able to upload like your ancestry.com or 23andMe data, and it's a very comprehensive report. Already the current one, which is the first edition, is over six pages already. And sections of it, for example, are genetic polymorphisms that affect arrhythmias, genetic polymorphisms that affect independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease, like homocysteine, uric acid, stuff like that. There's also polymorphisms related to the LDL receptor. There's the APOE3 and A4 and 2 genotypes, but there's far more than that. There's dozens and dozens of SNPs that are significantly associated with cardiovascular health. But these two, APOC3 and CETEP, are the ones that seem to make people sometimes invulnerable to having high cholesterol levels. In fact, let me tell you a story. I had a consultation once a few months ago from somebody who wanted to ask me about something separate. It had nothing to do with cholesterol levels. But he happened to send me his blood work. And usually I look through people's blood work, and if I see something that alarms me, I mention it to them in the consultation anyway. So while I was talking to him, when we first got on the call, I said, hey, I just wanted to draw your attention to something. You are hypercholesterolemic. So hypercholesterolemia is a disease that is a familial, a genetic predisposition toward having high cholesterol levels. It's defined in the US as a person who has over 300 total cholesterol. This guy had, if I remember correctly, like 350 or 400 total cholesterol, over 200 LDL cholesterol, and it was very high. So I spoke to him and told him, you know, you're likely progressing rapidly toward a cardiovascular death. You likely are developing plaque rapidly and have been for the last several years. And he told me, I don't think that's likely because nobody in my family has ever died of cardiovascular disease. So when he told me that, I was shocked. I expected his parents or grandparents to be dead already, and mostly from heart attacks and so on. So when he told me that, I said, wait a minute. Have you ever done a 23andMe or answer2.com? He said he had. So on the same call, I went into his 23andMe. Guess what I find? He was homozygous for the protective polymorphism at CTEP and at EPOC3. He was homozygous for both. So after seeing that, I told him, hey, I'm sorry for jumping the gun. I really have nothing to tell you probably don't need to go on a statin. This is crazy. I mean, amazing, beautiful polymorphisms that make it such that he could have high cholesterol levels and may still remain healthy. CTEP being involved in reverse cholesterol transport, EPOC3, sort of the housekeeper of the cardiovascular system. So what's the long and short of it all? Well, there are some people that have high cholesterol levels that are healthy, that will live into very old age. But these people tend to have genetic polymorphisms that are very protective, like CETP and EPOC3. If you don't have them, or don't know what genetic polymorphisms you have, you should probably play it safe and do what I do, which is to minimize LDL to 80 or below. The other learning lesson here is that blood tests are less informative within a single point of time than they are over time. Blood tests are the most informative, what they call longitudinally, where you have points over time and you can see how changes occur in the body. Thank you guys so much for bearing with me. I hope this was helpful for some of you, and I hope to see you again tomorrow.