! waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves waves the last couple of days. I never knew I had that much support from the subscribers and it really left me speechless sometimes. So I just really wanted to thank you guys. I haven't been able to respond to everyone, but every message that I read really touched me. I really had no idea that you guys supported me so much. So thank you. But now onto the subject that I wanted to talk about. Karen. So I don't know if this goes on across the U.S., but in California, it's completely okay, not only okay, but sort of almost fashionable and encouraged to derogatorily refer to a certain race and gender. Somehow it's completely okay with everybody. If you get into an argument with a Caucasian female, it's completely okay to say that Karen did something to me. I just wanted to point out how hypocritical this is. In an age of overly sensitized people that are constantly offended, somehow those same people are using this Karen word all the time. And I really, it really shocks me. And the reason I bring it up, honestly, is because I have a barber named Karen. And I was talking to recently, I was like, this is a little unfortunate. People are making fun of other people based on this name. And how ridiculous is that? How hypocritical is that? Could you imagine somebody saying that Muna, for example, as an Arab, Arabic name, or that Maria, Mexican or Hispanic name, or, or that Shaniqua or something weird like that? Could you, could you say that about a woman? You couldn't. People would be shocked. You would be out, you'd become an outcast. You'd be canceled. But you can say that Karen over there was so annoying. That's all I have to say about the subject. Do you guys agree? Isn't it racist and sexist to say that Karen? And if it's not, then nothing is racist and sexist at that point, right? What do you guys think? If you agree with me, please let me know below. And if you don't agree, explain why. Do you think that race and gender owes you something or they deserve punishment? How do you think it through? And why would you be willing to say Karen? And do you do that for other races as well? Please let me know. I want to talk about this. All right, guys, have a great Saturday. I'll see you soon.