 lakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakak valuable for almost everybody. So in this video, I'm going to tell you about that kind of supplementation. But before I do, please subscribe to the channel if you're not already, like the video and comment on the video for the sake of the algorithm. Now let's get started. First of all, the goal of uniting these supplements and taking them the way I describe in this video, there's two goals. One is to provide support to the body's antioxidant defense system. You see, the way I would describe it is this. When things move a lot and do a lot of action, they sometimes cause oxidative stress. That's what it's called. That's what antioxidants deal with. You can think of it like a lot of cars moving in a highway. The more cars there are, the more pollution there is. Think of the oxidative stress like the pollution in a jammed highway, something like that. So the more action that happens, the more oxidative stress can happen as well. Our bodies have an antioxidant defense system led by the chemical called glutathione. However, depending on our stress levels in life, it seems sometimes the antioxidant defense system is overburdened, and unable to quell all the oxidative stress in the body very easily. In those moments, the immune system can be notified of the damage that occurs in certain parts of the body. And then the immune system can try to neutralize that damage. The immune system has things called pro-inflammatory cytokines, which are often dispersed to the area of inflammation where the oxidative stress and other damage occurred originally. So if one provides support to the antioxidant system, number one, you have more glutathione and natural antioxidants to deal with oxidative stress in your body. And number two, you provide less of a stimulus to the immune system to think that it needs to go and do something. And this is very important for people that are concerned about inflammation or autoimmune diseases. And keep in mind, chronic inflammation is one of the causes of major diseases. And autoimmune diseases are quite common, actually, more common in women. But I have one myself. And many of you have autoimmune conditions as well. If you have psoriasis, eczema, skin issues, some arthritis, that's an autoimmune condition. Your immune system is or Crohn's disease or colitis and inflammatory bowel disease. Your immune system senses like what's called an antigen, something harming your body. And the antigen is not quelled by itself. So the immune system sends cytokines to try to neutralize that stress. Sometimes the immune system, I won't get into the pathology of autoimmune disease, but sometimes when that antigen continues stressing the immune system for long periods, there can become a dysregulation in the immune system whereby it starts to harm itself. So using these kinds of supplements can reduce that impetus on the immune system or that exposure to the antigen so that the immune system doesn't necessarily end up overburdened and end up dysfunctional. Do you see what I mean? So it's to quell oxidative stress and inflammation. Now, why would we want to do those two things? Well, for example, cells are damaged and turn into potentially cells that can create cancerous cells due to oxidative stress as well. But beyond cancer and autoimmune disease and other kinds of diseases, oxidative stress and inflammation really affect how our thinking functions. As you guys know, I'm very into this subject called cognitive enhancement. One of the biggest problems that someone like me with an autoimmune condition has is inflammation in the brain. By the way, if you'd like to check out if your inflammation is centered around the brain, interleukin-8 is a good proxy for inflammation in the nervous system. And you could get that tested by Quest Diagnostics, inflammatory cytokine panel. So how does inflammation happen in the nervous system? It could be the same thing. Some kind of oxidative stress exists in the nervous system, for example, even in your brain. When your brain is very active, oxidative stress occurs. Excitatory stress as well as all kinds of random stresses occur. And if those stresses aren't quelled quickly, your immune system will send its soldiers, the cytokines to your brain. And when this happens, you will feel it's one of the reasons, not the only one, but one of the reasons for what's called brain fog, a difficulty of thinking from the top down, difficulty in clarity and lucidity of thinking. Beyond that, by the way, which is absolutely true. So as your inflammation increases, this will always happen in humans. But beyond that, just having higher inflammation in the nervous system produces a depressant effect and an anxiety phenotype in mammals, including rodents. And the same is true for humans, although there's less evidence of it there. But there is an inflammatory hypothesis of anxiety. And there can be an inflammatory hypothesis of depression as well. So you may lessen your anxiety symptoms, your depressive symptoms, and your brain fog by supporting the antioxidant system and reducing inflammatory levels in the body. Now, I have several supplement protocols that I use. But the reason why I'm telling you guys about the one I'm going to talk about today, which is about this inflammation, oxidative stress, stuff like that, is because I actually received a DM on Instagram. I don't always check my DMs, by the way, because sometimes I don't have time. I'm not that talkative and stuff. But I saw a wonderful DM from somebody who was saying that he used this supplement protocol that I have. And he said something odd happened to him. I think he's been going for two or three weeks or something like that. He said that he used to feel a need to drink alcohol. And then he no longer does. He doesn't drink every day. So I was surprised. Originally, I didn't know which protocol he was using. I thought he was using some of the drug protocols that I have. But I was surprised to find out the protocol he was using is exactly what I'm about to describe to you, which I only use mainly for this inflammatory antioxidant effect health wise, as well as for clarity of thinking. But maybe in some cases, people may have so much oxidative stress in the daytime, that they try to deal with it in other ways later, that stress may cause like anxiety or whatever, that somebody may feel like they need to drink at the end of the day. It does make sense. Anyway, this is the only thing he said he changed and he noticed that he was drinking less. So let me tell you what it is. So what's the supplement protocol? Well, first of all, I want you to know I chose these supplements because I fast for most of the day, as probably most of you should. I do something called time restricted eating, which Sachin Panda probably promoted first, I think. So I only eat for a few hours of the day. This also helps me a lot with my cognition, because the brain functions much better when it is more fat dependent, and less dependent on blood sugar fluctuations and insulin and so on. And it's less insulin resistant, potentially as well. So since I fast for most of the day, I needed supplements that I could take on an empty stomach that would achieve the goals of reducing inflammation and supporting the antioxidant defense system, reducing brain fog and symptoms of anxiety and depression related to inflammation. So here are the supplements. First of all, I take all of these three times a day, once upon rising, once at around noon, and once again before I eat. I tend to eat later in the day. So I take another one around 3pm or 4pm. By the way, it's not better to eat later in the day. As melatonin levels rise, you get insulin resistant. So you partition your food worse in the colloquial terms. But anyway, that's what I do. So you could take this three times a day on an empty stomach or with food, it doesn't really matter. The point is though that you can take it on an empty stomach. So the first one is vitamin C, water soluble vitamin, but one gram of vitamin C is what I take three times a day. I think you could get away with taking one gram five times a day and probably not be wasteful. One gram of vitamin C, I take one gram of NAC. I want to be clear, NAC, it doesn't just provide cysteine for the synthesis of gulephanol, although your cysteine levels are very important. NAC itself is also an antioxidant. Next, I take alpha lipoic acid, but particularly the R isomer form. So R lipoic acid. I take between, depending on the supplement, I try to get around 500 milligrams three times a day. That's also a water soluble antioxidant. Now, by the way, R lipoic acid is not going to make you lose body fat. People have been saying that stuff. It's not going to happen visibly. It may have a mechanism by which it works the same way MK-677 inhibits steroidogenesis, but in reality, it may not be that powerful. So it's not going to cause you to lose fat, by the way. There are two more things I have in the supplement stack, and both are fats though. One is a short chain fatty acid called butyrate, B-U-T-Y-R-A-T-E. I like a version of this that's a supplement. I'll probably put a link in a comment that I'll tag down below. I like one particular supplemental version, but if you can't find that one or it's too expensive for you, you could just use sodium butyrate. I have a video on it, by the way you can learn more about it. And to know if it's real, just smell the pills. They will smell unusual. So I take around 1.5 grams of butyric acid, not sodium butyrate, but the actual content of butyric acid every time I supplement this. Butyric acid is a short chain fatty acid that is an H-DAC inhibitor, but not a pan H-DAC inhibitor. That by the way, may affect how your epigenetics are reflected. But second of all, it's also a product produced by our microbiomes that vary by a factor of about 10 among people. And it seems levels of butyrate are associated with better microbiome health. Moreover, butyrate quells inflammation in the liver to the point that when dosed with one of my favorite drugs, sodium valproate, it can inhibit the toxicity to the liver of sodium valproate. Valproate is also an H-DAC inhibitor, why I found this particularly useful. So that's butyric acid. And then finally, the last fat is EPA. Now, if you have normal cholesterol levels, I would consider taking a EPA plus DHA fish oil. But if you don't, if you have high cholesterol, EPA is the most important element there for the anti-inflammatory effect, and it will not increase your cholesterol levels. I'll make a recommendation also on individual supplements that are trustworthy for that. But what I try to do is I personally get three grams of EPA plus DHA on each of those three servings. If I were you just starting out, I wouldn't jump to a high dose of fish oil, because it will it will change the way your body functions, you'd like to slowly ramp up. And if you're someone with like hypotension or bleeding issues, you might want to be careful and use a slightly lower dose. But what I've noticed is I have a massive improvement in inflammation when I go from four grams to eight grams of fish oil. And note that the original fish oil studies were using 15 to 20 grams, or more than that. So but what I've noticed is there's not much diminishing marginal returns for me below 10 grams. So I'm usually trying to get nine to 10 grams a day. And it really majorly affects how my cognition, my well being, my temperament and so on. So again, just to remind you guys, that's vitamin C, NAC, R-lipoic acid, butyric acid, and EPA from fish oil. Those five taken three times a day in those doses will make most people function a little bit differently. I bet you most of you will notice within a week or two that you function slightly differently. If you do, come back here and leave a comment. Thank you guys so much for bearing with me. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you.