

=== FILE: Are Growth Hormones the Most Powerful Nootropic You've Never Heard Of？ [17uU1mDry8E].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter the link to that particular document. So before we jump in, click the like button, subscribe, and ring the bell because your support is very important and you're not going to want to miss the next videos. Before we leap into the world of growth hormone, let's get a clear picture of what neutropics are. Neutropics, often dubbed as smart drug or cognitive enhancers, are a substance that can boost your brain performance. They're like the secret agent of the brain world, enhancing memory, focus, creativity, intelligence, and motivation. Imagine a tool that can fine-tune your brain's performance, turning the dial-up on your cognitive abilities. That's what neutropics aim to do. But now let's focus on growth hormone. Typically, growth hormone is the star of the bodybuilding scene, but it's also stepping into the spotlight as a neutropic. Unlike traditional stimulants that kick-starts your brain with a jolt, growth hormone works more subtly. It's like a master architect working behind the scenes to enhance cognitive function without the buzz and the crash often experienced with stimulants. And it's not about sudden surge of energy, it's about fine-tuning the brain's intricate machinery. So let's begin to see how growth hormone impacts anxiety and depression. And we're not just talking about feelings here, we're going to go into the hardcore science of how this hormone really affects our well-being, which is something that Leo has spoken about in the past. A 2021 study threw lights on a very interesting connection. Children with growth hormone deficiency are more prone to anxiety and depression. It's like their brains are missing a key ingredient in their development recipe, leading to those emotional struggles. Moving on to the adults, it gets a bit trickier. Adults lacking growth hormone don't just feel a little bit down, they exhibit a rollercoaster of sympathetic nervous activity, and a significant frequency of depression, as I highlighted in a 1999 study. Just imagine if your brain's stress response stuck on overdrive, and you will get the picture of how those people feel. But there's some good news. So growth hormone treatment isn't just a quick fix. So according to a 2005 study, it sustainably reduced anxiety over the long haul. So growth hormone treatment boosts the density and the availability of GABA-B receptors in the brain, as found in a study in 2013. This means it's not just about the hormone itself, but how it changes the brain wiring and chemistry. Now we see that growth hormone is not just playing a critical role of how we grow, but also how we feel and how we cope with stress and emotion. It is a key player in an intricate dance of our mental health. Now let's explore a more critical aspect of our daily life. And number one biohacking tip, sleep. Specifically, we're going to go into how growth hormone, or GH, influences sleep, particularly in young adults. Let's begin with a study of 1990 that found that young adults with GH deficiency experienced a significant reduction in RN or non-rapid eye movement sleep. This phase of sleep is crucial for physical restoration and memory consolidation. Essentially, without proper GH level, the regenerating deep sleep that we all need really sleeps away. That was in young adults. Now let's connect the dots to adulthood. A study provided very fascinating insights. One of the key reasons for deteriorating sleep quality as we age is the reduced sequestration of GH during sleep. So this hormone doesn't just influence our growth. It's a cornerstone to our sleep architecture. As GH level dips, so does the quality of our sleep impacting everything from our cognitive function to our overall health. You have talked extensively of how sleep affects everything else in life, so I encourage you to go and watch the other videos that he made on the subject. What this study really underscores is the integrate relationship between growth hormone and sleep. It's not just about the quantity of sleep, but the quality deeply influenced by this vital hormone. As we age, understanding and optimizing GH level could be key to maintaining sleep. Now let's talk about plasticity and neurogenesis. These are processes that keep our brains adaptable and capable of forming new connections. Today, we're going to focus on how growth hormone and its allies play pivotal roles in these processes. Groundbreaking study of 2021 revealed an exercise sweet spots that can reverse cognitive deficits in aging. This is where GH steps in, enhancing neurogenesis, so the birth of new neurons. It's a remarkable insight into how physical activity aided by GH can regenerate our brain's learning capabilities. Let's look at what happens when there is a deficiency in growth hormone. The 2006 studies found that adults lacking GH or IGF-1, the survival rates of newly formed neurons in the brain plummet. So this is particularly evident in the hippocampus, a key area for memory and learning. It's really a stark reminder of how crucial these hormones are for maintaining our brain's vitality. But let's talk about the trio GH, IGF-1, and growth hormone secretagogue. According to 2010 studies, this component connectively enhanced brain plasticity and boost neurogenesis. They're not just supportive characters. They are central to keeping our brain adaptable and resilient. What we're seeing here is a very compelling narrative about the power of GH and related factor in keeping our brain agile and capable of growth, even as we age. So it's a testament of the dynamic nature of our brains and the potential for lifelong learning and adaptation. But like everything else in the realm of biology, every intervention, every treatment, comes with its own set of skills. So let's weigh the benefits and risks associated with growth hormone. So it's all about the balancing act. So on one side, we have the undeniable benefits of GH for the heart and the brain health. It's like a finely tuned sports score. It's enhancing our cognitive function and cardiovascular efficiency. But as with any powerful tool, there is a need for caution. So while GH can be a boon for brain and heart, there is an ongoing debate about its relationship with cancer. GH can potentially accelerate cellular growth, which is great for recovery and regeneration, but this acceleration might not always be able to discriminate between healthy and malignant cells. So this is truly where thoughtful, informed decision-making comes into play. It's about understanding your personal health landscape, your genetics predisposition, and making choices that align with your long-term health goals. So since we explore GH as a nootropic and regenerator, let's embrace the complexity of its effect. It's just a reminder of the integrated interplays within our bodies and the importance of Nuon's personalized approach to health. And that brings us to the end of our journey into the world of growth hormone, a substance that's not only a champion in muscle building, but also shows promises as a brain enhancer. It's important to remember that this is at the storefront of scientific exploration. And with such powerful tools in our disposal, we must trade wisely. Always seek advice for a medical professional before doing any hormone related endeavors. Now, I'm eager to hear from you. If you're experienced with rural hormone and noticed any cognitive benefits, please leave a comment below and share your own story. This will help boost the channel and keep Leo's legacy going. And together, let's build a community that is all about health, knowledge, and support. Until next time, stay curious and stay well. Thank you.

=== FILE: BUYING DRUGS AT THE TRACTOR SUPPLY STORE ｜｜ NFBP #46 [FBIBh0SXTkI].txt ===

 ling35353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535353535 1996 the old Ronaldo so I was fan of the old Ronaldo me too. Yeah, the Phenom. So that's his Yeah, it's his Jersey. Wait, did you just put your were you showing the teeth thing to identify him? Is that why you raised your finger? No, yeah, that gap, right? Yeah, it's fixed. It's fixed now. He got it when he got money. He got it fixed. But is it really fix it later? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he was my favorite player Unfortunately, you know, he had a couple of me and me and I think at one or two knee surgeries and his career was in a short But yeah, that was my favorite To me, that's the best player ever, you know me to a hate Pete Hey, what's up, buddy? How you doing brother? I'm feeling a lot better than last time. Oh, that's great. No. Are you actually feeling better or just feeling better? Cuz you think because you know what's going on? I mean, I'm feeling better, but I have a cold now So I got sick again, but it's just a cold It's not cold but that was way worse Interesting so okay, so yeah, let's cuz last time someone commented that they it was hard to follow the podcast because they didn't know What we're gonna talk about so I'll just let everybody know ahead of time my idea for how we could guide the podcast First of all, I want to recommend people to check out Boston's forum go on Google search Boston Lloyd forum very useful resource I don't recommend many products on the channel. Also check out anabolic pharmacist there He has agreed to sponsor the fertility Protocol that I'm planning to do a very generously But moving forward so what we wanted to do in this podcast is So this podcast is sort of about bio hacking and bodybuilding, but also we have Pete Rubish here was a powerlifter So first I thought we talked about some current events that are going on in powerlifting or bodybuilding or related to that subject once Boston comes on and then I thought we'd talk about some health updates on Boston's side and on Pete's side Maybe we could briefly review like the outcomes of what we analyze and Pete's blood work because it could be helpful for some other people Actually Pete's blood work and Boston's blood work are a bit related to be honest So it could be an interesting learning lesson for us and then I thought we take some questions from subscribers I collected questions from the last two posts on Instagram. We have some great questions that are interesting and should yield some I think good discussions Sound good to you guys Sounds pretty good in the meantime before we move past Ronaldo I gotta mention so Ronaldo was my when I was a kid I was into soccer because you're a part Persian and part Arab Arabs are really bad at soccer. I got it. The funny thing the funny thing is I gotta tell you something Pete You don't know in my country back home when our local teams play against each other and like a local team loses people My friends would be crying Balling after the game like depressed depressed but our teams Our team is I don't think ever made Passed like the initial rounds in the World Cup. I don't think they get into the Olympics ever We can't really compare and also most of the people on our teams are not from the country They're like recent immigrants to the country. They got a passport to play but Arabs love soccer so much Yeah, I don't know in Iran is it like that because in Iran they're way better soccer players than to be honest with you Than our guys, but I think yeah, it's crazy there. Yeah, I mean most of the time growing up I mean, of course the Middle East you're cool if you're good at academics not sports, right? But the sports there are you know soccer Wrestling and bodybuilding so those are the big things there, of course, there's not you know American football stuff like that So those are the big things there like my dad was growing up and my uncle because my uncle played for the Iranian national team But wrestling was also big there, too. It's really big thing. I'm not sure if it's the big and Saudi Arabia or Not as much it used to be it used to be like historically a thousand years ago I'm persons also always used to wrestle Arabs lost that there used to be a kind of Arab wrestling like the Prophet Muhammad used to wrestle I was famous for that, but I was gonna come on this thing. You it's true abroad like Pete You know in the US it's a really cool thing if you're in high school and you might be drafted Or into or you might get a college football at a D1 team. You might get drafted back in the Middle East It's not so much like that. It's like If you compete in the Olympics, it's very prestigious But professional sports not as much or it wasn't you didn't used to beat historically, you know, maybe maybe big Rami's changing that I just think it's because we didn't have so many and they weren't highly paid, you know and stuff Is big Rami from around Yeah, big. He's actually from an Arabic tribe That is from the Gulf of Arabian near Saudi Arabia, but he's Egyptian Okay, yeah, and then Egypt's a little bit different culture. They're like More developed and sell people. Hey Boston What's up? I'm using a different computer my other computer croaked. I don't know if this is fine, right? I'll work in yeah, it's normal. How you doing good? How you doing? I'm good. I'm good. Okay. Let's get started. So First thing I wanted to discuss guys. I'm gonna try to share my screen Pete alerted me. Well before that, let's talk about this, huh? You guys heard about this Russian 15 year old skater at the Olympics. That's that got caught doping Right, you guys heard about it, right? She got caught with tri Metazideen which is a drug used to treat heart failure and like really weak hearts It improves was also used to treat honestly weird things like tinnitus, which is not very successful at but this tri metazine Improves glucose metabolism in the heart thereby reducing the amount of stress that failing hearts go through trying to work But you would think and especially in Eastern Europe. They seem to have been trying to use this for performance enhancement But there's this then Pornetines band Leo, I don't know if it is bad. I don't know if it is it's not on the band No, both of these are not on the bad But what why they mentioned this is that they first tested for this one and then they start testing her more and she came out positive For these two which are not banned the Alka Arte not but again as you guys know Alka Artein improves energy Efficiency and the hypoxin which is something I never knew about before by the way I googled it and surprisingly the website that I have an affiliate code in is one of the first things that came up Which this is apparently it is out of stock. Oh, it's not a stock now It was out of stock when we're gonna record the first day a couple days ago, but apparently this also improves Energy utilization it seems to work through doing the reverse of what DNP does DNP uncouples mitochondria making them inefficient. This is the reverse it couples them making them more efficient So there's this I it's not that well tested, but I'm gonna study it a little bit more here You see that hypoxin has this kind of And see this for a couple of days But anyway, it says you're the other coupling it increases the coupling of the respiratory chain in the mitochondria so this is I thought this was a cool story because it's like Seeing actual athletes who are government sponsored government funded a whole nation behind them making them want to win and Specifically cheat on the test and we saw some evidence of the cheating obviously We don't know everything she took because we would assume that some of the molecules wouldn't wouldn't be known You'd create your own molecules. So you couldn't test for it and its metabolites wouldn't be known and it wouldn't intervene with some biological processes that they're testing like the ratios of the androgens, but what do you guys think about that you guys weren't that interesting I Mean That level it's just that I mean there they're doping list is insane. It's like what can you what can you take? So So I guess it was just helping her, you know, you know Because since they have to skate so intense like just kind of pump more blood of the heart to help her perform a little better But I mean how much does that really help? You know, I mean like how much? Really like but I feel like it wouldn't make that much of a difference But it would maybe give her that edge of like 5% or even less and at that level everybody's elite So what do you think? What do you guys think about? EPO in MMA you think that gives the guys a big big advantage? Yes Yeah, certainly and it's been used It's been used and also, you know, EPO guys keep in mind if it wasn't causing So many red blood cells that it's gonna hurt your heart or would cause a cardiovascular thing if it wasn't doing that It would make you grow also Like growth hormone like it'll make your your muscle Dallas MacArthur used a shitload of EPO That was like his favorite thing to use but it was on that thing that everyone said was fake later. I Don't I he was ordering his EPO for my source. They definitely wasn't fake. It was coming from the pharmacy It was a Turkish pharmacy Wait a minute the main reason they thought that that list for Dallas's drug list was fake was because of the EPO They said no, you would be taking EPO with that EPO from from the guy that I sent you yesterday for Balkan Yeah, that guy when you and he showed me text messages before Dallas had passed dude They would order so much EPO like in Lantis. It was EPO in Lantis like crazy Oh, so that might be part of the recipe at Camp creep, right? He kept asking Chad Nichols. He kept asking Chad about taking like the EPO and Chad was like, you don't need that but I Didn't even know this and you guys might have not know this but I figure this out just recently EPO doesn't even work At all if you're anemic if your iron levels are low you need iron to Create red blood cells. So if you have no iron or low iron the EPO doesn't work I would I've wasted EPO the last four to six weeks Because I was taking an oral iron supplement that wasn't getting absorbed and I was still taking EPO The EPO is actually real. It was just the oral. So now I'm going in for two iron infusions Coming up and I guess I didn't know this but iron infusions You go two sessions. That's 30 minutes each and it lasts you the whole year Leo. So I guess It's not something that just comes out of your system They got to take every day once they load your your system up with it. It stays good for like a year in your system Okay, this is a good. This is a good segue to but Peter we're gonna say something Well, have you looked at it taking like liposomal vitamin C to absorb iron better? So yeah, so you I combined the liposomal vitamin C with iron, right? But and it worked great for people that are in kidney failure But according to my doctor and all this stuff I was reading when you are in kidney failure There's something that goes on that oral doesn't even get absorbed Yeah, so this is a great segue one of the topics we wanted to discuss on the podcast actually I was going to review Boston's blood work in detail But I didn't know which website it was on but I had the username and password So we Next time we'll next time we'll do it in detail, but even though I didn't review the blood work I have some notes for you Boston about the subject So I wrote them down so I just don't forget so because I wanted to explain to the audience like why you're encountering this issue first of all in chronic kidney disease The damage to the kidney makes the kidney by the way for those that don't know EPO is producing the kidney So EPO is what tells your body to produce more red blood cells red blood cells Carry your oxygen and all these kind of things so your kidneys produce more red blood I mean your kidneys produce erythropoietin when your kidneys are in chronic kidney disease They produce less erythropoietin so the first stage is that's why they replace erythropoietin But also in chronic kidney disease because of both Impaired absorption of iron Apparently they can't absorb iron as well just like Boston said which I didn't know in general though boss I'm gonna add another caveat, but impaired that and also due to What they call uremic bleeding which is like a loss of these nutrients it causes the iron deficiency So two things are happening in classic chronic kidney disease The EPO is going down and the iron is going down and like like Boston said I mean the other part I've known for a long time you can't synthesize red blood cells without iron you need iron to be there The there's a couple of other interesting things though first of all I wrote down for you Boston Maybe I shouldn't mention this on the podcast for well Maybe I should in case there any chronic kidney disease people listening the how they usually dose iron is they try to get to There's actually three biomarkers. There's new studies showing another biomarker useful one is called transferrin saturation rate as Tsat the Tsat is classically defined as a deficiency for normal people if it's below 15% When they dose iron and chronic kidney disease they agreed upon guidelines is to try to get Tsat around 20 to 30 percent between that Now and ferritin is the second thing they try to optimize Deficiency for normal people ferritin is below 15 nanograms per deaths for per milliliter But for people CKD they try to get it between a hundred and five hundred they try to keep it at between that range That was weird. My ferritin was high. I'll tell you why I'll tell you why oh, yeah, don't worry. That's yeah That's where it gets complicated. This is why I'm saying this this is interesting stuff So now the other final thing serum iron is also relevant third biomarker But it's recently being studied for this subject It may relate better to your long-term iron stores because in CKD the Tsat whatever it's called and the ferritin sometimes don't reflect your iron stores as well as nor people without CKD So it make you look like you have good iron stores when you don't they discovered that the serum iron is a bit better But they haven't developed the guidelines as much for for that yet So I wanted to mention these the people with the worst health from iron deficiency in CKD have the combination of a normal Tsat the transfer and saturation rate and low serum iron that apparently creates the most Complications so that's the first thing I want to say don't worry. This is interesting gets a little bit interesting now I just want to say this for anyone listening to this. It might be really helpful. The second thing is this I Didn't know this bro CKD I mean I assume of course when you're when you have a disease that weakens your body or more susceptible to infection CKD massively increases the susceptibility to bacterial fungal and Viral infections massively like people who get people with CKD that get the flu are 15 times more likely to be hospitalized and People who have CKD and get hospitalized for a bacterial infection are 10 times more likely to stay for an extended state It's like insane. I didn't realize this bro So Boston that infection on the leg it may not have been that you were that unclean It could have been a tiny amount of bacteria just that your body was so vulnerable And then later the cove it's same thing like you felt like death. You never feel that way. You're so resilient always So I never even know this I so I came across now this where it gets interesting though So during infections Bacteria and viruses require iron to be able to replicate and grow so your body not just in CKD Everyone's body Raises something called hepsidon to keep your iron stores stored so the viruses bacteria can't get access to it as much But the viruses and bacteria and fungi through difference mechanisms try to get the iron out and they succeed They rob you of iron while you're in the virus So you had this virus your body was trying that's why your ferritin rose by the way Ferritin rises also during these infections to protect yourself. It could be a false rise also not really indicative So basically what I found out is ferritin transfer and all of these things are actually they can go really haphazardly While you're in a viral infection the iron homeostasis Changes so much and when you're in a viral infection whether you have CKD or not You can lose your iron stores or you can appear to lose your iron stores when you're not and so sometimes Maybe you have to wait to find out to see the biomarker stabilize to know what's really going on But in CKD, this is dangerous because if you have low iron stores You can become anemic and in CKD anemia is associated with the worst mortality and heart disease Yeah, and you know what Leo? I don't know if the EPO was even though my my hemoglobin was nine The EPO had to be doing something because when I was when I was a nut when I came off the EPO completely and my in my My art my hemoglobin dropped to nine. I felt really fucking dizzy sometimes I couldn't I felt weak and all that shit I was still taking the EPO, but my iron was low and I was still training and I knew nothing I didn't think anything was wrong So even though my hemoglobin was was low It had to be doing something because I still had more energy than when I wasn't taking it That it probably certainly does but it's a limiting factor the iron so it can do something until it runs out of the limit The other thing I want to mention the final part. Why is it interesting because you talked to me about IV iron and I was worried I had I I just IV to CC with vitamin C right now Okay, before we before he heard what I was like listen, bro. I'm gonna go research for you I'll get back to you tomorrow. Anyway, so okay, so so the reason why I was nervous I just don't know enough about CKD to comment is I just know that iron can be cytotoxic to cells I imagined if you IV it first of all it might be impure because I was worried, you know about that impurity thing I talked about Boston already, but the second thing is just the iron being in the bloodstream. I found out I was right so Clearly in CKD the studies show IV Supplementation is much more effective than oral iron supplementation. No question The problem is for the last six years the researchers have been wondering will the IV iron be more dangerous Will it cause them organ failure? The reason why when the iron is not attached to those proteins like transfer and then move it around It's possible it can do these cytotoxic effects and cause damage and strain So they were wondering does the IV iron cause so much strain on the organs acutely that it's really gonna hurt people So far it doesn't seem to so it's so I had a buddy Leo that had really bad anemia And he bought he bought that that the same iron that I use and it bought his levels all the way up And he hasn't even had to take it again after two weeks of use the thing is is this is crazy So I went to order this thing. I literally went to go fucking order to ship it to my house, right? It was $10 for a big-ass 100 a mil bottle and it goes pick up in your area now pick up now Dude the store is fucking 15 minutes down the road for me tractor supply. I literally drove down there They had it ready for me yesterday, and I was like wow, that's great But wait a minute wait track this supply so when you message me this originally he's like hey, bro I found some injectable iron and no no he said hey, bro. There's a tractor supply store nearby I found some injectable iron. I'm gonna try it out. I said wait don't inject the iron from a tractor supply store What's going on? Please boss and don't do this you can get and there's this message then you reply back He's like no no it's for animals. I was like wait AI thought you said it was a tractor supply store I thought you're going to a vet. He's like yeah, it is a tractor supply store. It's a tractor supply store There's a pig there's a pig and if you if you read the ingredients it says for your baby pigs inject one amount I'll have a yellow bring this shit in I'm gonna show you guys That's right get my dog food yeah next time I need some insulin. I'm gonna go to a car street No, I know where to go though They got all sorts of fucking like carnitine injectable Yeah, do they sell tractors dude they sell everything When I first got there there's like motor scooters and like in like tractor supply stuff like like go carts in the front They have go carts to And like ATVs That's just crazy. It's not even an animal place But you don't need to with with with with the injectable iron my buddy He didn't need to combine a vitamin C, but I'm shooting with good fun. All right. Here it is guys look It's not for tractors, I swear there's a pig Baby pigs do one a mel every ten days up to the instructions. Okay, I For people listening at home, I hope you realize how funny this is this all is these Tractor supply store having anyway the second or the last thing the second thing that's so the damage to the organ so far They don't think it's happening. Okay, but the one thing is it can increase your infection risk Remember those viruses are trying to get that iron the other concern They has is by injecting the iron the person has more iron in the moment if that day or two days while iron still in the bloodstream Or if they get too much iron, they may have increased in bacterial infection or that viral infection susceptibility risk That's all I had to say. Oh, I wanted to add one thing to repeat Pete The if I needed to take the amount of oral iron I would need to take to get absorbed For my kidneys to even get any kind of absorption. It would completely destroy my gut with constipation Indigestion I tried to take it the other day Leo. It's not the Jardians I don't think it was the iron that I took orally that you only have to go the bathroom at all. Yeah Pete so Like this right here is a hundred milligrams per ml So I mix CC of NAC a CC of glutathione Which which has vitamin C and then a CC of the iron and I just IV it in the morning where the the iron pills are usually the most 65 milligrams per Cobb you got to take like two or three of those and if you take two or three of those you were fucked up Well, I don't know what to do because I had like fairly low iron and my hemoglobin is like 14 I mean it's it's like 41. It's lower than I want So but then I started researching about iron and I know Leo's made videos. I kept reading it was like gonna kill me it was like gonna spread cancer and increase your rate of infection and You know organ failure and stuff so I like pitch to the trash. I'm like, I don't know what to do Side effects everywhere I look on the internet says iron will like kill you Yeah, yeah, so I don't know what to do Leo Do you think it's a good idea that they're giving me two iron infusions? I go one time for 30 minutes and then eight days later. They do another so it's 750 milligrams iron the first time 750 milligrams iron the second time and he said it'll last me the whole year all he said I'll have iron stores for the whole year. I don't know as much about the doses I'd like to look into I'll look into it and text you later I want to see what the standards are just to be sure But I want to respond to Pete's come. I mean it's interesting. I agree with you Pete That is the case like there's something called the furoptosis and it's a kind of like iron specific kind of damage that occurs in the body And there are some I was it's missing my mind right now, but this morning. I had a bright idea There was one kind of longevity mechanism Or action which I realized maybe working by removing iron which I never thought of before and I've never read anywhere I mean, I really think it has a huge role But so about that but then Boston just a couple of last notes about this one thing is I want to look into I've never looked into I don't know if transdermal iron is something is a thing like because you can Magnesium can be absorbed quite well through the bloodstream and it's less it has less issues I mean sorry through the skin and has less issues on the digestion So I'll look into that and then I wanted to mention that I don't know what I even wrote here What are the biggest side effects of anemia like what are the biggest symptoms the symptoms are lightheadedness weakness Super weak in the gym and with shitty pumps. That's probably why oh one hundred that can easily explain that by far Yeah, you can be Leo I've never been this week like like I Get intense workouts still because I train into like like high intensity, but Leo I'm so weak that it's embarrassing like like I Asked to work in with like a 14 year old the other day on like in pine. He's like, oh you need to put more weight I'm like dude. We need to drop the weight He was like, are you trolling me? And I was like no take a 45 off like I do This is how weak I am and I'll say this on public. I can't even hit 185 for 10 on the bench No, the nice part is you're like no and it's seriously we need to take off more weight Cuz I started taking 65 megs of iron a day for like two weeks. I was way freakin stronger I don't know. I'm like is it from the iron is it from iodine? What is it? But like my strength was way higher. I couldn't get a pump at all In Pete I was benching 275 and kidney failure when my when my iron was normal And I had my hemoglobin was at 14 because I was taking 10,000 I use the EPO with good iron levels I was benching 275 for six to eight until I hurt my pec again And then literally I started getting weaker and weaker and weaker and what he said was in kidney failure Your stores will slowly start to decline until you have none. He said oral won't even bring it back So I mean, I'm just glad I found this pig shit But I think it's the cove it that did that to the cove it depleted really fast. That's why I think Right, yeah, maybe both in a real good point good point So but I want to mention that another thing when you injected though you mentioned taking NAC There are certain compounds that are particularly good at inhibiting iron related damage There so I could look for some of those guys I don't have any of the top of my head but some compounds are particularly good with that So that would probably be best if you're going because what you want to do is you want to take the iron Then you wanted to go get stored in the storage compartments and kept there You don't want it to be running through your bloodstream without Transfer and attached to it and when it is it's gonna cause that damage acutely So you're smart Boston to combine it with NAC and I bet any seed has this effect But I bet other things do too It's crazy Leo when we did this podcast two years ago or three years ago the very first time if you would have told me in Two years we'd be talking about health and iron and hemoglobin Look at any of this shit till recently Dude people have no idea when they tune in now. They don't remember that Rebellion really rebellious boss. They think your rebellious now. They have no idea That's the truth. Okay, but but um, well Peter you mentioned the iodine. I thought what will I? Will return back to that I guess I think I want to talk about a few things with regards to your blood work Which is fun. I don't want to bore the audience talking too much about blood work in a row But you got to teach us about what what this is don't roll because I don't know really what's going on in the world of your world Powerlifting but so apparently this You guys you guys know about this guy. I saw this guy. He's so fucking freak. Oh By the way guys, this is big laws his channel big laws is a strong man Who has a great strong man channel and he supports arm wrestlers give I'm subscribed This isn't my YouTube by the way, I'm subscribed to his channel But but I didn't even watch his videos by subscribe to his channel because I like him because he supports arm wrestling So please do the same. He's a good guy Anyway Yeah Yeah, so this is like the world record branch 794 pounds It's not official because it wasn't in competition and there has been a lot of like arguments about or the plates fake because They're spelled differently than the official elico plates. It's weird But to me, I think it's legit and Iran has some like really strong power lifters right now. They have a guy who dead lifts like almost 1100 as well They're kind of coming on the scene Okay, so I have a question Well, does he do some interesting stuff? He's bigger a Leo is he bit is he thicker than Mendelsen? He looks pretty fucking thick this guy Mendelsen is Less thing now that huh? Yeah, Mendelsen's there. Yeah, but now that he's 50s in his 50s. You gotta keep in mind No, I meant Mendelsen in his prime. Oh, no Mendelsen was fucking crazy. Yeah, Pete Yeah, Mendelsen was thicker than any hall but shorter Mendelsen six feet or they're the same side look Mendelsen why I'm saying that Peter I mean, they're the same size 300 something but I mean, there's this one cool YouTube video I'll probably try to repost on my channel where you just see Mandy at his peak and like when I was first getting into policy in 2004 whatever he's like Just having difficulty breathing in his wife is this little ladies like coming around helping him feed and you see this guy Was just all in if you think like Nick Walker was all in or Rich Piana was on this guy was all in crazy He really inspired the heck out of him too  ab excuses. I read on I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, I35P, practice. No, he was trying to be nice to Devin because Devin had like two weeks to prepare and he can't extend his arm. So you would put your money on Thor over over Eddie? No, no, I don't know what I'm talking about. I think I think I was I just think. What? Thor's in better shape. We should put money on this shit. We should put all like $10 in it. Yeah, we know we should put like a hundred or something. Yeah, we feel it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Actually, when is it? When is it? It's March 22nd. Oh, no way. This is great. We should. Armin, are you down? Yeah, I mean, it can go either way. I mean, you know, when someone's not a boxer and they go, you know, but you just never know. Okay. But but if we if we because I've never bet on it, you've been betting against Nick Walker for a while. I haven't bet on anything yet. So not in a bad way. I mean, you have bets with people I've never bet before. Oh, did I once? No, I predicted the last Olympian got things right, but I didn't bet. So the thing is, we can't go research and stuff. So whatever we know right now, everyone has to make the decision based on that. Yeah, I'm not researching. I just think I think Eddie Hall's a badass. I think more scared of Eddie Hall. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. Thor looks like a normal dude now. Yeah, he does. Yeah. He's lost a ton of weight. I looked at when he pulled the 500 kilo bed lift, he literally looked like he was on the brink of death without bloated. He was and you could just tell he was pushing everything he had to get that record. And then he was like 50 kilos. They're like six, seven, six, nine. No, but both of them. No, no, no, six, six, six, six, one. And then and then Thor's like six, nine. Yeah. Yeah, it's weird, right? Eddie Hall is so wide that he looks short, but he's not actually short. That's a cool situation where people think you're short when you're not. I mean, I'm not tall, but because I used to be more wide, people would think I'm like five, five, eight, like chicks would think I'm five, eight from a distance, but then they come, oh, you're normal-headed because I was like, we're blocking kind of weird physique. Yeah, your bodybuilder, you know, people think you're shorter. Yeah. Not if you're bodybuilding because you guys have nice waist, but imagine you're just a blocky, kind of powerlifter type. You just look, but anyway, so, so let's analyze this. So all I know is to me, it seems like Thor is really taking it seriously, this boxing stuff. He's had more sparring sessions that were public. He seems to train with people really seriously, travel around and stuff like that. Losing weight is very good in boxing because you have gloves and because you have gloves, it's somewhat of an endurance thing where it's difficult to knock people out with very particular targeted hits early on, usually, unless you have a very unusual hit. I don't think either of these two guys are going to knock each other out very early on. So with that in mind, I would assume that being lighter is very important and having endurance. I don't know how Eddie could have endurance if he didn't lose a lot of weight. He weighs like 250 still, right? Or something like that, or 70. Who does? Eddie is probably 270 or so, Eddie's over 300 still, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So I would just imagine he would gas out. If they go, Eddie's probably going to gas a lot faster. Exactly. I'd be interested on Eddie Hall. Yeah. Well, you'd bet on Eddie Hall? Having Eddie win, even though I'll probably lose. Okay. I'll take it. Well, you can't see you're probably going to lose. You gotta lose. I don't know. I really think Eddie Hall, if I had to fight one of them, I would way rather fight four. Eddie Hall is the best. No doubt. Intimidation wise. Intimidation wise. If it's in an alley and there's no ref, I don't want to fight Eddie Hall because I feel like Eddie Hall is vicious that he's not going to give up. You know what I mean? Yeah. He's not going to stay down either. I feel like he just wants to beat his ass. I don't know. I feel like he's going to beat his ass. Yes. See, I noticed. But I'm just wondering if he can. I'm wondering if the tall guy's going to outbox him. But I'll take your bet. This will be fun. We'll watch. We'll watch. Okay. All right. I'm going to pee. I'm not going to bring the laptop to the bathroom like Boston, but I'll be right next. Yeah, I don't do that either. Anyway, okay. So the next thing I wanted to talk about with you guys is, well, I got lost here a little bit. So let's talk about Rich while Pete is gone. So Boston, do you know what happened about that? What the subject is? Rich Piana. Yeah. Johnny Bravo did a video saying he's all about silicone. Yeah. What's your thoughts first of all before I call him? I've been calling Mr. Collagen forever. Yeah. But didn't you think it was PMMA? Yeah. That's what I was told. I was told by a good source. I was in in in in Rich's corner that he would go down to Mexico in very cheap get PMMA done. So I mean, I don't know how credible Johnny has his sources, but who knows, maybe he was doing PMMA and silicone. I mean, who knows? What do you think? What was your reaction, Sarman? Because Armin has a lot of background with this. What's your thoughts? Yeah. So I know, I know Rich. I was friends with Rich. Like when Rich and his ex-wife met Sarah, it was at VidCon and I was there the first time they met. That was our first date. So we hung out the whole weekend. I was with 5% at that time. I was sponsored by them. I like Rich. I like Rich a lot. He was a great guy, like off camera. He was just a fun, cool guy to hang out with. The whole filler stuff, we kind of spoke on it one day because we were talking about like SEO, Synthol. He's like Synthol's nonsense. You can use better stuff. And then one of my friends needed their bicep fix because he tore his bicep and wanted it fixed. So I hooked him up with my plastic surgeon friend and they were trying to figure out which filler would be best. And it cost about $12,000 just to feel like half the bicep, but it looked amazing after he had it done. And I've reached and say specifically what he was using, but I think he, I got back from like he's tried, he was trying different fillers and seeing which one worked the best. And then eventually, I guess the silicone was the cheapest and most effective. So I think that's what he went with. And you know, yeah, but very interesting. Rich was never honest about that. I talked to Rich many times about that. He was never honest about, Rich was not honest about a lot of things he did, the fake plates that I sat out on personally. I said, Rich, I can't do this. Wait, did he tell people that he didn't use fake plates? Yeah, what do you mean? He wanted, he wanted to do a video with me in the backstage of the Venice pit and with fake plates, he wanted me to do fake plates. I said, Rich, I'm sitting out on this one. It was the same day that we did the video where we dropped the syringe and on the pavement, on the pavement, and then I picked, he picked it up and we're talking about that. It was the same day except they were doing fake plates. And then I was like, Hey, I'm not doing this. And then dude, I caught him in another, but really bad lie. Like, and I completely lost respect for him. It was about selling fake, fake counterfeit GH. And after that, I really lost respect for him because I found out and then at the, at the Europa, he was hitting me up. He's like, Hey, bro, you, and dude, I never even had known where to even get Adderall or even used Adderall at this point. There was in 2016, he's like, Hey, bro, he's like, do you have any extra Adderall laying around that you could bring to me at the expo? I'm like, dude, I don't even use that shit. But there were so many red flags with him. And I don't know if you guys know, but he used to train at the powerhouse right before he passed away. The powerhouse where I used to train at in Tampa. And he was asking people in there for pills like days before he died. So I don't know how many drugs he was getting himself into or what exactly happened. But I found out real quick that Rich was a big phony. Unfortunately, you know, you don't. Okay, wait, but well, comment on that. So I was shocked that a bodybuilder would have refused the fake plates. I mean, this is usually like strength athletes are really against that it's immoral for us. But but bodybuilders are usually like, Hey, it doesn't matter. But Boston is so true. He's like, Nope. You know who was there during that whole thing? And him and Rich had a falling out. I think he got annoyed with Rich too. Is that a big boy? Oh, from from Orange County? Yeah, Mexican, Mexican, Mexican. That was when he was part of Rich's crew. Big Boy was back there doing that. The tattoo artist, Angel, I think his name was fully tabbed. He had all the synth on his arms. It was like his little 5% crew. And they wanted me doing like a bench with fake plates and T bar rows. And I had to sit out. I said, I can't do that. You know, what I heard is because because basically my my arm wrestling team in LA was friends with Rich. If you go if you search on YouTube, search Rich Piana arm wrestling, you'll see my arm wrestling team, all the guys that I used to arm wrestle with. I wasn't at the gym yet at that time. I joined a few months later or something like that. But when when I asked one of them who knew Rich for 20 years, 25 years in California, he told me that Rich was a very good guy before and that they were very good friends and he was a true guy to him. But he told me that Rich changed in the last few years. He said that he just started acting different. Like the impression I got was that he got like maybe full of himself or maybe it was the drugs or something like that. But something changed. It's completely true. It's completely true because my he used to train at my dad's gym when he was younger and everyone. Yeah, no, that's very true statement. Yeah, that's what I heard from. And the other thing is I wanted to mention because so so I asked Johnny brought by the Johnny brothers friend of mine really nice guy. I messaged him a lot about the first day we're going to record this and I've talked to him about it afterwards. He said he wanted to correct himself. He had a couple of things you wanted me to say, which I don't know where they went now to be honest with you. Oh, there they are. Okay, the first one is he said the reason why I wanted to bring up the silicon thing is to point out that the autopsy on Rich Piana couldn't be that reliable. He said, well, how could they ever not have tried to figure out what was in those things since technically a piece of the silicon basically this issue, right? If you have an implant, like which is what I thought, by the way, I heard from the guys at the gym that Rich had implants and that when they tried to bury him, they couldn't fit him in the coffin because the implants on the side were too big and they felt the body. They thought it was implants, but maybe it could be a combination of both. I was talking to Arm and I think about this, right? So anyway, my point was this, if you have an implant that's like women, one of my wife's best friends now just had to have her fake breasts removed because women often get autoimmune issues with just the fake breast, which has the silicon inside in a bubble. If you have any kind of thing that's not contained, including like steroids, if the steroids were toxic to your body, your body eventually eats it away. Even tattoos, by the way, even it's not just sun damage that gets tattoos, your body gets it eventually. They call it breast implant illness. It's very common lately. Yeah. So imagine, well, I think because people are noticing it more as well, because they pay more attention to autoimmune stuff. But anyway, the point is, so if you were a mortician and you see this insanely looking weird body, Johnny's point is like, wouldn't you have wanted to check if there's something there that could have went to the heart and caused the problem or went to the brain? So you could know what the reason was. It wasn't just a heart attack. Like for example, if a little bit of the silicon got in the bloodstream, it could go to the brain, cause aneurysm, or it could go to the lungs, it could go to different places to end up causing a heart attack. That looks like a heart attack. That's what was first point you wanted me to mention. The second one is he wanted me to mention that the cause of death. So there's two ways this could happen. I just mentioned the aneurysm and that stuff with a heart attack. The other way it could happen is, you know, just simply imagine you have so much of a foreign substance in your body that causes your body, your body's immune system to want to overreact. And we know like when your body system overreacts, it often damages the cells in your body, like damages your blood vessels, your heart, so on. If you've been pumping new crap, your body can't get rid of that's causing you to be in a like what they called in with this virus, they called the cytokine storm. Rich would have been, if he was really just pumping random silicon in, he would have been in a cytokine storm for years. He did feel terrible all the time. 24 seven, he felt really, really bad. That's why he was the oxy. He was so, you know, addicted to oxy. So that's what I was going to mention. I want to talk to you about that because it felt like to me, he would be going through so much physical pain. He's probably having to dull the pain, but then use the Adderall to be able to function because he's a voogah. He was asking for the gym. He was asking for pain pills. Yeah. So the other thing about it is that when my arm wrestling coach arm wrestled Rich, obviously Rich was weak and he was using fake plates everywhere. Everyone knew that, but they went along with it. I'm surprised there were people who didn't know that. He would bring his fake plates wherever he went with him, but because he was very weak. I thought he was extremely weak for just no reason. It could be this guys, this round. It's not an implant. It's like his whole muscle is damaged because it has permanent stuff in between it that the body is trying to eat out. And then also the other side of his, this, so my arm wrestling coach, he doesn't exaggerate much. He's from, he's from the Russian Armenia side. He's very direct. He said, I've never held somebody's hand in the arm wrestling table and felt so many clicks. Like his hand was like a crippled old person. It was like, he said it was so weak. And this guy doesn't exaggerate. He didn't even really know Rich was. He's just an arm wrestling guy. He was like, I've never felt anything like that. Well, what would happen if you had high inflammation all the time? You'd get arthritis. That's how arthritis happens. Did your coach smoke him? Of course. Everyone, no, he couldn't smoke a girl, apparently. Like he was that weak. No, no, I'm not insulting him. I mean, like, it was scary how weak he was. He was at the powerhouse in Chatsworth and he was always very, very high, high rep, low weight. Yeah. When we trained together, it was just really like pump car would be like, I'll be training kind of light too. Cause I'm sure he's like, you're a little lighter than that. So he would like, let's say incline hammer, like a plate on each side, maybe like a plate and a 10. So really, really super light. Yeah. Okay. So the next thing guys, we've got to talk about is your buddy, Boston, Nick Walker, who is really your buddy? Actually, he is your buddy now. You guys, you got to admit it. He commented on the last, the last podcast too. He called on the one before we've texted a few times. I texted him the other day. He claims, uh, when we did that podcast talking about, uh, him taking an acrylics. Oh, you responded about that. You sent me a text. He's like, man, I don't take that shit or some shit. And I'm like, man, I'm like, you're a fucking liar. I said, you take a full bottle of, I have the text. I'm like, you take a bottle of sarostom every day. And he was like, he was like, no man, I wish he's like, that shit's expensive. I'm like, get out of here. If you say he doesn't take a full 30 of sarostom, that's, uh, might not be sarostom. Yeah. A full bottle of sarostom is like what, 18 units, uh, 18 IU. Yeah. I don't, I don't, I don't think, I know how personally I think he's taking 30 of something, not even 18. Honestly. Yeah. Nick, if you're telling us you're not taking 15, bro, who are you kidding? You're taking 15 at least. Dude, I know somebody in Matt's camp that's an amateur that's taking 10 IU. So if he's taking 10 and that's under Matt Jansen's recommendation and the guy, the guy said, Matt said, if I could afford more to take more, but he was at 10, so dude, he's definitely taken more. But I don't want to be, so I'm not trying to invade Nick's personal business or anything like that. I plan to talk about this two days ago when we were going to record, but yesterday Fahad's podcast came out and they did interrogating for half an hour. So it's not, I don't think it's too bad if we briefly mentioned. So this is what I want to, I want to know. What are your guys' thoughts? Cause I find it a fascinating situation. This is why I find it fascinating. So this guy, like you said, Boston before, he's a dedicated guy, put his, he put his blinders on and he had a coach that had the recipe and he followed it. But it's essentially all we know about Nick is with him and Matt Jansen. We also know he's a very loyal guy, family guy. We know he's probably actually hurt by the fact that he's separating. The question is this, and he's so close, right? He got fifth or fourth or whatever. He's very, very close to the O. So do you think Boston, that this may prevent him from becoming a Mr. Olympian two years? Maybe he would have any, I mean, how dangerous is it to have this instability? I think if it's meant to be, it's meant to be, I mean, we already talked about who we think his next coach is going to be. Somebody's going to take good care of it. No, no, tell people, tell people who you think it is. It won't harm anything, I'm sure. It's going to be either two people. It's going to be either AJ Sims, AJ Sims, cause I see they're commenting on each other's shit, or it's going to be one of the guys in Kuwait because both of, AJ loves drugs. He loves drugs and Nick Walker, obviously he loves drugs. And, or he's either going to hook up with somebody in Kuwait because they'll give them drug connects and they'll ship them everything he needs and sponsor them and all that stuff. Nick probably needs obviously somebody by his side that's going to help him. The thing with Nick, man, is I think if it's going to be, it's going to be, he could put in the work. It's not really rocket science. He already has been taking all the stuff that he knows that he needs to take to improve. He's been improving. No, but it is rocket science to get in his condition, which is the best. I tell you what, if he works with AJ Sims, AJ Sims is going to get more out of that coaching experience than Nick Walker will because that's my problem. Nick is going to tell him be like, this is what Jansen has me doing and I've been taking all this shit. Yeah. And it's going to help AJ with his coaching. Just like when Deasha came from the Kuwait and went to Jansen for a bit, it benefited Jansen more than it did Deasha because Jansen was able to soak up all the knowledge that they were doing in Kuwait. So I think it'll be, it would be AJ that gets the better of that experience. That's one of the things too. The only person that would be, in my opinion, that would know what these guys are really doing at that top level and be better than Matt would be Hawni. And Hawni is not going to take him because Hawni only works with people that are with Evogen and somebody that's going to really give, give a lot of attention. And I just don't think Hawni is that person. But yeah, I think Nick is destined to be good because of his work ethic and how, what he does, you know, but. But wait, wait, wait, we can't skip past Hawni. Why wouldn't he pick Hawni? That's my point. It's like, Hawni wouldn't take him. There's no way. Hawni won't take him. No fucking way Hawni would take him. Why would he look what he's taking and be like, no, no, this is not going to work. I think Nick, leaving Matt is a good thing. I think Nick, Matt did with Nick what he could and pushed the drugs to the max and Nick's physique is kind of like where it's at. But we have to keep mentioning always perfect condition, never miss. Yeah. Yeah. Something else can happen to the body. I don't know much size wise, but not, not more some condition, but Hawni would be able to change something and I would think he would be able to lower the drug significantly and say, oh yeah, you'll be able to see. I think it's for the best that Matt is or Nick is leaving Matt. If he finds the right person, I think for his health and to teach you, let him, you know, understand, you don't need all these drugs. Look, you're already built this big. You just have to kind of refine little stuff here and there. So I think it's going to be beneficial for him, you know, everyone in that camp Leo that I've talked to said, in that we're good friends with both Nick and Matt said Nick is being very, very shady about the thing that they said that he's, he's, there's not one person in that camp that was friends with both of them that are on, um, that are on Nick's side. Everyone's on Matt's side, which is weird, because I did bring up in a text to Nick about there has to be a different, I said, there's no way that you told him that you can't coach Brett Wilkin. And when I said that to him, he didn't even deny it. So, so he obviously, that is a true statement that Trigilli put out and that everyone's putting out is that he wouldn't, he literally wanted Matt to drop Brett. And I didn't think that was true. I'm like, there's no way Nick would do that. And I, and he didn't deny it. He did not deny it. But we weren't about them passing him up though. He's like, you know, like Brett Wilkin, I don't know, you know, much about it. Like, but I think, you know, maybe he could pass him up physique wise. He has the, he has the, the genetic structure to be right. He has a better structure. And I think that's what he's worried about. If you're coaching ultimatum like that, at the end of the day, I mean, fuck, I mean, Matt's not charging either of them, and not sponsoring them, you know, I mean, but, uh, yeah, I just, well, okay, okay. In this, in defense of Nick first, two things, seriously. First of all, everyone in camp creep is against Nick. So that indicates what nothing, these people are the ones who are okay with Johnson doing what we all know he does. So, guys are all part of camp creep. That's you. Yeah. No, what I mean to say, I'm not talking about drug stuff. I'm saying like, if you're talking about one of them betrayed each other or whatever. Well, we know for sure that Matt Johnson betrays people. We don't know that Nick does. I know that. He's been with different companies. He's been through lawsuits. Companies have sued him because of, yeah, of course. No, we're talking about personal relationships. So, so we know he's like that. We don't, we haven't, nobody, we've never heard that about Nick or whatever. So, and the other thing is, no, no, we do know that about Nick. He's, he's done that. You'll dominate Cardone. I mean, you can bring it all these guys up. No, I'm saying that Matt Johnson is ethically bankrupt. Yes. No, no, we know that for sure. Yeah. And we don't know that Nick is ethically bankrupt. That's what I mean to say. And the second thing is this, which is that Nick, you got to admit after Dallas, and I want to ask you about this, how did Dallas leave Matt? We got to talk about that. After Dallas left Matt, since then until now, the only thing that brought Matt's reputation up in the bodybuilding community was Nick. So let me point out something. If you guys haven't noticed something, the first year of FWAD's podcast, they championed the hell out of that Patrick Ture guy. You hear about him anymore? No, they didn't. No one's suggesting Patrick to coach Nick Walker. That's a predicted effort. Fuck. And since they, yeah, but, but they were selling. I mean, that was, he was the best thing since sliced bread for a while. But then now no one's mentioning him. And now, and for the, whoever you heard for the last six months, Matt Johnson, and the reason is because of Nick's work. So Nick might be telling him, look, bro, your company, Revive and Raw is growing. Everything is benefiting. I'm doing it. I'm killing myself. You know, I'm going to get the Olympia for you. Why won't you not give the secrets that are giving me the advantage, which are the drugs and protocols to a guy who's going to be very close to me. In defense of Nick, I'm just playing devil's advocate. I get it. I get it. Yeah, I get it. And we don't really know everything, but I do get that point. I just, you know, me, you knew me Leo, when Dave gave me the ultimatum with you and him, I said, fuck you. Yeah, I'm not going to do that. Yeah, I see what you by the way, I mentioned somebody gives an ultimatum dude. I don't even the person that gives the ultimatum. Why, by, I don't, I don't need you. Yeah, that's true. Imagine that. Yeah, imagine you're, I agree. Like, like, if you're white, even if you love your wife and you're willing to give something up for her, if she told you, I will leave you if you don't give this up. You're like, wait a minute, you would leave me? I mean, that's a, that's, it changes the whole thing. Like I would give it up for you, but not an ultimatum. I would tell the chicken to buy by, I would agree. I agree. I agree. Things go fast too, especially in the industry. You could be like, your confidence could be here doing well. And then from here, they can jump all the way here from high confidence to super cockiness. I know because I was a young competitor. Of course, I wasn't at that level, but I was at a high level then because pro cards weren't given out like crazy. And I just knew like, you know, stuff would like, I'd go to the Olympia and I'd be at the Diamond Ties, the biggest booth. They'd be banners everywhere hanging from me. It goes to your head. And then you think you can start like, you know, a lot of my friends are like, Oh my, you're an asshole to a lot of people. I'm like, am I? And I didn't realize that was, but it kind of just goes to your head and you really don't realize what you're doing until you kind of get like knocked on your feet again. Like, yeah, I really wasn't that good. So he's, he's young. And I'm sure, you know, I think leaving that is that's going to be a good decision. I think it'll be good for long. You're saying long term, it'll be good. Long term. Yeah. Yeah, but I mean, also, I feel like I'm playing devil's advocate a lot. But if anyone had the right to let things get to their head, we would be I mean, who's who's the biggest star in body building the last 10 years? It's literally Nick Walker. There's nobody has grown that fast. Nobody likes somebody. Nobody has liked a bodybuilder that much. I love it. I mean, other than the classic physique, excuse me, sorry, what? Rami Rami, I was thinking Rami on since Rami is what I was thinking. Rami's not active enough. He wasn't loved as much. He was more like, like, like people appreciate bodybuilding were like, Holy shit, is the biggest thing, you know, but Nick has the kind of Jay Cutler kind of vibe of following. I agree with that. And you know, and so what I'm saying is like, I mean, I can tell you guys, I'm a YouTube YouTuber. The second Nick started his YouTube channel, immediately the views are they're about equal to Fawad's podcast. I mean, they're yeah, bro, he get no, he has he posts more videos. So he gets probably more watch time than God. Yeah, so I mean, it's a pretty anyway, well, but you guys, what do you guys expect to happen if he chose AJ Sims? Because this is what I wanted to see. I assume he can't get him in as good condition consistent. No, AJ will get him peeled. That's not an issue. I just don't think the offseason protocols. I don't think you'll get put on as much muscle as quick as he's been putting on with AJ because yeah, no, AJ will get him peeled. There's no question. But as far as maybe holding the muscle, not as good. I know what AJ does. AJ likes the poultice saucer in a couple of weeks out. He let his guys do tend to come in flatter. The good combination that Matt has figured out is what honey has on this. It's only honey and Matt. No one else does that. I mean, that Chad Chad also yeah, something but not with Rami yet, I think. Right. That's it or miss. Yeah, it's not as consistent as honey. Very, very good or miss. Yeah. Yeah, that's well, out of respect for my maybe it's because it doesn't work as closely with I mean, these guys, they're not as involved. They live with each other. Basically. Okay, the other thing is you guys, since you're big fans of the Nick Trigeli channel and I can't watch it because the title is about a dog and I watch it and it's about moving to Tennessee. It's the random that you can't predict what the hell the video is about. So I don't watch this. Yeah, I've been watching a lot of videos about moving to Tennessee. So that's what came to mind. But the point is it's something you can't predict from the title. Also, you guys tricked me last week, you're like, or last time we talked, you're like, no, you can encourage me to go check it out. So I went back this into this, like 20 seconds in, suddenly he's like, Hello, there's this product, you take two of these. I'm like, Whoa, this guy, he's really selling the thing like, really selling in the beginning. I was like, Oh, you guys were right. They must be paying him some cruise. I don't know. Good money. Yeah. Well, nobody's like, I don't know. I don't know. The way it was selling. I'm not, I'm not. It's so corny the way he promotes that. I doubt that the sales are that great. That's what I was thinking. I'm like, it's too corny. There's nobody's gonna buy it. I wouldn't advertise me like that. Be like, I need to buy that. But there's those people like it. The people who buy infomercial stuff are probably the ones that are buying that stuff. Like a late at night. Anyway, apparently, Trigilli is having an argument with Fawd about Fawds. Don't worry about the dog. We're all German Shepherd like you have. You do have a German Shepherd. Yeah, he's right here. Oh, wow. Look how nice your house. Wow. That's why I want to live. I'm moving. That's it. You see. You'll see. But what was I talking about? Oh, yeah. So what's the deal with them being upset with Nathan Dash or arguing about it? Do you guys know what's going on? I saw it. I'm trying to remember. Basically, Nick gave his opinion on why he thinks Fawd and Nathan went their separate ways, right? Right. So Nick was saying, hey, you know, Deashers in UK, he's probably getting paid, you know, some sort of commission based this. He's probably not producing enough. And Nick, but Nick said, this is my opinion. I have no clue what's really going on. Fawd responded to Nick. It wasn't a big deal. But then Fawd on this channel was saying, let's talk about stupid people. And he was talking about Nick, Trigilli. So yeah. But I only saw Fawd's response. So I didn't know what Nick said. But Fawd's response was like, we pay them a salary, a fixed salary, which to me doesn't make sense. Because if you're telling me that Nick was saying that they fired him, you're explaining it. So let's say like he's paying, he's paying you Leo $5,000.  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, It's sort of like FSH is to your gonads. F, Falkostomyelitis. So your TSH is elevated. I didn't write the number right here, but if I recall, it's around three and a half or four. And it's been around that number fluctuated a little bit. Now I know you're supplementing with iodine. What I wanted to mention is just with this TSH, you should not be relying on iodine to improve your thyroid activity for sure. Because with that level of TSH, iodine supplementation is associated with thyroid cancer, which Palambuha has. But having the deficiency of iodine is also associated with thyroid cancer. So you basically, if you, usually unless you're micronutrient deficient, you don't need a supplement with iodine. If you do supplement very little, what I would do, since you feel stronger and feel better is I would supplement with thyroid, which is the natural reaction anyway, if your TSH was that high. What's TSH? TSH, it means that your thyroid is... No, no, no, what's his number? Oh, his number is 3.5 or 4. Oh yeah, you're 3.7. You want to get that down. Yeah, so basically think about it like this. Think about it like this Pete. If your TSH rose before you used iodine, it was telling you, hey, my thyroid can't produce enough metabolism for my body. Therefore, you should feel much better when the thyroid went up. So that's a signal. If the TSH is a real signal, you don't have any problem in your body, your thyroid does need to grow. Then if you increase the iodine or took thyroid hormone, you would feel way better. So that is a good indication. I've never been below 3 in my entire life, in like 10 years. So there may be a reason that's nutritional otherwise, but you definitely have to control it because otherwise your thyroid is going to continue growing and you may get nodules. The only way to control it is with T4, levothyroxine, but you could also take T3 and do it in a circadian fashion, like break it up, like take 10 milligrams of T3 upon rising, 10, 3 hours later. So 100 T4 would put them perfectly in the perfect range. Yeah, that's what I would do personally. At 3.5, I would try 100 T4 and if you wanted a little boost in the morning, a little bit of T3, the problem with the T3 is obviously the heart rate, so you just check your heart rate to know how much you can tolerate at a single time. There's also extended release T3, but I don't think that's good. What about the pig thyroid? That's a mix, though. That's T4 and T3. You can't decide the mixture, the ratio. So it's just less. Make some possible to get unless the doctor prescribes it too. Yeah, I have something in my cabinet. That's a tractor supply. No, I'm just kidding. Maybe I should check the tractor supply store. Hey, that's the name of the episode, the tractor supply store. That's crazy. All right, so we went through a bit of feed stuff, but maybe we'll go through it more next time. Let's take a couple of questions before we end, because we have a bunch of good ones, I swear to God. There's a lot of them. If you guys have time for like 10 moments. Yeah, of course. I'm good. So one thing Sheldon asked, are you still doing great my genetics? Boston loves doing it. I actually love doing it. I think it's really valuable. I think I could save a lot of people who were my age when I was 18, didn't know if I had okay genetics for something. I think I could help you guys know. I think we could all help you avoid some of our mistakes or encourage you. The problem is this, when I was doing that stuff, I would get comments like you're copying FOD. I'm reading genetics. I'm not reading the, I'm trying to like to reach a potential to like use drugs and benefit from them stuff like that. I'm not trying to copy it. Leo, the problem with that is people didn't send us the proper information to actually rate their genetics properly. No, they did start sending very detailed stuff. Okay. Because a lot of them were like, here's pictures. I'm 17 years later. No, later, bro. Honestly, people were sending very good. I appreciate it to the subscribers. Long emails. Here's my detailed history. Here's what I've trained. Here's what I've eaten. It's been this many years. This is how I progressed. And so we could really understand these, if they've used drugs, these are the drugs I've used or if they haven't, I've used the pro home and this how I responded. They were really good. But I just want you guys, the listeners to know, I'm not trying to copy FOD. If you guys liked that part of the podcast, I enjoy doing it. So does Boston will do it. I just don't want people to think we're trying to, because I don't copy anybody. I'm not into that stuff. Once you guys start seeing that, I stopped doing it. I'm not into that. So I just wanted to explain that. Someone, I want to ask a question since we're going to just do a couple. I want to ask a question. Oh, yeah, this is a good one. We're just talking about protein. You guys are experienced bodybuilders. I haven't talked to you guys about this before and Pete in powerlifting goals of the supplies. Someone said, seniority, who was a long time subscriber, said same, same question I had from last week. What is the panel's opinion on when consuming high amounts of protein, 300 to 350 grams total, consuming half of your days protein from whey protein isolate as someone who struggles with appetite. This seems to be the easiest way for me to hit the protein numbers my coach sets for me. Thank you all for advice. This is my question. Obviously, if he has appetite problems that can't get the protein down, it's going to be better to get it down no matter what. The question is this, do you guys think he would develop better if he didn't have that appetite problem and could get all his protein from meat? Yeah. Yeah, I do. But I also, just like you said, Leo, if it's hard for him, you could do more shakes and then once his appetite does come up, you could start slowly. True. But you guys think that like the ideal situation is you were born with an appetite and you're eating meat six times a day or whatever according to your diet, right? No, I don't think that. I actually don't think that. I think eating meat, actual meat six times a day is going to fuck with your diet. No, not meat. Yeah, you'd have to mix it up with the egg. I think you should have a couple of shakes and the whole eggs and a steak meal and a chicken meal. But if you were to do six meals of chicken and rice versus six or versus three meals, chicken rice, three meals shakes, I would way rather do three meals shakes and three meals chicken and rice. Really? Are you serious? No, but wait, wait, what if it was three meals, three meals chicken and one meal fish and one meal meat and one meal eggs versus three meals chicken, three meals, whey protein? I would still add some way. I just for digestion. I noticed that most people can't digest all that meat six times. I'm serious. Oh, I see what you mean. Okay. They can't get in all that meat. Okay. It won't fully digest. Some people process food great and it would work amazing, but majority of people, they really don't. Interesting. What do you think, Armand? I'll talk about my experiences. So when I was doing my protein sources, let's say I would do three or four meals a day and several shakes a day. Yeah. I would get in great condition, great shape, blah, blah, blah. I had to make some changes. So the next two years after that, especially when I got with honey, we were doing mostly all food. The only time is we would do shakes would be like pre and post-workout. So I was eating about nine full meals a day. So each meal usually consisted of eight to 10 ounces of whether it be fish or chicken or beef. So I did that and I would only use what, and so I noticed a huge difference, especially in thickness and fullness. And then when I dieted down, yeah, it was very, very hard to do. And unless you're really dedicated and I've never had a big appetite either. So I had to do like GRHB six constantly or take us a joint constantly just before I ate. But when I did it that way for two years, that was the best growth I've ever made. But like I said, most people aren't as serious, right? So, you know, to do that and it's nearly impossible. I mean, I would be sitting there like barfing up, like eating it, you know, so it was, you know, the shakes are important. What appetite stimulant were you using? At that time, yeah, I was just using tons of GRHB six. Yeah. But after a while, the effects of that even diminished, you know? Yeah. And then, or I would just like, you know, hit a joint or hold on. So Leo, I do, I do agree with Armin in one aspect. If you're in pre-contest and you're eating six tiny meals a day, your body will be able to process the food easily. My issue is when you're trying to put on muscle, it is very hard to get in six large meat meals per day. That's my, that's my thing. So pre-contest, pre-contest, I think a couple of weeks out to really get all the, all the extra fluid out and cause all these shakes have artificial shit in them. I think it's great to cut the shakes up because your meals are so small at that point and you're digesting. But in offseason, when your meals are bigger, I just feel like people can't handle that. But that's why I asked Chad about that. He said that's why he has them doing an hour of cardio twice a day to get the digestion so that they can eat all the meals. I don't know if, if, if, but what shocked me just now, actually Armin, we have a question of Armin, Armin, sorry. We have a question about this also, which is honey's diet structure. I, do you notice a similarity? It's, it's the same ounces as Chad uses real food multiple times a day. It says a very similar thing. The point is, honey, you learned a lot from Chad. Yeah. You worked with him, didn't you? Yes, yeah. Oh really? And so, well actually let me ask the question. So transdysballad69 says, I don't know what that name means. Very interesting. He says for Armand. He says, you guys know it's that time, drumroll. What does honey do? That's the quote on quote, the magic that these other coaches don't have. All his guys have a specific identical look to their skin and muscles when he gets his hands on them. Any special protocol given that you've worked with him? Boston mentioned 300 milligrams of proviron or multiple. I'll talk about myself and then I had four close friends work with him. Okay. First of all, he won't work with you unless he thinks at that time, the pro kid, unless he thought he could turn you pro, he wouldn't even work with you. I hooked him up with a couple of my friends that they had good genetics too. He's like, no, I don't like this about their structure. I'm like, I don't want to work with them. I'm like, whoa, but then he eventually did work with them and turned them bro. So what he does, he won't work with somebody unless he knows your super hard core and then plus the price, the money you were paying him at that time was, I mean, insane. So you would have to be super hardcore and do it. No one was going to pay him that kind of money unless they really wanted it. And at that time a pro card meant making money and getting a contract. So he takes individual by individual and it's not certain, certain, some, some protocol because when I got with him, I was, it, he was very, uh, the, the gear was not much at all. It was more than I ever took, but it wasn't much at all. And then other people working with him at that time, he had them on more stuff. Okay. And I would ask Connie like about insulin. We didn't use insulin at all in two years for the offseason, pre contest anything, um, proviron. We never took more than 50 milligrams. Uh, he just, you know, and I liked him a lot because he kind of prepped people similar to how I did at the time, like he would take on that person. And you know, certain people like, uh, certain people are known as like high card guys, no fat or Dave's known as a keto guy or high fat. Um, you know, um, I, I like that's the diet and I like a lot of food. And you know, I don't have to do cardio to get in shape and shredded and Boston seems, seems my conditioning. I get crazy condition, but honey had me doing a little more cardio. Um, not a little more, a lot more, but hadn't eating a lot more food. And it, I, I do think that does, you know, instead of doing less cardio and less food, when you're doing more cardio and more food, it does make your physique better and full and all that, but there's no really secret. There's not, there's no secrets. It's just, he gets the person, he pays close to close the tension to you makes, you know, make sure your, your guys are talking every week. We spoke, you know, twice a week on the phone, about an hour each time. He makes sure you're mentally okay. You're mentally there. Um, you know, make sure he's, he was really big on staying off rec stuff. So make sure you're not doing any rec drugs. He was really big on that. Um, and he was just, so there's not really any secrets. So, um, I, my friends that worked with him, um, they weren't doing much gear either. It was, they were very light cycles, but this is what he does. So the first year when I got, when he got me, I told him what I did, like cycle wise. I don't think he believed me because it was like not that much cause I was coming from Dave helping me and Dave is very light, you know, 1000 milligrams a 10. I mean, at that time he was very light boss. And as you know, with the cycles. So, um, you know, I just wanted to hire honey. I mean, it was between.  honey and George, and I clicked with honey because honey really was only prepping, you know, a few clients like he always does. He never took on a lot of people. So he just invests a lot of time and effort and makes sure you're doing it right. And, you know, he's one of those guys, like, if you get on the phone and you didn't do something right, he's going to make you feel like shit, and you're not going to make that mistake again. And, you know, and then he's at the show, you know, like, I know Chad doesn't go to a lot of shows. He's at the show. He's back, he's not actually backstage, but he's right there with you. Hey, do this, then you're going to do this. You know, so he's just on it. So there's no like super tricks. And like I said, you know, when he was working with one of my friends, Chris Jalali, Chris Jalali did pass away from an oxycodone when he had a jaw surgery, but honey was working with him. He dropped in after two years because he suspected he was using more gear and he was, he was using way more gear than honey was telling us to use. And honey just knew he was and he dropped him completely. So there's no secrets. People ask that all the time. I just, he's just there for you and just, and then, you know, I know, I know how like Matt is and goes with people and stuff like that, but honey really knows what he's doing and he can take any physique and just make it. That's why I said like if Matt Jensen went with him, I don't know what he would exactly do, but he would make him better somehow. You mean Nick Walker? Yeah. Yeah, I mean Nick Walker. So he has that experience and he has, and he's older. So you know, Matt is what he's, he's not that old, but he's in his 30s. Oh, I guessed it right. Holy shit. I just said he looks 32. I'm good at that shit. I look 45. Yeah. So just the experience and just, you know, like I said, I was like, honey, can we push a little harder with this or this? He's like, you don't need it. You don't need insulin. You don't need this and you don't need this. And I'm like, okay, like anadrol. He had me take it a half an anadrol on prep, just 25 milligrams. He wouldn't let, he wouldn't let blue take insulin either. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. But then I was talking to Jason Q and he was taking four anadrols a day and I said, honey, told you to take four anadrols a day. He's like, yeah. So he's just totally different with everybody. And he doesn't, like I said, he won't send you a program. That's a good sign. That's the best. Yeah. He don't send you a program with your protocol on it. Like your gear, you'll talk about it on the phone because he wants to make sure you're doing each thing like you're supposed to do. That's why he was in the hour about that. Yeah. I won't put it on paper. He'll call. Now, this is the thing though. I want to know how, boss, you wanted to comment. Yeah. So I wanted to comment because I had a good, I had a friend, a teen bodybuilder, Seth Salander that worked with him. Dude, Haani flipped out on this kid. This kid was like Haani instead of, I'm having, I'm having the meal, this is my salmon with meal four instead of the meal two. And the Haani loses it on him in the gym, just flips on him. What the fuck are you doing? Like over since over bringing the salmon, like two meals up, right? Like he's real structured. So this is the secret with Haani and Armin hit it on the head. He's only going to take you on if you have good genetics and a good response. So he's not going to have any slouches. He charges an insane amount. So if you're crazy enough to pay him that much, you're going to follow everything to a T because most of these key people that pay coaches don't follow everything, but everyone follows what he says because he charges you that much and he's known to be the best of people. Listen. So it's those two things, the structure that he has and how, and how he makes people listen and he has that authoritative figure to him where people are like really like going to listen to him. And two, he only works with people that actually have the genetics to do well. Only, yeah. But the thing is, Boston, uh, him picking people that are winners, if you think about it, it's pretty like, look, a lot of kids want to go to Harvard, but Harvard only accepts you if they think you're going to succeed in life. And then they want you to take their flag and take it up the mountain and plant it there for them. So really, all these places, they want to pick a winner and then help them get there in a way, you know? And if at least if honey accepts you, you know, he really believes in you, right? He wants you to, but, um, the one thing about me, why never was it? He believes you're going to be very well. Yeah. And, you know, you have to get along too. Like he has his favorites, you know, like we became close because, you know, he's Persian, young Persian, you know, uh, I would go to train. I went out to San Jose, get trained with him for a week, go eat Persian food. But so, I mean, uh, he did treat different people different ways. I was supposed to keep working with him. And we, we had a plan. He's like, you can, you can go to the top. You have, you know, what it takes. Um, don't worry about the nationals. You got messed over on what went on the USA's and six week or whatever, six months. And if you bring the same, the judges said you get, you're going to go, but that's when I had to have two shoulder surgeries and that pretty much went into my career. But if I, if I stayed with honey, which I would have, I wouldn't have went to any other coach. I would have gone far, but you know, it was different. The industry changed. How much better was honey than Dave? Well, you know, I, when I went to Dave, I was like 23. I didn't have real coaches before. I won four shows on my own. My first four shows I won. Okay. First that was just my genetics and my metabolism was super fast. And I would come in crazy condition. When I got with Dave, Dave, I did learn from Dave. Okay. I learned certain things just to make it very simple and you could look good, you know, keeping it really simplified. Um, we did start the keto. I said, Dave, my metabolism is crazy. I got to eat a lot of food. He understood that. And he found me differently than all the other cooking cutter diet. But when I had a couple years with Dave, I just like, I need a coach that's just hard on me. Dave's like, every time I see the pictures, man, you look freaky. You look crazy. You look nuts. And, you know, so everything was good. I was like, I want someone telling me I'm not good enough. I'm not good enough. I need that to, to go forward. So Dave is, honey is a coach. Like that's his main, you know, was his main deal. Dave was coach part time supplement on our Rex. He had all these things and he, and his mindset was like, well, you know, they're just different. So, and at that time, paying honey, that money was worth it. Because like I said, when you were turning pro, honey, we had the same, would have the connections to be like, Hey, we're going to get you on the flex. Like, he was already talking to people at flex for me thinking I was getting my pro card at that show and then going on. So it's not only that. He had your best interest and, you know, I really, you know, was bummed out when I had to have shoulder surgery and pretty much. And then when I came back, I didn't hire honey because I was just doing it for fun. I had Dave help me a little bit and, you know, but yeah, honey's the best there is. And, you know, unfortunately, he doesn't work with that many people. So just to give people an idea about how much honey charges in 2012, he walked into Max Muscle Walnut Creek when I was working the front desk and he brought in a bunch of EVP. He only had one product at the time and I asked him how much he would charge me. I was a teenage bodybuilder at the time. Um, and he offered 3000. I remember I was like 19 years old or 18. He offered me $3,000 for six months. That's how expensive he was back then. Oh, wow. That's for everybody. That's nothing compared to what I paid. Really? Wow. And then you paid more than 3000 for six months. Yeah. Wow. So I came to him. I sent him pictures and he was just like, Oh, he didn't think much of my physique. I was clean. I'm sure he didn't, you know, so many people live. So I'm like, I've been completely clean for four to five months. He's like, why have you been clean? I was like, I just wanted to come off everything and just here's my physique clean. So when we jumped on and within a couple months, he's like, Oh, shit, your physique's nuts. And so I paid him, I think it was, I paid him for offseason and prep. So it was a full year, but it was 8,500. Okay. And then after that, once he saw how serious and good I was, you could have hired a mean alive for just almost that price. You missed out, bro. Anyway, I spoke to Milos at that time before too. And I was like, Hey, I think about working with you. He sent it by one word back said $5,000. Bro, I sent the same thing. My only experience with Milos, I sent like, I have a question about a consultation. It was just, it was a money answer. I was like, I didn't, the question wasn't that deep like to be honest. Anyway, so where was I cut you off? So you, but, but honey, I want to ask a couple of things about that. One was how Persian is like you're, because you're half American. And I know you don't, it's not like your first language is strikes strikes me that he's also like that, right? Like he's more Americanized grew up in very, very, very Americanized, but he still goes in his Persian food and says, said, I'm Chetori and like, yeah, his wife's Persian and yeah, that's how it's cool in the Persian culture here. They still maintain like the family gatherings and all that. Even, even when they're not speaking Persian. Okay. The other thing I want to ask is this, my issue with him, the only issue I've ever had with honey is that I, when he started his YouTube channel, I first started to see his interview or him's discussions just struck me as it's not so transparent. Like I couldn't, I didn't feel like he's saying exactly what he's thinking. I felt like it was a businessman talking to me or presenting or something like that. Is that just like, he's just formal maybe or something like that? Like what's he like? Does he, does he just open up, put down his guard ever with people and just be himself or he's quite, you got to know him. You have to know if the podcast is completely formal, he doesn't want to get into gear this, that he's not, yeah, that's what I mean. Like, unless you work with him and you're, you know, you're paying him and he tells you, Hey, this is between us and this, then y'all are shooting the shit, joking this, but, but outside that, because when I first tried to work with him, he was talking to a tamer and I think they were about to do the USA's and it was a wrong time. I talked to him, I went up to Hany, he's like, Hey, I'm interested in working with you. He's just like, I'm like, okay. And then I spoke to him over afterwards. He gave me his contact and we spoke, but I sent other people to him too that had, I sent a couple of my clients to him also that I did well with, but they, you know, thought that he had some special secret and they, he wouldn't even work with them. So a lot of people, like I said, both, if he didn't think he could turn you pro and make you a good pro, he wasn't going to work with you. I got into it with Hany at the 2013 San Jose pro. He had a booth there. We actually got into it. It was pretty good. How come? I didn't, I didn't back down from him at all. So I was working at the Max Muscle Walnut Creek and they were selling EVP for insane amounts of price. I mean, crazy amount. And I had sampled it and I just didn't think the product was that great for the amount. I mean, it was a good product, but for the price he was charging, right? So this is when he first came out with his company and I made a post saying the most overrated, overpriced bullshit on the market is EVGEN by Hany. And I had a decent following at this point because it was right after I won the Contra Costa and I just had came out with a steroid transformation video. So he saw me at the fucking, uh, at the show and he approached me and he was pissed, dude. He was like, and he like got in my face and stuff. And I straight out was like, and I didn't back down from them. I gave it back to him. I'm like, dude, the shit's way overpriced. I said, I'm telling you, the shit's junk. And dude, we got into it and we ended up shaking hands and it was, it was done and then we were fine after that. But it was actually like in the middle of the fucking expo, dude. He is that Middle Eastern blood like at nationals that year. I was supposed to turn pro. He's, we were up on the rooftop the night before me, Phil Heath, Lee Thompson was, was the state chairman and Hany. They're like, you got the show. No one can beat this. Nobody. And uh, with that day, you know, I told, I think I spoke on a different episode when I got the legal trial for all that. The judges all knew when I got that call out, if you guys haven't watched that episode, go watch it. It's a cool story. Sorry, just thought. I think you got taken down with the other. Oh, it's on that. Well, we probably get it back up someday when they're not looking. Yeah. He was sitting right behind the judges. He stood up. He was screaming like a maniac. The judges had to turn around and calm him down, but that shows you how passionate he was about me. He did that. He did that for Hany also. Oh, that's cool. Yeah. This, he has a good, cool character, right? He lets his emotions go. He's really invest in you if you're with him and you pay it. Of course you pay him, but it's not, it's more than money to him. And it was expensive, but he really wants you to succeed and do well and care, cares about your mental health, makes you're staying off the wreck stuff, you know, all that. So, you know, I, he's the best step, you know, there is possible. I'm going to clip this. I think I'll, it'll be a cool clip. Hey, brothers, listen, we did the one hour and a half. We went past. We can get Hany on here. That would be a more thing. And then when I had my injury, he's like, your shoulder, you'll probably be out three months and we'll get back on it. Unfortunately, when they had it going twice and I was out a year and a half straight, he's, he's like, he kept working with me for, he didn't even ask for another payment anymore. He's like, hey, I'm just going to help you out. Eventually when you get back on your feet, you know, we can start payments. So that was really, yeah. Well, okay. So the subscribers who, who got to this point of the podcast, the end of it, if you guys are listening, please spam Hany and let him know that Boston and I and Armand would get him on the podcast and all, all message Nick, his, his partner in crime and try to get him on here. We would, we would love to have him on. He has his own podcast now. So who knows? He does. Yeah, I know. I would be cool. Okay. You guys go spam. We rely on you, report back to us and I'll see you guys again. Boston is supposed to be every two weeks, but I'll sneak, I'll trick you next week. You come on again. I hope. Yeah, just give me a, give me a heads up. You didn't, I didn't know, dude, I didn't hear from you all week. So I didn't know. It was my fault. I didn't confirm. I thought we were confirmed from last week, but, but we got that group text. Now, so are we doing, are we doing Friday? No, Wednesday, right? Wednesday. Yeah. Wednesday, Wednesday, one PM. Wednesday, one PM. Yeah, one time. Yeah, exactly. Is that three, is that three PM for you, Armand? Yeah, right? Yeah. And Pete, we have so much to talk about Tennessee on the next one. I didn't get to it here, but, but Pete, are you, are you in a weird time zone in your area in Knoxville? Cause in Chattanooga, this Eastern time. No, I'm in Eastern time too. Okay, cool. Okay. Yeah. I just wanted to comment that central time is weird. I just, mountain time is also weird. I don't know what they are. The time is Memphis, Tennessee. So if you go over to Memphis. Yeah, but what is it? Is it an hour after? What is it? Hour before Eastern. So it's like, oh, right now, Central Armand? Yeah, I'm in Texas. So it's a 444 here now. Yeah, but what is mountain time, bro? Why is this? Dude, I'm so confused. I don't, I don't even know. I'm not. That's two hours before Eastern. Bro, see how, see how people are, don't appreciate America. Look how much our government cares for us. They put 50 time zones in one country. You go to China, there's one time zone. Half of your wake up when it's dark, the other half wake up when it's light. You have to do business at the same time. They don't give a crap. Anyway, guys, thank you so much for chatting with me. I'll see you again next week. We have more things to discuss. Yeah, you'll have a good day. All right, brother. Talk to you. Bye, brother. See you guys.

=== FILE: Better than Ozempic？ The Pill That's Changing Weight Loss! [_d4CCMeR4_U].txt ===

 are you ready to revolutionize your weight loss journey with a pill that gives injections a run for their money? If you haven't heard about Ozampic yet, buckle up, because we're about to explore a new weight loss pill that Leo found, and this one you wouldn't want to miss. Welcome back everybody, I am Lucy and I'm here to keep Leo's research and memory alive while educating and helping people live better life. Before we jump in, click on the subscribe button, ring bell because you don't want to miss any of the bell because you don't want to miss any of the upcoming videos from Leo's research. First, let's take a quick trip down memory lane. The battle against the bulge isn't new. From the early days of W's diet pills from the latest FDA-approved medication, we've come a long way in understanding how to fight fat. When it comes to the history of weight loss drugs, it started with the mitochondrial encoupler in 1933, followed by the Sympathicomimetics drugs. It started around 1947. Then we have the polyphonic pharmacy class of pharmacy class of drugs, 1961. The CB1 receptor blockers around 2006. We have the pancreatic lipophase inhibitor that we will be talking about in 1999. Then the 5-HT2C receptor agonists around 2012. The Sympathicomimetics anticonvulsants class of drugs 2012 as well. The opioid receptor antagonists, dopamine and neuroadrenaline rehab tech inhibitors around 2014. And for the GLP-1R agonists, liraglutide is 2014. And semaglutide as recently as 2021. So we all heard recently the buzz on semaglutide and often referred to the brand name, ozempic. And it's not just making ripples. It's creating tidal waves in the weight loss world with double-digit weight loss percentage. And guess what? It's become the non-so-well-kept weapons and secrets of the stars. As recently, we have seen people taking ozempic like Elon Musk, Sharon Osborne, Amy Shulmer, Chelsea Handler, Tracy Morgan, and even Michael Rubin. So these are just a few of the big names that turned the tide in their battle against the bulge and with this game changer. And the result is like nothing short of dramatics. You can see how dramatically those celebrities have lost weight. But let's just not name drop for the sake of it. What's truly fascinating is how this medication is changing the narrative when it comes to weight loss. It's not just about looking good for the camera. It's about living a healthier life and a new chapter in life. So today we are going to peel back the curtain to see if there is any even more potent medication on the horizon. A pill might just be outshining those injections, so stay tuned because this is where it's going to get very interesting. But let's start with ozempic. The drug have been on everyone's lips since 2021. It's got the power to slash those pounds, but it comes with two significant drawbacks. First, the cost can burn a hole in your wallet. And second, it's an injection. I mean, who's really a fan of Nido, right? Some of those fitness and bodybuilders are keen to it, but I will say most of the population are not. There's this thing. Weight loss is just not one size fit all. And the reason behind wingate are as unique as you are, which means there are different things that will work better for different folks when it comes to medication as well. And before we unveil the new heavyweight champion of the weight loss pill, yes, I'm going to make a lot of boxing reference here. Let's take a quick detour and explore some of the other contenders that might just fit you like a glove for your weight loss needs. First up in our arsenal, we have Phantamine Topiramid. This is a dynamic duo that can get you between like 10.9 to 12.4% weight loss over 50 weeks period. So it's not just an appetite suppressant, it's like a heavyweight champion when it comes to hunger management. So here's how it works. Phantamine is like your brain personal trainer getting those monoamits pumping and make you feel full. Topiramid, on the other hand, is like a mystery player. It was originally designed to tackle epilepsy, but now it's stepping up into the ring to knock out appetite. And as for the proof, we have a couple tries like Equip, Conquer, and Sequel that have put the tag team to the test. And the results, they are really champion material. But as with any contender, there are challenges to face. So side effects include like dry mouth, insomnia, racing heart rate. And it's really crucial to have a corner man in your case at any given time. Your healthcare provider can help you navigate these waters. As always, I'm not a medical doctor. This is not medical advice. Always consult with healthcare professional before you make any decision. This is just for entertainment purposes. And so you have some information that you can share with real professionals and see what fits best for you. All right, now let's dive into more numbers and get down to the neat degree with Naltrexen and Bupropion. This is just another contender. It's a proven competitor with a track record, helping people lose between 5% to 9.3% of their body weight over a 56-week period. Now, how does this dynamic duo work? It's magic. So picture this. Bupropion steps into the ring and boosts your dopamine and neuroadrenaline. That's your body natural feel-good pet talk, basically. Which in turn activates POMC, your appetite-suppressing heavy champ, if you want. Now let's look into Naltrexen. It's playing defense against beta-endorphin, which has sneaky wear against enhancing appetite through those cannabinoid 1 receptors. Well, Naltrexen isn't having any of that. It's there to block and tackle, potentially making the effect of Bupropion even stronger. As for the clinical trial, this speaks volume. The four core trials, with core 1 leading the charges in 2014, I've put the team to the test. And the result is that they have earned their place in the weight loss playbook. But as always, let's talk some side effects, because they're also part of the story. With this combination, we're looking at nausea, dry mouth, constipation, and yes, also uptick in heart rate. These are the stats you need to know before even considering taking this combination. Now let's send the spotlight to liraglutide at 3mg dosage. So this isn't just another player in the game. It's a strategy that's been helping people achieving a solid 6-8% weight loss over 56 weeks period. Also very impressive, right? But what's the secret behind liraglutide's success? So it's all about the GLP-1 receptors in the hypothalamus. So when liraglutide steps into the ring, it activates POMC neurons, amongst others, putting the brakes on hunger signal like neuropeptide Y. So the SCALE trial, including the notable SCALE sleep apnea study, started back in 2015, have put liraglutide through its face. And the results have been a win for many looking to lose weight. But like with every medication, it has its counterpunch. With liraglutide, we're looking at side effects like gallstone, pancreatitis, and an increased heart rate. The upside, there are no risks in psychological symptoms, which is a common concern with dopaminergic and adrenergic drugs. Next, let's talk about olistate. So this isn't just your typical appetite for a person. It's like a different kind of player in the weight loss league. It prescribes a dose of up to 120 mg three times a day. The Orlistat approach is unique. Instead of diving into the complex world of hunger mechanisms, it plays a straightforward game. It targets the lipis in your gastrointestinal tract, putting a stop sign on the absorption of triglyceride. It's simple, yet very effective. The main event that put Orlistat on the map is the Xandos trial, way back in 1999. This was the trial that laid the groundwork for Orlistat's plays and the weight loss playbook. But there are still side effects like loose, oily stool, and yes, also flatulence that often cook clear room. But it may also, most importantly, block the absorption of those all-important fat-soluble vitamins. So you have to keep an eye on that, especially if you have cholestatis. So take a little Tatka that might be your best friend in this case. So despite all those side effects, Orlistat stands out as the safest anti-obesity drugs in the market, and it's even prescribed for children. So when it comes to the heavy weights of weight loss, Phantamine and Topiramid is a duo that's very hard to beat. They've outperformed the competition, including bupropion, nitrixin, GLP-1, Agonist, and even Orlistat. But before we talk about the pill I wanted to talk about, let's also mention the future of weight loss. It's looking even more innovative. So imagine a world where we can target our weight loss as precisely as we target symptoms with medication. That's where we're eventually heading with some new potential mechanisms that are being developed. Some of those are selective melanocortin-4 receptor agonists. So if you've heard of the tannic drug Melantan-2, which I'm sure you have if you're watching this channel, it's notorious effect is nausea. So it gives you the idea of how it works. It's about curving that appetite at its biological core. Then there's also the cannabinoid-1 receptor blockade. Think of it as the anti-munchies effect, reversing that insatiable hunger that you get from marijuana, for example. It's like flipping a switch to say no thanks to the snack drawer. And also don't overlook serotonin-1 receptor agonists. This isn't just about feeling good, it's about down-regulating those receptors that can drive us to overeat. And lastly, we're also looking at dual CGLT1 and CGLT2 inhibitor. These are just not about managing diabetes. They might be also the next thing when it comes to cutting down weight. And as a side note, there are also Ritalin that is currently in phase 3 trial. All of these are potentially game-changer in the horizon for health and wellness and for weight loss. There are things to keep an eye on. And remember, the journey to weight loss is evolving every day. Now, what if I told you that the weight loss world is about to be rocked by a new contender? So let me introduce you to tesofensin. It is a triple threat that's stepping out of the shadow of neurological research to get into the weight loss spotlight. But tesofensin isn't just another pill. Individuals have witnessed an astonishing 10.6% weight loss over a 6-month period. Yes, we're hitting the double digit with 6-week period. The previous medication we talked about were about a 56-week period. So this is just better results faster. It was originally developed for Alzheimer and Parkinson. And tesofensin is a triple monoamide re-hoptic inhibitor. So now let's break it down. Re-hoptic inhibitor blocks the absorption of neurotransmitters back in the nerve cells. Now, which neurotransmitter are we talking about? The big three. We have dopamine, neuroadrenaline, and serotonin. The chemical that affects basically everything from mood to appetite. And the secret sauce to tesofensin? It's all about cranking up the activity as the D1 dopaminergic and alpha-1 adrenergic receptor, which put the brakes on hunger like nothing else. Let's get a bit into the data. In a groundbreaking 2008 phase 2 trial, we saw that 0.25 milligrams of tesofensin led to a 4.5% weight loss. All of this in 6 months. 0.5 milligram resulted in 9.2%. And 1 milligram, which is the heaviest dose, 10.6% decrease in body weight over 6 months. Now, it's just not about shedding pounds. This powerhouse also brings down triglyceride and also better blood glucose level. It's kind of a 2-for-1 deal on health benefits with it. But let's talk about the side effects. We're looking at gastrointestinal issues like nausea, stomach pain, and mood change. But most of the side effects were observed at 1 milligram dose. And we also have an uptick in heart rate. However, so like I mentioned, the side effects are tremendously reduced at the dose of 0.5. Now, imagine pairing tesofensin with a selective beta-1 blocker like nebivolol to keep your heart rate in shake, or lactrexin to even further fine-tune your appetite control. So we're talking about a tag team that could really redefine weight loss. And stay with me a couple more minutes, because I've prepared for you a comparison table that you must look before choosing which weight loss helper is best for you. But before we do, let's line up tesofensin with some familiar faces in the weight loss arena. It's time for a head-to-head showdown to see if the new kid on the block really stacks up. A little bit of history. Central nervous system stimulants have been in the weight loss playbook for a long time now. And when it comes to getting a grip on those neurotransmitters, it's all about occupancy rate. So bupropion, it reaches about 25% occupancy at the DAT. Tesofensin, on the other hand, it takes up a notch to 65% DAT occupancy. And why this matters is because higher DAT occupancy is a key player in suppressing appetite. But it's not just about dopamine. Tesofensin also targets neuropinephrine and serotonin receptor, hitting that sweet spot of 50-70% of NET and 70-80% of SIRT, aiming for like a full-spectrum antidepressant effect with a lower risk of abuse. Speaking of potential abuse, while tesofensin shows a promising profile, methofenidate, another heavyweight champion when it comes to weight loss, is no far as higher risk. So it's not just about risk, but it's also about the results. So methofenidate brings a massive impact on NET reuptake inhibition and a unique twist with its agonist of the serotonin autoreceptor, which down-regulates the entire serotonin system. As a side note, when you decide to mess up with any of your brain receptors and regulators, just always be careful. Talk to your healthcare provider before doing anything. I think it's important to understand the risks versus the rewards and make conscious decisions. In the end, it's not all about the numbers. It's about finding the right match for your weight loss journey. And nevertheless, it should always stay combined with lifestyle changes, because nothing is magic. Now let's make a realistic comparison of those products if you do not have insurance and you live in the United States. Please take a screenshot of this or just pause and look it over. But when you compare semaglutide costs with its result compared to tesofensin's cost and its result, knowing that we're having an injection compared to a pill, I mean, we're talking about semaglutide for a month. It costs about between $800 to $1,000. And in six months, you can achieve up to like 12.10% of weight loss. But tesofensin, on the other hand, takes around like $200 to $250 a month at 0.5 milligrams. And you can still get like a 9.6% body weight loss over the same period of time. So it's all about what you prefer or what you decide to do at the end. But I think it's good to have something to compare all of them that we just talked about. All right, we've dived deep into the world of weight loss medication today. And I hope you found this comparison as enlightening as I did. Now, I'm going to do my own personal share with you right now. I've lost 20 pounds over the last four months. I had a very difficult time to lose weight after my pregnancy. And I finally started to take things seriously. I only did it using diets and some exercise, but mostly diet. I'm looking to lose another 15 pounds to get back to where I used to be. To help me cross that finish line and to also experiment with tesofensin, I'm going to start taking it for a month. I really want to experience those effects and see what it does. I am very well aware about my brain chemistry. For that reason, I am going to cycle it, meaning I will only take it four times a week and take a break for another three and cycle it like that for a month and see what are the results. I'll be pairing it with a beta blocker just to keep everything in check. And I will be reporting back and let you know how this worked out for me. Remember, always consult with your healthcare provider before starting any new medication. This channel is all about entertainment with a sprinkle of education. And take what you learn and talk it through with a professional. And I'd like to hear from you. If you want to leave a comment below and let me know which medication intrigues you or share your own weight loss journey. And you know this will help boost this channel and keep Leo's legacy going. You will also find a link with his notes on the subject with all the citations on there on the description below. This video was made based on that and I just scripted it about to make it more entertaining because I'm very uncomfortable filming. And I appreciate you sticking with me. Thank you all for bearing with me. Together, let's just build a community that's all about health, knowledge and support. And let's keep Leo's memories alive. Until next time, stay curious and stay well.

=== FILE: Celebrating Leo on His Special Day [o15dPZgQD0o].txt ===

 theseviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia I've never been I think so grateful in my life before. I am truly grateful to all of you. Another thing I want to thank the subscribers for is when you tell me about something that the channel has done that may have helped you in life. For example a couple of days ago I received some of the most beautiful messages I ever received about someone who was trying to quit marijuana for a long time and finally succeeded. I've received similar comments from people trying to get over addiction and find other common addictions like opiates or alcoholism and finally been able to. I've received comments about people curing their anhedonia or anxiety or getting relief from anxiety or depression. Also even the comment especially although my channel is limited to people 18 plus sometimes I receive direct messages from teenagers who are able to avoid poor life choices thanks to the channel. These comments that you send me I don't know if you guys realize how much they really mean to me. Dia's mission was clear to improve human performance and longevity. He believed in a unique approach combining the power of biohacking genetics nutrition and lifestyle to unlock our fullest potential. Leith had a degree from Carnegie Mellon and the London School of Economics and his academy prowess was just evident. But he wasn't just about the degrees or the title. He was about the genuine desire to help others. Leith was a fan of biohacking and often experimented on himself. He loved the idea of being in full control, changing his look and style with a zest that was uniquely his. Over his life he embraced so many different looks and style that you might not even believe or even recognize him from one face to another. I'm happy to share some photos showcasing the multitude of faces and facets his persona that you might have not known. Leith was a father. Leith was a father. But like many people, and many of us, he wasn't without his struggles. He faced his own challenges that tested his spirits, solved. Yet, through it all, he remained strong with his convictions, always striving to leave a lasting legacy of knowledge and inspiration. It really is the principal goal of my channel, is to help others avoid the mistakes that I've made. The other goal is to learn together. And that's why I'm so into the democratization of knowledge. That's why I have my how to research video. I love that element of being on YouTube, learning from each other, and having a common sort of society. Tragically, Leo's journey was cut short. He was taken from us under very mysterious circumstances in Thailand. His untimely departure leaves a voice that words cannot fill. As we grapple with the weight of his loss, we urge anyone with information about Leo's passing to come forward. Justice must be served and closure found, and I will not rest until I find out what happened and who's responsible for it. As we all remember Leo, let's honor his legacy by continuing to seek knowledge, to help others, to live a life with purpose and passion, and stay around as we embark on a journey to ensure his memory and mission is lived on. Booboo? Arabella just sent her first words. What did you just say? Hello? Hello? Well, anyway, we almost recorded. Rest in peace, slave. We miss you so much. Happy birthday.

=== FILE: Deca Side Effects [_LLyNqC0j-0].txt ===

 X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 want to miss any single health secret we share today we're diving into the world of deca also known as mandrelone decanoate a widely used anabolic steroid in the bodybuilding community renowned for its impressive ability to boost muscle mass and strength deca has become a go-to for athletes seeking physical enhancement but it's not just about bigger muscles deca also influences your metabolism playing with a complex role in how your body processes sugar and fats and in this episode we'll discuss two studies drawing some serious side effects of deca and we'll start with mental health our journey begins with one fascinating studies on deca so according to the research published in your own doctrinology letters rat subjects who four weeks course of deca exhibited signs of increased anxiety but the intrigue doesn't stop right there unlike the effect typically associated with testosterone deca has also been linked to depressive behavior in these animals it appears that the impact of deca extend beyond just physical enhancement and really influence emotional states now picture this you're enjoying your favorite sweet treats but suddenly it just doesn't excite you anymore that's exactly what happened in this study researchers found that rats treated with deca for four weeks show reduced preference in circles a common sweeteners this isn't just about a ship in this preference it's a sign of anhedonia which is a condition where the brain no longer finds pleasure in activities or experiences that used to be enjoyable but there's more to the story while ssri which are common antidepressants have been found to increase sucralose preference in rats deca does the exact opposite it's changing preference and it's linked to alteration in the brain reward system specifically the study revealed that serotonin neurodrenaline and dopamine level in the nucleus accumbin were all reduced in these rats the nucleus accumbin i think i'm pronouncing it right is a critical area of the brain that really transmits dopamine while the animal eats sucralose so we're seeing here how deca really affects the brain chemical balance in particularly in areas associated with pleasure and rewards dive into the nucleus accumbin deca really play a significant role in it it reduces the level of serotonin neurodrenaline and dopamine in this area it's like having a party without music that's basically what happened in the brain your mood drops anhedonia the inability to feel pleasure just sets in now let's get into the npy neuropeptide white which is a key player in mood regulation it's abandoned in the brain and affects everything from mood to stress response however six-week treatment of deca has shown in this study that it decreases the availability of neuropeptide y neuron in the hippocampus which is a critical area for emotion and memories this reduction is linked to a higher key of mood disorder like depression and anxiety neuropeptide y acts as a natural mood stabilizer so when deca reduces its availability it's like removing your brain's tool from maintaining mood balance and this can lead to mood changes and a higher susceptibility to mood disorders and we've seen it with many bodybuilders snapping or feeling very moody on deca so this study also revealed that the four-week treatment with deca can also lead to depressive and anidonic states like we talked before so why does deca lead to depressive and anidonic states this is closely linked to the kinuridine pathway activation an alternative metabolic road for the amino acid tryptophan tryptophan is essential amino acid primarily broken down by the kiren kinuridine pathway this pathway produces neuroactive compounds including kinuridine itself however there is another side of the story tryptophan can also be metabolized into serotonin which is a key neurotransmitter that influences mood happiness and well-being let's take a closer look at the design of these intriguing studies the researcher divided 18 rats into three distinct groups the control group a deca group and a testosterone group over the course of 18 days the rats in the deca and testosterone group receive injections every third day this careful scheduling allowed researcher to closely mimic the dosing pattern often seen in humans using these substances the researcher also examined the blood level of the rats observed their behavior and analyzed their brain matter now let's look into the results of this study which are quite fascinating the majority of the alternations observed were specific to a critical region of the brain the hypothalamus this area played a key role in regulating many of our body essential function one of the standout findings was that nandrolone more than testosterone significantly upregulated the mrna transcription of the oxytocin receptor gene oxytocin optudum for their love hormone is known for regulating behavior like food intake and sexual activity but its role is much more complex and far-reaching in these studies the rat treated with deca experienced less weight gain compared to those in the control group or those treated with testosterone this finding really shows that nandrolone have a unique impact in the body metabolic processes furthermore the studies highlighted the intricate relationship between oxytocin and dopaminesic neurons oxytocin's influence on behavior was found to be inhibited by haloperidol a dopamine antagonist and partially abolished by naloxone an mor antagonist this indicates that there is a close interplay between these neurotransmitters but interestingly oxytocin transmission is often triggered following stressful events it's a mechanism that helps the body cope with stress however in individuals with depression increased level and activity of oxytocin receptors and neurons have been observed which suggests that there's a complex relationship between oxytocin and mood disorder now both deca and testosterone were found to upregulate the expression of neuropeptide y receptors specifically type 1 and 5 in the hypothalamus remember neuropeptide y is a key player in regulating food intake among other functions but there is a difference in how deca and testosterone influence these receptors deca was observed to upregulate the type 1 receptors less than the type 5 receptor compared to testosterone the differential regulation is quite significant and point towards the unique effect of these compounds in this study the authors suggested that this effect is likely dependent on the androgen receptor as it was more pronounced with nandrolone which has a higher affinity to the androgen receptor interestingly while nandrolone impact public and scalp androgen receptor less due to its transformation by 5 alpha reductase into a weaker androgen it still exerts a strong influence in the hypothalamus this finding aligns with previous research showing that oxytocin genes in the hypothalamus are regulated by androgen receptor expressions but now let's look into the realms of stress hormones and how they are affected by nandrolone and testosterone stress hormones like adrenocorticotropic hormones and corticosterones play a pivotal role in our body's stress response so they are like the body alarm system gearing up to face challenges so in this study is something intriguing was observed a level of acth were found to be reduced more significantly in the group treated with nandrolone compared to the testosterone group however both were lower than the control group so this reduction in acth indicates a dampened response in the body's stress system the plot taken when we look at corticosterone's level which in the rat equivalent of cortisol in humanin the testosterone group corticosterone levels were reduced but in the nandrolone group they're actually increased from the control baseline this is critical finding because it suggests that deca unlike testosterone may increase cortisol levels from baseline but more interestingly and something that in the the bodybuilding community is often observed let's look at behavioral effects observed in the study particularly concerning body weight and movement so behavior is a window into the body internal working especially when it comes to understanding the effect of substances like deca in this study an audible observation was made regarding body weight the group treated with nandrolone or deca again less body weight compared to the other group and this finding is intriguing because it contrasts with the common perception that anabolic steroid like deca primarily promote weight gain particularly muscle mass but when it comes to movement the deca group exhibited less overall activity this reduction in movement is particularly interesting when we compare it to the previous finding on testosterone testosterone has been shown to potentially increase movement deca appear to have the exact opposite effect decreasing it this behavioral change is a crucial indicator they suggest that deca might have a more profound impact on the body's energy dynamics and motivation for physical activity than previously thought not just about the physical changes but how the substance can alter behavior movement pattern which are essential component of overall health and well-being but also for bodybuilders and any fitness enthusiasts now let's look at another critical aspect of deca's impact blood sugar control it is especially relevant in the context of growth hormone and testosterone and how they interact with our body ability to manage glucose levels growth hormone while essential for growth and metabolism can paradoxically worsen insulin sensitivity in extreme cases like in agromegalic who have excessive gh it can even lead to a full-fledged diabetes on the other hand physiological levels of testosterone are known to improve liposis and insulin sensitivity which contribute to a better glucose metabolism but here is the million dollar question what happens when steroids are used in super physiological amounts historical studies have pointed towards a potential worsening of glucose metabolism under this condition to get a clearer picture let's look at a study that specifically examined the effect of super physiological doses of nandrolone or deca on the rat metabolism in this study rats were divided into three groups the control groups a group receiving a low dose of deca and another group receiving a high dose the aim was to observe how varying levels of deca affect the body ability to control blood sugar which is essential aspect of metabolic health and something you must be aware in your fitness journey understanding the relationship between steroid use particularly in those higher than the body natural produces and blood sugar control is absolutely crucial the result of this study is interesting and it shows the impact on body composition and insulin resistance firstly body composition changes were notable deca treatment led to an increase in muscle mass and water content while it decreases the total fat mass it did not significantly affect the visceral fat the fat that accumulates around your internal organ instead the reduction was more pronounced in intramuscular and continuous fats now let's look into insulin resistance in muscle the oral glucose tolerance test or gtt showed similar results across the group but a key difference emerged in skeletal muscle response to insulin the deca treated rats exhibited specific muscle insulin insensitivity this finding shows that while glucostaurins as a systemic level remained and changed deca might induce insulin resistance at the muscular level moving on to the serum level the study observed lower serum glucose level in the deca group however serum insulin level were high indicating a potential direct effect of deca in the pancreas and its insulin production another critical aspect is glucose production during fasting our bodies can produce glucose through glycolysis from glycerol from fat tissue or gluconeogenesis the study found that deca treatment increased glycerol levels possibly due to increased breakdown of triglyceride or impaired gluconeogenesis particularly high dose of deca impaired gluconeogenesis from glycerol lactate or amino acids lastly let's consider insulin resistance at the liver liver glycogen level were lower in the deca group along with a decrease in liver glucokinase these changes suggest a complex interplay of factors potentially including reduced corticoid activity or thyroid activity though the exact mechanism remained to be fully understood but this result really painted a picture of deca's multifaceted impact in the body metabolic process particularly regarding muscle mass fat distribution and insulin sensitivity let's reflect on the practical takeaways and how they can relate to human experience especially in the fitness and bodybuilding community they are known for his muscle building properties also have a profound impact in mental health and blood sugar control we saw that deca can lead to depressive and anidonic states and this is particularly significant for bodybuilders who might be using deca for its physical benefits awareness of this mode alteration is key and if you notice changes in your mood or emotional states while using deca it's important to take action regular exercise diet and omega-3 and an antioxidant engaging in enjoyable activity can help counteract these effects however if you're doing any of this and still receive any side effects and refuse to stop deca please inform your entourage that you are on it so that don't take things personally and they can try to calm you down ish supplementation can also play a role natural mood supporter like syndrome worth sam e or 5htp might offer some relief for deca induced mood changes however always consult healthcare professional before starting any new regimen i'm not a medical doctor this is not medical advice for the physical health front so deca impact blood sugar control and it cannot be ignored please monitor regularly your blood sugar level and incorporate insulin sensitizing supplements like metformin but under medical guidance that can be beneficial adjust your diet and exercise routine just to improve your insulin sensitivity can also be crucial for those experiencing persistent mood changes or severe side effects professional help is essential sometimes you need to take a break from deca and adjust the dosage it can also help preset your body's response so we are done diving into the deca world and deca side effects bodybuilders and fitness and to the house is crucial to balance the pursuit of physical gains with maintaining an overall health and well-being and remember we have lost too many people in the bodybuilding and fitness community over the last couple years and sometimes building muscle is just not worth the trade-off thank you for joining me in this journey through the world of deca let me know in the comment below have you tried deca how did you feel what was your experience did you have any side effects i'd like to know thank you everyone for watching until next time stay curious and stay well

=== FILE: He tried to do WHAT？？？ [avCjUB--FRo].txt ===

viaviaviavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia and I said okay well I'm gonna be honest with you and be real with you right now you know never like that's not gonna happen um and then I said I go you know what are you erect right now if you mind my asking eight and a half exactly you just wanted to double it just like what in three weeks I'm gonna double my size eight and a half this guy was already and I go brother brother like you are well endowed okay now with that said if you don't feel comfortable with your body I get it okay if you want to grow some length cool I get it and I'm happy to help you with that you'll never get to 15 though okay I'll tell you that right now you might get to 10 you know but you won't get to 15 and I go why do you want to do this and it goes to be honest with you I said I started dating this woman and she told me she needed bigger they're not worth it let me repeat it for people in the back so everybody can listen they're not the right partner if that the case please it turned into like a little therapy session with the guy because he was like we started talking he's like he's like hey chris this is really cool that you're talking to me like this brother and I was like because I want to be honest with you and I just don't want to sell you something you don't need me I go you don't need my products you're good like what I want you to do when we hang up is I want you to think about these things more brother and I want you to find a lady that's happy with eight and a half that's a big ass dick that's what I told him and he started cracking up and he's like oh thank you man thank you I was like you're good dude don't call me back I was like don't you know you're good so it's like he called you for a 15 inch cylinder ready but no I don't I don't want to if you don't need it you know and at the end of the day I tell these guys that I'm not trying to sell you something if you don't need it I want you to be happy because I sleep well and you

=== FILE: How Hany Rambod Coaches [dHtvdD70qP0].txt ===

 naringin,liśmyumbrinex,liśmybrinex,liśmybrinex,liśmybrinex,liśmybrinex, Let me ask the question. So Transdisballad69 says, I don't know what that name means. Very interesting. He says, for Armand, he says, you guys know it's that time. Drumroll. What does Hani do? That's the quote unquote, the magic that these other coaches don't have. All his guys have a specific identical look to their skin and muscles when he gets his hands on them. Any special protocol given that you've worked with him? Boston mentioned 300 milligrams of provirin or multiple. I'll talk about myself. And then I had four close friends work with him. OK, so first of all, he won't work with you unless he thinks at that time, the prokary, unless he thought he could turn you pro, he wouldn't even work with you. I hooked him up with a couple of my friends that that they had good genetics, too. He just he's like, no, I don't like this about their structure. I'm like, I don't want to work with them. I'm like, whoa. But then he eventually did work with them and turn them pro. So what he does, he doesn't he won't he won't work with somebody unless he knows you're super hardcore. And then plus the price, the money you were paying him at that time was insane. So you would have to be super hardcore and do it. No one was going to pay him that kind of money unless they really wanted it. And at that time, a pro card meant making money and getting a contract. So he takes individual by individual and it's not certain certain some protocol, because when I got with him, I was he was very the gear was not much at all. It was more than I ever took, but it wasn't much at all. And then other people working with him at that time, he had them on more stuff. OK, and I would ask Connie like about insulin. We didn't use insulin at all in two years for the offseason pre-contest anything. Provider and we never took more than 50 milligrams. He just, you know, and I liked him a lot because he kind of prepped people similar to how I did at the time. Like he would take on that person. And, you know, certain people like certain people are known as like high carb guys, no fat or Dave's known as a keto guy or high fat. You know, I like fats in the diet and I like a lot of food. And, you know, I don't have to do cardio to get in shape and shredded. And Boston seems seems my conditioning. I get crazy condition. But really, honey had me doing a little more cardio, not a little more, a lot more, but had me eating a lot more food. And I do think that does, you know, instead of doing less cardio and less food, when you're doing more cardio and more food, it does make your physique better and fuller and all that. But there's no really secret. There's not there's no secrets. It's just he gets the person. He pays close to close attention to you. Makes, you know, make sure your guys are talking every week. We spoke, you know, twice a week on the phone about an hour each time. He makes sure you're mentally OK. You're mentally there. You know, make sure he was really big on staying off rec stuff. So make sure you're not doing any rec drugs. He was really big on that. And he was just so there's not really any secrets. So I. Oh, good. My friends that worked with him. They weren't doing much gear either. It was they were very light cycles. But this is what he does. So the first year when I got when he got me, I told him what I did, like cycle wise. I don't think he believed me because it was like not that much because I was coming from Dave helping me. And Dave is very light. You know, a thousand milligrams of 10. And at that time, he was very light, Boston, as you know, with the cycles. So, you know, I just wanted to hire honey. I was between honey and George. And I clicked with honey because honey really was only prepping, you know, a few clients like he always does. He never took on a lot of people. So he just invests a lot of time and effort and makes sure you're doing it right. And, you know, he's one of those guys like if you get on the phone and you didn't do something right, he's going to make you feel like shit. And you're not going to make that mistake again. And, you know, and then and then he's at the show, you know, like I know Chad doesn't go to a lot of shows. He's at the show. He's back. He's not actually backstage, but he's right there with you. Hey, do this. Then you're going to do this. You know, so he's just on it. So there's no like super tricks. And like I said, you know, when he was working with my friends, Chris Jalali, Chris Jalali did pass away from oxycodone when he had a jaw surgery. But honey was working with him. He dropped him after two years because he suspected he was using more gear. And he was he was using way more gear than honey was telling him to use. And honey just knew he was. And he dropped him completely. So there's no secrets. People ask that all the time. I just he's just there for you and just and then, you know, I know how like Matt is and goes with people and stuff like that. But honey really knows what he's doing and he can take any physique and just make it. That's why I said like if Matt Jensen went with him, I don't know what he would exactly do, but he would make him better somehow. You mean Nick Walker? Yeah, I mean Nick Walker. So I'll try and he has that experience and he had any he's older. So, you know, Matt is what he's he's not that old. What is his 30s? 32. Yeah. I guessed it right. Holy shit. I just said he looks 32. Holy shit. I'm good at that shit. I look for. Yeah. So just the experience and just, you know, like I said, I was I was like, honey, can we push a little harder with this or this? He's like, you don't need it. You don't need insulin. You don't need this. And you don't need this. And I'm like, OK, like Anadrol. He had me taking a half anadrol on prep. A half. Just 25 milligrams. He wouldn't let. He wouldn't let Blue take insulin either. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. But then I was talking to Jason Hugh and he was taking four Anadrols a day. And I said, honey, I told you to take four Anadrols a day. He's like, yeah. So he's just totally different with everybody. And he doesn't. Like I said, he won't. That's a good sign. That's the best. Yeah. He doesn't send you a program with your protocol on it. Like your gear. He will. You'll talk about it on the phone because he wants to make sure you're doing each thing like you're supposed to do. That's why he was. Remember I told you about that? Yeah. Won't put it on paper. He'll call. Now, this is the thing, though. I want to know. Wait, boss. You wanted to comment. Yeah. So I wanted to comment because I had a good I had a friend, a teen bodybuilder, Seth Sandler that worked with him. Dude, honey flipped out on this kid. This kid was like honey. Instead of I'm having I'm having the meal. This is my salmon with meal four instead of the meal two. And the honey loses it on him in the gym. Just flips on him. What the fuck are you doing? Like over bringing the salmon like two meals up. Right. Like he's real structured. So this is the secret with honey and the arm and hit it on the head. He's only going to take you on if you have good genetics and a good response. So he's not going to have any slouches. He charges an insane amount. So if you're crazy enough to pay him that much, you're going to follow everything to a T because most of these people that pay coaches don't follow everything. But everyone follows what he says because he charges you that much and he's known to be the best. So people listen. So it's those two things, the structure that he has and how and how he makes people listen. And he has that authoritative figure to him where people are like really like going to listen to him. And two, he only works with people that actually have the genetics to do well. Only. Yeah. But the thing is, Boston, him picking people that are winners, if you think about it, it's pretty like, look, a lot of kids want to go to Harvard. Harvard. But Harvard only accepts you if they think you're going to succeed in life. And then they want you to take their flag and take it up the mountain and plant it there for them. So really, all these places, they want to pick a winner and then help them get there in a way, you know. And at least if Hani accepts you, you know he really believes in you. Right? He wants you to. But the one thing about me, why I never was attracted to him. He believes you're going to be very well. Yeah. And, you know, you have to get along too. Like he has his favorites. You know, like we became close because, you know, he's Persian. I'm Persian. You know, I would go to train. I went out to San Jose, get trained with him for a week, go eat Persian food. But so, I mean, he did treat different people different ways. I was supposed to keep working with him. And we had a plan. He's like, you can go to the top. You have, you know, what it takes. Don't worry about the Nationals. You got messed over on. We're going to USA's in six weeks or whatever, six months. And if you bring the same, the judges said you're going to go. But that's when I had to have two shoulder surgeries. And that pretty much would end my career. But if I stayed with Hani, which I would have, I wouldn't have went to any other coach. I would have gone far. But, you know, it was different. The industry changed. The money left. How much better was Hani than Dave? Well, you know, when I went to Dave, I was like 23. I didn't have real coaches before. I won four shows on my own. My first four shows I won. Okay, first. That was just my genetics and my metabolism was super fast and I would come in crazy condition. When I got with Dave, Dave, I did learn from Dave. Okay, I learned certain things just to make it very simple and you could look good, you know, keeping it really simplified. Um, we did start the keto. I said, Dave, my metabolism is crazy. I got to eat a lot of food. He understood that. And he fed me differently than all the other cookie cutter diets. But when I had a couple years with Dave, I just like, I need a coach that's just hard on me. Dave's like, every time I send a picture, man, you look freaky. You look crazy. You look nuts. And, you know, so everything was good. I was like, I want someone telling me I'm not good enough. I'm not good enough. I need that to go forward. So Dave is, honey is a coach. Like that's his main, you know, was his main deal. Uh, Dave was coach part-time supplement on our RX. He had all these things and he, and his mindset was like, well, you know, they're just different. So, and then at that time paying honey, that money was worth it because like I said, when you were turning pro honey, we had the same, would have the connections to, to be like, Hey, we're going to get you on the flex. Like he was already talking to people at flex for me thinking I was getting my pro card that show and then going on. So it's not only that he had your best interest and, you know, I really, you know, was bummed out when I had to have shoulder surgery and pretty much. And then when I came back, I didn't hire honey because I was just doing it for fun. I had Dave help me a little bit and, you know, but yeah, honey's the best there is. And, you know, unfortunately he doesn't work with that many people. So just to give people an idea about how much honey charges in 2012, he walked into max muscle Walnut Creek when I was working the front desk and he brought in a bunch of EVP. He only had one product at the time and I asked him how much he would charge me. I was a teenage bodybuilder at the time. And he offered 3000. I remember I was like 19 years old or 18. He offered me $3,000 for six months. That's how expensive he was back then. Oh, wow. That's for everybody. That's nothing compared to what I pay. Really? Wow. And you paid more than 3000 for six months. Yeah. Wow. So I came to him, I sent him pictures and he was just like, okay, he didn't think much of my physique. I was clean. I'm sure he didn't, you know, so many people lie. So I'm like, I've been completely clean for four to five months. He's like, why have you been clean? I was like, I just wanted to come off everything and just here's my physique clean. So when we jumped on and within a couple of months, he's like, oh shit, your physique's nuts. And so I paid him, I think it was, I paid him for, uh, offseason and prep. So it was a full year, but it was 8,500. Okay. And then after that, once he saw how serious and good, I would have hired Amina live for just almost that price. You missed out, bro. Anyway, sorry. I spoke to Milos at that time before too. And I was like, Hey, I was thinking about working with you. He sent a one word back said $5,000. Bro, I said the same thing. My only experience with Milos, I said like, I have a question about a consultation or something. It was just, it was a money answer. I was like, I didn't, the question wasn't that deep. Like to be honest. Anyway. So I cut you off. So you, but, but Hani, I want to ask a couple of things about that. One was how Persian is like you're cause you're half American and I know you don't, it's not like your first language. It strikes, it strikes me that he's also like that, right? Like he's more Americanized grew up in very, very, very Americanized, but he still goes and eats Persian food and says, Salam Chaitori and like gatherings. His wife's Persian. And yeah, that's how it's cool in the Persian culture here. They still maintain like the family gatherings and all that. Even, even when they're not speaking Persian. Okay. The other thing I want to ask is this. My issue with him, the only issue I ever had with Hani is that when he started his YouTube channel, I first started to see his interview or him's discussions. Just struck me as it's not so transparent. Like I couldn't, I didn't feel like he was saying exactly what he's thinking. I felt like it was a businessman talking to me or presenting or something like that. Is that just like, he's just formal maybe or something like that? Like what's he like? Does he, does he just open up, put down his guard ever with people and just be himself or he's quite formal? You gotta know him. You have to, if the podcast is completely formal, he doesn't want to get into gear, this, that. He's not one of those guys. Yeah, that's what I mean. Like. Unless you work with him and you're, you know, you're paying him and he tells you, hey, this is between us and this. Then y'all are shooting the shit, joking, this, but, but outside that. Cause when I first tried to work with him, he was talking to a tamer and I think they were about to do the USAs. And it was a wrong time to talk to him. I went up to Hani. He's like, Hey, I'm interested in working you. He's just like, I'm like, okay. And then I spoke to him a little bit afterwards. He gave me his contact and we spoke, but I sent other people to him too. That had, um, I sent a couple of my clients to him also that I did well with, but they, you know, thought that he has some special secret and they, he wouldn't even work with them. Um, so a lot of people, like I said, both, if he didn't think he could turn you pro and make you a good pro, he, he wasn't going to work with you. I got into it with Hani at the 2013 San Jose, uh, pro. He had a booth there. We actually got into it. It was pretty good. How come? I didn't, I didn't, I didn't back down from him at all. What happened? Uh, so I was working at the max muscle Walnut Creek and they were selling EVP for insane amounts of price. I mean, crazy amount. And I had sampled it and I just didn't think the product was that great for the amount. I mean, it was a good product, but for the price he was charging. Right. So this is when he first came out with his company and I made a post saying the most overrated overpriced bullshit on the market is Evogen by Hani. And, and I had a decent following at this point because it was right after I won the Contra Costa and I just had came out with a steroid transformation video. So he saw me at the fucking, uh, at the show and he approached me and he was pissed, dude. He was like, and he, he like got in my face and stuff. And I straight, I was like, and I, I didn't back down for a man. I gave it back to him. I'm like, dude, the shit's way overpriced. I said, I'm telling you, it's just junk. And dude, we got into it and we ended up shaking hands and it was, it was done. And then we were fine after that. But it was actually like in the middle of the fucking expo, dude. He has that middle Eastern blood. Like at nationals that year, I was supposed to turn pro. He's, we were up on the rooftop the night before me, Phil Heath, Lee Thompson was, was the state. And then we were like, Hey, chairman and honey. They're like, you got the show. No one can beat this. Nobody. And, uh, well that day, you know, I told, I think I spoke on a different episode when I got the legal trouble, all that the judges all knew when I got that call out. If you guys haven't watched that episode, go watch it. It's a cool story. Sorry. Just thought. Oh, I think he got taken down with the other. Oh, it's on that. Well, we probably get it back up someday when they're not looking. He was sitting right behind the judges. He stood up. He was screaming like a maniac. The judges had to turn around and calm him down, but that shows you how passionate he was. He did that for honey also. Oh, that's cool. Yeah. This, he has a good, cool character, right? He lets his emotions go. He really invests in you. If you're with him and you pay it, of course you pay him, but it's not, it's more than money to him. And it was expensive, but he really wants you to succeed and do well and cares about your mental health. Makes sure you're staying off the rec stuff, you know, all that. So, you know, he's the best that, you know, there is possible. Yeah.

=== FILE: How NOT to Die From Ibogaine ｜｜ Anabolics Anonymous #1 [xiB-RL27Lj4].txt ===

 ab excuses, ab It's good to talk to you brother. It's been a long time. Yeah. If you remember last year, I made a reaction video to one of your videos about Subrite because I found the video fantastic. Yeah, and you know what? Not many people, I guess, I'm not in the bodybuilding industry, but adjacent to it. Not many people make videos that are that deep about the struggles that people face when they were through it and somebody who's went through it on the other side relates to it. And I thought it was fun to comment from both of our experiences. Yeah, for sure. Because you have a different perspective on some of the stuff regarding drug addiction and recovery too. So I think the mix of both of our experiences is going to be good. Yeah, so just for the audience to know, recently Antoine messaged me to ask about this event that became well known in the bodybuilding industry, which is that one of the bodybuilding coaches was actually just to give you guys a timeline really quickly on what happened. It all seems to have happened in March 2021. So quite a while ago, in March 2021, I had known this bodybuilding coach also myself. And I had learned at that time, which I'll get into more details, some things that really bothered me about the way he was coaching about ibogaine. So I contacted him to ask him to please let people know a couple of things so that they could protect people. At the same time, he got a bit upset with me about it. And his colleague Dave Palumbo invited me on Palumbo show to discuss this conflict we had. So on that on that show, which also happened in March, coincidentally, same month that all of this began, we had this one discussion on Palumbo show. And then right after that, the it seems that the case was opened by the DEA on the on the coach. And at the same time, the same month, at the same time, allegedly, somebody died under the care of that coach. So it seems all of it happened in March. I don't know if it had something to do with each other, the public stuff, of course, my intention was never to have the coach caught by the police or something like that. But I don't know if me talk about it publicly with Palumbo. And then at the same time, maybe they looked into the coach and saw somebody died in Colorado around the same time. I don't know how it happened. It's very mysterious. Yeah. Well, for sure, I think any private investigator is going to look at all the angles. And we'll probably research everywhere again, turn at YouTube and gather, you know, when they make a case, I think they probably go through all angles. But yeah, when this came up, I've seen this, what's his name again, the coach? I mean, a lot. Yeah, I've seen him around like in thumbnails, like with Dave Palumbo, but I never really clicked. So I was like, so curious, like, so this guy, pretty much was a hosting people with need, need help with addiction and offered like the service of using the Ebo gain psychedelic to help them overcome their addiction as a fix for it or something like that. Right? Exactly. Yeah, let me present you what the business model was. The reason why I know about it, by the way, because about six months before I stopped talking to Amin, because of some of these reasons, Amin had asked me to help him in coaching his clients, because Amin had some difficulties in his personal life, didn't have much time. So I empathize with him and I helped him for a while. And our work together was good. He was a bit distracted and stuff, but he struck me as a nice guy and a genuine person, a kind person. The problem is, I don't even ever notice this before. And the audience might not notice this unless they've been to addiction treatment facilities and sober livings. And sometimes even AA societies will do, see someone come up to you and say he wants to be a life coach. There are some of these people, unfortunately, a lot of addicts and alcoholics become sober and embody the principles of the program, which a lot of them are rooted in religious principles, altruism and so on, and service to others. And they embody them and they can even have a career based on that that's legitimate. They're really helping people. But some other people are somewhat slight, like sometimes in AA societies, you hear about someone being 13 steps, it was always called when, when like a guy will try to like recruit a girl initially, and that she's a bit sensitive because she's new to sobriety. And then you hear about these guys around. So sometimes there's also like, sometimes guys will sometimes take, I've noticed this person, I don't know if this goes around the world, but I went to sober living once where there was like an ex heroin attitude and sober for 20 years or so. He I could clearly tell you a soul, but he was so obsessed with money and getting money from the different people in the sober living, like it was so obvious, like he would, he would separate them from their parents telling them that they need to not have that support, but then he would leech out money from the parents, and they wouldn't be getting it's not for our stuff. So I could see that sometime before. Yeah, so I'm just going to add something is that we have to understand that everybody that went through addiction, if you see it as a disease, they are sick people, including myself, right? And the thing is, are you really 100% fully not sick anymore, wants to stop doing drugs? It's like a long life program where you have to work every day at getting better. And as soon as you slow down, your disease and your, your stinking thinking can catch, catches up to you. So, and because we're talking about human beings, there will be people like they will maybe have good intentions, but they maybe they're still addicted to other things, and maybe they have ill intentions too, because they're just human beings, right? Have some stories that I, you know, that I thought I trusted people that, you know, that had like, rehab facilities, and I, they pretty, it's not because you stopped doing drugs that you're fixed. I'll just say that. So it helps. It's a good beginning because you have a clear mind, but stopping drugs and having a recovery program that is, that works really well, and that is always improving is two different things. So I totally believe that this guy was like, probably addicted to money and maybe power, and maybe he was sober, but was he living a program of recovery aligned with like, his truth? Who knows? To say this just for the audience that I'm, that one of the, this experience, I think what Antoine is referring to is, there's a certain state of mind, which some alcoholics believe or addicts believe that it's has some things in similarity that cause you to end up becoming alcoholic. But also I think just being an alcoholic and using those drugs changes your brain over time, making you by definition more selfish on a daily basis, because you have to, you have things that you're, you're concentrated around yourself. So that also is there. So you have to have a program to continuously nudge yourself in the right direction and catch yourself through the help of someone else who can look at it outside your perspective, to catch yourself going back into these habits. And some people are what we call dry drunks, where they get sober, but still act like they used to before they got sober. So that's definitely the case. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. The dry drunk example is really good. And I also call it white knuckling, where you just like, stop doing drugs just with like pure hate and just willpower, but pretty much your, whatever thing that gave your relief is not even there anymore. So that you don't even know how to deal with life on life terms, because you've never learned it before because you use drugs or alcohol to do it. So you're just in front of this, all these emotions and these challenges and these problems in life that happen to you, and then you have no way to deal with them. And you're just going through life, like just so angry and stuff like that. So it is, it is a thing, you know, but there's another thing, this is a bit maybe controversial, but what I noticed in my personal experience, not to judge most of my friends that are former addicts or heroin addicts, but what I noticed is among them, a lot of them, the heroin addiction is so powerful, like the mental addiction towards stimulants, it's mentally so powerful. But this does it does a there's a joke in LA that a meth addict will, will take your drugs or your money and then help you look for it. And the heroin addict will take your stuff and not help you look for it. That's the difference. But what I've noticed, and this is a joke, of course, I'm not true. But what I've noticed is this, the heroin addict will sometimes lie to you to the depths of the end, like, there's a kind of, I don't know what it is, it doesn't, I've noticed not found it among alcoholics, among other addicts. But so without all said, I just wanted to say that I saw I mean, when I knew I mean, it was a good guy, but we seemed like a good guy. But the one thing about Amin was that he had a great experience with ibogaine. So years before, he went to Mexico, and he did one of those in house treatments for ibogaine. I think he did it more than one section. He had great personal experience, like one of the ones he had was Amin had been, he told me, and I think he says it's publicly using hormones from a young age, like teenage years. So he thought he could never get a girl pregnant. So after he went to ibogaine, the first time he was able to do that. So it was life changing for him in so many ways. The biggest life changing way was that he was addicted to opiates for over a decade or whatever before, and suddenly he could just take it or leave it. So this is what a lot of addicts experience since the 60s when they first started trying it. By the way, just so you know, this only works with opiates, unfortunately, it doesn't do the same thing with stimulants, it's much less effective with stimulants. But with opiates, the withdrawal is gone, and the obsession is gone. The obsession for stimulants is gone, but not as much in comparative studies, cocaine or any of those. But so it was life changing for him. So years later, I think he started to import it into the country through a company called Iboga World, which I mentioned all the time, not out the company, but because it's quite secure and everybody that does use ibogaine mostly uses it from Iboga World, which I think they get it from a country called Gabon, which is in Central Africa. So he had used, at the same time, I didn't know, I mean, two years before I started using Ibogaine myself, but very carefully, I was not using it to get off drugs, I was just using it to know what it did, and I use different amounts. The standard way to use Ibogaine, maybe I should mention now, Ibogaine is a root, it's Iboga root, you can get different purifications of it. People sometimes combine different purifications, but there's one molecule called Ibogaine. This is the really active molecule. Usually what they try to do is what's called a flood dose. They do a tester dose to see if you're allergic, then they raise the dose to over a gram or over 900 milligrams in a day or two. Now, the recent rodent studies from like 2017, 2016 show something very interesting. If you don't do the flood dose, the rodents don't have this extended lag of change in their brain. Finally, we know what that change seems to be. But if you try the flood dose yourself, you'll notice this. If you don't take a flood dose, you'll notice something different, but it won't totally quell the withdrawals and it won't just shift your mind from addictive behavior. For example, if you smoke cigarettes, the day before you use Ibogaine, the next day the cigarettes are not enjoyable, you don't want to smoke them, so on. Naturally, you would think this means that Ibogaine is blunting your dopamine signaling. So somehow, you're not getting that dopamine from smoking. That might be true, but the scientific studies show that the flood dose, but not lighter doses of Ibogaine cause a long-lasting lag in what are called growth factors in the brain. The same factors that SSRIs, antidepressants rise and the same ones that cerebral lysine rise, but they lag for weeks, which is why if you talk to an Ibogaine clinic and say, I want to get off heroin, they'll say, you may need a booster dose a month later or two months later, because it isn't a full solution. It's a little boost to get you past a couple of weeks. The problem is a lot of the people who talk about Ibogaine represented as a lifetime solution. I have never met anybody who uses Ibogaine that does not really use it every month or two months, and some of them microdose. So this is one thing there, but I mean had a great experience with it. And when I was knowing him, he was coaching clients for normal things, and I was helping him sometimes with helping him with some genetic analysis for the clients, and he wanted to open this Ibogaine business. I knew about it already, and I basically told him that it's very dangerous, you're on the risk of fatalities, which we can talk about later. And I just was, oh, it's illegal. So I wasn't very interested in doing it. So I should give you an overview. So I mean partnered with a lawyer, and I won't leave these names out, lawyer and a nurse of some kind. And what they did was organize a system, which I think was popularized by Palombos channel, which was why we may take everything with a grain of salt. But the system was to introduce people to the Ibogaine. Originally, I mean told me when I knew him that he would have the Ibogaine sent to the person. And so he wouldn't be sending anything or selling any drugs. But him or someone else would go there to sit them through the experience of the Ibogaine psychedelic experience, which by the way, I should comment on here. When you take Ibogaine, even at the flood dose, you really just feel like you're dying. It's no, you're not going out of your mind. There's no colors. There's no nothing interesting. It's not pleasant either. You lay in bed. And basically the main issue that you would need someone to take care of you other than health issues, is to help you walk to the bathroom physically because you can't walk. You're just going to shrivel up in bed, feel like your soul is dying, have this very big experience that you don't really understand. You don't need someone to talk to you through it. You want to know what they're saying. That's the truth. But what you do need is a defibrillator, which is something that can shock your like your heart to restart your heart rhythms, because Ibogaine is shockingly one of the most complicated molecules that can affect the brain. It affects almost every receptor we think of in some way. And it's not even clear yet. When you take it, you feel like your brain is too busy. You can't think. You literally can't hold any thoughts. And that's really what's happening. Now a lot of these brain hormones like dopamine, serotonin affect the heart rate. If you take Tremblone, one of the things that happens is adrenaline and dopamine, both neurochemicals raise your heart rate. When you take Kline or stuff like that in the pre-contest, there's a rate danger. Just because your heart rate is higher, it could also end up with a different rhythm and end up with a rhythm which happens to some bodybuilders. Now that's just from a stimulant or from amphetamine or anything else. Now what about something like Ibogaine? Ibogaine doesn't just raise the heart rate. It changes what's called the QT interval by definition. Now what could you do for a client if you really wanted to do this dangerous thing and he didn't want to try any alternative first and he didn't want to start with a lower dose, whatever. On his genetics, you could find out his genetically determined QT interval. This has been one study. That's good, but you could go get him in for a heart performance test to see how his intervals are doing also. But then you could maybe get him on a protective medication. Now when you use Ibogaine, your blood pressure will shoot up also, which puts more stress on the whole system, but your heart rate is a concern, especially if your blood pressure is not low. So a beta blocker like Nibivolo, which is 24 hours, some of these things may be useful, maybe potential, but they weren't planning for any of these things. I told them you should consider them, but they weren't at the time. And then, yes, all of that. And then how the business worked is basically they would charge exorbitant amounts for the people to have this in-person treatment and go to the place. I didn't know how much the amounts were while I was working with Amin, but one day he had a really nice guy client who hired him for coaching generally. This is around the time that I realized Amin was not working under my ethical level, but he took $30,000 cash from the client as a payment for Ibogaine treatment. The Ibogaine cost $300. This client had already helped him for weeks and weeks, this was a difficult time for him. So he took $30,000. And I felt so bad, I didn't know what to tell Amin, that I went by myself because I was working with Amin. And I did like a six, seven page genetic analysis report for the client for free. It took me three days of constant work, more than them even watching the guy. But I felt very bad because this is totally unjust yet. You know, now if the guy has a lot of money, but at least you could tell you're paying for services is not expensive. But I didn't know about any lies or mischievous stuff, just charging a lot. So I didn't think about it much. But a little bit later, things got a little bit confusing. Or did you freeze on my screen? I don't think you did. Oh, there. Oh, there it is. Sorry, I'm trying to get to my notes here. Okay, so things got a little bit, oh, also I should mention, Amin was thinking that in Colorado, they would decriminalize psychedelics, which is true. They were decriminalized mushrooms, LSD and Ibogaine. I don't know if they decriminalize all of them, but it would have happened later than the 2021 alleged death, which we don't know if it's really caused by this. So the next things that happened, I stopped talking to Amin, I told him, brother, if you get your stuff back in track, I'd be glad to help you. But some things I can't work with and so on. And we separated in okay terms. A couple of months later, I realized Amin had done, I asked Amin, please don't do the Ibogaine treatment. You heard of Big Lenny? You know, Big Lenny? Big Lenny has unfortunately some substance issues, but he has a very good heart and you want it to work through them. The problem is he has liver failure and ejection fraction from his heart. At the time was around 30. So he has heart failure. So I asked Amin before I left because I introduced Amin to Lenny and I asked him, please don't do the Ibogaine treatment on him. He could die really genuinely. Unfortunately, he did the treatment like a month later. So I was like, well, somehow Lenny lived. This guy never dies. It's thank God, but he lived. But I was like, whoa, this was really reckless. Like he knew I told him, I knew he knew. Now, a couple of months later after that, I got a client from Orange County. I used to live in Orange County in California. And there's a client next door to me, a neighboring client. He was a very nice guy. I bought a consultation and he was suffering with addiction issues. So I spoke to him for a while. He told me he had booked Amin before me. And he told me specifically that he said, I can't get Ibogaine and I can't afford Amin. I said, why can't you afford the Ibogaine? He said, well, Amin wants me to pay 3000. I've saved a certain. Oh, I didn't mention one thing. The main thing before I left Amin, there was a former incident before Lenny. One day, so Amin was working with the lawyer and the nurse. One day he wasn't speaking to the nurse. I mean, the lawyer. So I asked him, why, what's up with the lawyer? He said, the lawyer is a little bit depressed. I said, why? He said, well, we had a guy on the east coast who was heroin addict who was accumulating 3500 or 3000 to pay us. He had gotten 2000 or so. But the other, the lawyer will remain nameless. Told Amin, you know, he has this money. And Amin said, wait it out, he'll collect more. So in the waiting out, the guy overdid on heroin. But I didn't know that they were telling him that you can't find this drug Ibogaine anywhere else. So fast forward to the OC guy. He tells me they're charging me the 3000. I have less money or whatever. But he said, I can't afford the Ibogaine. He's I said, why? He said, there's no source online. It's only through Amin. So I said, what the hell? So I said, what do you mean there's Ibogaine world? He said, no, I mean, specifically told me Ibogaine world is fake. So I was like, whoa, I know Amin orders it from Ibogaine world. So that's when I went and made a video without mentioning Amin just saying Ibogaine and in the video, I took a big personal risk by mentioning Ibogaine world. It could hurt my channel. But I wanted to see if somebody it has no other option and thinks this thing costs $3000, it costs 300. So you could potentially afford it and you could go about it different ways, but it's still dangerous. So that's the background there. You know, I wanted to mention really quickly here. So people don't think like this is some antagonism toward Amin. The only reason why I mentioned these things initially and then when Palombo invited me on discuss it publicly. First of all, I talked to Amin privately and told him, please brother, tell the people the truth. Just tell them Ibogaine world is real. Stop telling them you need to pay over 1000 to get Ibogaine. Just say it's for my help. And by help could be useful. You could say that. And then stop telling people you're sober because you're not sober and we both know it. You've never been sober while I've known you. Then he said, like, first he said he's going to do it. Then he told me give you two days. Two days later, he said, I can't do it. I don't want to excuse my kids sick and I'm sick. I said, bro, it's too long. It's been too long. You're literally harming people. Your people are going to die or we screwed up because what are you doing? So I made some video on my channel. So Palombo invited me in his channel to discuss it. On his channel, he told me this is your truth. I told him somebody's already died. Because it is your truth. We don't know if it's true. Basically, they implied that I'm a hating guy, whatever. The truth is I'm not AI actually like the guy. But I feel particular when it's an addict that's being preyed on because it could be me. And addicts are the people in the worst states mentally in the world. And they may feel they have no other option. And they may literally take this option because they trust you. And they could die. And it's because you want $3,000. You know, if it was less money, would you do the same work? You know what I mean? So some people will say, for example, where do you draw the line between a diet coach that someone died from, for example, and someone like selling iBooking? I think where you draw the lines this right? Diet coach, first of all, diet coach, if somebody usually nobody dies in one go, it's something from years and years, you can't specify what caused kidney damage, heart damage, so on. But if it did happen in one go, it's not something that usually kills someone in one go, like thyroid medication, clambutoral, sometimes people accused Shelby Stantz, for example, before the competition too many people were getting ill or whatever. But maybe it's a bit reckless. But it's the difference when you know, okay, certain people die from this for sure. You're taking an opioid addict whose heart is already in bad condition. And you have a choice. I spent six days with him, and I started 300 milligrams a day. 300 milligrams, let the heart adapt somehow, take a beta block or something, or I make my time two days, giving the flood dose, which also, even the Mexican places, they do the same thing because they want you in and out. So they give you the flood dose as high as possible, you feel the total relief, here's a booster go. But that's the easiest way to get that heart attack goes. So it's different. I feel like a diet coach does never give somebody, like nobody gives somebody 1500 milligrams of DNP. And it's like, wing it. I think the where it gets really risky for those diet coaches is near the show with the diuretics. Yeah, diuretics. And yeah, because they will trust the coach, they'll be like, take that, take this. And there's some diuretics that they, they kind of loop the potassium. So they put that some sparing and too much potassium, like you could explain it in me, but you can make this hard stop. And that's not like that's just like a couple bills away from happening sometimes. And I've heard about a lot of bodybuilders and coaches that sent half the sort of hospital. And be careful on the one by the way, if you're taking a blood pressure medication, almost all the blood pressure medication slightly raised potassium levels, almost all of them, which most people don't notice. If you ever notice, take a blood pressure medication on the offseason, and you slightly flat crap, but it's not that serious, check your potassium level, because they'll get rid of some sodium and the potassium will go a bit higher. But what you're talking about is like when they would shoot someone potassium, they would die. Yeah, the injection. Yeah, I've heard of this before. It happened to Macau here or something, I think. Yeah, but also like when they actually, when they get the lethal, you know, when you get Oh, yeah, it's potassium. Yeah, true. Yeah, on the chair. I didn't hear that. Not the electric chair, but yeah, those of like, what other chair, I think it is. Yeah, I think it is potassium. I'm not sure. But but yeah, so no, so some of those coaches do some of those coaches do reckless stuff like they start out that on three weeks before and then they're using two or three diuretics and it's on a woman. And it's usually women know less about the diuretics than than the male competitor. And she may be more suggestible. I agree about that. But if you're giving someone something that you know, I've told someone's going to die, you know that someone's going to die. And you're not taking any of the precautions, but you're also lying to the people, they can't get it somewhere else. And then you're charging the crying part is very, that's the one that stopped me. I told him you can't lie. That's not but you can charge what you want. I would prefer you tell people you're not because one of the things you would do is he would say that I'm sober. Well, I knew him very well because I spent a lot of time with him. And he didn't hide it from me. But the thing is, basically, what I mean learned was really convenient. He basically became an eyeball gain addict. So what he would do is he would go on cycles every week, like three days, he would use not hard drugs. He was not using heroin and stuff like that, but create him mushrooms, stuff like that. Later, I would fill in, but I knew about creative mushrooms marijuana. Then three days later, if he feels I'm not totally on point, he'll do one eyeball gain at that date. And so for sometimes, for example, once when I was helping him, I went to Florida to visit him. He never showed up at Florida. He asked me to come please to accompany him. I didn't need to go. I came. When I was at the airport, I was talking to some of they said, I think I mean, it's not going to show up. I said, no, it can't be. I've talked to we booked him the flight. I booked him the flight. So then I arrived in Florida, but he's not an addict. So it was confusing. So I arrived in Florida, he didn't show up. So what are you doing? He's like, I'm doing an eyeball gain. You got yourself stuck again for three days. And you're doing this again. So I tried, by the way, while I was with him, I tried it at the time I was completely sober. I tried to get him completely sober off marijuana was his main I tried, but it wasn't possible. So there are limits to what this eyeball gain thing is not like God sent it's not going to solve your problems by itself. I think for me, what I what I've got from from that is that so you're an addict. And then you're like, Okay, there's this thing that's going to help you and keep you clean, whatever, right, or get you clean and reset your brain. But it's like, the easy way the easy fix is never the thing that's going to work because the easy fix to feeling better is what got you in trouble the first place. You know, like you feel bad, I've always been the fastest way I could feel good. Take this right now. Within seconds or minutes, you'll feel more than just normal, you'll feel great. So that mentality of like, going and seeking out something to like, fix everything is just, it's not the right motive to take that. And I think as for me, I never tried it and never considered trying it because anything that's going to alter my mind. I gotta be like, away from it, you gotta be really, really careful because it falls under the whole umbrella of like the substances that I need to avoid. Because even even like even in 2020, I tried drinking again, just like here and there. And I could drink and then nothing bad would happen. And then I'm like, okay, I'll drink in two weeks. But the thing is, I would drink that my drink and I'd be like, okay, when am I going to feel something like that's not the drink. So to me, they'll taste, they'll laugh. I was like, dang, I'm like, okay, what am I going to feel this? Can I give you another one? They eat after the drinking, the drinking and eating a burger. Like, what are you doing? Then you won't feel the drink. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So, so all I would think about is the next time that I could drink that's like acceptable to be reasonable. So but that led to like a full relapse, eventually, of course, because if I start drinking, I can't have my recovery program at the same time. So it's like one or the other really, you can't have both, in my opinion, where I'm standing. So yeah, for me to get clear and sober, it was just a lot of suffering. A lot of like rock bottoms, getting humbled by life and my mistakes a lot. And like five rehabs and lots of failures and relapses and just not giving up and just keep going at it and having like a strong recovery program. So I think people, they try to seek out what's the easiest, what's the less work, what will take less work to give me the results. It's like, Igbo gains seems like a good thing. But the things I don't know enough about it, I just know that psychedelics sometimes they do help the brain reset some stuff. It could be a clean slate for somebody. But for me, that would be like a last resort. Like I did five rehabs. Okay, maybe after eight, go try Igbo gain if that's gonna work. But you don't get cleaned right away. It's just it's not a one shot deal. All right, I'm gonna stop. I'll take this being buying it's like clean slate. I'm good. It might reset some of the stuff, but it might remove the obsession. But I've lost the obsession as many times I was surrender. And then the obsession was removed. And then I was do my rehab, get out and then if I don't do work the program, at some point, I can start the obsession against kick again. And I've had a few times like in the year and a half, the obsession was like twice it really happened. It was there every 15 minutes, I would think about drugs every day. But then I worked through it. And I knew that sometimes it's normal for an addict that this happens. And I just use my reprogram to deal with that and then it went away. But in the past, it would come back that I would like fail. So yeah, maybe you could remove the obsession for a month, whatever. But your brain is like, it's not going to be fixed one dose of something. It's a lot of like therapy and like rewiring your brain with just like conscious habits that you're going to do every day. I think this is the key point. Yeah, I think that's what's going to be the most effective and plus community having a good, you know, because I'm a 12 step guy. So 12 step for me from what I've seen.  all the rehabs I've done and all the meetings I've done and the people I've talked to is the one thing that if you go 100% with it, chances are it's really going to work. And another thing I could say briefly is that in all the rehabs I always hear about like, oh, 98% of the people here right now won't make it and will relapse. And then we're like 60 people to rehab and they tell us that. And my last rehab, I heard it again and I said, okay, yeah, but that 2%, what does that 2% do? If I do exactly what they do, then it's 100% it's going to work. But nobody wants to get out of a rehab and have an exit plan, do 90% in 90 days and just do everything right because it's a lot of work. And sometimes it's boring and it takes discipline. But 98% of the people, they won't do that. So it's going to fail. So I would be really curious how the Igbo-Gain thing really transfers to a long life of learning how to deal with life on lifestorms and having a really good life and not just white-knuckling it and surviving. You know, Antoine, everything you just said, I have strong opinions of and I agree with you and I see them from a neuroscience perspective also. So for example, in the brain, the basic psychology of the brain is called association theory, which means neurons make connections to each other. Thing is, no associations can be removed. That's why an alcoholic stops drinking for five years. Within a month, he's drinking the exact same amount he was before because we've associated that and even though you haven't used it for a while, it's not that strong. It's there. And if you let it go there, it'll go there. The problem is the only way to remove this association because you can't remove it is to strengthen another one and that can only happen with action. Can't happen with even a spiritual experience. Now the other thing you talked about was A, and for people that don't know the 12-step programs, you know, they're based on a lot of fundamental wisdoms that have come from religion and other places like and insights about human happiness and also a lot of 19th century literature, including the ideas of having solidarity, community, close friendships, working in service of others, some concepts from perennial philosophies. One of them is the spiritual connection, which was what they call a higher power. But this spiritual connection has to yield what they call a spiritual experience. And this was originally observed by one of the founding authors of A, who encountered a religious man who gave up drinking and was beaming and happy. And he was confused because he thought most people give up drinking, annoyed and just wide-knuckling it through life. But this guy looked at it completely happy and they were able to replicate that with A, taking some of these fundamentals out of it. So the spiritual experience, Antoine, is where I think the value of those psychedelics is. Some people cannot experience that subjective, it's just in their brain, experience that makes them look at the world from a different way. And for those people, sometimes it's useful to do these, I don't, I wouldn't do them personally, and does they're risky also, doing these like infusion therapies of ketamine or the different things that they do like that. But Ibogaine is not like that. Ibogaine is not a spiritual experience. Like I said, you won't remember anything. Ibogaine, nobody really was talking about how it works. I tried to figure it out myself because I didn't want to use it anymore. I really realized from the research it seems to be the most obvious thing, is this boost in neurogenesis. Why does that matter, by the way, Antoine? First of all, I tried with cerebrolysin, another way to get very high amounts of neurogenesis. Maybe not as much cerebrolysin as an injectable, purified version of pigs' neurotrophic factors for their brain. Sounds weird. It's a water-based solution. It works very well. It gives you basically what an SSRI or antidepressant will. People think SSRIs work through serotonin. The real effect is from these growth factors. They're like GH for their brain. When you have growth factors in adult, your brain can adapt. The problem is when you're using drugs, by the way, or any drug, dopaminergic drugs, opioid-ergic drugs, they make you blame because there's so many activities in your brain, they make them plastic, they can change. So your brain's constantly adapting to your addictive life till you get so suddenly when you get sober, you have a paucity of all these hormones in the brain. You have this rigid brain. The idea with ibogaine is just before you stop, you get this hit bolus of growth factors. It goes for weeks, even in rodents. Now, those growth factors seem to block dopaminergic need. So right now, if you take a circle, for example, quietapine, if you take enough of it, if you take enough of it and do a dopaminergic drug, you won't even feel it because it's blocking the dopamine receptors. It seems when you have very high growth factors, it does that a bit. Does that, but also makes your brain malleable. So there's some value there. Now, you were talking about in AA, there's this concern about using other chemicals to replace other chemicals, which is a very justified concern. In fact, there's a group. The thing with AA, they only talk about alcohol. So you can actually, there's people smoking weed in AA, they can still do the program. But I'm, I do an a, which is like everything. You have an in AA that don't like the guys that smoke the weed. It's called weed maintenance therapy. Yeah, but they just like sometimes they just don't care. There's been people that they smoke weed for years that do the AA and they just maybe don't talk about it because they see alcohol as the problem. But my program is like, englobes all the substances. And the thing is, if back in the thirties and the forties, when Bill and Bob did the World DA program and went through all that, if back then there was the fentanyl crisis, it would have been an AA back then. It's just back then, alcohol was killing people more than anything else. And a lot of people were using drugs, but they would still put it under drinking in the original stories at the back of the book. Yeah, yeah, you can know the thing, the story of like Dr. Bob's, when he was a real addict, he wasn't just like, up and downers and so this story. I was surprised when I read that, I'm like, oh my God, this guy was wild. He was actually shooting up like these like, yeah, like just to go to sleep. He was going to sleep, they would wake up and take some pills, and then drink all day. It's like this guy was wild. I mean, brother, I don't know if you know this, but the first time that there was a big popularity of ecstasy and amphetamines in the US was in the 30s and 40s actually. In the 30s and 40s, there was a literature group in the East Coast that popularized that they used to take inhalants and take the parts out of the inhalants, which at the time, I guess, was stronger or something, and put them in teas and drink them. There's a long history of this stuff. You know, opium was still an addictive thing in the 1800s, even the US, especially among the Asian communities. But yeah, what I was going to say is there's another group though called the Pacific Group in U.S., they will not accept you. First of all, you have to wear a suit whenever you go there. I've been to a couple of these organizations, and they will not, if you take an antidepressant, you've heard of them? The Pacific Group. I don't think so. They're in the US. We've heard about the AMAs in the US where you have to wear suits. Really? That's them. That's the Pacific Group. Oh yeah, so if you take an antidepressant, they want you out. And they say if you have dual diagnosis, which means you have depression or something, then you don't belong to part of the society. They're very strict on that. I have different views about this myself, maybe because I had some anxiety from before alcoholism. And for me, alcoholism was sort of a treatment for anxiety. You can work on the anxiety through my meditation, religion, so many other things, friendship, all of the things in A. But sometimes, for example, just having a slightly higher neurogenesis level for a period of time can make some people feel much better as long as it's not a drug you can abuse. So an ibogaine is something you can abuse. It's exact. It's fast. But SSRIs, for example, raise the neurogenesis level just slightly and keep it there. And so for me, they were really helpful personally. I don't know. We got a bit off topic, but this was a very interesting discussion. No, it was. Yeah. But the thing with the antidepressants and the program and all these medications is that it's also the motive. You have to be honest with yourself. What's the motive behind you wanting to take that? And it has to be prescribed. And sometimes there's a part that says it's outside issues, which means it's like mental issues. Like you got to deal with that on the outside of the program. So there's more compared to the Pacific group, I guess, like NA and even A nowadays around here, it's like a lot more flexible. There were the, they're tolerated more all kinds of people, especially NA. I mean, there's people in there with like, because the thing is like, addiction and mental health, there's never just, this is only that and only that. There's always like a mix of both most of the time. If you look at, for example, like I've been watching these videos about LA downtown LA and all the, I lived in downtown for six years, four, five years, literally by Skid Row, two blocks. And I was sober. Imagine that, bro, I would walk by that, that, because I was a friendly guy and I like talking to people. So they would, some of you be outside smoking crack. I never seen some smoke. You're smoking crack. You want to come inside the tent? Okay. I go inside the tent. I'm not smoking crack. I'm like writing notes. I thought I'd write a, I'd write a book like, you know that, that YouTube channel that, that interviews. Have you seen it? I just saw the podcast at Logan. Oh, okay. That, that channel, I lived right next to it and I had that idea. I was there with this. South of the belly. South of the belly. There was that. Exactly. I lived right next to him for years to meet the same people. I thought of doing the same interview. Bro, I'll tell you one thing about that place. I've talked to hundreds and hundreds of homeless people in Skid Row by this open air drug market right in front of the police station. Yeah. They don't care. Bro, I asked them why many of them have section eight housing and different Palmdale Lancaster. I said, why don't you live in section eight and come later? So no, this is fun. And then I've asked a few of them, did you ever hear voices before you started using meth? I've never heard someone say yes. So there's a lot of mental illness there, but having high dopamine levels, produces schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. That's why there's so much bipolar disorder among Hollywood actresses that have used a lot of cocaine back in the day. And in my experience, I've known so many, even gangsters in LA that became meth addicts just change. Oh yeah. That's true. And the thing is, I know that even in the rehabs, all the people that were schizophrenia, that were diagnosed with something like that, they were all like white guys between 20 and 30 and weed fucked them up. It was weed for them. We'd also do that sometime. But that was weed mixed with amphetamines, both of them together. It would mess them up. But everybody that was like, that came in just for weed, I'm like, oh yeah, that's going to be a weird one because if weed brings you to rehab, because most people smoke weed, they're just going to be lazy in their life. It's not too imaginable. You know, it's not a death threat. But if weed is a death threat to you, what kind of brain do you have to end up in rehab? But obviously, we don't, and I'm being patient, they were, you know, I was friends with a lot of them actually in rehab because they were a little bit different. Wait, wait, Anton, Anton, that tastes not funny. So when you're in rehab, when you first come in, you start to judge everybody. Like, am I in the right place? Like, are these people's hardcore? Is it me? Can they save me? And you meet somebody who has like a masturbation addiction, in your mind, because you never heard of it before, you're like, I do that, I get away with it, so you can't handle what I could do. So if there's something, that could solve me, or like a weed addiction, I was like, I was fine when I smoked weed. So you have this judgment of like, no, no, no, they can't handle me here. I got to go somewhere else. Your brain naturally will doubt everything when you want. So I think that's what you're talking about, right? Yeah. Yeah, but when I first came in the rehab, you always have two days where I'm more quiet than I just tried to like, seize everybody up. But the last one was pretty tough because I, it was mostly people from the street, or alcoholics that were a little bit older, or people that came in from the court, you know, court ordered. Oh, it was a government one? Yes. Government one, there was a government one, another one. Yeah, court ordered, like, yeah, oh, I said, like going to jail, you go there. Yeah. Um, and then I couldn't relate with these people because me, I went there and I wanted to get, I was full on recovery, especially 12 step, but then I, there was a friend of mine that came in and well, he became a friend. He was like a family dad of like a lot of kids and he was just like a drinker. And I was like, you had a business and I'm like, man, find somebody I can talk to, but it's pretty hard. But the thing is what, what they teach us in the program also is that that really helps me sometimes is that don't look at the differences. Look at it. Yeah, look at it. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah, but it's an initial thing. You have that. Yeah. Yep. By the way, I had the same thing. My last one was court ordered and it was hectic. I didn't know how to who to talk to you because nobody wanted to be there and they weren't trying it seriously, but they would give free food. So people would just come eat the food and go, I was like, I don't know what to do. I gotta hang out with nobody because I'm really serious. I gotta, I gotta, this can't happen to me again. I know, I know. And I met a couple like you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of, um, I think it was my second rehab. It was mostly people from the street and sometimes what they would do, they would actually, during the winter, they would just go in the rehab or even like a, around like a second week of the month, go in the rehab, check themselves in, sleep for five days, eat the food and then the first of the month, gone. Because they do that in jail. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get out of jail. Oh, they'd be, they'd check themselves in jail when it's cold. And then, no, they, they like do a small crime and LA has like overcrowding. You get, if you're cold, you can go and like to eat if they're, it happens. That's interesting. What can I comment on something though? There's something like really puzzling about opioid addiction, which makes a unique problem, which is, I guess why I book in is somewhat helpful, which is that, you know, the opioid receptors, which respond to a natural hormones called endorphins, dinorphins, and some of them with the K, but these three opioids, these opioid receptors, when they're agonized and by the endorphins released when you exercise to lower the pain, they're, you feel it. Once they're agonized, they downregulate. So now nicotinic cholinergic receptors, which respond to nicotine when you smoke, they upregulate. So you can potentially absorb more nicotine with time. The opposite happens with opioid receptors. That's a problem because the withdrawal comes from the opioid receptors. So the, the, the more, and there's tachyphylaxis, what they call it in biology, the more you use the drug, the least effective it is. So by definition, when you're using the opioid, you're going to get more and more of withdrawal with time. It's going to be harder and harder. At the same time, the dopamine receptors, remember all, why we call all drugs dopamine is because they all indirectly affect dopamine transmission. And that's the addictive part, the abituating part. Dopamine receptors, due to being very fragile, that's why people get Parkinson's, they need to protect these dopamine receptors and dopamirgic neurons. They also not only die, but they also downregulate as a consequence to dopamine. That's why the first, you're always chasing the magic dragon. That's why the first high is always the best high also cause some of the cells die, keep in mind. Like if you use a lot of stimulants that when everything's bright, that's stuff dying in your head, you know, and never come back, but it's not that much dying. It's not, not to be depressed about. We have cognitive reserve. The point is this, with opioids, you have tachyphylaxis at two ends, both toward the withdrawal and toward the lower, lower dopamine signal. So it's burning the candle at both ends. And I think it makes it really difficult for people to get off it. Sort of in the same way that benzo's, you're getting this fear of seizures, seizures, seizures, death, and at the same time getting way less reduction of anxiety or higher dopamine. So for these guys, sometimes in their mind, it's, if I could get through the withdrawal, I'll be fine. So I think they're thinking of the ibogaine, like if I could just get through this for two weeks, I can handle the rest. But most of the guys I know have done it, keep doing the boosters and stuff like that, because they don't realize what was about the ibogaine. Every time they do this, they're putting that change in QT interval, the heart rate and all that stuff, kind of stuff. Just not really sustainable. Yeah. The thing that's crazy though, it's like, I mean, as, you know, addicts will do that. It's like, I've done that before you take stuff, you don't even know where it's coming from. So I don't, I'm not surprised they would go into the ibogaine and do it like almost mindlessly and just trusting whoever's going to give it to them because they've been doing that in the street for like, maybe years, right? But the thing that's, that should happen is that I've always heard about that. I know I learned about ibogaine years ago and I saw you, you got to go somewhere, there's a doctor and a nurse and they just help you like, not choke on your vomit for 12 hours or something. So that's what I heard. So that kind of makes sense. But as far as like being on, what's your, like, what are you like? What's your profession? And you're going to, how host people and just give them that. There's, you know, it's a very sketchy. So I don't know, I feel like there should be something with the, with the ibogaine involved because it's a very strong drug obviously if you think you're dying, it should be like way more emergency room technicians, literally. It's the only way emergency room technicians like you need the defibrillator there. If this stuff happens, how's that happening? You need the staff there. It's in fact, you don't even need honestly just an ambulance outside. You need the technicians there in case something happens. Just do it in the, is there centers for real? Like, no, these are Mexico and Canada are the best, but they're sort of not fully, Canada has, by the way, I heard. Well, I thought it was one in Toronto or something. I think so. You guys have interesting laws. You guys also have like, I've heard this is true, but I don't know if it's true. They give, do they, is heroin legal, not just methadone? Or is this Europe they have that? No, I just know that in DC, there's this one guy. They're trying to change that. Yeah, they tried to change a bunch of laws for like under 2.5 grams. It won't be criminalized. So there's this one guy who's like trying to open up a store to give clean, clean stuff. But the thing is, is like, I was a phantom. Yeah. Well, yeah, because sometimes with that stuff is that you don't even know if it's laced with something else. Then I've heard people dying. They were snorting something there or they take the street Xanax and then in it, it's laced with like lethal dose, which is a pencil tip, right? So I've heard people dying of that. So it's like, you think you're going to just, oh, I want to relax and go to bed and then you're just dead. So it's like, I've heard of them putting it in wheat. Why does someone smoke in wheat? No, it's like, what? Yeah, cocaine. And what the thing is, if you have a scale, I measure it. I measure it. They say this is a scale. Oh, you're going to measure your little pieces of fentanyl, whatever. And then, okay, bag it. And then, okay, well, let's put the rocks of something else on it. I'll wipe it off with the rocks. But the thing is, you just get in here a lot to kill somebody who's not been using it. So sometimes I think it's like just things like that probably happen. You know, like, or maybe the guy took a used baggie and put the stuff in there. But they were spending it in the bag before. Just like, stupid as that, because obviously, you know, there's people making this shit. There's like, people bringing the country. There's like the big names and then there's all the little dealers. And then at the end, there's the street dealers. These guys are sometimes addicts. So they will like fuck around and be like not very strict with their stuff, right? So this is where like, they say something that could happen. And now with fentanyl, people can die from simple mistake. Bro, have you noticed someone was telling me, so I have, I've been around addiction for so long in my life. I can catch funny things about all our different addictions. So I used to be a severe alcoholic. I've done other things also, but I never stuck to one other thing. And I've had friends who were ex heroin addicts. But I'll tell you like, sometimes they lied to me for no reason. I know these funny things they do. I have sometimes ex stimulant addicts. Sometimes what I notice about them, sometimes their jaw will dislodge slightly. And it happens to everybody. Even while they're using a stimulant, sometimes you don't notice your jaw will be like, and it's impossible to correct. It's so annoying. So I've talked to my friends about that for a while. I was going to see the fentanyl addicts. I have some subscriber telling me this, but I never saw it because I moved out of Dantanle, thank God, around COVID. But it was just starting to attack women on the street, random women for no reason. Just like, yeah, if you have a girlfriend coming to your place, she would get attacked on the street or chased down the street. Yeah, monsters there. Yeah. So, so, but I didn't see this, but apparently recently when the fentanyl really suck in, sunk in with people, people started to develop like punches. Have you seen this? Where people are like, hunched or? Look, if you're smoking with a tin foil multiple times a day, you're like that, your body will be in the shape of a... Ah, because they're not shooting. No, they're smoking it on a... Ah. That's why. That makes sense. But even if they're shooting, they're like on the ground, they're all like hunched up like that doing their stuff, mixing it. They're also falling asleep, they're nodding off. Yeah, nodding off consistently, it just got stuck there. Yeah, this is chemical warfare. This is chemical warfare. Like the war on drugs is real, you're just never going to win that. Yeah, but this drug is... How are you going to... This is serious. Oh, I think it's the thing that kills the most men between certain age of like... I don't know that the data... Younger man? Yeah, but like 20 to like, I don't know, 35, kills the most people, most men, and compared to anything else, driving, the drunk driving, cigarettes, anything. It kills the most people. People talk about like pandemics and stuff like that. Dude, the fentanyl, the pandemic is the real thing happening. It's just been going up and up and up. Have you ever seen someone that moved eventually to only using fentanyl and got off it completely for a period of time? Off, off, off opiates? Yeah. Oh, so it happened, it's impossible? It's not that... It is possible, yeah. It happens all the time. Is it like methadone where they're in pain for two years, that kind of thing? Some people, they just go through the withdrawals and it's terrible. And they just for two weeks a month, they're kind of fucked in bed, but they have like support, like family or they go to detox, and then they go straight to a program and sometimes they stop that and they slowly stop everything else, or sometimes they just are on a seboxen for a long time, or methadone for even longer time, because the program to taper off is long. But yeah, no, it is possible. Like in the rooms, there's a lot of people that stop opiates, fentanyl and all the stuff. And yeah, it's possible. I think it's very actually common. A lot of the addicts, the meetings I do around here, but probably half of them is like opiates. Yeah. But okay, I didn't know fentanyl was doable, because methadone is hard. If you've been on it for a few years, or even suboxone, they're much harder to give up. No, I think maybe due to half-life. As soon as you decrease one milligram, you fucking have a minute withdrawal. So we're like, I don't know. The thing with me, I never went through that, so I'm lucky in that sense. But if you would just, what's better, stop everything, and then go to detox or be really like a supervised, suffer for two weeks of the worst 40 times the flu that you ever felt, like times a thousand, and just you feel like you want to die. You just, there's no way in hell you can be comfortable, plus you're suffering all of that. You do that for two weeks, or you do like a 10% of that every month, but it just kind of never goes away, because you're always going down one milligram, feel like shit. And then you're always like, you rather just like rip the bandaid off, or just... That's what I saw. Yeah. That makes sense. That's what I'm saying. But the methadone program is, I think it's suspicious sometimes. I've never really saw somebody that was like, yeah, it's really worked. Worked for me. No, no, no. It's liquid handcuffs. You're stuck to this place. In the box, then, I can understand why you could help people, because you go and acute withdrawals if you use while you're on it. So you're going to kind of like right away feel weird. And so people just stop for three days and wait. But also, it's also like you can taper faster without feeling too much. They usually tape really fast, ideally, yeah. And it has, you're right, it has like one of the opioid receptors agonize, another blocks. So there's some... There's Narcan in it. Oh, really? I think for the to revive the people that are with those, there's a little bit of Narcan in the Suboxone. Naloxone, okay, okay. Yeah, it's called Naloxone, I think, right? Now, you know, then tell me why we leave before we leave the opioid discussion. So what do you think of Kratom? I bet you have a similar view as me about Kratom. You know what Kratom is that? I had somebody said it to me. That's actually a big online persona. I guess I won't say his name, but he had an opioid addiction and he used that. So he sent me a bunch. I'm like, man, that's like a mind-altering substance. I can't... What's my motive? So I just threw it away. I didn't use it. So I've actually never used it. But... No, it's not... Yeah, I knew somebody was like... She had like... She was taking pills for her bag, but I think she was misusing them. Somebody that... I was in a relationship before and she would use that the other days, but then it was like... What I saw was more like... She would do that as a crush before waiting to get her stuff. But I've heard things that it can help with withdrawals. And I know one person who actually... He wasn't even using paints, but he was like whatever. He was using drugs and then he's like kind of like transferred to that. To like... But it's like a gray area. Also, it's like... But I've seen it help some people. But I think sometimes it's like why do you want to still use something? That's the question. Why do you want to use something still? The addict thinking patterns, that's what needs to be fixed. Like why... We're seeking out something that's not good. So if they're using it for recreational reasons, I completely agree. If you're going to do something recreational and you're not an addict, for example, marijuana must be much safer for you than to use an opiate. Even if cratum is somewhat safe for some people, is agonizing... Not all... So some of the molecules in it affect adrenaline, which is why there's an upper kind of one. And of course, cratum has different strains. So one of the advantages of strains, right? You're not getting the exact same drug each time. So the receptor can respond to a different molecule each time a little bit. So your tolerance doesn't seem to get worse. Usually the cratum guys who use it all the time for pain, they'll change their strain every day. So they, like marijuana, use as well. So they keep getting a feeling. So in that sense, because it's not a medicine, it's not isolated molecule, you can't adapt to it as fast. So hopefully the tachyphylaxis, the reduction in value of the drug, should be slow. But the problem at the end of the day, we go back to this issue of the opioid receptors and the dopamine receptors. These receptors downregulate. So what I would... So yeah, there are a couple of... Actually, I'm friends with one of them. There's a couple of people in the industry that promote cratum also. And I've mentioned this to them directly. But at least if you're promoting it for pain, my issue then is just this. If you have pain in the gym, you should feel it. Because if you're not feeling it, you're just going to burn that joint. It's a signal that they're in danger somewhere. Pain is like a signal that your body is telling you that something's wrong. Bro, a lot of the guys you used to use that drug that Duchenne popularized, that was opiate? Dumbain, nubain. Nubain. Nubain, yes. The guys you use, nubain, if you notice, a lot of them had joint issues. If you use it later. That could be coincidence. But they were pushing themselves hard. And if you feel pain from a joint, like I do sometimes from my shoulders or something. If I just don't feel it, I can lift more. But I stop, right? So that's one thing. But the other thing is maybe you have chronic pain or something, or it comes once in a while. Maybe cratum, maybe safer a little bit than opiates, because it's not so isolated. But the danger is this. You're still going to develop that down regulation. So I suggested actually to one of these guys, I said, hey, if you want to promote this, maybe an ethical way to promote it is to say, your receptors for opioids will down regulate. Look at the research on low dose naltrexone therapy. Have you ever heard of this? So naltrexone is like naloxone, similar drug. I think it's longer acting. Naltrexone blocks opioid receptors. When an opioid addict goes off, opioids usually will use like 200 milligrams to totally block the receptors. Makes you depressive a bit. It's not pleasant. Or an alcoholic uses it too. Or they'll use.  low-dose amountis 4.5 milligramsis, a very small amountis. Just enough to block the opioid receptors a bit. There's a ton of research on this in the last 10 years over 10 years, showing that if you block these opioid receptors a bit, you actually get an up-regulation of the opioid receptors. Your standard pain levelis actually lower. But interestingly, I don't know if you know this, when you agonize opioid receptors, you weaken your immune system, which is not really good for everything. low-dose natrexal therapy lowers your inflammation by improving your immune system's ability to fight viruses and bacteria, including potentially the virus we just dealt with for the last couple of years. So it's pliotropic and upregulate your opioid receptors instead of bashing them down. Is it mind-altering? No. No, you'll not notice your take-it. Just like, like if you have some pain, it should be slightly less because your receptors are upregulated. And so, but now that's a great solution for someone long term. But if somebody was using Kratom, I can't convince them that it's a bad thing, but if you're not a good choice, maybe overall, maybe for people like me, but, and by the way, I don't respond to opioids well. Like I don't get addicted to them easily. I'm not one of those guys, but still, I wouldn't play with creating too much. But if you did, and you did like three times a week, maybe one or two days, you do the low dose naltrexin, upregulate the receptors. So you're not burning the candle at both ends because it's going to go badly eventually. Yeah. I mean, ideally, you take the less things possible, just to open a solution, right? And something that doesn't have an acute effect. Like when you take low dose naltrexin, you shouldn't feel it. It should be like a supplement. You're healthy. That's totally fine. But like anything that's like, that will make you feel a certain way, you gotta be really careful because the brain loves patterns so much. Take it once, maybe you're fine twice. Chances that you'll do it a third time, do it a third time, fourth time is guaranteed. Anything that activates your dopamine. And once you agonize the OP receptor, dopamine will be released. Like and so anything that you're, you're taking, or actually thinking of doing, you're going to ask yourself like, in your heart, is this really the right thing for me to do with it? If you really take a moment and get out of your fucking head a little bit, we try to feel like this is the right thing to do right now. What's the best for me? Would I get this, this my five year old daughter? Would I give that to her? You know, what? Can I ask? Perfect introduction. Listen to this song. I guess, do you believe that there are some people that really think that there's something magical about drugs? Like there are some people, I swear to God, they think marijuana can cure cancer. And they really, oh, actually, one of them is I mean, I mean, had huge arguments with me about the strain of marijuana can cure cancer. I'm trying to get it. It will do it. And I'm like, brother, this doesn't make sense. It's nonsensical, even through the cannabinoid agonist, it doesn't make, but there's other people that tell you marijuana just changed my life. Or like, to be honest with you, I don't know how spiritual you are, but even the DMT stuff, I don't give drugs this kind of secret thing. And I think it's dangerous to do so because, for example, I won't name who this person is, just, but this person was another person about building coach who was into iBergen. This guy, I, he told me this, I didn't ask him about he told me thinking, I don't know that I wouldn't judge it. I told me this is insane. What you just did is reckless, unbelievable. And you may cause your child autism. But what he did was he gave with her permission, his again, reckless girlfriend, iBergen, at a thought dose while she was breastfeeding the baby. Now, the baby is much older, you can almost clearly tell the baby's autistic. And autism, by the way, one of the theories of it is high serotonin signaling as a baby, or high growth factors in the brain as a baby. In the belly or as a baby? No, no, no, while it was in the belly will be protected while it was breastfeeding. And the belly is more protected. Yeah. So that's just to show you like, some of these people, they're, they may believe that this thing is God sent, but you shouldn't fall into their trap. And the thing is, fuck, the baby doesn't have any consent. No, bro, you may have just ruined the child's mind for life. For life. This is all speculations, obviously, like maybe, you know, the child is fine, or maybe if he has autism, it was just, that's how it was supposed to be anyway. But yeah, you're literally like you are what you eat. So if you take something, you know what, when you piss. No, no, no, he told me I saw a difference in the child's actual behavior afterward. He was very happy about it. If you take a drug and you piss on the drug test, you're going to piss dirty. I'm pretty sure if you were squeezed that milk, yes, 100% bro. I've researched this so much because I had a child reason. Moral of story. Don't, don't fucking take drugs when you're breastfeeding. Wait, no, no, they did it intentionally to put it in the breast milk to give it to the kid. It was planned because they believe it's a magical thing. Oh, they're crazy. Yeah, I'm trying to tell you and I'm leaving the person name is because I'm not a prevention person. The only reason I ever talked about it mean was just to protect you. Like that's pretty much my opinion. Child abuse or something. Yeah, it is child abuse, but there are people like that. So and these are coaches that you, some of you guys trusted and would ask for this kind of help from. So keep in mind, people have different perceptions. It may not be just that they're greedy. It may be they have them. They think this thing is good. And they think even if you have no consent, you should take it. I know, you know, we started the podcast, so you're like saying that there's all kinds of human beings or even a recovery and people were sober. There will still be all kinds of crazy people. So the thing is you have to understand that human beings that they vary from one end to the other. If you're around the middle, usually like, there's like always outliers in all different aspects of life and all different industries of life, including fitness and bodybuilding. So I wouldn't put your trust fully into somebody unless like you're doing like your own research of like their track record, what they're giving you, ask questions. And maybe you're like, you know, be really, really careful because the thing, the thing with bodybuilding is that because of the, you know, I started bodybuilding like 2003 when I was pretty much 14, 15 years old. And then in the magazine, there's already ads for supplements. Take this, you will do that. Some from the get go when you're bodybuilding, you have a mentality that things that I will ingest will make me better. So people keep that mentality for their whole career. And then there's people in there that will be like, take this, take that with that mindset. But who are they? The crazy thing with me, with these coaches is that where did you like, why? There's some top coaches that have been there in the 90s, the 2000s, top guys, like even like Olympic winners, they coach all these guys. I'm like, why, why are people listening to you? Who are you experiencing like road finds? Like, I won't say the guy's name, but it's like he coached some of my friends and he coached some of the top guys. He's still coaching today. And he's doing like kamikaze, like everything under the sake stuff and just like, so does it make sense to me? But sometimes he was hit. It seems training like 10 guys. And now maybe one guy's really nail it. That's why you always got to check the tagged photos. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's the trick. You're right. Otherwise, you're just going to see that most amazing. If you have, look, there's a book called, I love this book, if you ever get a chance to read it, it's called Fooled by Randomness. It's really short. Fooled by Randomness tries to convince you that you see patterns when they don't exist. He said, look, something like this 10 stock managers, imagine they don't know crap, they're flipping a coin every year, even with 10 of them, one of them is going to get the right winnings, whatever you want with the flipping the coin, like 20% returns year on year and year, and you had A-50% chance each year, you just don't look at the rest. So if any coach can have a guy that just by accident works great. I know. Yeah, you always, you know, that one guy who just nails it, but what about the other fucking eight, the spilled over or it's too flat or things like that. So we have, well, the story about that, would you be really careful? Like, obviously, like, the rest in peace to the person who passed away at, I'm not sure exactly what is the truth yet. No, I don't know if that's the only thing we know is that, because Dave Palumbo made a video about it, I checked it out, he apparently has the documents for the from the DA, and they specified there's a victim named H. He's also specified he talked to that family. I don't know these people. I don't know the details of it. All that matters is from this video is not to demean, I mean, also by the I don't hope that he suffers in jail or as any kind. I don't even think he has an evil bone in his body, but he was genuinely a danger to society. So it's important that people understand that, at least in the case of Ibogaine, one time and your life can be over. And is it really worth you don't need it? By the way, opiate withdrawal does not commonly kill people. Benzo withdrawal does, but you don't need it. And you might die. And why not try other potential if you had to use it, don't use the flood dose immediately. There's so many ways to be careful. And like you said, the most important thing is. So one thing you said, one thing I wanted to say is that, I said earlier that, okay, there's some shady characters around the community. There's also another kind. There are some of the best people you ever meet in your life that act like religious people that do things when nobody knows they're doing them will drive you to the airport when nobody knows late at night will have your back will do everything for you because they live for the moral principles like religious people live for. When it's not convenient for them, they'll continue to do it. And not just that out of self interest. At some point, it becomes a spiritual life. They're like monks. There are these beautiful people there. If you search enough and pay attention, you'll find these people. And you can trust people very much. But if you don't know when someone's giving you something interesting, I have a video on my channel called How to Research. It's very short. We have scholar.google.com. I didn't have that when I was a kid. Because of that reason, it's actually it can be pretty easy for you guys to start to realize, like different treatment mechanisms, do they work? What does this ketamine therapies do? And you'll understand some of the mechanisms behind it would at least help you understand when you're hearing pitches. Like nowadays, I hear a lot of people saying, not for treatment resistant depression, but anything. I want to go do a seal, psilocybin, heroes dose. I want to do four grams of mushrooms. I tell them, like, you know, I have a friend who is still schizophrenic from that one time. Like, did you know that most of us carry genes for schizophrenia? How are you going to know it's not going to happen to you? Why don't you try 800 milligrams and see how it reacted to you first? I mean, don't run these huge risks. I'm not going to give you a deep breath. Even my opinion on that is like, why do you want to do that? And why ask yourself why exactly exactly. Yeah, ask yourself why to yourself and then see yourself in your head and also why aren't you doing therapy instead? Oh, it's a lot more work. I don't want to dig the past where there's trauma. This is where you need to go. Where it hurts the most, where you're the most afraid to go, you need the courage and go there and face it. If you take mushrooms, a hero dose, yeah, you go, they'll be crushed. You'll maybe go there. You'll be forced on you, then you'll go through it. But that's like a kind of easy and then you can like, maybe it will help you for two, three, four weeks, six weeks. And then it fades away because you go back into the environment, we made you fucked up in the first place. So I think you need the tools to handle that fucked up environment and learn how to deal with it, clean and sober. And then you need to do the therapy to deal with all the past that makes you how you are right now. So I think people are too focused sometimes and I'm an addict in recovery. There's nobody else you know, that loves drugs as much as I did. And all like to be honest, and every addicts would say the same thing. So I get it. I would research about drugs. I would be willing to do whatever. But the thing is now that I'm on the other side, like why are people so interested in getting fucked up, even under the motives of like, spiritual enlightenment or just like that. It's very suspicious. Yeah. Yeah, what's the reason? You need to step back and like, what, what can I do actually to improve myself? What's the work? It's like bodybuilding. There's a difference between like, Oh, you know what is this as on the muscle tech, for example, they would back then, Oh, this a tweet, so she's with transformation. I was 30 pounds. I'm all jacked now. That's the easy fix. That's bullshit. Well, why would like, so what's the real thing? Consistency, discipline and hard work. That's how you get the results, right? And bodybuilding sampling with like improving your, let's say inner self, or your life, it will take a lot of work. It will take a lot of discipline and it will take a while like therapy, CBT, even the 12 steps, there's a lot of shit that you can do for yourself. If you didn't see a one on one shrink, it can help. There's a lot of things you do a group therapy. So it's like, it's stuff people don't even want to do. I don't want to go to shrink. Why? Yeah, I don't want it for me. Yeah, I kind of wanted, but I don't want to cry. Why don't you want to cry? You know, show weakness in front of somebody else. Yeah, because it hurts. No pain, no gain. Yeah, right? One thing I was thinking about, this was really brilliant. One way to look at it, right, is I feel like sometimes x addicts are always thinking about how can I change? Because you know, they think about drugs, all our life, a natural human being. And sometimes I say, I don't think all addicts are like this, but some addicts have this unique phenotype. There are people who have like low dopamine signaling naturally. When they get excited about something, they do usually better than other people. They go ahead with it. Sometimes they won't be consistent like two, three months, they'll get bored. These are the kind of people I'm talking about. These people sometimes when they do get passionate about something really take it to the, they go very far or kill them. The kryptonite, kryptonite like Superman for these people is encountering drugs. Why? You've always had low dopamine signaling. Now a normal guy comes in, has a drink, he was okay. He went a little bit above okay. He's like, that's okay. I'm tomorrow, I'm okay. You went from actually shit, but you never knew to being, whoa, I could do this. So the difference for you is way bigger. So logically, you're always thinking about this difference. Now the problem is this, your whole life, you've had low dopamine signaling. So you've been struggling always making your way, changing your environment around you to make it okay for your dopamine signaling. Once you took control, internal locus of control, and you can just smoke something and you're fine. Now this is a huge problem for the human being. The human being was not evolved to do this. We're evolved when we have a problem to change our environment around us, to build a career, to build a family, to build friendships. But if you could just smoke or drink or whatever, and it doesn't matter at all. First you feel this awesome power that nobody affects you. You can, whatever could happen today, you can't get me. And then you don't care about the environment around. No, right? So I don't care about like feeling that whatever you felt because for once in your life, you felt like, wow, this is actually, it means, it's like me. I tried some stuff when I was younger drinking, then I went to my first rave. And took some stuff like a bunch of stuff. And then I was like, holy shit, this makes sense. Yeah, this makes sense. Now like, I get this now. And then it's like, I've always like, this is what I want to do it more. It didn't just, there was other things that I added and it was even worse. So now the thing is, I was not comfortable in my life ever, you know, scared. You know, my bass sound was like, kind of scared, uncertain, worth less a little bit. And you know, and because my friends got divorced, you know, as a kid, it's like, for me, it was traumatic back then. Because I didn't want any better. And then you kind of, my whole life was like that. And then, boom, I go there because of drugs. Normally it's there, I go there. I've always like, chased that. And then the thing is, once you stop, boom, you go like even lower than this. I was like, why? Everything was so dull and boring. And even my definition of like, excitement and fun was only related to being there. There was a lot of adjustment. And it took a while. And there's a physical basis of that for you, because you're using a drug that causes physical ecstasy, even the physical sense of it. So for the audience to understand, don't ever use this drug, because it may make you feel like you don't feel the same pleasure from normal things again. I don't know if you ever felt that. Or is it long lasting? Like, I don't want to get into details, but you know what I mean? I'm actually feeling the best I've felt since I stopped doing drugs. Wow, fantastic. Great. Yeah. I think it's just because it's related to, there's no chaos in my life, and I'm okay with it now. And I'm just, my recovery program is good, and I'm surrounded with people who are just positive. Because obviously, the people you hang out with is going to be a big influence on you, right? So I just think that up really nice in the past few, few years. And but yeah, but for sure, the first few months, once you stop doing drugs, it's like, it's kind of hard to. Empty in the brain. So it would take me, if I would go like really hard and I would go to rehab, it would take me maybe like two weeks to smile, four weeks to feel like I'm actually feeling all right. And then during those first three weeks, I hated myself more than anything in the world. I know it's to be able to smile like you in a camera, you try to smile, you look weird, right? It doesn't go up. You feel like a weird, awkward guy. I wouldn't want to smile. I had no sense of humor. There was nothing going on, right? But yeah, the self hatred was the probably the worst part. I brought into trouble. I got kicked out of so few rehabs because I was like becoming like very defiant against the authority and I would like be violent with like the environment. And I never, never was violent with people really, but it was more like verbal with like the people in charge. I would be breaking stuff because all this hate inside me was just spilling over like a glass that's spilling over with the water, with the faucet that you keep pouring in, just falling over. So I suffered, it was so, so big. But you know, that took a lot of work to deal with. Plus, my brain being all like depressed from like the drop. So it was just terrible. But I think after four weeks, I would feel somewhat okay, you know, depending, right? That was like back years ago. And then over time, you just learned to like enjoy the normal things, the little things. But for sure, bodybuilding and training really helps. For me, like pushing myself, pushing myself in the gym gives me a purpose. And one thing I've really noticed in the rehabs is that... Well, it's changing all those chemicals in your brain. It's literally giving you the... So, you know, when you, when you squat, you get adrenaline. When you, when you, when you do some cardio, you get endorphins. You get gaba also after cardio, so you relax a bit. If you ever try the sauna before bed, it's wonderful. You get like a relaxation feeling. And all these growth factors from ibogaine all come from cardio. Same exact growth factors. So it is a real difference. There's doing something there. Oh yeah. Yeah. And the thing is, as soon as I was... Funny, funny thing, maybe it's related to that. As soon as I would start partying, the last thing I wanted to do is sleep or train. I would not train when I was partying, do drugs. And then I would go to rehab, sleep it off. First thing I do when I wake up, go to the gym. Surprising each other. Yeah. Yeah. Was never at the same time. I've never done it at the same time. That's a good indication. Well, yeah, that's why I was... I was gonna mention... Yeah. Oh, sorry, interrupt you. I was gonna mention something. Also, a lot of times, so we're talking about people looking for this magic pill to solve the thing. And I was saying, once you internalize control, you're removing this whole thing of, I need to change my environment. If you've been addicted to something for years, like you were talking about, there's gonna be a lot of issues you haven't worked through emotionally, but also in your environment, there's gonna be a wreckage. And the solution isn't like, I have to just bear the wreckage. You have to clean up the wreckage and physically take action, also the action re-associating your brain. But there's another thing, people sometimes have this overwhelming, like, I have a friend here in Thailand who thinks this way, people can probably guess who it is. But he seems to think that when he uses marijuana, he's very creative. And I'm like, oh, do you know that I have like musician clients who will not use drugs at all because it affects... It makes you think you're making better music, but you're not. It's just a perception. And if you train yourself to be creative, you don't need to use a random drug to randomly mix things in your head. Like creativity, do you know what that is? In my opinion, obviously obnoxious. But my opinion is creativity is thievery. But artistic thievery. Like any real artist that paints this, he's taking little things from everywhere he's seen. And he spent his whole life looking at those things. And he's doing it soberly. What drunk artist, well, maybe there's a couple of things, what drunk artist, you know, that was really that awesome and prolific and continuous. They're usually chain smokers like Picasso. They weren't doing LSD and just doing crazy, I think a lot of artists will be really, really... Maybe I'm wrong. Yeah, well, I think everybody's different, right? So it might be good for somebody, but for anybody else. But I think why a lot of artists are good is because they have a lot of suffering in their life. They're like suffering a lot. And what happens when somebody suffers a lot, they can do drugs too. So I don't know if it's a drug like in them created, or it's actually just their whole traumatic life that they had maybe. Because I think that's that's more likely they come together. It's not that doing the drug is making me do this. They're really like, in pain and suffering too much, they can't use do their art. So they will use something to relieve them. But then the whole fucking life of shit is what drives them to express themselves with their art form. But my buddy's like, Hey, if I'm going to make a YouTube video, I should smoke some weed and come up with ideas. I'm like, No, no, no, no, you don't need to do that. It's not the best way I swear. Whatever you I do, creativity you have, you'll miss some spelling or something. It's not ideal. Like, yeah, anyway, not the thing I want to mention. Just one more thought I want to mention just for the audience. Antoine and I disagree on something briefly. I'm not completely sure I'm right or he's right. But his right is the main his view is the mainstream among sober people and probably what is what you should follow. The one thing that I had, because of my experience with the Pacific Group, and because of my personal experience with I had a very bad anxiety disorder, when I first got sober, which was made much worse by the fact that I was experiencing delirium tremens from the alcohol use. So basically, I was having tremors, which even happens in childhood, it was very bad. I was told not to take anything that could try to deal with this, not not talking about benzo or anything acute, but something like affecting my neurogenesis for the long term or something like that. And I found myself practicing the principles of religious, the religious principles that are important, solidarity, confession and accountability and all of these things that we have in AA. But I found that later on by accident, basically, I encountered some of these other medications for different reasons. And I found that it seemed for some people, there must be many reasons why people how people end up with drugs. Some people like, for example, myself, I had a very unusual childhood. If you like look into my child, like the kind of child that I had in Google dot scar dot com or scar dot go dot com, you'll find people born like that have smaller amygdala or more not smaller, but also more pronounced, but more disconnected amygdala. The amygdala is this ancient part of the brain, the lizard brain that basically tells you when a lion is about to attack. It's supposed to tell you it's to fear or to jump this anxiety center. Yeah, from childhood, I'm always ready, always, I move fast, I'm always not comfortable. And that's just how I am. So this thing builds up over time, some kind of angst. Now, if I was to use a drug that one of these medicinal drugs that makes you feel better, like GABA panthen or something like that, I'm just gonna end up, I don't know if you know this book, but if you take volume, three months when you take value, it lowers your cortisol. Three months later, at the same dose, you have normal cortisol levels. Now, if you take out the volume, you're below baseline, just like we were talking about before. All those drugs that work acutely or through the GABA system, most of them work like that. But some like antidepressants, the standard ones for some people, like myself, made a huge, huge benefit. What they made me feel was like, the way I would describe it is, well, there's three things I noticed. One was neurogenesis, like having just higher growth factors, even if it's the sauna and exercise, or if it's SSRIs, low dose with under the psychiatrist, or cerebral license, which is even cerebral license less risky than SSRIs in some ways, because it doesn't mess with your systems in your brain, it just gives you the growth factors. So if you take like cerebral license with GH on the same day, you'll sleep will be crazy good. Next day, your brain fog will be a bit there. And that's the feeling of the growth factors. And you'll notice like over time, if something usually would bother you a lot, but then you would think about it two hours later, and you'd have to prey on it or something, someone turned on you in a car. This time you turned on you, an hour later, you just get along with it. That's the plasticity. It's very small. Nobody would do it to abuse drugs. But it's a small advantage for me. It was very helpful to adapt. And then another one, which is common, which doesn't affect feelings in the brain was the non loadable style tracks, one example, anything that lowers inflammation in the brain, being neuro inflammation, you know, you have your immune system overactive, because whatever, like especially if your body belongs to somebody, you have a lot of stresses in your body, your immune system might get overactive, might turn on your joints, might turn on your gut or something, right? A lot of people call us and that's up. Anything that can lower your inflammation in a healthy way, like fish oil, EPA from fish oil, can potentially lower inflammation in the brain. Two of the ones that have done it in double blind placebo controlled human studies is two grams of NAC a day, or I think NAC, or imagine has shown antidepressant effect in eight weeks, just from lowering inflammation. And EPA from fish oil also does it. And it's shown, you know, if you take a rodent and inject it with one of these, what are called inflammatory cytokines from the immune system that get high when your body's stressed, it'll act depressed and anxious if you just inject it with it. So lowering inflammation, what's the possible bad side? Well, if you're lowering it with drugs, you could lower it so much that your body misses cancers. But if you're lowering it with fish oil, low dose naltrexon, which is that you're not going to get a huge advantage, but your brain will be a bit calmer, you're excited to be a bit lower. That and the neurogenesis I think are somewhat helpful and then for myself. And then for some people, not if you have experiences. And by the way, I believe most wholeheartedly in cognitive behavioral therapy, and also psychoanalysis for people that are good at meditation, mindful meditation. But for the for the CBT, if your brain is neurogenic, you see, in childhood, your brain can grow new neurons everywhere. So it can change. In adulthood, you can't teach an old dog new tricks, because the brain can't change. Way harder. Yeah. Not not. It's just there's only two parts of the brain that still grow new factors. So they can change. And they're small. But when you take an anti-depressant, they like quadruple or more than that, 10 times more. So when that happens, when you go to CBT, I did CBT on myself, by the way. So for example, I had this anxiety problem, right? But my shaking was a problem. And then the anxiety, if I saw you seem me shaking during the withdrawal, I get more anxious, like a stuttering person. And then I see you see me studying and I can talk, right? Or every time it happened in public, it would get way worse. Because now I remember that time, it's gonna happen next time. And I'm not a coward. I don't know how this was happening to me. It was physically couldn't control my body. So what I did was, I didn't I didn't use the value. But what I did was, I increased neurogenesis. So I increased neurogenesis enough for a period of time through an anti-depressant that made neurogenesis by itself also was anxiety. Some people, if they were not addicts and had this problem, they could do CBT with like short term the short term with a acute Benzo or something like a 2.5 milligram Benzo, if you're not an addict, under doctors. But what you would do is this, you ever heard of a society called Toastmasters? So Toastmasters. Yeah, it's a society for people who are scared of public speaking in the US. You can just go for free. They meet, they're very nice people. And basically what they do is they clap for you and stuff while you give a bad speech. So I went over there, nervous as hell. Yeah, I was very nervous. But I was not anxious that I've been taking for two months, that's impressive. So I felt a bit better. And this was my theory. Psychiatrists didn't tell me to do this. I went there and I said, the worst thing I could do for my anxiety thing is go speak in front of these people. But these people are cool, not to laugh at me. So it should be good. So I went  ab excuses. a little bit but nobody saw it and then the next time I went to talk they said oh there's one of the best speeches we've had the last few weeks of the war nobody saw anything and within a couple of months the shaking went away but I had the neurogenesis and I had the positive feedback and I made this I really believe in this yeah yeah just to clarify I am all for medication that will help people like and in a like most people are on medication but the pacific group because one of the three main values that we have that we always mention is open-mindedness, willingness and honesty and open-mindedness is the first one so we have to be open-minded so everybody's recovery is different a lot of time mistakes that I've done in the past or I've seen people do is that they will judge somebody else's recovery oh it's not the way that it no focus on your own you need to focus on your own what works for you because remember life was unimaginable you were suffering you were pretty much killing yourself so for somebody else if they will use a medication and have a nice life it's going to help them go on track and not do like drugs that will kill you this is a win so I think all these antidepressants and all that stuff is very good but it needs to be of course supervised with a professional a doctor and has to be prescribed and the motives because the thing is it's so easy also to go to a doctor and be like oh I need this benzo I'm very stressed out in public blah blah blah but it's all a lie and you're just getting that for yourselves because the thing is very a lot of addicts and for myself it's very easy to like convince yourself you need something but if you dig to what the really what the motive is oh I just want something to feel different that's not yeah yeah specifically bro any medication that they could feel within two weeks is not going to work it has to be medications that don't have an acute effect like SSRRs you don't even feel for a month that's why it's not addictive you don't notice when you take it you don't notice they took it that day but over time you notice maybe I'm shifting a little bit those kinds but the promise the addict can never choose it for himself he really needs expert psychiatrists to guide them otherwise you're gonna you're gonna do the same thing like he's saying one more thing I just want to mention do you ever notice we thought way longer than a plant but do you ever notice that people have this reluctance about accepting the higher power and one of the things that they'll do is there's these a groups that are like no higher power have you seen this yeah there's a lot of like motivation there's even one yeah and Ali there's one yeah there's a one that's like a even the buddhist and there's one it's called smart recovery it's smart different smart yeah yeah yeah plus they do like step stuff without like the higher power but the thing is it's integral to it I don't I was like I was so like desperate to like change and find a solution they told me in my first rehab they have to believe in a higher power I don't even want like I just believe in whatever so I chose the the Thor the God of Thunder just to have like something to like practice I'm gonna your necklace yeah yeah yeah I always have that and then eventually it changed and now it's like I do have a higher power I just don't know I can't explain it with the words I have because it's where it is it's these words or were created on this material plane for example so I can't use things that are created here to explain what's something I don't even know but I just know that with something out there and I personally I should pray more and use it more in my program but it's not my first reaction and the the only times I prayed with all my heart was the time that I was like suffering the most I was like okay now now please help me this is like I went on my knees and stuff a few painful times in my life but I but that's the point of it right is to remind us constantly that we are so fallible and small beyond what is such as something greater than us and it's not whether the higher power is listening to us it's for us to sit in gratitude and admire because think about every society we've ever come across in the world experience the same kind of religion they sacrifice they pray to rich to idols they have rituals why it's a by accident or did every society that didn't do that die off is that part of yeah part of like an evolutionary design thing that keeps human beings it's like mass therapy for some maybe countries or groups of people well yeah but for sure but the thing is that I've seen people in the they everybody's higher power is different though that's the part of the thing too like some people they just believe in karma some people they just believe in like a so the the athiast version of god in the meeting is called good or delete direction god so we're righteous way good or delete direction so you ask yourself what's the most righteous way so for those who don't believe in in the sky daddy because whatever you know like they will use that good or direction or I've also like a in a group of drunks because the yeah greater than yourself that's more than you so people they will have different versions of higher power but in the program if you just try to have one you open the mind it enough you'll be uh you'll have a much better chance at staying clean but it can't be anything it can be nature whatever it doesn't have to be anything it's a big people put a lot of pressure on that but me I was really willing to like do whatever took took it's like I didn't care hey you would have to tell me like hey Al-Twan you have to believe in the in god so you can get this bag of drugs I'm like so now why would I not be as willing to stop doing drugs right so I had this I had this yep no no because the word the word god scares a lot of people that's why we actually use higher power a lot because god is is attached to religion but it's the thing with the 12 step it's not a religious program it's a spiritual program that's the thing but it's just the AA was inspired by some religious principles from the Oxford group and stuff so some are inspired by them but then they just change the wording so it would be available to anybody from all creeds of life all religion all races all status so everybody can do it but um you know I had a tremendous tremendous difficulty for the people that are listening to us that think they're gonna have a difficulty with this I had a tremendous difficulty my brain was very stubborn and at the time I was convinced that I that I could not get this god thing the way they're describing it to me it caused me a lot of problems initially like complete reservations I couldn't deal with anything over time I developed this I think this is hard to disagree with honestly and I don't want to take more much much more time but if you think so say you believe that there's no god and you're you have the feeling of like the militant atheists right so you think the world was created by randomness okay whatever this random occurrence that created the entire universes this thing you don't understand right and you don't need to understand it it's just something so much beyond you that you're nothing compared to it right say that this whole universe thing we can call god it includes everything and on the universe including you this whole system which works somehow by itself without you doing anything about it and not understanding anything about it say this whole system has never listened to you once in your life it doesn't matter when you're praying to god or consoling or commuting commuting with god is that that when you're doing that you're not really you're talking to god but it's not that god should need necessarily talk back to you what you're doing is showing gratefulness because you were given this existence that you didn't deserve that you don't know how it happened and what you're supposed to show is what we say in arabic subhanallah which means praising god to say you know thank you for what you've done for us i don't understand you but i respect you and i see that all your creatures in the world seem to work in unison in a way that goes with the flow of the river of life and not swimming against the river i have been swimming against the river clearly i don't know what i'm doing because i'm about to die so maybe i should look at the river of life observe nature and pray to god in the sense that i am learning from god from the universe god is what i don't know and that's everything and so it gives you respect gratitude communion these are maybe the most important parts of religion what do you think right it's hard to disagree with that no it is all right because the thing is your the trips them up is the word god that's all no that's that's what you mean you just describe god pretty much yeah that's god to me that's some people would would describe the same god using different words yeah you know what i mean so it's the thing is it's all the same thing it's that's my opinion too it's like all the religions are they they try they're trying to explain what you just try to explain it's just really hard to other people get really caught up on this idea that there's one religion he says he has a beard and he has calm that okay back off don't get stuck on that one if somebody told you there's a guy listening to and you don't believe him does that mean that this whole universe this grand beautiful thing that nobody understands is not before you if you see a nice car don't you see wow it's a beautiful car if you said wow this is a beautiful life every day you wouldn't drink you know that's what they're really saying to you at the end of the day right yeah well if you didn't like it i mean if you liked it you accepted fully as it is we want to change it yeah also and you would want to go with the flow of life like in my mind if we do things that are very unhealthy for ourselves even in that way we're going against the flow of life i tend to do it naturally so which is why my child's called leon longevity you could say it itself will and then going with the flow of the river is kind of god's will in a sense true and how you know god's will by learning god by watching the flow of the universe also which is that gratitude and and meditation and observation this is a good note to leave it wait before we do so anton so anton told me that i should make this video although originally i thought i shouldn't but i thank you for encouraging me but anton i was thinking before i was supposed to do another reaction video to you so maybe once in a while if there's a topic that relates to addicts or stuff like that we could do this series which i haven't concluded on the name yet i'm going to poll you today because i have so many more names but some of them are cool like anabolic's anonymous redemption and recovery anabolic's anonymous because it makes it less you know lighthearted and then it says redemption and recovery but this this is a bunch of others i'll send you the full list after so potentially that and otherwise i wanted to congratulate you on 2022 you i know that you had a lot of setbacks to bicep tears and stuff like that but your condition was fantastic and the entire world saw it and especially the competition leading up to the olympia the one before that i don't remember which one the chicago where you're looking can see people thought you could have won the last competition or something right yeah it was fantastic you did a great job brother we're very proud of you thanks yeah thank you what are you planning are you planning to compete earlier in the year uh no i think i'm going to do the opposite that i'm just clearing off the blood work getting healthy you know and just like doing everything right you know and getting another heart scan and um yeah just to be safe you know and i i think i'm gonna just after all that i'm gonna gain some muscle to have a the right improvement to be more of caliber against some of the top guys and uh really give it a good shot because i probably only have like what three four years maximum competing because i've been competing like since 2004 early yeah i remember so well it's fine so um so yeah so i think i've got to get the year off to just gain some get healthy gain muscle and so i when i come back i have there's a drastic improvement give it a give it a shot but then after that you give it a really good go have the muscle i need and then just refine that for a couple years and then just hang it up because that's i want to do my best reach my full potential and i think i just need another three years to do so three four years to do so so i'm going to compete that i'm going to try to get an invite for the 2024 Arnold Classic oh fantastic okay great are you going to do a calcium angiogram with dye yeah i did it last time i'll do another one now or did that one also yeah yeah i did that and i'm gonna do a or was a CT score just of the corner was it a detailed one would they pump the dye or just the there was no no blockages but my my calcium score was elevated but i always wondered is like is it because of like all the fucking shit i did because my blood pressure must have been in the 200s for days on end when i was partying no no it's because of the it's because of the stimulant absolutely i if you didn't know that absolutely bro that was the stimulant yes because look what happens when you're when you're when you're when your blood vessels tighten up which always happens we don't even notice it heart rate rises blood vessels tighten up all that little blood pushing on the blood vessel because a little tear and the calcium is healing it yes now that's the problem with people that were had high high heart rates and stuff but yours wasn't as high as i thought right no i think it was like we talked about it it's really high for my age is 130 but the 130 not 1000 130 oh yeah not 1300 no 130 oh we talked about it okay yeah i was worried and he thought no no it's supposed to be zero right supposed to be zero but bro 1000 was like almost a death sentence no i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know i know me there's like it with the with the angiogram with the contrast dye there's like no blockages so i want to do it again after competing for a whole year see like what the numbers are because it because it might have been the same thing for like five years and never change it well it might it what it might be keep in mind right the calcium gets put in about 10 years after the damage so it might get worse but you don't want to do it that often you want to do it like it because because that does damage the area but yeah can i see something real quick yeah do you take uh do you take fish oil because you know they approved fish oil for this treatment right it's called vasepa yeah uh i i use four grams epa a day reverses reduces heart attacks by about 40 percent or so and people have already had one in the last few years it's massive yeah no i used fish oil but i just ran out like two days ago i got a grow grab on but i use a really good one but keep in mind the dha raises your LDL cholesterol the epa barely does the epa is the one that really really improves heart health i can send you the names of them later yeah i just said to be here all right brother it was great to talk to you this was very insightful

=== FILE: How To Reset A Dysregulated Nervous System ： Protocol to Rebalance Your Stress Response [6HOMAQWttLk].txt ===

 If you have an age 173 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – age 17 – to want to miss a single health secret we unravel. Today's video is based on a mix of a lot of things, Leo's previous research and my own research as well as my own experience on how I am overcoming my highly dysregulated nervous system. We're going to be diving into the mysteries of our nervous system, especially the fight-or-flight response. So this isn't just a reaction, it's a complex ballet of biology and chemistry designed to protect us. But what happens when these protective mechanisms start to working over time? Let's explore. First imagine facing the saber-toothed tiger. Your body instantly gears up for a life-or-death decision. This is the fight-or-flight. Adrenaline and cortisol flood into your system, increasing your heart rate, sharpening your senses and preparing your muscles for action. So in the modern world though, our tigers are often deadlines, social pressure or sometimes even overflowing inbox. Acute fight-or-flight response are just vital for survival. They're your body rapid response to immediate threats and temporary states enabling us for quick action. The problem arises when these states become chronic. Chronic activation, being in perpetually fight-or-flight mode, is like having an alarm that never turns off. It's exhausted, it can lead to a myriad of health issues, anxiety and also heart disease. Now let's consider the impact of childhood trauma. Early life stress, can be emotional, physical or otherwise, can rewire the brain, setting a higher baseline for this fight-or-flight response. It's like calibrating your system to perceive threats more readily, keeping you in a constant state of high alert. What does being in this overdriven state looks like in everyday life? It's more than just feeling stress. It's over planning, having backup plans for your backup plans. It's reacting intensely to very minor stressors, feeling overwhelmed by regular activities. The mmm of the refrigerator feels like torture or when eating quickly isn't just a habit but a necessity because your body is ready to move on the next threat. Other signs of fight-or-flight response include rapid speech, a tendency to over things during your downtime, a loss of perspective or even like entering free states when you have so much to do but it feels like impossible to even start. So all of these are just basic classic indicator that your nervous system is stuck on overdrive. Breaking free from this cycle, especially when rooted in childhood trauma, isn't just about your symptoms management, it's about rewiring and retraining your entire nervous system. So what happens when someone is constantly in this survival mode? Well, their body is always on high alert, which can be mentally and physically draining. And they also might experience chronic anxiety, have difficulty sleeping, or constantly feel on edge. It's a very tough cycle to break, especially when it's rooted in childhood experiences. In my opinion, recognizing the sign of being in survival mode is absolutely crucial. This includes like heightened vigilance, a tendency to overreact, difficulty relaxing, difficulty of feeling safe, or even having like some physical symptoms like chronic fatigue or digestive issues. Like I said, breaking free from those with trauma, it really requires a multi-facet approach. It's not just about managing the symptoms, but here we're going to address the underlying triggers. Today, I want to open up about my own journey to calm my dysregulated nervous system. First, let's start with understanding how I recognized my nervous system was out of balance. In my childhood, beginning at the age of seven, I was involved in maltreatment, which profoundly impacted me. And I understand now, backed by science, the critical role of a child's environment in shaping their future, especially before the age of five. And I'm somewhat grateful that I didn't experience any trauma before five. Leo did, and I know that was one of the main reasons of all these struggles. By the time I was 10, I had to become the responsible adult in my household. My mother, confined in a wheelchair after being in the hospital for a little bit, and as well as my younger sister, they all depended on me. So I had to juggle the household responsibility. My mother was scarce. And more importantly, or the more impactful thing, was the constant effort to try to anticipate her needs to avoid being mistreated. This experience programmed my brain to always plan for every eventuality, prioritizing others' needs, and be perpetually unalert. For years, I assumed that this was normal, and I was never fully realizing how my childhood trauma was influencing me in my life. It was only after becoming a mother and facing significant challenges in my marriage, like you all know, followed by a burned out, that I was compelled to confront my past. And I know children mimic everything, and having had a challenging mother, I was strongly determined to be the opposite of what she was. So I thought, like, talk therapy, hypnotherapy, and other holistic therapy to work through my traumas. And this process was truly eye-opening. I really saw how my adult behavior were mostly dictated by my past, living in constant fear, and in fight-or-flight mode. My actions were often about alleviating fear, even when they weren't beneficial for me. So our brain gravitates towards what's familiar, seeking safety, even when it's unhealthy. Another very interesting sign that I was in high fight-or-flight was my inability to lose weight. Despite eating healthy and working out, I always struggled to lose weight. Even Leo was, like, baffled by what I was eating daily and not understanding why I shouldn't shed my unwanted pounds, despite my effort. He didn't care about them, it was just me and my self-conscious. But luckily, over the last two years, I've made tremendous progress in rewiring my brain response pattern. I've experimented with various protocol and method, constantly learning and adapting. So this journey hasn't been easy, and there have been a lot of setbacks, but it's been very transformative. Right now, I've lost 20 pounds in the last five months, yoohoo! And I'm now focusing really on my stress response and continuing to work on managing my fight-or-flight reactions. So as we discuss the fight-or-flight response and delve into my story, I'm gonna share with you some tools and techniques that have helped me find balance. And at the end of the video, I will provide a detailed practical protocol that you can implement in your life. If I can make this changing as a working circle mom, I believe anyone can, and it's about taking the first steps towards a healthier, calmer you. The first pivotal changes in my journey was transforming my diet. The food we consume play an instrumental role in how body responds to stress. I transitioned to a low-inflammatory diet, which is really effective in reducing the production of stress hormones and calming the nervous system. Know for their calming properties, so for instance magnesium, which found in leafy greens, nuts and seeds play a role in regulating our nervous system. And it helps reduce the stress response by acting on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenaline axis, the central stress response system. Then we also have the omega-3 fatty acids, which is another cornerstone of my diet. It's essential for brain health and managing inflammation. You can find it in fatty fish like salmon, mackerel and sardine, but it's not just about what you add, it's also about what you need to avoid. So avoiding processed food, high-sugar, unhealthy fats can exacerbate inflammation and disrupt the balance of your nervous system. Incorporating anti-inflammatory food like turmeric, ginger and berries alongside magnesium and omega-3 rich food can create a very powerful synergy. And this dietary approach not only aid in reducing inflammation, but also support overall mental health and resilience against stress. In managing dysregulated nervous system, supplements can play a vital role, but it's also crucial to approach them with awareness and balance. So let's talk about what works and what to be cautious about. First, we have the famous ashwagandha. It's a very popular herbs in auretic medicines, it became very popular in our modern world, and it's because it's known for its stress-relieving property. However, I've chosen to avoid it due to potential concerns regarding liver toxicity. Instead, I've turned into supplements that have a more established safety profile and are known to support the nervous system health. Magnesium, like I talked before, I supplement with regularly that helps with the nerve functions. It also acts as a natural calcium blocker, which is helping muscle relax and reducing the fight-or-flight response. Another group of supplements I rely on are the B vitamins, and they're crucial for maintaining optimal neurological and psychological health. So for example, vitamin B6 helps with the production of neurotransmitters like serotonin and dopamine, which are vital for mood regulation and stress management. I want to remind everybody that supplements should be a complement and not replace a balanced diet. It's part of the broader strategy of managing stress and support the nervous health system. For everyone considering supplements, please consult with a healthcare professional because I'm not a medical doctor and they can help find a regimen that's suited for you. As part of my journey to regulate my nervous system, I made a significant lifestyle change that's going to be controversial. I quit caffeine. Now, it was not a small part, I drank two coffee a day, and it was really part of my daily routine. I love the taste, but I think it was a necessary step for me. While caffeine has a lot of benefits, it can also exacerbate stress response. And this effect is not just about feeling jittery after a cup of coffee, it's about how caffeine interacts with our body on a deeper physiological level. Research suggests that caffeine can reinforce the vascular inflammatory response during mental stress. And this is crucial because these inflammatory responses are just part of our fight-or-flight mechanism. Let's look into the mechanism. So coffee consumption, especially over the long term, have been associated with increased level of inflammatory markers like interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein. This is important because those markers play a role in our body's stress response system. By cutting out caffeine, I was aiming to reduce this inflammatory response, thereby helping to manage my anxiety level and calm my fight-or-flight response. For those of us with a history of childhood trauma, and I include myself in this group, our baseline for fight-or-flights is often screwed higher. This means we're more likely to experience chronic activation of our fight-or-flight response. Reducing any potential trigger, like caffeine, becomes even more critical. Now another aspect of my journey to rebalance my nervous system has been regular exercise. But let's fear a misconception. First, when I say exercise, I'm not just talking about high-intensity workout that leaves you completely breathless. The truth is, even moderation activity like wrist walk, cycling, or yoga can have profound effects on your mental well-being and stress levels. Why is exercise so beneficial for stress management? So when we engage in physical activities, our body releases endorphin. Those are a natural mood lifter. They act as analgesic, which means they diminish the perception of pain, and they also serve as sedatives. It's not just about the endorphin. Exercise also helps regulate the production of stress hormones like cortisol and adrenaline. Regular physical exercise improves your body's ability to respond to stress. It's like tuning a fine instrument. Exercise helps you handle stress more efficiently. By maintaining constant exercise routine, you can enhance your resilience to stressors, reduce your symptoms of anxiety and depression, and improve your overall mood. This is not new. Everybody kind of know that, but sometimes we don't do it. Research shows that even 30 minutes of moderate exercise a few times a week can just impact this tremendously. For me, I do walking, some yoga, and occasional boxing because I just love boxing. And it's been highly effective to help me manage stress, also improve my sleep quality, my focus, and it just boosts my overall energy levels. Another step in my quest to recalibrate my nervous system, I also discovered the power of mindfulness practices. Mindfulness and meditation are just not just buzzwords, they're just essential tools that have brought a lot of changes in my life. Meditation, in particular, has been a game changer. I had a very hard time to get into meditation until I discovered the Muse headband to guide my sessions and providing me real-time feedback on my brain activity to help me achieve deeper level of focus and relaxation. I don't know if you've used Muse or if you've heard of it, I highly recommend you to check it out. It gives you biofeedback on your meditation levels. I've studied out about on a 15 minute session to be like 30 to 40% calm and now I'm achieving 90 plus. And research underscored the benefits of regular meditation showing that it can reduce symptoms of stress and anxiety by altering the brain response to stressors. But my mindfulness journey didn't stop at just meditation. I recently started integrating the shadow board, also known as the nail board, into my routine. This practice, which involves standing on a board with a lot of nails and acupressure points, stimulates the body marriage, the alliance, and it promotes relaxation and pain relief. The sensation might seem very intense at first, but it also quickly involved into deeply soothing experience and it really enhanced mental clarity and physical well-being. I have also explored like sound bath sessions. It's like where resonant sounds from instruments like singing balls and gongs create like an immersive auditory experience. Incorporating these mindfulness practices into my daily life, I brought profound changes a few minutes a day and significantly reduced stress and anxiety, improved self-quality, and enhanced overall mood. It's also about creating a space where the mind can pause away from constant shatters and demands, social media, and everyday life. Again, mindfulness is not just one-size-fits-all solution. It's really about you finding the practice that resonates with you the most and trying to integrate them into your daily life to cultivate a more balanced and calm nervous system. One aspect of calming the nervous system, as always, is often overlooked is sleep. The quality of sleep is not just a luxury, it's like a non-negotiable pillar of health. Through my amazing best friend and tracking Oura Ring, I gained some invaluable insights into my sleep quality, which has been a game changer in managing my stress level and also my well-being. The science behind the importance of sleep in stress management is compelling. There are many studies that have shown that I review that extensively. And we know that poor sleep can exacerbate stress response, while stress can in turn lead to sleep disturbance. So this cycle can have significant impact on physical and mental health. But what does quality sleep really mean? It's about achieving deep, restorative sleep state, maintaining a constant sleep schedule, and ensuring the sleeping environment supports restfulness. This includes like having a dark room, quiet room, a comfortable mattress, maintaining a cool temperature to sleep. I personally would be able to track various sleep metrics such as sleep stages, heart rate variability, and overall sleep duration. And this data has allowed me to make targeted changes to improve my sleep quality. For instance, I've adjusted my routine to include like a winding down activity, and also limit my exposure to blue lights before bedtime. And I also turn all my lights in red before going to bed at least one hour. This really helped my mood and stress level. And I saw the improvement in my ability to handle day-to-day stressors. And as a side note, when I experience very acute stress, I rely on a specific breathing technique. For women, I've spoken about it extensively. One, the effective method is to inhale for no bias, second inhale before excelling for about a minute. And it really immediately calms the nervous system. I do that every time I'm on a high stress level, and it works every single time. Lastly, do not underestimate the power of social support and hobbies that brings joy. So connecting with loved ones and engaging in activities that you love can be crucial in managing stress level and your nervous system. But now I want to talk to you about a key player in my wellness journey is the Neurosim. So it's not just any device, it's a wearable neuromodulation tool that's redefining health and wellness. As a certified medical tool, it's making significant stride in improving life, my life. Neurosim distinguishes itself through a scientific approach, especially in how it targets the nervous system. Neurosim focuses on the afferent nerves of the vagus nerve located in the tragus. So the mechanism of Neurosim involves sending signals through these afferent nerves to the brain stems. This activation is pivotal as it stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system. For those with a chronically unbalanced autonomous nervous system, this is where Neurosim works its magic. It helps bring the autonomous nervous system back into equilibrium. This balance is essential for our well-being as the autonomous nervous system is responsible for regulating many of our body automatic functions such as heart rate and digestion. So what's the significance of this? Well, when the autonomic nervous system is in balance, it can lead to issues such as stress, anxiety, and physical alignment. Neurosim addresses this by sending targeted electrical impulses to the brain stems, promoting balance and well-being. What drew me to Neurosim was its potential to enhance the lifestyle changes I'd already implemented. Its direct interaction with the brain stems seems like the ideal addition to my holistic health strategy. Its range of potential health benefits is extensive. It's been linked to improved memory and cognition, reduced brain fog, decreased fight-or-flight response, alleviated symptoms of depression and anxiety, mood enhancement, and improving in heart rate variability. It's even shown promises in reducing post-virus symptoms, improving sleep, reducing inflammation, and oxidative stress. And some users also reported improved gut issues. Neurosim serves as a powerful biohacking tool. Ongoing research suggests that it could positively impact athletic performance and muscle recovery. So it works through various mechanisms, promoting the rest and digest response, inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokines, decreasing oxidative stress, and fostering neuroplasticity. I've been integrating Neurosim into my daily routine and it has been transformative. It improved my energy levels, my mood, and my overall health. And it's very easy to fit into my lifestyle changes. Well like chemical interventions might offer similar benefits. It's not without side effects, so I was choosing a path that avoided altering my brain chemistry excessively. This decision is particularly relevant for me because I am sensitive to hormonal and chemical changes and I think it's a trait that many women can relate. Therefore a wearable neuromodulator like Neurosim is an optional choice for me. Remember, biohacking is a personal journey. It's not one size fits all. Always consult with medical professionals if you're considering a similar path. I have made all the lifestyle changes I mentioned before about a month and a half before starting using Neurosim. Then I saw the actual difference of the lifestyle changes and I saw how Neurosim helped me get to the level where I wanted to get in terms of calming my stress response. I've been using Neurosim twice daily for 30 minutes each sessions. And within a week I started noticing significantly changes how I respond to stress. And let me give you a real example. I remember one day I was actually exhausted because my daughter woke up in the middle of the night and my sleep was disturbed. That day she decided to throw an intense tantrum. That's what a two-year-old does apparently. I guess parents can relate. When I'm usually in over-stimulated situation, I would snap and have a tendency to yell. But at this time something was different. I was able to remain calm and composed and I was able to resolve the situation quickly and gently. And that moment was a realization. I realized that the only significant change in my routine was using the Neurosim. And after just seven days of using it, I saw a difference. For me it's clear that it does more than just balancing my nervous system. It also enhanced my ability to handle like the stressors and unpredictable life moments. And you might think it's just coincidence that you were able to get calm in that way. This is just one example. I have other examples where I know I would get snappy or at least angry from the inside because I try to shield my anger to not show it to my daughter. But it's still there on the inside and my thoughts and the way my body is. And I'm able to regulate myself and handle any stressors a lot quicker and in a much healthier way than I used to before. This is the first time that I'm able to do that and it's truly life-changing for me. I can't even express how amazing this journey has been. Let me share some practical tips on using Neurosim. First it's about consistency. I use it twice a day, morning and evening for 30 minutes. The application is straightforward. Just attach it here as instructed and then you start with a lower setting and then you increase it as recommended. Incorporating Neurosim into my daily routine was really seamless. I do my morning meditation with it and then again at night when I'm weaning down. I put it now because when I'm filming I get usually stressed and I'm like why not try it at the same time. And I feel like it's really helping. I'm feeling more comfortable talking in front of a camera where before I would get a lot more stress. In my journey with Neurosim I've also been using the Oprah ring to try and quantify its effect. So here's some data I want to give it to you. Before using Neurosim my sleep score was on average of 85 and my HRV balance was on average of 42. After seven days of using Neurosim I saw a difference. Again it's just seven days so I'm going to keep updating it but my sleep score went into an average of 92. My HRV rise to 58. And I'm aware there's different factors. I'm also a mom so my daughter disturbs some of my sleep. I have different life stressors that come in. But I will keep track of this and report to see if it improve in long term. Interestingly Brian Johnson known for his biohacking endeavor also been using the Neurosim for similar reasons especially for HRV training. In his video he explains that HRV is a representation of our nervous system balance and it fluctuates between states of stress and relaxation. Brian have been using Neurosim for 30 minutes seconds a day also and he almost managed to double his HRV moving from the low 30s to the low 60s. It's funny because Brian has experienced mine or my own in many ways. So it highlights the importance of being aware of our own internal states and using tools like Neurosim to positively impact our overall health and well-being. Now I'm going to talk about the weekly protocol I use with Neurosim. For the overall guideline, eliminate caffeine to reduce stress on the nervous system, embrace a new diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids and magnesium, avoid processed food for optimal mental health, take any supplements that will support your nervous system's health, optimize your sleep condition, really make sure you have a sleep conductive environment, huge pitch black curtain, eye mask, noise reduction technique, whatever, mouth taping if you want to try this. Try to tip accordingly to your chronotype. Women typically need like 7 to 9 hours while men more 6 to 8 hours a night. And here's my morning routine. It takes about 30 to 45 minutes. So I start putting the Neurosim for 30 minute sessions and I put it and I go directly into the sunlight to boost my circuiting rhythm regulation. Then I step on my shadow board three times a week during 15 minutes of that session. I'm outside in my balcony, I put the Neurosim, I step on my shadow board doing breathing because you need to do a lot of breathing while being on the shadow board. I stay on the shadow board for 10 to 15 minutes depending on the day. Then I step back and I finish my 10-15 minutes of Neurosim while doing other thing at home. Next, four times a week after my Neurosim sessions, I do a three minutes ice bath. If I don't have time to make an ice bath, I just put my face into a bowl of ice water for the same duration. Talk about the benefits of cold exposure and ice bath but it will be probably another video that will give you more details on it. But this is the protocol I'm using right now. Then I do 30 minutes of physical exercise like walking three to four times a week to boost circulation and mood. My night routine takes about 30 to 60 minutes so I put back the Neurosim for 30 minute sessions. I do my meditation and journaling so I usually do 15 minutes of meditation followed by 15 minutes of journaling to track my feeling emotions. Then I try to have at least two social or hobby-based activities per week to support my emotional well-being. And also twice a week I incorporate a 30 minute sauna session. So for men, consider using an ice pack on your genital area. Drink the sauna for added benefits and not lowering your testosterone. Another thing that I started doing is emotional identification. So during moments of stress I pause and try to identify and describe my emotion to try to process them faster. And I use the breathing technique double inhale followed by a single hex cell method to calm my nervous system. So if you found this dive into a fight-or-flight response and nervous system and lightning hit that follow button and share with someone that you think might benefit from it. Please let me know below if you have tried this, if you are looking to try this or with any question you might have. The Neurosim, they actually offer a 30-day risk-free trial so I recommended you try it. They also gave me a promo code to give you discounts so if you're interested it will be down below. Like I said you have the choice of regulating your own nervous system and stop being the constant fight-or-flight response. And it all starts with changes that you can make in your daily life. This is just an added tool that helped boost it and I think made the result come quicker. Thank you for sticking with me until the end. Until next time, stay curious and stay well. If you have any more information on Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google Google

=== FILE: How to Biohack Migraines & Headaches： A Protocol for Migraine Prevention & Quick Relief [vCmPHFX4iPE].txt ===

 smithi. Today we're unravelling the complex survival of migraines and headaches and exploring a biohacker's protocol to manage them effectively. All of this is just to keep Leo's memory and mission thriving. So let's start. So migraines are not just headaches. Did you know there are like both vascular and neuronal theory behind why migraines occur? Ladies, if you ever wonder why a migraine hits just when your estrogen level falls, well, it's because there is a connection there. But there's more. Migraines also have some surprising links with asthma, gallstones, and even tinnitus. I'm sorry if I didn't pronounce this right. Tinnitus. And here is the twist. If you're a woman with migraine, there might be a silver lining with your coronary artery's health. But before we start celebrating, there is also a darker side to consider. Migraines might be about giving us hints about our brain health in the long run because women with migraines are more likely to develop dementia as their age and both genders are more likely to develop brain tumors with a history of migraines. All right. So let's dive deeper into our next segment, methylation. Now, if you knew, you might be wondering what on earth is methylation. I want you to think of it as a vital process in our body where a single carbon and three hydrogen atom, known as methyl groups, group, sorry, are added to another molecule. So this tiny change can have a big impact on how our gene functions. So this process might be closely linked to migraines. Now, within this methylation world, there is a molecule called homeocysteine. Leo has talked about homocysteine in a previous video. And along this video, I will make sure to try to link them so you can learn more about those processes. So without getting too technical, homocysteine is an amino acid in our blood. So high level of homocysteine have been linked to heart disease. But recent research suggests it also might play a role in migraines. So by testing homocysteine levels, you might get a clearer picture of what's triggering those painful migraines. So now that you learn more about methylation, let's talk about supplements. Supplements have actually shown promising results in managing migraines. And they might just have been the relief like some of you have been looking for. And this is not the complete protocol because I will share the complete protocol at the end of the video. First off, let's start with magnesium. So we're not talking about just any magnesium. We're talking about magnesium glycinate or magnesium biglycinate. So these forms are known for their high bioavailability, meaning our body can absorb and use them more efficiently. Magnesium creams or oil when applied to the skin can be better absorbed than oral supplements. Simply because by bypassing the digestive system, their cream deliver magnesium directly to your cells, offering potential relief for those very painful migraines. Studies have shown that magnesium, whether taking orally or applied topically, can be as effective as some pharmacologic intervention in managing migraines. Personally, I use different kinds of magnesium in my own life. I use a magnesium cream. That's magnesium glycinate. And I also give it to my daughter. And I also take another kind of magnesium, magnesium L-tharanate. I am somebody prone to migraine. I find the source that it's from eating chocolate. But I still take those two kinds of magnesium for many other reasons. And I can link which one Leo was ordering and which one I'm still ordering on the bio. They're affiliated link from Amazon. But all the products have been researched extensively on consumerlab.com. And if you don't know consumerlab.com in the US, the supplement company are not regulated. Most of them don't have what they tell you they have. And consumer labs, they actually independently test each supplement and give you the reports. And so you can find which supplement has the most compound, but also which one is the cheapest for what they offer. Oh, it's just a side note. But I want to make sure it's clear. And everybody knows that, you know, Leo was never the kind of person that would promote any product and will always do the research extensively. And I will follow along what he has done because I want to keep his legacy. But also is ethics. Now let's talk about our next supplements. We have EPA. So EPA, which stands for, and I'm sorry for the pronunciation. I think it's icosuspentanoic, something like that, acid. Now, that name is intimidating, but simply put, like EPA is a type of omega-3 fatty acids that's primarily found in fish oil. It plays a very crucial role in our body inflammatory response. I will link the video about fish oil and EPA and their benefits because I think everybody should actually watch that video. But now there is an interesting thing. So EPA has been shown to reduce the expression of the COX-2 gene. So for those who aren't familiar, the COX-2 gene is actually responsible for producing COX-2 enzyme, which in turn produces chemical called prostaglandins. Maybe. I think it's pronounced like that. So these prostaglandins play a key role in promoting inflammation, pain, and fever. So by reducing COX-2 gene expression, EPA can actually help decrease the production of these inflammatory prostaglandins. Think of the COX-2 gene as a faucet and the prostaglandin as water. EPA essentially helps turn down the flow, leading to less inflammation and consequently fewer migraine attacks. Lastly, let's talk about alpha lipoic acid. So alpha lipoic acid is not just any ordinary supplements. Like it's a potent antioxidant that play a crucial role in like energy metabolism within our cells. So think of it like as a protection, protective shield, sorry, um, wording of like harmful free radical that can cause like cellular damage. When taken as a dosage of 300 milligrams twice daily, studies have shown a significant reduction in both the frequency of the severity of the migraine, but also the severity of them. Now let's talk about acute and prophylactic treatments. So when a migraine strikes, like it's really crucial to have effective acute treatment on hand to make sure you alleviate the pain and discomfort. So let's explore some of the most commonly used ones. So the first one is aspirin. So aspirin is very effective acute in prophylactic treatment for migraines. It also has anti-inflammatory properties that can help you reduce the severity of the migraines. And it can also be used prophylactically to prevent their onset. The second one is acetaminophen. It's another over-the-counter pain reliever. Acetaminophen is particularly effective in treating migraines. So sometimes when it's combined with aspirin, it enhances its efficacy. Another one is caffeine. So caffeine has a very interesting twist. While like consuming caffeine regularly can exacerbate migraine frequency for some people when a migraine does strike, caffeine can act as an effective acute treatment. That's something I had experienced before. And every time I had a migraine, I will drink coffee. And it helped almost instantly. Because it narrows the blood vessel around the brain, which can provide you relief. Another one is the tryptans. And those are a class of medications specifically designed to treat migraines. They work by stimulating serotonin receptors in the brain, which can cause the blood vessels to constrict and reduce inflammation. So among the tryptans, there is elatriptans, especially at a dose of 40 milligrams. It's the medication that stands out the most and is proven to be the most effective when it's taken at the onset of a migraine. When it comes to the elatriptan, it's actually more effective when administrated nasally. So intranasal delivery when it comes to this medication is often superior than anything else because it allows faster absorption and can basically provide a quicker relief. So when it comes to migraines, prevention is one of the best strategies. So prophylactic treatments are designed to reduce the frequency, severity, and the duration of those migraines. So let's look into some of the most effective prophylactic treatments. To clarify, the term prophylactic refers to any treatment or action taken to prevent disease or a medical condition before it can develop. So let's start with beta blockers. So these are among the most commonly prescribed prophylactic treatments for migraines. They have a very strong track record with greater than 50% likelihood to reduce migraines and frequency by over half. So the preferred medication for this are propanolol and metropol. We also have valploric acid. This is another very effective prophylactic treatment. So originally, it was designed as an anticonvulsant and it was found to be very effective in migraine preventions as well. And we have antidepressants. Only certain antidepressants, especially those that inhibit the reuptake of neuroadrenaline or antagonized serotonin 5HT2 receptors, have shown efficacy in preventing migraines. Amitriptyline and velafaxine are the best example. There are also evidence that suggests that combining an antidepressant with a tranquilizer might produce synergistic effects and enhancing the preventive capabilities. So as a side note, aerobic exercise and vitamin D supplementation potentially enhance the effectiveness of these drugs. Another one that we need to address, it's Botox. So Botox is commonly associated with cosmetic procedure, obviously, but is also shown as effective as amitriptyline in preventing migraines. And last, we have erinumab. This is a groundbreaking treatment, being the first FDA-approved anticalcitonine gene receptor peptide, so CGRP, medication for acute migraine treatment. So CGRP is a neuropeptide that expands blood vessels and triggers inflammation. It's believed to be a key player of the onset of migraines. First, you need to check your levels of homocysteine, because elevated homocysteine can be associated with various health issues, including migraine. Second, you have to make some lifestyle adjustments. Cardio and sauna. Engage in like 30 minutes cardio at 120 BPM, followed by a 20 minutes session of a finished sauna. Then we have three supplementations. If you don't know where to start on supplementation, I will highly recommend to start taking Leo's anti-inflammatory hydrolyphic stack. Take all of them. Watch the video about it. It really helps combat inflammation and will solve, most likely solve, your migraine issue on top of solving any other issue inflammation is. If you don't want to take all of this, you can also just take magnesium. Ideally, magnesium be glycinate. So start with like 300 to 600 milligrams and gradually increase to achieve like a daily intake of like 1.5 to 2 grams. You can take it early or you can take it, like I said, subcutaneously. Next, we have extended-release sodium valparate. So begin with a lower dose and gradually increase to 1 gram twice daily. Then we have propanolol. Take 10 to 40 milligrams with each dose of sodium valparate. Baby aspirin. You take 1 upon waking up. And we have amitriptyline. So start with a lower dose and work your way up to 50 to 100 milligrams before bedtime. However, if you experience any cardiac side effects, which you can't, consider switching to agomelatin instead. Then iranumab. If it's within your budget, consider subcutaneous injections of 70 milligrams once to twice a month. And for your acute migraine onset, we have elitriptin. 40 milligrams at the onset of the migraine. We have aspirin. Up to 1 gram. That's the dosage that can alleviate the symptoms. And caffeine. 200 milligrams can help constrict blood vessels, potentially alleviating migraine pain. Thanks again for bearing with me. And until next time, stay curious and stay well.

=== FILE: How to Improve Cognitive Brain Function from a Neuroscientist [3kqQ9MzKhYQ].txt ===

 Ifr 2020 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – 2020 – being the former director of MIT Mind Machine Project, and as a professor of computational neuroscience and functional neurology at the University of Oxford. There, he also led the Oxford Computational Neuroscience Laboratory, and his influence extends to the MIT Synthetic Intelligent Lab and the Center for Advanced Defense Studies. As the Sherman of the Brain Science Foundation, he has been instrumental in advancing our understanding of the brain. So from his early years, Dr. Howard's journey in science and technology has led to remarkable academic achievements. His contribution, notably to the theory of intention awareness proposed during his tenure at the University of Oxford, and his work in neurodegenerative diseases accumulating in the brain code barrier, have had profound implications across various domains, including military law enforcement, with his intent-centric approach revolutionizing decision-making. His research has significantly advanced our understanding of cognitive processes, particularly through his mood-state indicator algorithm, which offer insights into human speech and emotional states. Dr. Howard's ongoing work include exploring functional brain and neurointerfacing. His theoretical model, like the fundamental code unit, enhance our understanding of a brain disorder and aid in developing pharmacological and therapeutic tools. More notably, he's working on the Kiwi chip with his company, NI20. As we begin our conversation today, please keep in mind that we had some time constraints and technical issues in this episode. Not only I wasn't able to ask all the questions I wanted, but we also didn't get into depth on some of the things he mentioned. And as much as I wanted to, there were some more pressing questions, so I went over some of the things that he had mentioned. Dr. Howard already agreed to come back for another episode, so feel free to comment with any questions you might have for him next time. So join us as we embark on this enlightening journey with Dr. Newton Howard, exploring the intricate working of the human brain and the remarkable advancements in neuroscience. Can you hear me? Yes. Perfect. No problem. Today, it's great. All right. Dr. Howard, thank you so much for coming on the podcast today. I am so excited to have you on. Our audience is also very excited. I received so many questions to ask you from them. Unfortunately, I know we only have a little bit of time, so I kind of try to combine them all at once. But let's start with your journey and knowing, I mean, let the audience know a little bit more about you. So you moved to the United States. It has been a significant chapter of your life. So can you share with us, like, what makes you come to the US and how this influences your decision to start it in the field of neuroscience? Sure. I had always been interested in science and technology. When I was young, I participated in a science talent show and worked on a small hydrogen engine that was noticed. And as a result, I was invited to come to the state. And I was 11, 12 years old. So it's a long time ago. So you started young. Yes. So once in the US, like, what was the pivotal experience you encounter that shaped your career path? Like how this US experience contributed to your specific interests within neuroscience? You started in mathematics, right? Yes. Sorry. Yeah. My earlier studies was in mathematics, modeling actually the human mind and the human brain in an apparatus known as intent. And I created the theory of intentional awareness at Oxford that we later were using in military setting and other governmental settings, government systems. And then I pivoted after I received the TBI, traumatic brain injury myself, and wanted to understand how do we go about solving these problems and, you know, helping others that are having similar type of injuries. Okay. So you had a unique and active role in Afghanistan. Is it where you got your TBI? And can you just share a bit more about this journey and how it got you where you are now in terms of your research on the brain? Right. Well, actually, it was the location is not something that we're supposed to talk about, but it is received around that time. I wouldn't call my experience in Afghanistan like extremely significant period, but it had significant impact on how I saw things in national defense and in supporting this nation that nation building in Afghanistan. I worked on a few projects that relates to getting rid of crops like opiates and whatnot and, you know, other things that help support against settlements in the US and whatnot. Okay. And how those experiences got you into neuroscience? Was that like the fact that you had a TBI experience and that all those experiences like really influence the groundbreaking theory you had such as like the theory of intention awareness or the development of Kiwi? Right. So, you know, when you experience TBI, you go through a slew of treatments and treatment strategies depending on the practitioner or whatnot. And I noticed that some of the most obvious steps were kind of ignored. And I felt that some other strategies like an electroceutical, not in pharmaceutical were underutilized in treatment and that they should be, you know, an attention should be brought on some of these electroceutical methodologies like TMS, TDCS, DPS. And I started pursuing that in my personal journey of building the Kiwi chip and building a solution that can actually be used in those treatments. Okay. So could you share a bit more about what treatment you were giving for your TBI? What did you end up doing on your own in order to help repair your brain? Mostly, most of the treatments were pharmaceutical agents like your standard SSRI, SNRI and, you know, stimulants and these type of things. Um, they don't really work most of the time. They work sometime, but not all the time. And, uh, thank God I was lucky that, um, I was able to substitute that with TMS, Transmagnetic Stimulation and TDCS, Transcranial Stimulation. Um, and, um, I saw great results, uh, and I saw returning back to, uh, to normal, uh, from that. So before we dive deeper into, um, TDCS and TMS, um, have you experienced with anything else in order to try to repair your brain and, uh, for your TBI, something like, uh, agent like cerebral license, for example? No, no. No. Um, yeah, I, um, I, um, I've been just like mainstream. They use mainstream strategies with me. Okay. Um. So let's dive a bit into, like, TMS, and for those who don't know, it's Transcuraneal Magnetic Stimulation and TDCS, Transcuraneal Direct Currant Stimulation. So how do these treatments, can you explain a bit more, how do these treatments work in layman's terms? What potential do they hold? And in what condition can they be used? Uh, TMS has higher penetration, obviously, because the energy is about, it's about transferring energy into your brain. Okay. Um, so, um, in one case is magnetic and magnetic form, and in other cases, direct current form. Um, they, um, the brain needs harmony. Uh, you need things not to be under firing or over firing. Uh, so with these, um, uh, with these type of electraceutical solutions, uh, come in, they help the excitatory areas to be, uh, suppressed a little bit. And, um, the areas that are underperforming to come up to par, uh, creating a harmony in the brain. Uh, they don't work right away. They have to do multiple sessions, obviously. Um, you know, on average about 14 sessions. Um, but you start seeing effect, uh, uh, almost immediately after the first few sessions. Is that what your experience with your TBI? Yes. Yes. Okay. So in terms of like TMS, I'm curious, um, what condition can be treated? Is it only for people with TBIs? And what would be, like you say, you see results immediately in terms of comparatively for different things that you can treat, how effective or what's the percentage of effectiveness compared to regular treatment? Let's start with TBI and then we can look into other conditions that you can treat. Right. You know, according to the literature, the effectiveness is really, really high. Okay. Uh, greater than 80% response. Um, the, the treatment can be used even in autism spectrum disorder and has been used in that, uh, as well. And as, as well as OCD, anxiety, plemian nervosa, depression, uh, uh, PTSD. Um, so it's, it is, it is, it is really broad in its use. Uh, the same applied with, uh, TDCS. Uh, although TDCS has lower penetration because the lower energy, um, you have to use higher number of sessions to get the same results. Okay. So TMS works with magnetic and TDCS work with current. Yes. Okay. And so you mentioned a lot of things that it can be treated. Is it needed the same amount of sessions in general? And is it like the same, let's say a pattern or like intensity for each different, um, things that you can heal? And what's the, is it 40 sessions across the board, the average to see the results and are there permanents or do they need other sessions after? No, no. Uh, they, the intensity duration, um, power, uh, in the location of the stimulation, uh, differ from one condition to another. Mm-hmm. And the number of sessions also differs from one condition to another. Um, on, on average, uh, you can reach up to like 36, 40 sessions, uh, and you would have to do maintenance sessions. Okay. Uh, like once a month or so. Okay. And what's the difference, uh, in terms of results or like why there is, is magnetic better than the current or is this better for one specific condition to compare to the others? It really, it really is a convenience. Like if you, if you're using the TMS, you have to go to a clinic and, uh, you sit in like sort of a dental chair, like a dental chair and, uh, the, uh, magnetic one. That she is like focus on the area that he's stimulating. Well, TDCS, you can do it like while you're running on your treadmill or watching TV, um, or, you know, sitting in your own, in the comfort of your own home. Okay. But it takes more sessions, correct? But it takes a little bit more time. Yeah. Yeah. And so I learned first time about TMS because a friend of mine had a TBI and he was doing sessions. But other than that, I've never heard it for any other condition, brain condition and brain disease that you mentioned. Can you, do you know why is it not as popular as it should be? If it's high, that much effective. It's just, it's just young. Um, okay. Um, okay. It's a very, it's a very, uh, uh, new, uh, type of treatment and strategy. And it's gaining, it's gaining its momentum. Um, not, you know, not right away known in all circles, but there's a lot of, um, research that was done on specific populations of, um, um, uh, mental health and conditions. Okay. And so it means like not a lot of places are offering, offering those services. So it's hard for any patients to go and try to use treatment. Yeah. Are they usually, um, covered by insurance in the U S? Um, I am not sure if there's an insurance code for it, but in some cases, uh, I did hear that. Yes. Some places do cover it with insurance. Um, on average. On average is it's, it's still relatively expensive. Um, but TTCS would come the second substitute and it would be much cheaper to own the device and to do it yourself. Okay. Um, yeah, I think I saw some, uh, TTCS device out there. Can you tell me what's the, or I'm sure there is a difference, but how is it differing from vagus nerve stimulators that we can see out there? TTCS, not TMS, obviously. Um, it's just the power. Okay. The power and the penetration, um, is, is, is very, um, is weaker in relation to TMS and ECT and others. Uh, yeah. If we have to class them basically like the first, the lowest one, lowest level would be vagus nerve stimulation than TTCS and TMS. Yeah. Okay. Um, I want to talk about the brain and some of the disease. Like we see obviously an increase, uh, globally of neurological, neurological disorder, such as like Parkinson, Alzheimer, but also like increasing depression, addiction, PTSD, anxiety, just to name a few. Um, in light of this, like, I know your research involved the brain. I know you have some research involving Parkinson. Like what are the current non-surgical treatments available and ideally non-pharmaceutical treatments available? So we talk about TMS obviously, but are there any other ones, anything that we can look for in the future? Which one are the most effective? I'm really interested to hear like about your opinion, your research, but also your, your input on this. Right. There is also ECT, which remains to be the most effective, um, of all. Uh, and then there is, um, the, uh, new classes of psychedelics and, um, uh, things like, uh, ketamine infusion and whatnot, uh, which seems to be effective, but a little bit higher risk. Uh, and, uh, they've been, uh, really good in cases where suicidal ideation is a high risk. Um, they, um, they, um, there is, uh, relationship between the gut, obviously, and the brain. And there's a microbiome type of things that, um, uh, coming, uh, uh, you know, uh, useful strategies, uh, to, to resort to. Um, uh, in the case of neurodegenerative, uh, the, the gold standard is obviously that treatment too is low ADOPPA, but, um, uh, the gold standard in surgical is DPS. And, um, um, that seems to be far more effective than anything else. Uh, there's a lot of devices out there that are coming into market, um, and, um, should be, uh, in the market soon. Uh, we're working on such some devices like the Kiwi chip, for example. Yeah. I saw your presentation. I was blown away. Like really with that close. Like it's just, it's there. I, I, I, when I, I, I didn't know about the Kiwi chip. I first heard about the chip with a Neuralink and I heard they were doing the first human trial and I'm like, when it first started, it seems like a world far away, but we are closer and closer. Yeah. How close are we to seeing, starting seeing human having chips integrated in on them, like as a treatment option. And then how close or far you think we're going to start seeing people having those chips integrated in their brain when it comes to just improve their cognition. Or like just controlling different computer and machinery. Okay. How far is this? Within, within two to five years, uh, we'll find a higher adaptation for, uh, treatment conditions. Mm-hmm. And within five to 10 years, you'll find a higher adaptation into, um, uh, brain augmentation, uh, just casual brain augmentation. Um, the challenge remain in the surgical and invasive nature of the surgery. And, um, that, that kind of represent a huge barrier. Okay. Yeah. As long as well, I forgot which movie where they just plug the chips, tiny micro chips in. Hopefully we get that, uh, in my lifetime. Yeah. I want to talk a bit about brain and cognitive enhancement and cognitive abilities. I'm curious, do you have any, what do you do for keeping your brain as performant as possible? I'm sure you do some things. Uh, there's a lot of herbal things. Um, I, I take omega three, uh, 2000 milligrams. Same. Uh, and there's, uh, you know, other supplements out there. Uh, I wouldn't belabor it. Um, you know, um, saffron, uh, obviously is understated in that, in that, uh, space, but saffron tea, uh, works magic on the mood. Yeah. Yeah. Unfocused. So. Yeah. We had a whole video on saffron and the studies that were on there. So I actually take saffrons, uh, when I need to, a boost, a cognitive boost in the morning. Good. Good. Yeah. Are you taking the omega three, like the medical prescribed version? Yes. Or are you taking the regular? 1000 milligrams. Yeah. Yeah. And that's all you do. That's it. Do you do like in regular meditation, any brain exercise? Um, music, uh, cello, uh, instruments is, is highly, highly encouraged for the brain. Um, exercising, although I'm guilty of not doing that. Uh, but exercising is really, really good for the brain. Uh, and, uh, yeah, that's it. You know, not a lot of, uh, you know, not a lot of, uh, not a lot of things. So the audience we have, they are very used to having stacks for different things. And I recently came across somebody that gave me their stacks for, because they were studying medicine. Uh, and everything is based on research, obviously. And I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to have to read it for you because I found it absolutely impressive that somebody has a dedication to actually take all of this. And I want your opinion on that. Um, a lot of them are pharmaceutical, but, um, this is a gentleman. He didn't disclose his age, but he's currently in med school. So he's taking in the morning in empty stomach, uh, 4.5 milligrams of Naltrexone, 5 milligrams of the napazole, 2 grams of EPA, 1 gram of NSE, 1 gram of L-theorine, 25 milligrams of DHA, 10 milligrams of propenolol, uh, 30 milligrams of zinc, B complex. Um, and once a week, he does 150 milligrams of testosterone, uh, 500 IU of HCG and 2.5 milligrams of letrozole. And when he needs to study, he adds propubium, uh, uterine monophosphate, alpha GPC, paracetam, uh, dextroamphetamine, uh, subling, sublingually, and four milligrams of nicotine gum. Wow. That's, that's one hell of a, one hell of a load on the kidneys and, and, uh, the liver. Yes. So they do also take, uh, he mentioned, uh, he mentioned the rest of the day. This is just when he studies. So in order to counter those effects, he does take some TOTCA. And I'm guessing if he's a long-term follower of the channel, he probably does, uh, intermediate fasting and also quarterly, like five to seven day water fast. So I guess this could counter interact, um, on the liver, uh, not much on the kidneys. Yeah. But what, what do you think about those people that are more and more inclined of improving their cognition, their memories, or getting any acid? Like it's something we haven't seen before and people were studying the same way. More and more, we see people being very interested in enhancing cognition. So they take things like amphetamine, even if it's getting less popular or modafinil to give them an edge. Like what's your opinion on that? And what advice would you give somebody that is not doing anything yet and wants to still improve their cognition memory because they feel like they're behind? Very risky, um, obviously because everything that we take has a counter effect in, uh, on the cellular level. Um, they, I would say that a much simpler thing is just to do TMS sessions regularly, uh, organize these ions and these electrons and get your brain in harmony. Um, that's probably, uh, uh, an easier, far more effective and cheaper way to do it. And then all this, uh, pharmaceutical agents and supplements. So, so TMS also work in terms of improving cognition and performance. Yes. Yes. Does it also help? So can you dive into more technical aspect of how does, how, how can it be? Like how can magnetic field can reorganize that? Does it like create new BDNF in some areas that we're trying to control? Is it working through like rewiring, uh, some of the neurons? I'm very curious. It excites, it excites things and trigger corticogenesis, which is process of actually building more, um, uh, neurons and building more connections. Okay. Um, among other things, as well as organizing, you know, ionic organization and, um, um, putting breaks on excitatory, uh, areas and that kind of stuff. So, um, it works in multiple mechanisms. Some, some of which we don't even understand, but it works. And it, it, it has been studied for cognitive improvement as a work also for, let's say people that are athletes. I'm guessing, I mean, the brain is so important in terms of everything we do. So it's like, if I'm an athlete, I'm trying to improve my performance with TMS sessions and that's how that helps me achieve that. Um, in a sense one would arguably say yes, but, um, they, I don't think this is the specific study that I can point to that. Indirect way, obviously like if I'm more cognitively sharp, I can achieve like probably higher goal, push my body a bit further than normally. normally yeah okay when can you do some TMS sessions we will be we will be opening a clinic in Encino soon and hopefully we can you know get you there and get you try it absolutely I would love to and you say you feel results from the first sessions I'll be happy to reports everything and then tell you how it works not really it's like I'm a single mom I have a lot of past trauma that I try to work through on through more holistic approach and also try the psychedelic approach as well in a tiny dosage which helped a lot but I still feel like I'm not performing to the best of my abilities like I used to at least my early 20s my brain was the powerhouse no it's it's good it's not where I want to be yeah but I'll be happy to try first do you have a date of opening for the Encino clinic it's not too far approximately six weeks from now okay so very soon yeah yeah look like being there yeah so now I want to talk about more about some upcoming projects so you mentioned you're opening your clinic for TMS only or would I have as well yes as well yeah okay so can you also give us a glimpse of like what you're currently researching what any projects are coming up or what are you involved in terms of neuroscience and cognitive and enhancement currently working on the Kiwi chip the one that is implanted inside the brain for Parkinson and Alzheimer and that's been occupying me for quite a bit we are hoping to go through FDA very soon and get that process behind us so okay nice um and finally um I was genuinely curious um I want to understand like you have accomplished so much and you're still doing a lot yes okay so yeah I'm generally curious um to understand what's your ultimate vision and what legacy you wish to leave behind because it feels like once you have accomplished something a lot of people stop in what they're doing because they feel satisfied it seems like your satisfaction level is uh or your curiosity level is at all-time high from anybody anybody else have seen so do you have a like long-term goal or dream or anything some kind of legacy you're trying to leave behind I like to see that um brain health becomes a very uh common uh place that you go you know for brain tuning similar to how you go to the dentist um I'm hoping  gimpatrion,semsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsem to be as healthy as possible so I can live longer to see how the world and technology is going to change and how as humans we're going to evolve. It feels really in this era with AI and how the technology has evolved and where it's going. It really seems like we are going to experience a lot of changes in our society. We already do. Yes, yes indeed. All right, well Dr. Howard, I don't want to take too much more of your time. Thank you so much for coming on. I really appreciate you taking the time and coming in. For the audience, I will link all the link in the descriptions of his company and Dr. Howard if you want to look at what is done, which is a lot. You're going to spend a lot of time. I read a lot of papers before this interview. Other than that, if you have any questions for him, let me know in the comment sections. We might have him again to answer more in-depth questions about maybe certain disease and other brain things that people want to know. Thank you, Lucy. Thank you so much. Have a good day. Bye-bye. Bye.

=== FILE: How to Increase Penile Size [J20xosRbYWI].txt ===

 autoprilschschoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo remember Leo's informative video on how to use pumps and methods to enhance penile size. These were in part influenced by his association with LL pump and Chris's. As we embark on this discussion, I want to emphasize the seriousness of the subject we are addressing today. Concerned about your penile size and performance are issues that weigh heavily on many men. Despite studies showing that penile size isn't decreasing, the fact remains that many men suffer from erectile dysfunction or other related complexes. It's a topic that I receive at least one or two messages about each week with questions directed to Leo on pumping and sexual health. This is precisely why I invited Chris to join us today. While I've done my share of research, Chris's expertise and experience in this area forced to press his mind and he's the best person to address these questions. Before we proceed, I think it's crucial to address societal misconceptions. There's a tendency perhaps influenced by social media and certain tv shows to overemphasize penile size and male performance. However, I strongly believe that most women, and I'm talking about real, mature women, are not as focused on size as many might think. What truly matters in a healthy sexual relationship is care, sensuality, playfulness, openness to explore sexuality without shame and a genuine connection. Preliminary and emotional intimacy often hold far more significance than physical attributes. So let's keep this perspective in mind as we talk to Chris about the practical aspect of peanut pumping and how it fits into a broader context of sexual health and wellness. So today we have with us Chris, which is the owner of LA Pump. And the reason why I asked him if I could interview him is because despite everything, people have been sending me at least one or two questions per week since Leo released the video on pumping. So who better to answer all those questions than Chris right here. I want to mention, I'll do a little bit of an intro before this video, I'll record separately, but Chris has been no joke, one of the kindest, most ethical partner Leo has worked with. And I mean, it was incredible when everything happened with Leo. He sent me an email, always checked. I mean, you're a very ethical and kind person. And I know you have conversation with Leo and he mentioned that to me quite often. So that's one thing is like, Leo was very kind, I mean, very keen on working with partners that were ethical and he was contacted by many other companies, but he really like, he started by promoting your product because he believed in the higher quality of what you offered and then realized how good of a person you were. So I'm very happy you agreed to come on today. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. But let's start with a little bit of your journey and about you. Like, tell us more a bit about who you are and how did you start a pumping business? I've been into penis pumping and manufacturing them and yeah. You know, I didn't... First, thank you for doing this interview. Thank you for doing this. Keeping Leo's product pages up, all that. He's a great guy. And I miss him. And I'm glad we're doing this. How I got started on this journey. In all honesty, it was a fluke how I got into the sexual wellness industry to begin with. I was going to school, college, or my early twenties. I was a DJ before this, believe it or not. Really? A DJ, signed to a record label and everything. I was in a band. And we toured the world. You know, we were on Jay Leno. We played at the Rose Bowl. I mean, it was like a full-fledged band thing. It was awesome. But we got dropped from the label. You know, record sales weren't strong or whatever. And that was it. So here I am, 20 year old, you know, no money, really nothing to do. I was like, what am I going to do with myself? So I wanted to go back to school and get a business degree. I thought I want to do something with business. My real, what I always told myself is I wanted to be my own boss. I didn't know doing what, but I always wanted to run my own business. You know, I always felt like the freedom of doing that and the drive of working hard at your own sales, you know, making sure your business keeps going. That was, that seemed fun to me. I went to school, figured I needed to get like a little regular job, you know, found this job at a company called the stock room, stockroom.com. And they're reseller of toys, primarily like bondage toys and leather stuff like that, you know? So I got interviewed, they were like, you sure you can handle this kind of work? I'm like, well, it's shipping. I was in the shipping department and it seemed fun to me. You know, I was never, I never knew about dildos or anything like that, or bondage toys, leather equipment, anything like that. But it seems fun. And I was like, look, I'm going to go to school. This is going to be fun. So I take the job. Sure enough, you know, I'm packing dildos. And they weren't just putting dildos in boxes. I'm packing pumps, stockroom sold LA pump products, worked my way up in the company. I loved what I did. It was a lot of fun. It was a small business that had a lot of growth potential to it. Worked my way up, you know, showed them my, excuse me, showed them my drive, my ambition, got up to customer service. Then I started answering phones, you know, listening to what people like and what they're into and stuff like that. Again, ambitious, you know, driven. I wanted to keep going up in the company. I loved it. There was a lot of fun. And the purchasing manager one day was like, hey, you know, do you have time to help me out? You know, do some data entry work? I was like, yeah, sure. So she comes back with like an inch of paper. She's like, here, do all this, you know? So I basically became her assistant. And she resigned a few months after that. The owner of the company, Joel Tucker, asked me if, you know, I wanted to give it a shot at being a purchasing manager. And I was honored, you know, and I was like, oh my God, this is a big deal. I mean, this spending millions of dollars on sex toys, you know, buying, negotiating, all that. It was, it was a big deal to me. It wasn't just like, I'm just buying sex toys. It was something important to me. So I took it on. And that's where I met Charles, my business partner. I'm not just full owner of LA Pump. I have a co-owner. He's older. He's in his eighties. Doesn't do much, but he started this company. He designed the cylinder. I met him. He became like a mentor to me. You know, I didn't have, I didn't grow up with a dad. And one thing I learned growing up, you know, older men who take you on and want to help you and teach you things. I had a lot of uncles that were there for me and things like that. And Charles was like that in my, my early adult life. He became like a mentor, a great friend, always gave me great advice. We always chatted here and there, you know, and two years now I'm at Stockroom, they're buyer doing my thing. He one day tells me, you know, Chris, I'm tired of doing this. I created LA Pump for fun. You know, in all honesty, I didn't think it would take off and become such a great company. He's like, but I'm older. I don't really even need to do this financially. You know, he was saying, I don't know what to do. You know, and jokingly, I was like, well, when you're really done and ready, give me a piece of the company. I'll come run it for you. You know, and we both laughed. We're like, ah, ha, yeah, right. Sure. You know, but I put it out there. I put the little seed out there. Just, you know, who knows? Right. Sure enough. A year later, he had a real bad health scare. Contacted me, asked me if I was serious about that conversation, said, absolutely not. I was joking, but if you're serious, I mean, I'd love to check it out and see what it was. So came over here at LA pump, looked at the office, looked at the books, you know, we were profitable. You know, it was, it's a small business. Definitely. You know, we make our products here in Southern California. I import the pumps, but 90% of everything else on our site, we make here ourselves with pride. And I really love that about the company. You know, again, we didn't make a lot of money and he's like, it's not a big money maker, Chris, but you'll be, you know, you'll be secure. You'll be happy. You'll have your own business. You know, you can come and go as you please. Um, and, and, you know, we wrote up a contract. It was a two year deal to see if I could handle it. This, and this is like a sweat equity deal, right? It's been 14 years now. And here I am owning it. And I love every minute of it. You know, I'm not going to lie to you, Lucy, regarding pumping and doing this. You know, you said earlier, I'm an ethical person. I am. I really feel like I am. And one of my big questions to him, because I didn't pump before I sold them, you know, I bought them, sold them at soccer. I was in a pump early and I tried some products, but I really didn't try this one yet. And I said, Charles, I'm going to ask you, you know, I'm going to be honest with me and be straight up with me. You know, like, does this stuff really work? You know, he's like, absolutely. It does. He's like, the only real way for you to know is for you to start pumping yourself or you hear feedback from our customers throughout the years as you're here, but you're going to hear it. And if you do it yourself, you're going to know. So I took his word for it. You know, I did start pumping. I've been pumping myself for over a decade. It works. With that said, yeah. And sure enough, you know, with all the customer testimonials over the years, it works. And I wouldn't be able to do this if it didn't. I wouldn't be able to sleep at night if I was just robbing men all day, you know, taking their money. No, no. Like, it's not the type of person I am. So yeah, many years now doing this again. We've grown quite a bit since I started, probably three or four times. It's been significant growth over the years. Hard to manage. Sometimes we're still in a house, bleeding out of the bedrooms with cylinders everywhere, material everywhere, but we can manage it. And again, for me, the personal connection, you know, with the customer really brings a lot of value to my brand and me personally. And I love that. And I hope I stay small and I can continue to bring that kind of quality service and product. I'm not into this to make millions of dollars. I know people say that's the American dream. It's something I spoke to Leith about actually. And I was like, you know what? It's not, not for me. And that's when he's like, I love you, Chris. You know, and I was like, it's not about becoming a millionaire. It's about, you know, being financially independent. Sure. But being happy with what you do and going to sleep at night, knowing you're doing a good thing. You know, am I saving the world? No. Am I making the world a better place? Yeah. I think I am for couples, for men. You know, I think I am. And that makes me sleep well at night. Well, I can attest to that in multiple ways. The first one is that the amount of comments we got on those videos, I didn't even realize it was such a big problem until those videos blowed up. Like I was very surprised, like truly. And the other thing is it's, I want to mention that is the one of conversation we had you and I about the fact that you're not working with any person that basically comes to you be like, Hey, I want to promote your product. Like you're very ethical in the way you work with people and you attest it also in your life and your business. Like you have hired people in difficulties finding jobs and you can talk about this because I found it absolutely amazing. I have a friend, she's, um, her brother has down syndrome and some business like higher to him. And I found it like absolutely amazing that you give chances to people that don't have necessarily the chances to get a job. Uh, can you mention a bit more about that journey? Yeah. Yeah. Um, absolutely. You know, um, as a small business, I, we don't have a lot of staff, obviously. Um, as we grew, I needed some people and, you know, um, you try to look for people who are honest and trustworthy and all that. And it was hard to find that in all honesty. I tried a few people, you know, outsiders, so to speak, and it just didn't work out. And I had a family member, a cousin of mine, um, you know, he's autistic, he's sharp, you know, high functioning. He's got some social issues and things like that. And, and the kids a go getter, like just, you know, always looking for work. He was always applying everywhere, fast food places and just everywhere he could have always applying. And he's like, I just can't get a job, Chris, you know, nobody wants me. I don't know why, you know, and it just came to me. I was like, Jesus, why doesn't he work here with me? And I talked to Charles, my business partner, I was like, I'm gonna hire my cousin. I think this is a perfect fit. It's family. Um, he deserves the opportunity. Um, I think he'll thrive. He's been here eight years with me now, and I wouldn't be here without him. Like I tell him every day, he's getting a big bonus for Christmas this year. Like I take care of him. I mean, his family won and he's amazing at what he does. You know, he's so careful and thoughtful and with cylinder sizes, like, you know, he'll see an order with a large diameter and be like, Chris, I think we need to contact the customer because I don't know if he really wants that diameter. You know, he's thoughtful and careful. And absolutely, you know, it means a lot to me in the fact that he probably wouldn't have been able to find work outside because people are judgy, you know? Um, and it sucks. But yeah, thank you for for mentioning that. Um, yeah, I'm happy to do it. And again, he's not going anywhere. I just told him simply toes, like, as long as you want a job, you're going to be here. As long as I'm running this thing, you're going to be here. I'm going to be an old man. You're going to be in this office one day, talking to people and answering calls. And he's like, I don't know, Chris, you know, you know, so no, he's, he's going to be here with me forever. And yeah, I mean, I'm happy to do that. I actually also secondarily hired a friend recently. Um, she was having some problems, um, finding work and I, you know, she's like, I need to just find something temporary. And I was like, I can hook you up. You know, she's like, it's only going to be like three months that I need it. I don't want to put it a burden on you to find somebody else after. I was like, it's okay. You know, do I need you fully? Not really. And that's why I'm here to do you the favor. I mean, you know, so I hired her for a few months, helped her out and she's not with us anymore, but, um, I try to help people where I can definitely. Well, I can attest to that. And thank you, Chris, again, for everything you've been doing. You're really a kind hearted person, but let's get into really the details of pumping now. That's what people wants to hear about. So can you tell us a bit more about the physiological changes that occur during and after pumping, both in terms of immediate and also over time? So we get a better idea of how pumping works. Well, the physiological changes, you know, you're pulling air out of a cylinder, creating negative pressure, stretching the tissues. Um, I think the term was angiogenesis that they referred to when it comes to technical things and, and, and chemical things going on down there and body parts and anatomy, I'm going to ask you to refer to the other videos because he was the master and he knew what he was talking about. But yeah, it's a very simple process. You're stretching the tissues, you're breaking up fibers over time. Um, the temporary gains are immediate and apparent. I mean, always right away, you see them, uh, the long-term gains, they take long. Yeah. I mean, that's the bottom line. And I think that's been the hardest issue with my niche and genre in general. Um, guys want this to work fast, you know, and it doesn't work fast. And you listening and watching this right now, you're probably a bodybuilder, right? Because you're coming from this page and you're into supplements, things like that. You work out your body. You work out your body. Does that, is that quick? Nope. You know, that's not quick either. You know, when you're working on your body and muscle fibers and things like that, and creating changes with your body, it takes a while. Um, it takes dedication. It takes effort. Um, genetics plays a role too. I think, you know, physiology, you mentioned, I think that plays a very large role. Um, mainly with routines and gains. Some guys stretch a lot faster than others and get faster, um, permanent gains than others. Some guys, it takes a while to see something. Uh, on a personal note, it took me a long time to start seeing permanent results. I don't want to get too TMI with you, Lucy. Sorry, I'm talking about my penis a little bit right now. My tissue is very tight. You know, I didn't, when I first pumped it, I didn't see big edema, the big engorgement, fluffy, uh, pumped up penis. It wasn't like that. It engorged for sure. And I saw some thickness, but it wasn't like, you know, I see some pictures and videos of some guys really plumped up penis after they pump. And I just didn't feel that effect. So it took a little while longer for me. Um, so yeah, you know, there's, there's short term, quick gains that you can see right away. Uh, but the longterm ones do take a while. I, I minimum for a lot for like, once you start seeing good permanent gains, six to nine months, I would say, you know, persistent. And did you see a difference or did you try the difference between air pumping and water pumping? So I think that's where your opinion differ with, uh, Leo Leith, uh, is that he was big on the water pumping part. Yes. But, but water pumping is extremely messy and not easy to do. And I know that's one of the issues most of people have. They were like, he was explaining it well, but they're like, how exactly does this work? And additionally, I know for a fact, I lived with him. That he was, you, I can use water pumping, but it was easier for him to use regular air pumps. So give us the rundown between the differences between those two. Um, the benefits are debatable. I mean, it does it feel better? Absolutely. Of course, you know, you put some warm water in the cylinder, it does feel better. I don't know the science behind how it works with the tissues. I think, um, Leith alluded to that in his videos and was talking about what's actually happening with the water hitting the skin and all that. I do think there are some benefits there. I do. I really do. Um, I water pumped for about six months. I tried it. Um, felt great. I'm not going to lie. I don't know if I saw extra gains doing it. Um, I didn't really track them really, really religiously. I'm not going to lie either, but I didn't see big numbers. I would, I did put marker on my cylinder cause I don't have markers on my cylinder. So I'd mark it with literally a Sharpie. Um, I have all these lines on my old cylinders. It's hilarious. But, um, I marked it, you know, so I would see if it was a big jump, I'd be able to tell like, whoa, hello, you know, from the other, the other line, but I didn't see that. And yeah, for me, honestly, the cleanup and there was a few accidents, you know, jump out of bed and the water's everywhere. I got to pull out the sheets real quick. And for me, it was that. And, um, um, so it really is a preference. The other problem too, with my pump, you can't get water into it. Um, not the pump, the cylinder, sure. But if you get any water into that pump, it breaks it, you know, it screws up the gauge mechanism and then it voids the warranty. And I could tell if you got water in it, so don't try to return and be like, no. Uh, so, you know, that's the other issue too. There are things called water traps, uh, that you can purchase and you splice the hose and you put it in between and they're good for the most part, but I just don't see the huge benefit of it. And when, you know, Leif made the video and he's like, yeah, do water pumping guys. I'm like, what are you saying? Why did you say that? But again, he knows what he's talking about. And if he liked it too, it's all good. It's just, it's debatable. Um, the other issue too, though, that, that, that it was in the video he made, um, he told, I think, I think he told guys to literally just buy a cylinder, a coupler and some hose and to pull the air out with their mouths. He's like, just pull the air out like that. Getting, you'll get a good seal and this and that. And does it work? Sure. Do you need a pump? Yes. Yes, you do. He's like, you don't need a pump. You don't need a device. I think he said it like that. He was fleetingly like, you don't need a pump. You do, you do need a pump. Uh, you need to monitor your pressure. That's vital. Um, Is it prevents blister if you don't use water? Okay. Yeah. Well, yeah, yeah. Well, speaking to water and blistering. Yeah. I do believe that too. I've heard a lot of testimonials about that. Um, I do believe that that does happen. I never got blisters to begin with just because I've always kept the pressure levels really low. Um, too low to begin with. And that's why it took me 10 years to see some really good gains. I don't know, but I've always been very careful and I never wanted to overdo it with my penis. I mean, that's my one penis. Like I don't want to make them. I don't want to do anything bad to them. That's what I tell guys all the time too, you know, take it easy with that, with that guy down there. We love them. You know, we want to take care of them. We want them to grow. Sure. We want to do it right. Um, so, but yeah, no edema, you know, blistering little, uh, burst capillaries, red dots on the coloration, all that stuff comes from over pumping, but that's what it comes from. It comes from over pressurization. It comes from too much time in the cylinder, you know, um, and you just don't need to do those things for good enlargement, for good gains. You don't need to do that. Guys just feel like they do. I'm going to tell you a quick little story, a little, you know, anecdotal story about that and guys thinking they need to pump hard. I had, I was at a trade show once years ago and the guy comes to my booth and I knew him personally. He's like, Hey, how you doing? Cause I'm like, good to see you. And he's like, Hey, um, you know, I bought your product at a store and I tried it out and my penis turned like black and blue, bro. And I'm like, what? And he's like, yeah, you got super bruised. And I'm like, okay. You know, and I had to pump out and I was like, I asked him, I was like, show me on the gauge, what you went up to. Right. And he points to, so the gauge goes all the way to 30 inches. He points to 30. We recommend like four to six inches in mercury. He went to 30. Okay. And this guy's a bodybuilder. He was, he was caught. He was big, you know, he was a big cut guy. Everyone gained fast. You know, you know, and I asked him, I go, why'd you get to that number? He's like, well, when I started feeling pain, I'm like, okay, it's working now. And I just kept going harder and harder. And I'm looking at him and I'm like, were there instructions in the package? He goes, yeah. And I go, did you read him? And he's like, no, I mean, you put the cylinder on and you just start pumping. What do I need to read? And then I smacked him on the head and I go, come on. Brother, like, what are you doing? And then I told him what this is like, are you serious? He's like, yeah. And I said, look, you're going to be fine. Don't use it for a few weeks. You know, let the bruising go away. Um, and he was, I called him a few weeks. I was like, you good? Your penis. We good. He's like, yeah, everything's fine. I feel like an idiot. I was like, you should, you know, read the instructions. It's your penis. You know what I mean? You got to be careful with it. So guys get excited. You know, it's my point. And, and, and some guys think pain equals gains. No, it's, it's, it's, it's, I like to say, you know, in bodybuilding, they say no pain, no gain. Yeah. And it's pain, no gain. You know, you don't want pain. So, you know, as long as you keep the pressure levels low, the timing, um, good, you'll be okay. Okay. So you, you mentioned a lot about timing, being careful for people that experience erectile dysfunctions. What would be the ideal protocol to help them solve this? We know that pumping helps, but like, when can they start seeing results? Like how often should they do? Should they do something in particular? Can you get into the subject? Erectile dysfunction is a different beast. Um, all, you know, because erectile dysfunction is an actual issue with your penis. You can't get an erection. You can't get blood flow properly in there. So a lot of guys that pump for ED are really pumping to use it. Right. You know what I mean? They're getting it erect because they want to use it with their partner. So the protocols are much different for pumping for erectile dysfunction. I still recommend the gauge again, because you know, you don't, you might not know your pain tolerance and you can go really hard and it's not recommended or needed to pull the blood into the penis. You don't need a lot of pressure. That's the thing. So for pumping for ED, you really just, um, so what you do to start, you've got a cylinder, you've got a rimless cylinder, right? Cause for ED, you want a rimless cylinder. I sell thick walled cylinders. This is a thin wall, uh, but I sell thick walled, um, they're called thick walled cylinders and they're primarily for erectile dysfunction. So the idea is get your cylinder comes with a three pack of restriction rings. You put one of the restriction rings onto the cylinder before you start pumping. You put it on right there at the base. You put it on, you do your thing, you get to your desired erection level. There is no time. There is no, there is no pressure level. It's about you knowing, okay, there he is, you know, seeing his erection level and being like, yep, that's him right there. Once you get the desired erection, though, you just slip that ring on. You stay pressurized in the cylinder. Some guys, when they lose pressure quick with ED, they lose their erection right away. So I recommend they stay pressurized in the cylinder, get the ring on, then depressurize or take the cylinder off. Uh, depending on the tightness of the restriction ring, blood flow will stay or not. If it doesn't wear the tighter ring. You know, that's another thing about ED and wearing restriction rings. Sometimes it's hard to find that right ring that fits, but for ED, that's it. Um, you get to that erection level, put on the ring, do what you're saying. So that's for short term. How about long term? Because, uh, I recently listened to the Uberman podcast and they mentioned this a little bit for people with ED and mostly for people that experience, uh, post-finasteride syndrome, which is very common. They're having, they're experiencing more ED and they're looking to solve the issue long-term and in the Uberman podcast, surprisingly, they mentioned pumping helping because you create more blood flow. Do you have any feedback or any insights of how long would it take to start seeing results in improving ED when it comes to pumping and how often they should do it? Yeah. Weeks. Um, I've heard from guys weeks after they started their routine, they got healthier. Actually, they felt like they were getting stronger ones. They still had to use a ring and all that, but they felt like the blood flow was better. Um, you know, a big part of it too is psychological when you, when you got it, um, a big part of it. And, and that's another thing about my company and, and where I take pride in what I do. You know, when these guys call me, I tell them this, I'm like, you know, you're going to be okay, brother, but just remember a lot of this is in your head too, you know, like, and this will help and all that. Sometimes it is medical, you know, there, there's a real medical, they had some prostate, uh, prostatectomy, you know, they lost it. So there's a lot of issues why they might have you do it, but most of the time it's, it's up here and, and, and some things like that help. And, um, yeah, weeks, weeks, basically to answer your question quickly, after a few weeks, they'll start seeing improved blood flow and things like that. But depending on the severity of the ED and what's causing it, the underlying issue, um, is really what would determine whether their ED would be fixed, you know, or not. Okay. And how often do you think somebody that has not severe, like moderately severe ED and wants to improve, like how often do they have to pump? Well, they're going to pump every time they're going to want to have sex, right? Definitely. Okay. When, when they do want to, I tell them to do my, my routine on my website, you know what I mean? Just regular every other day, you know, I treat four times a week, something like that. My, the routine on my website is a very baseline, basic routine. And this is something I allude to, to guys on the phone or guys that email me too. Um, everybody's different. You're going to find the routine that works best for you. You're going to find the pressure level that works best for you. You're going to find the times that request for you. And that's really what's going to maximize your gains. Okay. And is there a difference in routine or products when it comes to trying to improve, uh, girth versus length? Yes, absolutely. Great question. Great, great question. Absolutely. Um, when it comes to length, so guy calls me up or emails me and says, I just want to be longer. I don't want to be thicker at all. Absolutely. There's a special little protocol and it's fill the cylinder as quick as you can protocol, basically. So, you know, the idea, let's say, Can you, can you show us how the pumps works also? Can I show you how pumping works in general? Yes. Okay. Show me how. Oh, oh, oh, oh, you mean this? Oh, the tester. Okay, okay. We have to stay within the YouTube regulations. So pumping simple. Yeah. You just connect, um, cylinder comes separate from a pump like this. You connect the male coupler that's on the pump to the female coupler that's on the cylinder. You're going to hear an audible click. There's the click, you know, you're on and you just go to town. So I have an inflatable deal here that I use for testers for stores and it works really well. It's got lubricant in it already. You want to be well lubed up. Remember that folks, you want to be lubed up. Any particular lube that you recommend? Is there any type that works better than others or doesn't matter? No, it doesn't. Um, silicone would work best because it's most viscous and you know, all that, but it's messy. Um, it's hard to clean off. I always recommend a water base just because it's easy. It's easy to wash off. Some water bases are better than others. Some brands are better than others. The brand I sell on my site, it's just the brand I like. Um, they don't give me any extra discounts or anything like that to just sell that brand. It's just one I've always used and liked. And there's so many out there. I'm not going to offer 10 different brands of lube, you know. Um, a lot of people have their own lube too. So, so pumping. That's it. See the water going up or any of the pressure getting in the cylinder. So where are you on the pressure, pressure, uh, amount? I'm already.  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo And they get to their desired pressure level, you know. And the great thing about this pump, you know, I sell something called the Hush Pump. It's an electric pump. And I love it because it's simple to use. But the great thing about this deluxe pump is that you can go real slow. You can pull a little bit of air out at a time. You know, you can be really gentle with it. And that's important, especially when you're just starting off and you're just learning. You know, you're just taking your time with it. Like, okay, does this feel good? Nope, it's starting to. So, but yeah, that's what's happening. And yeah, for ED protocol. Oh, excuse me. We're talking about different protocols for different things. For length versus girth. Yeah. So for length, if a guy wanted length protocol, he needs to fill the tube. So you think about it. If you fill the tube quickly, tissue only has one way to expand vertically. So that's the simplest protocol for length expansion. Get a small diameter cylinder that you can fill up really quick so the tissues can expand vertically. If you're looking for girth and length, you know, traditional round or elliptical cylinder. I make a unique oval shaped cylinder as well. Very unique. As you can see, it's not traditionally round. This is a good cylinder for guys who are in between sizes sometimes and can't really fit into one properly because they have extra space on the long side of the ellipse. I've heard from guys that they get girthier a little quicker using this tube. I never experienced that. So it's hard for me to recommend that. But it makes sense, right? Anatomically, we're more shaped like this. We're not round. Our penises aren't round. And it pulls tissues sideways faster than vertically. Exactly. So good cylinder, but it's either or for length. If you're looking, now, you know, I make a mushroom head cylinder that targets the glands. I make two stage cylinders. That's for penis and ball pumping. Those items are more pleasure, you know, fetish. They're going to enlarge you. They're going to engorge your testicles. They're going to engorge your scrotum. But the gains, they're not natural looking. You know, I'm not going to lie. You know, there's something called ballooning where the tissues of your penis get very puffy. And if you do that a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot on those two stages, over time, it's going to stay like that. So you want to be careful. But it feels great. And a lot of guys like to pump like that. And at the end of the day, what I like to say is to each their own. You know what I mean? It's a big motto I learned from coming from Stockroom. You know, they sold bondage goods and stuff like that. And it's like, you know, let people have fun. Whatever pleases you, do it. You know, the big motto for them was safe, sane, consensual fun. And I love that. And it's so true. I love that. Right? And that's my motto for here. I mean, we make a rosebud cylinder that goes up the button. You know, I make very unique stuff. People love it. It brings pleasure to people. And that makes me happy. That's good. I have a question that came into my mind. And I'm sure you touched on it. But for people who are going to see only this video, how do you choose your cylinder size? Cylinder size? Well, you start by getting your erect measurements. You know, alluding to ED, I know that's hard to do for some guys. So I always tell you to do your best. You know what I mean? But basically, yeah, you want to be erect. You get a string, wrap it around your penis, mark it where it crosses, put it down on a ruler. There's your circumference. You convert that circumference to diameter. You look at my chart. And you pick the cylinder size if it corresponds with a good diameter on my chart. If you're on the tail end of the recommendation of a number, I always recommend going up. You know, things like that. Sometimes customers will reach out. But on the cylinder sizing page, I note all this stuff. Guys, just don't read. That's why we're making videos, because people don't read these days. I know. And there are, like, I even saw that some people are not watching the whole videos because I get questions. I mean, I receive the emails. The questions are not for me particularly, obviously. But I swear the amount of questions I'm like, did you watch? It's right there. It says right here. But no, they want to take the information very fast. And on my website, too, you know, I have a lot of product videos. And I want to create more, actually, in all honesty, and make more. Because they are very helpful. This really, this is a big thing about the internet that has been so helpful, especially with sales of products. And, you know, you talked about affiliates and finding ethical people to do business with. I've had a few misses. I'm not going to lie. You know what I mean? When I first started this, there's a few people that I probably would not have done affiliate work with. But at the end of the day, I am running a business, and I'm trying to generate more revenue. But I'm a lot more picky now. A lot more picky. Because you do this, you know, what Leith did, what you're doing here, you're representing my brand. You know what I mean? You're not just making a video to talk about it, to not just get clicks. You are a representative of L.A. Pump, too. And if I don't find the right ones, that's dangerous to my brand. And I'm so honored and grateful that Leith reached out to me. Actually, I reached out to him. I never told you this story. A customer or a fan of his told me about his video. Okay. And then I saw it, and I DM'd him. And I said, dude, why are you talking about my pumps and not having an affiliate code? And then we spoke on the phone, and he's, you know, told him about my business. And he's like, oh, my God. He's like, now that I know you're a small business and the kind of guy you are, I don't want to do an affiliate with you. He's like, I want you to keep all that money, Chris. I was like, no, no, no, no, no. I want you to have some of it, too. You know, we did the affiliate code. And ever since then, it's been great. But it is important to align yourself with people that know what they're talking about. And, you know, there's been some people that have bad-mouthed Leith in his videos and that he didn't know what he was talking about. Or that it was outdated or antiquated. People will always have their opinion on the internet. I learned that lesson hard. You know, there is a lot of information regarding enlargement. And there is a lot of new techniques regarding enlargement. It doesn't mean the old techniques or the old information is wrong, per se. You know, so, but everybody has an opinion. And a lot of them could be right, could be wrong. With this kind of stuff, it's best to try out what works best for you. You know, personally, again, I mentioned earlier, everybody's going to have their own special routine. And that's what it comes down to for pumping. You're going to find out what works best for you, what pressure levels work best for you. So, I know Leo touched base on that. And, by the way, a side note. Leo always did that. Like, he only wanted to be affiliated to product he believed in. And that's something I keep doing. And I want to keep the same ethics because I don't see it any other way anyway. But I want to mention about, did you try pumping while using Cialis or Viagra by any chance? And do you have any customers or feedback on how to do that? And if it worked better for some of the customers? Because it would make sense that it does. But I want to get your insight. I have, I'm not going to lie to you, I tried it for that for the first time this past weekend. Oh, wow. I got some generic Viagra in the mail, not for ED issues. We're talking about pumping. We're talking about stuff like this. I'm going to be open and honest. I have some premature ejaculation issues. And, you know, it was an issue for me. My girlfriend, she didn't seem to have a problem with it. But for me, it's like I wanted to spend more time in the bedroom with her. Like, you know, and I talked to my doctor and my urologist about it. And he said generic Viagra could help with that. I don't have ED. It gets pretty hard. Again, sorry to get too TMI with you. But it gets pretty hard. I don't have an issue there. But again, you know, it's very sensitive. And this Friday, we're hanging out. And, you know, I took some pills. I told her I took them. And sometimes I pump with her in the bedroom with me. Sometimes I don't. And I did this time. So I don't know how it works because I just did it once for the first time. And I have heard customers that use them in conjunction with it. And I've heard they get better gains, you know, because they are getting larger. They are getting erect as erect as they can, you know, with a drug. But they are getting erect, that full erection. And that pumping just increases that by, you know, percentage. So not too many testimonials or with its efficacy. But I have heard that it's done frequently with guys that do take that medicine. But I don't know. I can't give you any personal anecdotes yet. I'm not sure. I just tried it. I was like, wow, how did she know? Well, when you think about the science of it, it's like it actually increased blood flow in the area, which would make sense because pumping does it as well. So it should help, I think, getting faster results. But again, I cannot test it or try it. So I will rely on comments and what was the forum? Thunderstorm forum? Thunder's place. There you go. Thunder's place. By the way, I'm on my day four of water fasting. So my brain is like very foggy. I do like a five-day water fast every quarter. And yeah, I'm usually very, I have a lot of brain fog by day four. But I've been trying new things. So I've been using this Neurosim, which helps like stimulate and regulate my nervous system. And my fasting is going great, right? Yeah. I have almost no brain fog. I have some of it. That's why I'm like, I'm being confused left and right. But it's much less than I used to experience. So just to say, no, that's why I'm going to be strange. If she passes out on our video right now, don't freak out. I'll keep the video going if she passes out on us, okay? I never, no, I never pass out. I take all my supplements like magnesium, zinc, and like I have to take some soup to keep my electrolytes. But I always do it. It's like a reset for your body. You have so much like more mental clarity. The what? I think I'm going to start with three days. I've been wanting to do a water fast. You should. You should start with three days and then see how you do. But keep in mind, past three days, we stopped producing grilling. So you don't feel hunger after that. And so past the five days, I did it 13 days once. And after five days, it's just easy. But it's just hard socially, but mentally and physically after five days, it's just, it's easy. That is great. Very cool. But you really feel the benefits. And anyway, we're not going to talk about fasting right now. But that's why my words and I'm a little bit like weird. You're good, you're doing great. Thank you. But I want to talk about the safety because do you have any tips in terms of how to pump safely? And maybe mention of who shouldn't be pumping, if anybody, like with certain condition, just like some caution that people should have, because we have also an audience that's often a bit young. And I mean, I see the comment. They're like, I'm 17. I'm trying to do this, this, this. I'm like, please, guys. And they will like try to go hard. I think you touched on base a little bit on it to try to go slowly. And it takes time to see results. But is there anything else that you think should be mentioned or people should know about? I don't think anything, anybody, I think what's the, what's the age for when men stop growing per se? I think it's 20, 21. Yeah. I don't think anybody under that should be pumping, you know, because your body's still growing as a man, different ways. So I wouldn't mess with that in any way. Other than that, people that shouldn't pump. I read something about blood thinners and pumping recently. That would make sense. Yeah. I'm trying to recall what it was. But, you know, usually when guys ask me these kinds of questions, I refer them to their urologist. Because I'm like, I'm not a doctor. You know, I don't know for sure. But the big thing, honestly, honestly, Lucy, the big thing is keep the pressure levels low. You know, start off real slow and low. Like, take your time with this. Like, over pumping, over pressurization, long times isn't going to give you better gains. It's just going to lead to side effects, which is going to take longer because you're not going to be able to pump for a few weeks. You know, you do get blistering. You do get burst capillaries. You do get bruising. You do get large amounts of edema. You're going to have to stop for a few days, if not a few weeks. So it's just going to add time. But if you take your time with it, you can avoid all those things. I never had any side effects. Every once in a while, I'd go hard. I'd go to, like, six or seven, you know, on the pump gauge. Once in a while, like, once a week for, like, ten seconds and really hard just to, you know, try to maximize it as best as I could. And, you know, it worried me because, again, I felt pain. And I'm like, oh, I don't want to feel pain down there. So, you know, I really can't say people that shouldn't use it. If you have concerns about it, talk to your doctor, you know, at the end of the day or go to these forums. Thunder's Place was another, you know, great one you mentioned. Treasure trove of penis enlargement information on there for decades. Guys have been in there for a long time. A lot of different opinions. But as long as you're safe and careful and take your time with it, you'll be okay. Is overpressurizing the biggest mistake you see people doing with a pump? Yeah, number one. I mean, when it comes to pumping incorrectly. The biggest mistake I see is they can't get a good seal, you know, ever. They have it on their, you know, they have it on the base right there. And they can't find that seal. You know, that's a big, that's a hard thing to do sometimes. I always recommend putting a little bit of lubricant on the rim of the cylinder. If you're really hairy, shave. If you don't mind, you know, things like that. But technical biggest mistake, yeah, overpressurization. Or too much time in the tube. You know, some guys are like, yeah, you know, I did a session for two hours last night. You know, like, no. Now, with a tube stager, you know, if you put your balls and you're filling that up with water, fine. You know, some guys do wear those for an hour or two. And that's very low-grade, you know, expansion. And for that kind of purpose, it's okay. But for our purposes and what we're talking about, you don't need to do that. Okay. What's the average time? Average? 20. That you need to do. 20 minutes? 20 minutes, yeah. But don't start with that. You know, start with 5. Then go to 10. You know, then go to 15. Work your way up there. I always mention that when you're first starting. Start with 5 or 10. You know, see how it feels. It's hard. I mean, when you get excited about something, you want to set yourself with high level. I just ordered my, I just got my sadhu board, which is like a nail board that you stepped on. And I used to do it before. And I was like, I put a timer for like 15 minutes. And I step on it. And I'm like, I'm not going to last 15 minutes. Oh, I know. When I said 5, I was like, my brain, I can't even meditate, control the pain. I step down. I know like. You're walking on nails. Yes. You're drinking water for 5 days. Yes. What's next? Oh, there are a lot. I have to rewire my whole brain and my nervous system to calm down. I have like years of stuff that I accumulated that I'm trying to fix. And I know you affected my health. I'm the only parent to my daughter. So I want to be the healthiest human being I can ever be as long as I can ever be. So now I'm like, I'm science-based doing everything I can, but I'm optimizing it in terms of how, like, because I don't have a lot of time either. So I have to be like doing everything optimally as much as I can. So I take like an hour in the morning. I wake up at 6 to 7 until she wakes up. And then at night before I go to bed, I do an hour of like different things also just to, on top of, you know, eating and cooking and a lot of things. Great mama. Yeah. Thank you so much. But I don't have to pump. So that's not a problem. Yeah. It's time consuming. You know, that's the other thing too. You're dedicated to it. Absolutely. Me now, you know, doing it for a decade. I do it at this point for, I don't even want to say main, you know, for like to maintain it, so to speak. I just like to do it now. You know, it feels good. I, you know, again, I don't have ED issues personally, but I'm 43. I'm worried about it. You know, I'm having regular sex now, which is great. I shouldn't really. So I don't have to do it there. But, you know, if you don't, if you don't lose it, you lose it, which is absolutely factual. And that's something, you know, I'd like to talk about as well. You know, I have a lot of older guys who call and say, I lost length, you know, these last 20 years. I'm a widower. Or, you know, I haven't had sex for 20 years. And they lose length because a lot of times too, you know, and I can attest to this personally. When you're depressed and you're suffering through depression and things like that, you're not getting natural erections, right? Like we get natural erections as men throughout the day. Yeah. And when you're going through things like that, you're not. Stress will kill it. It really will. And in 2020, I had a very stressful year. Separate from COVID, I got divorced that year, you know, and I became a single father. I took full custody of the kids. I have two autistic children. So it hasn't been easy and it wasn't easy, that whole transition. And that whole year, I didn't pump, obviously, right? And I didn't get it up. I didn't have sex. It was, you know, it was bad. Come 2021, you know, mid-2021, settled into my new place. The kids are happy. Everything's going better. Things are semi back to normal. You know, I'm in bed by myself one night and I'm feeling good about myself. I'm like, hey, I'm going to pump, you know? And I take out my cylinder. Remember I told you I put line markers on my cylinder? It went down. It went down. I lost about three quarters of an inch in a year. And I was like, holy shit, you know? And I started pumping again. It came right back, which was great. And I think it was just a matter of getting back to that number I was at. But every time an older man would tell me that, you know, I'd be like, yeah, I'm sure I believe you, you know, and this and that. But I just never experienced it. And when I did personally, I was like, oh, shit, like this happens. So now I'll pump maybe once or twice a week just to get that good blood flow. But, again, I'm having regular sex. I'm getting regular erections. You know, I don't know. But, yeah, I just enjoy to do it now. Just, again, because it feels good, one. And I don't want to lose anything, so to speak. I don't think I will. It's like riding a bike. You know, you do something and it just stays like that. And, you know, when you stretch tissues, they're stretched. They are what they are. So, you know, it's interesting why we lose that. But it was very eye-opening to experience it personally, you know, to see it happen in one year. I can imagine. Yeah. So I have a question that I think people might be interested in knowing because it's about the psychology of pumping. You mentioned that you pump sometimes with your girlfriend. How do you approach a conversation with a woman of like, hey, I'm going to pump. I guess a lot of men probably feel awkward. I saw in different conversation how big men think their length and girth is to women, which I think they have a big misperceptions of how we view it. Or at least I'm talking about myself and my group of friends. We actually opened the conversation recently. I'm like, do you really care about this? And none of them did. So from my small sample, they didn't. But men feel a lot of pressure regarding their size, their performance, etc. And I can only imagine that it must be hard for any man to come to their girlfriend and be like, hey, by the way, I pump. I would like to pump before. How do you approach this conversation? What was your technique? I mean, you did it with your girlfriend, right? Well, for me, it's easy. I call the company. Yeah. True. So she knew what I did right away. But, I mean, I get what you're saying. And, again, you know, being in the sexual wellness industry, I had a lot of toys to test as a buyer. And it was, I don't know, it was like we're adults, you know, and most people know about sex toys to begin with. But most women have a little clitoral toy, a little bullet or a little egg in their little night cabinet, you know what I mean? So most women know about vibrator toys before men do. It's tough. I'm not going to lie. For me, no shyness about it whatsoever. I'm at a dinner table. People are like, so what do you do for a living, Chris? I make pee-ups. I'm not shy about it at all. But I could understand the hesitancy of a guy, especially if he's doing it because he feels inferior. You know what I mean? If he's doing it for ED, it's not a thing about he feels too small or something like that. And he should tell his wife. Most of the time, these guys that call me or email me that have ED, their partner knows. And I always commend them for that. And I'm like, dude, have her do it for you. That's awesome. You know what I mean? Like, buy her a clitoral cylinder when you're done with this. Give us a shot. Pump together. You know? I think it's about your comfortability with your partner at the end of the day. I see on some of these forums, guys say that they go pump in the bathroom 10 minutes before they go have sex. They're hiding it from their partner. And I feel bad for those guys because you shouldn't have to. You know, you should be comfortable with your partner enough that you can be open about your sexual needs or things that are happening with you down there. I was so comfortable with my partner. I told her that. I go, Mama, I love you. And I want to have more fun with you in bed. And this is happening. And she's like, you're so sweet. You know, I'm having a great time. But I understand your concern. You know? Whatever I can do to help is what she said. Yeah. I know it's just great. And that's what it's about. It's about being open and communicative about that. You know? I think it could be a great test for testing your relationship, actually. Telling your partner. And if she has a bad reaction or real reaction and open to it, she's probably not for you. Honestly. Honestly. You mentioned women don't really care about size. Yeah. I'm not a big guy. I'm not going to lie. I got about an inch and a half more in length over this decade. Okay? I'm about six and a half inches erect. So you can imagine what I was before that. I've never been a large man. I'm pretty girthy, which I'm happy about. But I've never been a big, well-endowed man. When I started pumping here, it wasn't to become a big, well-endowed man. I'm six and a half. I'm still not big and well-endowed. It's above average, for sure. But I know and I believe women don't care about that. If I met a girl who looked at it and went like, oh, honey, sorry. I can't deal with that. It's not for me then. Right? It's as simple as that. Well, girl, you need a big boy and nice to meet you. Exactly. It won't be that simple to me. But sadly, a lot of guys take it personally. And you shouldn't. And you should be happy with your body as much as you can be. And if you do want to do things to it, cool. Right at the end of the day. But I'll give you an example. Yesterday, a guy called me and he wanted a 15-inch custom length cylinder. I make them. Right? And I was like, I'm happy to make it for you, brother. Let me ask. Because he's like, how long will it take? And I'm like, right now, Christmas, New Year's coming up. It's going to take me like two or three weeks. I'm not going to lie to you. And he's like, oh, man. He's like, I was looking to grow pretty quick. And I was like, well, let me first tell you, you're not going to grow to 15 in two or three weeks to begin with. And I was like, wait a minute. Do you think you're going to get to 15 inches if you get a 15-inch cylinder? And he said, yeah. And I said, okay, well, I'm going to be honest with you and be real with you right now. You know, never. I'm like, no, that's not going to happen. And then I said, I go, you know, what are you erect right now, if you mind my asking? Eight and a half. Exactly. I just wanted to double this. Exactly. It's not the shock. It's like, what? In three weeks, I'm going to double my size. Eight and a half. This guy was already. And I go, brother, brother, like you are well endowed. Okay. Now, with that said, if you don't feel comfortable with your body, I get it. Okay. If you want to grow some length, cool. I get it. And I'm happy to help you with that. You'll never get to 15 though. Okay. I'll tell you that right now. You might get to 10, you know, but you won't get to 15. And I go, why do you want to do this? And he goes, to be honest with you, I started dating this woman and she told me she needed bigger. They're not worth it. Let me repeat it for people in the back. Everybody can listen. They are not the right partner. If that's the case, please. It turned into like a little therapy session with the guy. Because he was like, we started talking. He's like, he's like, hey, Chris, this is really cool that you're talking to me like this, brother. And I was like, because I want to be honest with you. And I just don't want to sell you something. You don't need me. I go, you don't need my products. You're good. I go, what I want you to do when we hang up is I want you to think about these things more, brother. I want you to find a lady that's happy with eight and a half. That's a big ass dick. That's what I told him. And he started cracking up. And he's like, oh, thank you, man. Thank you. I was like, you're good. Dude, don't call me back. I was like, don't. You know, you're good. He's like, I call you for a 15-inch cylinder ready into a group. But no, I don't want to if you don't need it. You know, at the end of the day, I tell these guys that I'm not trying to sell you something if you don't need it. I want you to be happy. Because I sleep well at night. Yeah. That's why I love about you, you know, the ethics of a business. And that's what everybody can look up to. I've gone away a lot with big corporations, too. People are surprised at my customer service. I have my cell number on my signature. And dudes at 9 p.m. are like, hey, does this fit right? You know, if it's a dick, I'm not going to respond. And I'll respond the next morning and say, we open at 9.30. But if it's a quick question, I'll respond to them right away. And I'll give them a quick answer. Oh, my God. You probably receive some crazy things. I'll see. I had a bit of a question. I don't know if you're aware of this. So is there like penis pumping compared to any other, you know, enhancement techniques and things? Like, how does it compare to it? And there's effectiveness and also safety. I think it compares strongly. There's a lot of devices. Not a lot. But there's a few devices out there. A lot of devices. There's a few devices out there. Some are American made, which is great, which I love. And they're very unique. I'm not going to say brand names here. But hanging, right? Traction type devices. They work. They work. There's published data that shows they work. I've seen and heard on the forums of their efficacy. And they work in conjunction with pumping. They work. Yeah, you mentioned that. I'm all for them, in all honesty. And, you know, try to stick to brands that are made with quality. Again, U.S. made primarily because, one, you're going to get that customer support. You know, two, you're going to know it's made with pride. You know, and it's made well. And those are big values, especially, again, with my niche and what we do. Yeah, because you want the product to last long for your customers. You don't want it to break it down. They're like, you know. We want it to work for our customers. They're buying it for a very specific reason, a very personal reason. And it's important that it works for them. And, yeah, some of these traction devices absolutely work. The hanging devices work. I tried them personally when I was at Stockroom as a buyer, right? I tried all sorts of stuff. I hated it. Oh, my God. It was so painful for me personally. You know, again, especially the traction ones. I mean, you're stretching this thing. And then you're holding them stretched like that for a while. You know, like for a good while. So it's painful. It's painful. And I couldn't take it. And, again, for me and my journey, I was testing them just to sell them, frankly. And I was like, oh, I can't sell this. You know, this is going to be painful. I didn't think about the long-term efficacy of it or whatever. But they do work. Absolutely factual. There's a hanging device made in the USA that the owner has his full log of increases throughout the years. So he shows it right there. Like, this is what I got with, you know, hanging weights on my dick. And I know it sounds funny and weird. But it works. Yeah. You know what I mean? Good marketing. Yeah, exactly. It works. It's just, again, for those types of devices, too, you want to be careful. You know, any of these types of devices, you want to be careful. But, no, in conjunction with or on their own, they're absolutely successful for plate penis enlargement. Okay. Now I want to go over some of the questions I received because I received a little bit of them. What are the most common misconceptions people have about penis pumps? The biggest one is that it doesn't work. That it's fake. It's a scam. That it's temporary only. That is probably the main one, Lucy. Okay. That's it. And any time a guy emails me or calls, I give them this whole spiel. And then I tell them my biography of what I did, you know. And I explain to them. I tell them my little story about how I wouldn't be able to do this if it didn't. You know what I mean? Things like that. And at the end, I don't have a big log. I'm not trying to create a pun. A log of data. The show.  autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl about it, what I tell them, I go, you know what? Don't buy from me. Go to Amazon, buy a cheap $20, $30 one, see how it feels, see that you're gonna grow in it, and then when it breaks on you in two weeks, come back and get mine. I always tell them that I go, go try a really cheap one, and then when it doesn't work after a few weeks, come and get the Rolls Royce, you know, cause mine will work. But that's the biggest misconception, that it doesn't work. It does work, guys. You just gotta put in the work. You gotta take in the effort, you gotta do the work, put in the effort, that's it. One of the most questions is like, really, how long does it take to start seeing a result with, let's say pumping, we said like four times a week, for like 10 to 20 minutes. I mean, you start lower with five, we said five, and then increase it. But if somebody consistently pump four times a week, when can they start seeing some results? Again, everyone's different, right? And I'll always say that everyone's different, but a few months, minimum four to six months, you know? Don't pump for a week, and then measure it again, and you'll see, oh shit, good state. You know what I mean? Like that, but everybody's different. I'll tell you this, Lucy, I've been here, what, 13, 14 years now? Thousands of orders over the years, right? Two guys. Two guys that told me, this doesn't work. And we went over different routines, we went over different timeframes, different pump. I sent them different cylinder sizes. We really tried to make it work, because the last thing I wanted to hear was that from anyone, right? Two guys over the years. I refunded them their money after like a year. They were even shocked. They're like, you're giving me my money back? I'm like, dude, we tried everything. Like, I don't know what to tell you. I know this works, and it just didn't for you, you know? And sometimes it doesn't, you know? But yeah, few months, you should start seeing some permanent things. Okay, and can peanut pumping have any impact on sexual stamina or pleasure beyond the effect of erectile function, sorry? Yeah, you're increasing blood flow, so it's heightening sensitivity. Absolutely. Pre-pumping prior to sex is a lot of fun, and I recommend you try it. It definitely heightens sensitivity, yeah. And do you have any recommended age to, so we mentioned not until you finish growing, but like any recommended age to start pumping after that? Just after that, you know, like I said, 2021, let your body do its thing. But after that, it's all age ranges. You know, surprisingly too, a lot of people think it's only older guys that find my stuff. No, I see, I see. Very, very wide range of ages, absolutely. You know, I'm 43, I pump. 20 year olds who, you know, have some body dysmorphia issues, they pump, you know? So age ranges all over there. Older guys in their 80s, you know, who just got a girlfriend after, you know, a decade or two, and they want to start, you know, get their penis back working. So yeah, all age ranges. Okay. Is there anything you want to add? Because I think we talked about quite a bit, and I think we answered a lot of questions. I mean, I hope that we answered a lot of questions. Yeah. One hour, one minute and 59 seconds. No, I think we've been, I think this has been a great interview. I'm not going to lie to you. I was very nervous about it. I would get nervous about doing these things. I'm also going to be honest with you. This is probably the last one I'm ever going to do on YouTube for other brands or influencers. So you're going to get the last one. Your viewers are going to get the last interview. Because I can't do these all the time for a bunch of different people. And I'm honored that it's going to be you, frankly. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Did for your community, what he's done for my community. He's a great man. I miss him. And I'm sorry how things turned out. I know. And he really cared about you. And I know when, you know, he moved, he immediately told me to send, you know, his payouts to you and your daughter. And when he told me that, I was like, man, you're a good fucking man in my heart. And I'm here for you. You know, as long as you need me to be. I'm here for you. Thank you so much, Chris. If you ever need to test products personally. Send you some stuff. I'm far away from this time. But yeah. I really don't have anything more to add. Thank you for watching. Thank you, Lucy, for giving me the opportunity. If you viewers have any questions, you know, go to my website. Email me directly. Don't bother, Lucy, with this stuff. No, I will put, so on the description below, I will put the list of the product Chris recommends to start pumping and the link to it so you can see it. There is still the promo code, so you can get a discount with Leo's promo code. And like Chris mentioned, he has this phenomenal. So if you know me, you're going to have a sell. If you have a question, you can always message him on his website. I had many people mentioning that they were talking to you and how thankful they were for the advice. And thank you for the demo because I know that's one of the things people were like, I understand your words. I cannot see how exactly this works. At least now you have the visual. And if you want any scientific approach and more details, I will link the two videos, previous videos of Leo, on the description as well. Absolutely. Thank you again. Thank you, Chris. Thank you so much for your time. Have a wonderful day. Talk to you soon. Thank you. Bye.

=== FILE: How to Make Your Child Taller & Smarter [lwH29W1M57A].txt ===

 mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage end, I'll let you know exactly what I'm doing for my daughter in order for her to get the best health, development, and cognition possible. So stay tuned until the end. So first, we'll start with the supplements that will help your child growth trajectory. And we're going to see how those critical elements are highly important for also cognitive development. So let's start looking at IGF-1. It is a crucial factor for child's growth and how it interacts with the body. But to understand IGF-1, let's first start by looking at IGF-1 level of child with higher percentage of body fat. So for those kids, they usually have a higher level of IGF-1 and a lower level of growth hormone levels. These kids often have a high IGF-1, but lower growth hormone levels. So this comes from the tricky balance of two hormones, ghrelin and insulin. And when those two are out of balance, it can create a lot of tricky developmental issues. So what are the health issues that children can observe if they have this imbalance? Well, often in male, you will find that the children that have higher percentage of body fat will have some feminization if they're male. And that is explained because of the growth hormone level. On the positive side, IGF-1 have less impact if high in early childhood compared to adulthood. And during these key years of childhood, it really helps kids grow and develop properly. So now that we understand IGF-1 and how it affects childhood development, let's look into the first supplements that I want to bring up to light. And this is zinc. Zinc is a mineral that also plays a crucial role in the child development. Research reveals a fascinating aspect of zinc. Zinc supplementation can lead to a significant increase of IGF-1 level in children to about 10%. And here's where it gets even more interesting. This increase is even pronounced in preterm infants, which shows how important zinc is in early childhood. But let's take note that this growth hormone effect doesn't extend to adults. It's only seen and observed in childs. Let's simply look into what happens when somebody lacks zinc. Now, you might wonder, is it only applicable for those that are lacking zinc? Well, no. The benefits of zinc supplementation is observed for both children that are zinc deficient and those that have regular level of zinc. So this universality makes zinc a critical nutrient for everyone. So let's look at the form of zinc. And they're not all created equal. Zinc picolinate and methanoline-based zinc, they really stand out due to their high absorption rates. That means they're more effectively used by our bodies, which make them ideal for supplementation. So looking at the specifics of the studies, we've seen that 10 mg dosage of zinc can significantly raise IGF-1 levels. And it's more so than higher dosage. So typically, children need between 14 to 30 mg of zinc. But if you maintain a dose of 40 mg, it has been linked to balanced zinc in the body. On top of that, it's shown that if you supplement zinc for a period over than eight weeks, it increases IGF-1 levels more effectively than a short-term use. A side note, people with liver damage are, God forbid, kids with liver damage. So as a side note, I've been giving my daughter zinc since she was three months old. We started a bit later because she was already bigger. She was born three months old. That's how I see it, based on how tall she was. But to these days, she's almost three. She's still supplementing with zinc. So the next supplements we want to talk about, it's one that I do not give to my daughter. But Leo has done research on it, and I think he discovered it a bit later. This was not in our original plan for our daughter. But the study is behind it. And it is astragalus. And I don't know if I pronounce it properly. But astragalus is a root herb that's used in traditional Chinese medicine. And it's now emerging in the spotlight for pediatric growth. So astragalus has captured the scientific world, especially for its potential in enhancing height velocity in children. Yes, height. And I know it's a sensible topic because I probably get tons and tons and tons of emails of 16, 15, 17 year old male that would be trying to do anything to get taller. So if you have a kid and you're short, I want your kid to be tall. Listen. Astragalus works specifically for the kids that are shorter in height for their age. Hence, that's why my daughter doesn't need it. In South Korea, an extract called HTO 42, which includes astragalus, has actually gained approval for this particular purpose. And you can see its benefits that it works specifically for the kids that are shorter than their peers. But let's look at the science behind it. A written studies have shown that astragalus might work through IGF-1 pathways. Human studies are still catching up and the boosts of IGF-1 hasn't been noted yet. So while boosting IGF-1, astragalus has been shown to be very gentle. It doesn't disturb any other growth function in the developing bodies of children. Now let's do a parentese talking about telomerase. So telomerase is an enzyme that's technically connected to the fountain of youth at a cellular level. Some studies have shown that certain compounds in astragalus can significantly boost this enzyme and potentially lengthening our telomeres, which is our little cap in our DNA that protects us from DNA damage. So while this sounds like a breakthrough, it's really the cells of young children that benefit from astragalus the most. And as I say, astragalus might present risk for those with potential DNA damage. Like if you have had a bad lifestyle before previously or were a smoker, astragalus might prevent risks for you. Now that we have covered height with zinc and astragalus, let's look at what else you can do for your kids in order for them to be the best. Another supplement that's actually crucial is fish oil. And I'm not never going to stop saying it again. Fish oil, fish oil, fish oil, fish oil. Everyone should take fish oil. Now let's look at the science for fish oil. And as a side note, I recently interviewed Dr. Newton Howard, which is a lead scientist, a neuroscientist, and researcher. And when I asked him, what supplements did you ever give to your kids if you give them any? And he only gave them one. And he only takes one. I mean, he takes two, but fish oil. That's the only thing. Himself, now he takes fish oil and saffron supplements every day, but he has been giving his kids since they were born fish oil. So let's dive into the science behind it. So omega-3 fatty acid, especially DHA, are integral to cognitive function and mental clarity. They support brain cell structure and signaling, contributing to a better cognition in children and also in adults. Studies have shown that children that consume enough omega-3 have better academic performance and cognition, cognitive abilities. So according to studies published in the British Journal of Nutrition, DHA supplementation during pregnancy and lactation have been shown to individual equity to children and also beneficial long-term neurodevelopment in children. A separate study have highlighted how important DHA is for the brain and eye development, highlighting its role in maintaining cellular membranes, fluidity, and neurotransmitter release. And fish oil also be linked to reduce ADHD symptoms in children. So by enhancing neurotransmitter functions, omega-3 helps managing impulsive behaviors and improve attention spans, making it extremely beneficial for growing minds. A systematic review have shown that supplementing with omega-3 fatty acids have shown to reduce ADHD symptoms. Those include hyperactivity, impulsivity, attention, and memory. However, it is very important for everyone to get high-quality fish oil because it can be contaminated with heavy metal, especially with mercury. Please look for products that are tested, purified, that are third-party tested with available data, with available test results that you can actually see. And make sure that the fish oil is sent in a dark black bottle so it doesn't get oxidated as well and that you keep it in the fridge always. So for the dosage, it varies based on your child's age. But a toddler will need between 300 to 500 mg of EPA and DHA, while school-aged children may require around 1000 mg per day. Here's my best friend, magnesium. So magnesium is an essential mineral for over 300 biochemical reactions in our body. And that includes those related to muscle function, nerves function, and also your bones. Magnesium is particularly important to children because it promotes energy production and also promotes calmness, which we all need as parents. But it also helps them with better sleeping patterns. And I strongly believe that my daughter's sleep patterns, which is absolutely amazing and a delight since she was three months old, it's partially because of magnesium. So research has shown that supplementing with magnesium actually promotes a reduction of symptoms of anxiety, hyperactivity, and it contributes to a more balanced and focused mind. A study published by BMC pediatrics have shown that for children with ADHD, when they supplemented with magnesium and vitamin D, they actually improve their behavior and their mental health. Like I mentioned before, magnesium is actually extremely important for your bone mineral density because it works in combination with calcium. We were taught for a very long time, and I know people in this channel are already aware that calcium is for your bones. That is true, but that's just partially true. Calcium without magnesium won't do anything to your bones. Because a kid has a high calcium intake, you have to keep in mind that in general, for a child's health and good bone density, you need to keep a ratio of about two magnesium for one calcium. If you think that your child doesn't inject or consume enough magnesium, then the ratio will be off and their bone density and bone strength might be not as optimized as they could be. That's just another reason to supplement with magnesium. Magnesium also play a role in neurotransmitters regulation, which is actually essential for nerve stimulation and muscle contractions. A magnesium deficient child can actually have increased symptoms of ADHD. We see that magnesium deficiency is often seen with children with increased hyperactivity focus and with children with ADHD. And when you combine magnesium with vitamin B6, it has been shown to enhance its therapeutic effect on the nervous system. How much magnesium should you give to your child? Well, it depends on the age group once again. But here is some guideline and recommendation. For children between the age of four to eight, it's recommended to give 130 milligrams per day of magnesium. And for those nine to 13 years old, it's about 240 milligrams per day. So what kind of magnesium are we talking about here? So for optimal absorption and efficacy, magnesium glycinate will be the one you want to go with. And of course, alpharinate. Those are the two preferred forms for their calming effect and cognitive enhancement effect as well. For children under four, what I highly recommend, and I will talk about it later, it's magnesium in a cream form. It is hard to manage the dosage that way, but it is a lot easier to administrate and magnesium can be absorbed by the skin and it's absorbed very well. So now we've explored and looked at the science behind four supplements that you can give to your children to have different effects. For height and growth enhancement, we have zinc and we have astragalus. For cognitive development and calmness, we have fish oil and magnesium. Now I'm going to give you some insight of how Leo and I approached it with Arabella, our daughter. When did we start? What did we do and why? So keep in mind, my daughter was born in the 99 percentile for height, for weight and for head circumstances. So we knew she had a head start, especially she was a 10 pound baby. Like she looked like she was three months old. I'm not exaggerating. So for that reason, we didn't start zinc immediately because it was not necessary. I am six foot tall. I am sure she's going to be very tall. She's almost three, but she's wearing four year old clothes. So she has her head start. However, we started immediately with probiotics and fish oil. The reason behind it is because I had to take antibiotics when I was delivering her. Um, and you know, it can be passed along and I know the effect on antibiotics on the gut microbiome and how important it is. Yes, she was breastfed, but we still decided after actually, I think it was her first month. That's when we started giving her probiotics. We actually use seed probiotics that would open the pill and spit it out and put it in a bottle. And that's how she consume her first supplements. This with fish oil were the two first supplements that we started with her. At one month old, we also started, I mean, I started giving her a daily massage, but instead of regular lotion, I would use magnesium cream. And she's so used to it now. She asks for her massage every day and she still takes her magnesium cream. I also supplement with a liquid form now so I can control the dosage better. But I strongly believe that giving her the supplements is what makes her amazing child. Such an intelligent, amazing kid. She understands fully three languages and she amazed me every day. I started teaching her how to write. She's responsive to everything and she remembers things very well. And I know I'm biased because it's my kid and every parent think their kid is a genius. I don't think she's a genius, but she's very advanced for our age because I see her going to school and I see how different she is from her peer and I'm very proud of her. But on top of that, I strongly believe that the combination of supplementation, the way and things I did to make sure that she's developing properly, also the amount of sleeps that she's having and how regulated she is with her own sleep, those are all factors that contribute to high cognitive function. And I still give her zinc, but not on a regular basis because I don't want to push her growth too much. I know it can be difficult for a woman to be tall and it is good to be tall, but not as tall as me. So we'll see. Um, but I'm managing, I mean, I am. So that's my reasoning behind it. Um, as for other supplements that I may have, um, she still takes probiotics, um, because I think that microbiome and the diversity of it is highly important. And if you have had a toddler, you might understand the struggle it is sometimes to make them eat diverse food. So she will have moments where she eats everything. I have no problem and other moments where she become a picky eater. So at least I know her gut microbiome are stable and there and happy. And even if she's decided to eat bananas for a day, additionally to all the supplements, I do have a liquid form of vitamin D that I use when other kids at school are getting sick or I see her starting to get sick. It's very rare for her to actually get sick despite having people sick around her. And I just have to add some vitamin D to her supplementation for a couple of days and she will be usually fine. Vitamin D, give it in the morning because if you give it at night, you will turn your toddler into a little monster that will not go to sleep. As for the brands, I know I mentioned how important it is for Fischl, but it is actually important to choose high quality brands in any supplements you take. It's better to spend more money. My process of choosing supplements because it's not regulated in this country is simply by going on consumerlab.com. I looked at all the analysis they've done. I take the best for the price, the highest quality and highest dosage for the price. That's how I do to begin my supplements. For my daughter, it's a bit different because I'm looking for liquid forms because she won't take a pill. So I have selected a couple of them for the Fischl. I'm 100% certain of the quality of the bread I'm taking. It is on the more expensive end, but it is absolutely worth it. I will list them in the comment below if you're interested. There is no reason for me to promote them or whatsoever, but it's just to give you an idea. Make sure you're doing the research. Make sure you talk to your pediatrician. I'm not a doctor. This is not medical advice. I'm just trying to share what I've done, the thought process behind it, the science behind it, and then you can make your own informed decision for your kid and what's best for them and your family. All right, that's it for me. Thank you, everyone, for watching. Don't forget to subscribe, like, and leave a comment below if you have any questions. Until next time, stay curious and stay well.

=== FILE: How to Reduce Anxiety ｜ These 2 Amino Acids Will Relax You [3q4QSAXKMmc].txt ===

 Xter 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 their role in managing anxiety. But first, I have a small request. If you haven't already, please subscribe to the channel, leave a comment, give us a thumbs up to help us navigate the YouTube algorithm and keep shedding lights on Leo's research. Anxiety is more than just a feeling. It's a complex interplay of biochemical reaction in our brain. In this integrate dense of molecules, amino acids like beta-aniline and taurine play pivotal roles. Beta-aniline, in particular, is very intriguing for its anxiolytic properties acting as calming agents, while taurine brings its antidepressant quality to the table. And for anyone grappling with anxiety, whether it's a constant companion or just a visitor during social situations, like with me, this video could be a game changer for you. Today, I will unveil why glycine and taurine might deserve a spot in your wellness toolkit. Let's delve a bit deeper. Beta-aniline doesn't just play a role in muscle endurance. It also competes with taurine for transport, showcasing its anxiolytic effects. On the flip side, taurine, known for its mood-lifting properties after a counterbalance, this fascinating interplay was highlighted in a study by Murakami, where the dietary supplementation of these two amino acids led to notable behavior and neurochemical changes in mice, revealing that they're antidepressant and anxiolytic. Moreover, amino acids like alanine and serine are not just bystanders. They actively engage as agonists at glycine receptor, adding another layer to this complex biochemical narrative. Another study suggesting that these amino acids, particularly serine in one of its forms, can be as potent, if not more, than glycine in co-agonizing NMDA receptors, which plays a crucial role in neuroplasticity and memory function. So this opens up a whole new avenue in understanding and potentially managing anxiety at its molecular roots. So let's get into the world of amino acids, those tiny architects of life. Imagine we have over 900 different types, each with a unique role. And yet, in the ground tapestry of our DNA, only a select 2% are the master builder, directly involved in constructing proteins. These are the proteinogenic amino acids, the key players of life complex symphony. But let's zoom in on one of the simplest yet most intricate of them, glycine. It's like the minimalist of the amino acid world. Small, simple, but incredibly impactful. Glycine with its low molecular weight might seem assuming, yet it plays a crucial role in numerous biological processes. It's a bit like finding a simple key that unlocks multiple doors in the human body. Like I mentioned, glycine is a real multitasker in the biological realm. It's not just an ordinary antioxidant. Glycine is like a molecular superhero that's combating oxidative stress with fineness. But glycine tons don't just stop here. It's a mess of disruption, interrupting the nefarious signaling of an advanced glycanation end product, known as AGEs. Those sneaky molecules can accelerate aging and cause various chronic diseases. Picture glycine as a tiny but mighty guardian, safeguarding our cells in multiple ways. It boosts the activity of glycine transporter 1, which is like flipping a switch to ramp up the production of glutathione, our body-owned superantioxidant. This action is actually crucial, especially in protecting delicate structure like the ill set of our pancreas, which are vitals for insulin regulation, for example. But glycine versatility extends even into the realm of addiction. In studies with alcoholic rodents, glycine showed its potential to ease the harsh journey of alcohol withdrawals. It seems to soothe the brain craving signals, reducing the urge of drinking. This finding opened up fascinating possibilities for treating addictions in humans. Glycine suppresses AGE and RAGE signaling pathway in the subsequent oxidative stress by restoring GLO1 function in the orta of diabetic rats and in the hovic. As we dive deeper into the biochemical C, we encounter NMDA receptors, a complex and crucial component of our brain neural network. Here, glycine and serine, often tucked away in our muscles, emerge as key players. So these amino acids have been shown to amplify the effects of ketamine, particularly in combating depression that stems from inflammation, at least, in the animal kingdom. It's like they give ketamine an extra boost, enhancing its ability to lift the fog of depression in these models. But as we all think in the realm of biology, there is a twist. So glycine, despite its many benefits, also has an act for upregulating NMDA receptors activity. Now, this might sound great, but there is a catch. It can lead to neuroinflammation, a kind of internal brain battle that we rather avoid. So to counterbalance this effect, we might consider pairing glycine with uprazin A. Uprazin A is a compound known for its ability to dance delicately with those receptors, providing the benefits without the unwanted neuroinflammatory effects. This balancing act between glycine and uprazin A really illustrates the intricate symphony of our brain chemistry. It's a reminder of how even the smallest molecule can play significant roles in our mental health and well-being, influencing everything from our mood to our cognitive ability. But let's turn our attention to taurine, a name derived from taurus, the Latin word of bull. This connection to the mighty bull isn't just for show. Taurine, much like its namesake, is robust and vital, representing the most abundant free amino acids within the labyrinth of our brain. It's a natural component of our biological makeup, synthesized internally from amino acids cysteine and methionine, with a little help from vitamin B6. But here's where it gets interesting. So despite being produced in our body, there are times when we might need more than what our internal factory can supply. This is particularly true for infants, making taurine a conditionally essential amino acid in the early development phase. But taurine is just about quantity. It's about its multifaceted roles in our health. This amino acid is a bit of a biological superhero, having antioxidants and anti-inflammatory powers. So it's like the cellular guardian protecting our cells from the ravages of oxidative stress and inflammation. Imagine it as a microscopic shield safeguarding our neurons and ensuring their optimal function. Now, for those who are grappling with the shadows of anxiety, taurine offers a beacon of hope. So it acts as an anxiolytic, calming the stormy seas of anxiety via its interaction with the glycine receptor. And for those seeking immediate relief, taurine steps up to the challenge. It can be administered internautally, offering a rapid response to soothe the anxious mind. Now let's zoom into a key player in this biochemical symphony, the glycine receptor. This receptor is like a finely tuned instrument, fully activated by glycine and partially by taurine and GABA. So it's not just a passive component. It's a dynamic force in our neural pathways, influencing how we perceive pain and anxiety. Imagine it as a gatekeeper in our complex network of our nervous system, modulating signal and maintaining the delicate balance needed for optimal function. The role of the glycine receptor expands beyond the brain, playing a vital part in our spine. This is where the story gets particularly intriguing for those suffering from chronic back pain. Scientists are exploring the potential of glycine receptor modulator and glycine transporter inhibitor as new avenue for back pain relief. This innovative approach could revolutionize how we manage chronic pain, offering hope where traditional methods fall short. There is more, even THC knows as pain relieving properties. My all is effectiveness on how it interacts with the glycine receptor. This connection opens up new possibilities for understanding and treating peripheral pain. However, in the realms of biochemistry, there is always a balance to be maintained. So while glycine is a powerhouse of benefits, it's important to tread carefully. In certain types of cancer, glycine may inadvertently play a role in cancer cells proliferation. So as we journey through the intricate world of amino acids and their impact on our well-being, let's talk about a practical protocol for those considering glycine and taurine supplementation to relieve anxiety. Remember, this is just a guideline. I'm not a medical doctor. This is not medical advice and you should not replace professional medical advice. So how do we start in dose? Begin with a low dose to assess tolerance. For glycine, start with around 1 gram per day. For taurine, we talk about 500 milligrams a day. That's a good starting point. If you tolerate this well, you can gradually increase the dose. A common therapeutic dose for glycine can range up to 5 grams per day. And for taurine, a dose between 2 to 3 grams per day are often used. Glycine is best taken at night due to its calming and sleep promoting effects. And taurine can be taken in divided dose throughout the day. Make sure you pay attention to how your body responds. If you experience any adverse side effects, reduce the dosage or discontinue the use completely. And consider taking this supplement for a trial period of at least 4 to 6 weeks to evaluate their effectiveness. So while exploring the benefits of glycine and taurine, it's crucial to consider their broader impact in our brain's health. Glycine, particularly, can upregulate NMDA receptors' activity, potentially leading to neuroinflammation. To counteract this, we introduce a unique ally, uprazin A. So let's talk about it a little bit. Uprazin A is extracted from the Chinese cub moss. It stands out for its neuroprotective capabilities. It's not just about enhancing cognitive function by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase. It's also about its crucial role in mitigating the potential inflammatory effect that glycine might have on NMDA receptors. We recommend starting with a dose of 50 to 100 micrograms daily. It's always wise to start with a low dose to gauge how your body reacts. To leverage the cognitive benefits without hampering your sleep, it's better to take uprazin A in the morning or early afternoon. With uprazin A, you want to adopt a cyclical approach. So perhaps 2 to 4 weeks on, followed by a pause, keep an eye out on reactions like nausea, sleep disturbance, and adjust your intakes accordingly. So to ensure a well-rounded regimen and address any potential side effects, you should consider these supplements with your regimen. We talk about omega-3 fatty acids. These are the cornerstone of our brain's health and may enhance the benefits of amino acids. You should also consider magnesium. So this is a mineral known for its soothing properties. It works in tandem with glycine and thuring, potentially amplifying their anxiety alleviating effects. We also have vitamin B6, a leachypin in amino acid metabolism. B6 is essential for maximizing the efficacy of glycine and thuring. So as we conclude, remember that the journey to wellness is deeply personal and multifaceted. Glycine and thuring offer permissing avenues for managing anxiety and enhancing well-being, but they're just pieces of a larger puzzle. And before we wrap up, it's crucial to underscore that when it comes to managing anxiety, lifestyle changes are often the first and most important step. We can not ignore the profound impact of daily habits such as regular exercise, adequate sleep, mindfulness practices, on our mental health. These fundamental elements can significantly influence our brain's chemistry and overall well-being. If you're interested in a more detailed lifestyle protocol tailored to enhancing mental health and managing anxiety, I'd love to hear from you. Drop a comment below to let me know if this is something you would like to see in the future. In the spirit of Leo's legacy, let's continue to explore, learn, and to put each other's inner quest for health and happiness. Together we can build a community grounded in knowledge, empathy, and wellness. As always, you will find Leo's notes on the description below. And until next time, stay curious and stay well.付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付

=== FILE: How to Supplement with Nicotine [sSScjbObMCw].txt ===

 So if you do notice suddenly that your nicotine is unusually powerful today or your alpha gpc is unusually powerful today. It may be Good afternoon friends. In this video, I'm going to tell you how I would go about supplementing nicotine to get better cognitive performance. Like for an exam or for study. But before I do please subscribe to the channel if you're not already. like the video and comment on the video to help the channel's growth. Now let's get started. First of all, I hope you saw the last video from this morning which introduced nicotine to you. In this video, we're going to talk about how to go about supplementing nicotine. We're going to go across the considerations that you should make and then consider some supplements that I take and what I do specifically myself. First of all, the considerations. There are three considerations I want to bring up. The first is the U-shaped curve effect of nicotine. As we learned from the previous video, nicotine has cognitive enhancing effects that have a U-shaped curve even among drug-naive people and nicotine-naive people. That means in someone who's never used nicotine before, one milligram in studies in humans will almost always improve cognitive performance. So will two milligrams. But on average, four milligrams will worsen cognitive performance even compared to someone who doesn't use nicotine. So what does this tell us? This tells us there's an upper limit on the amount of nicotine acutely that can improve cognitive performance. And let me tell you, what does that feel when you reach that upper limit? You feel too much salient, too much activity of the salience network in the brain. Things in your surroundings are too salient for you. You may be concentrating but you have a lot of energy. You feel like, oh I should go write maybe my to-do list on the board or maybe I should go clean something over there. This is the salience network becoming overpowering in your brain. That's one feeling. Another feeling maybe of too much excitatory activity in your brain. A feeling of like maybe some thinking pollution or brain fog slightly. Or a feeling of slight anxiety. That's what will happen when you go too far. You won't have to guess too much to be honest with you. You'll notice when you've gone too far on the dose. But let me point out another thing. Unlike many receptors in the human body, the nicotinic cholinergic receptors both in humans and other mammals upregulates when it's bound to and agonize. Agonism is binding to and activating the receptor. So the nicotinic cholinergic receptors are expressed more when you use nicotine. What does this mean? This may mean that you become more sensitive to higher doses of nicotine if you use it more often. Or it may mean that you have a higher threshold for tolerance of how nicotine may be helpful for you. That means that you may be able to use four milligrams and get even better performance. Or you may be able to get the same performance that someone gets out of two milligrams from one milligram. It depends on the situation. We really don't know too much about this. But what I'm trying to point out here is not only is there variance between people about what the upper limit of nicotine supplementation will be useful, but even within a person according to how much nicotine they use over time. Second, we have to consider the vitamin choline. You see, if many people I think are actually deficient to some degree in choline, at least in regard to optimal function. I think most people are. And I think that's one of the reasons that so many people have such a boost from baseline cognition when they use nicotine. So there's reason to think that people really need to raise the amount of choline supplementation that they're doing. Choline is a vitamin. Remember, choline is what the neurotransmitter, the hormone in our brains, acetylcholine, which nicotine acts like. But acetylcholine is made out of choline and it's made out of dietary choline. What I was saying here is most people probably don't consume enough choline in their diet to have proper function in general. But the most important element of supplementing choline other than brain health is the development of liver disease. If you're choline deficient, you will develop non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which will progress into non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH, on its own, just from the choline deficiency. So you can't be choline deficient. The recommended daily allowance for men is about 500 milligrams of choline. So say you wanted to take the minimal amount of choline required to not get liver disease, like 500 milligrams or so. If you did so, you would still increase. And by the way, you have choline in your diet as well. But what I'm saying is, if you had to increase the amount of choline you're consuming, you would increase also, by definition, and I've experienced this myself, I know this is true in reality, more acetylcholine synthesis in your brain. What does that mean? That means that the highest amount of nicotine that you can tolerate without reaching the other side of that U-shaped curve, where the nicotine starts to harm your cognition, the highest amount you can take may be lower now, because you're supplementing with choline, and you have more acetylcholine in the brain. Do you see what I mean? So you need to have choline in your diet, but that may lower the max amount of nicotine that's valuable for you. Also, this will change something else, which brings us to the third point here, which is the circadian rhythms. Acetylcholine is transmitted in the body in a circadian fashion. That means in the daytime, in our daylight hours for humans, we have more acetylcholine transmission in our brains than at nighttime. In rodents, it's about 33% more, in their case, in their nighttimes. So there's a circadian fluctuation in cholinergic signaling. And this makes sense, because acutely, choline improves cognition quite a bit, and you probably need less concentration and cognition later in the day, right? But here's the important elements here that I want to point out. First of all, when you supplement choline in your diet, remember, now you had a lower maximum amount of nicotine you might benefit from acutely when you're trying to study. Well, also, you now have a higher baseline acetylcholine level in your brain throughout the day. Now, your body will control that in a circadian fashion, but nonetheless, it means that you're going to have a higher amount of acetylcholine at night than you did previously. Now, why does that matter? It matters because the change from a baseline state to whatever nootropic kind of thing you're using, not technically nootropics, but the difference in the baseline to going to higher cognition is important to get the most out of your studying sessions, for example. Usually, you want to study or do your cognitively demanding tasks earlier in the morning so that whatever drugs or supplements you use that affect your circadian rhythms, they do so in the up part of the circadian rhythm in the morning. So if you're doing something to like nicotine, you would probably want it in the morning in a circadian way. But now you know that you have more cholinergic signaling later in the day, which makes the difference in the morning less significant for you. So these are just things to consider. Now, how do you go about doing this? Well, to discuss that, let's go into our sections next. First, with nutrition. In regard to nutrition, we want to, and this is nutritional choline. We're talking about choline specifically with your diet. There are two aspects we want to think about here with supplementing choline. You may actually want some supplemented choline actually for your cognition in the morning, but we're going to get to that level quite easily. The thing we have to consider when supplementing choline is the liver disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and second, dangers genetic issues with methylation. So first of all, to avoid non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, you can do that taking 500 milligrams of choline a day, or if you take enough choline in your diet already, which many meat eaters do already. But some people like myself and like Derek from More Plates, More Dates have genetic polymorphisms that make them, make it very difficult for them to methylate methionine. Remember methionine, the dietary protein that turns on mTOR? They have difficulty methylating that across its cycle. So they end up with higher homocysteine levels on their blood work, for example. These polymorphisms are exceptionally common and really well studied and certainly affect our health. For people with those polymorphisms, like polymorphisms at the MTHFR gene, these people may want to supplement with even more choline than is protective for their livers, because that reduces the burden on their body to methylate and go through this cycle. So these people may be, like myself, supplementing with more choline than 500 milligrams, even though it raises their baseline choline level and may diminish the cognitive enhancing effects of raising cholinergic stimulation, particularly when studying in the morning. To find out if you're one of those people, by the way, Chris Masterjohn has a channel on YouTube. He has collected the SNPs associated with methylation issues from academic papers, and he has it somewhere on his website. You can visit them there. I have the same thing also for my genetic analysis, but he's already published this there. You can go visit them. He also has on his website some nutritional recommendations for people who have this issue. I differ from him in my opinion of some of the recommendations, but only very slightly. So you can really, you can, and he's a good resource of information in general. I only disagree with him about some things. So I would highly recommend checking him out and checking out your 23andMe or another genome analysis to find out whether you have these methylation issues and should potentially supplement with more than 500 milligrams of choline. Okay, so check that out in case. But if not, then we're probably looking at supplementing around 500 milligrams. Now, how would I supplement with choline? Personally, I like to take a hydrophilic and a lipophilic source of choline because I've noticed, not particularly with regard to research on choline, but with regard to research of different kinds of supplements that lipophilic and hydrophilic forms sometimes get distributed differently in the body. So to ensure that I get good distribution of choline because I have these methylation issues in particular, I supplement with CDP choline, also called citicholine. I will attach two links, one to a cheaper supplement that I somewhat trust and one to a more expensive supplement that I trust in the video description below. So I supplement with CDP choline or citicholine. I usually try to take about half of my supplementation or a little bit less from that. And then I supplement with phosphatidylcholine. I'll also include a link to a source on phosphatidylcholine in the bio below. So I supplement with both of those. You can supplement with one or the other. You don't have to be as specific as me. And you may not have to supplement with as much as I do because you may not have the methylation issues that I have. So that's how I would go about dealing with the nutritional side of things. And by the way, if you don't have your genome sequenced yet and want to know ahead of time have methylation issues, check your blood tests. Your blood tests may likely have tested your homocysteine. If your homocysteine, which is C-Y-S-T-E-I-N-E at the end, if that is, let's say, 8.5 or above, you are likely one of the people with the methylation issues that may have better health long-term or may potentially live longer if they supplement with more choline and therefore have a better methylation cycle. Next, let's talk about supplementation. How can you supplement to get more out of using nicotine through the same system, the cholinergic system? First of all, I want to point out a supplement called uridine monophosphate. I'll attach a link to a supplement below because people have been telling me, by the way, that it's hard for them to know how to spell these words that I mentioned. And some people are unfamiliar with the supplements. Uridine monophosphate upregulates cholinergic signaling and upregulates dopamine transmission through the cholinergic system. You'll find that 300 to 600 milligrams of uridine monophosphate taken in the morning with your nicotine will significantly improve your concentration. You will notice the effects acutely. It has only acute effects. They don't build over time, which is one reason, by the way, I usually don't supplement with it daily. I try to take at least two days off from uridine monophosphate. So you'd supplement that with your nicotine in the morning. Say you wake up at 6 a.m., you start working at around 8 on whatever you're working that's cognitively demanding. Around 8.15, after you've started, you take these supplements. You take the nicotine or depending on how you take them. You take the uridine monophosphate. Next, we'll talk about alpha GPC and that would be with the nicotine. So let's talk about alpha GPC. Alpha GPC is a kind of choline that basically for people who don't use nicotine, it's the only way that's commonly available to significantly upregulate cholinergic signaling acutely. By taking alpha GPC as a supplement, you get the effects of nicotine plus some more effects that are sometimes a little bit different, but it's more comprehensive. Why? Alpha GPC is a form of choline that appears to have these acute effects, unlike citicholine or phosphatidylcholine, because it causes reserve stores of choline in the body to be released into the bloodstream, whereby they quickly go to the brain, past the blood-brain barrier, and as acetylcholine become a neurotransmitter. So taking alpha GPC 15 minutes after you begin your studying will upregulate acetylcholine signaling in your brain acutely. For some people, taking too much alpha GPC will cause them to develop anxiety because of that element that I just mentioned, which is alpha GPC does more than what nicotine does as well. So it's not just the anxiety of too much stimulation from the nicotinic cholinergic receptors, but the muscarinic cholinergic receptors that nicotine doesn't bind to and are less involved with cognition, except for one of the receptors, basically, those receptors are involved in anxiety in the brain. So too much alpha GPC, for that reason and other reasons may cause you to develop anxiety acutely, or also those other feelings of the salience and stuff like that. Now I've noticed a wide variance in people's ability to tolerate alpha GPC without developing that U-shaped curve effects, without developing anxiety and feeling poorly. But for me, for example, I can't tolerate 400 milligrams of alpha GPC. I can almost never tolerate it, unless I'm taking something that is what is called an anticholinergic, something like amitriptyline or cirroquil or something like that, or Welbutrin, although Welbutrin is quite a bit weaker. I don't think it'll do this to me. So basically, I can't tolerate 400 milligrams usually. Sometimes I can tolerate 300 milligrams in one dose. Usually I do better with 200 milligrams or 100 milligrams. I think for people that are supplementing with nicotine also, which in my opinion is superior to alpha GPC for cognitive purposes, I do think alpha GPC would be synergistic with it. I've tried this a lot myself, but I think at a very low dose, something like 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams for most people, maybe even 50 milligrams, something like that. So, so far we've discussed in terms of nutrition, we've discussed supplementing citicholine or CDP choline and phosphatidylcholine. We're splitting our choline requirement between them and supplementing them with food, but not for acute effects. These are just things you supplement with all the time and they won't have an immediate effect on you. Then for the acute effects, we supplement uridine monophosphate and alpha GPC in the morning when we're working on our studying, right? Next, let's talk about the two drugs we may want to consider. So we talked about two supplements, well, four supplements actually. Now two drugs. The first drug is paracetam. Now, paracetam is probably the best studied of all the racetams. It's the only racetam that I trust because it's so well studied. Paracetam can be found from websites like Nootropics Depot, but I think that they make theirs out of Chinese sources. Theirs is certainly, in my experience, weaker than pharmaceutical paracetam. You can find pharmaceutical paracetam in Eastern Europe. For example, a website, Cosmic Nootropic, which I have a link to on my website and a discount code. It's L-E-O. Cosmic Nootropic carries several versions of pharmaceutical paracetam, including an injectable form. And I actually use their oral form. So there's a variance in the quality of paracetam, first of all. Paracetam raises cholinergic signaling or improves cholinergic signaling, thereby increasing dopamine transmission also. Somewhat similar to uridine monophosphate. So paracetam is also a consideration. What I would do, a lot of people use much higher doses of this. Keep in mind, we're using sort of polypharmacy here. What I do personally is I use between 400 to 800 milligrams of paracetam orally once. Just the first. I don't redose it during my time of studying. Once. By the way, I sometimes redose alpha-GPC and I sometimes, though very rarely, redose uridine monophosphate. I don't think it's as useful. And I redose, obviously, nicotine. But paracetam, I don't redose. I take it once and I take a couple of days off a week. I do notice diminishing marginal returns if you keep using it every day, this kind of tachyphylaxis with the drug. I think it's quite safe and worthwhile taking. The second drug I wanted to mention, I mentioned in the first video too. That's the main drug given to Alzheimer's disease patients to deal with their symptoms. It's not thought to slow down the progression of Alzheimer's disease. But honestly, I think that's because when Alzheimer's disease presents itself, it's such an advanced disease that like, you know, you can't really slow it down that easily. There are studies that evidence that donapazil may slow down the progression of neurodegenerative disease if it's taken early enough in some models. So anyway, but the point is it certainly relieves symptoms of it. By the way, why may it prevent the degeneration of the brain? The same way that smoking does for Parkinson's disease. It's just not been as well studied and people haven't used it as early in life and so on. But it certainly improves the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, which is the memory deficits. What does donapazil do? It does what ginkgo biloba, huperzine A, bacopa monieri, berberine. It does what they do. It is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Acetylcholinesterase is an enzyme that breaks down. An enzyme is something that modifies proteins. It's an enzyme that breaks down that neurotransmitter in our brains that nicotine was copying. Remember, acetylcholin. So acetylcholesterase breaks down acetylcholin. So donapazil and ginkgo biloba, berberine, all these things inhibit acetylcholesterase so that acetylcholin can't be broken down as quickly. So there's more acetylcholin in the brain that can bind to the nicotinic cholinergic receptors and activate them, improving memory. I've never heard of anyone taking donapazil that wasn't above the age of 70, personally, except myself. I was the first person that I know or read of taking it. I'm sure that other people have tried it before, but I'm pretty sure I'm the first person who's definitely made videos about it or talked about online. I think so, at least I don't know. Anyway, I've tried it extensively. The reason why I'm saying this to you is to point out that I've done all of this myself. I know this works. This is not hypotheses. Donapazil improves cognition in people who don't have Alzheimer's disease early in life also. However, I have noticed acetylcholinesterase inhibition is less valuable the younger you are. I think because younger people have better cholinergic systems. Like some of my 19 or 20 year old clients get less of a benefit from donapazil than somebody 25 or 30. But donapazil certainly improves cognition and it does so, so much better than supplemental versions of the acetylcholesterase inhibitors like ginkgo biloba, berberine and so on. There is still reason to supplement with those supplements because they have other effects. Like for example, ginkgo biloba is very, very, very healthy for the brain. You would still want to, I still take it daily, but donapazil is just incomparable to it. The way you would want to use, by the way, I used to get my donapazil from clearskypharmacy.biz. What I used to do is I would, well, now I'm just used to the same dose that I take. But initially I would take like a 10 milligram tablet and cut it into four pieces. And I would take 2.5 milligrams say for a week or so, then raise it by 2.5 so that I'm at 5 milligrams. Then I might stay at 5 milligrams for two weeks before I go to 7.5 and then 10 milligrams. I think most people can tolerate 10 milligrams and get the best function or better function out of 10 milligrams than 5. However, I think many people do get worse function out of 15 milligrams or 20 milligrams. Those doses have been, are used in Alzheimer's disease patients. But for me, what I notice is that those doses, the cholinergic signaling throughout the day is so high that it harms the circadian function and also lessens the difference in my cognition that I want in the morning. So I'd be careful with that. You might do best at 5 milligrams or 10. You will do better with 5 than none for sure. Almost everybody. I can almost guarantee this. So how do you get your cholinergic system signaling in beast mode for the studying that you want to do in the morning? Say you want to do really well on your exams or you're preparing for the CFA or the LSAT or something else. What would you do in totality? First of all, your baseline cholinergic signaling would be driven by your supplementation of CDP choline and phosphatidyl choline as well as your use of the drug donapazil. The more you do those two, the more you'll have an even, not so much with the nutrients, but more with the donapazil, but both of them. So the more you raise nutritional CDP choline and phosphatidyl choline, the more your circadian rhythms will be hampered a little bit, but less so than donapazil being risen. But generally, you will have more higher baseline cholinergic levels no matter what when you raise both of them. So first of all, your baseline cholinergic signaling is driven by the dietary choline, either dietary or in the two supplement forms and donapazil. Second, acutely in the morning when you want to work, what would you do? Five days a week, I like to take two days off this to get everything fresh again and to have the, basically to exaggerate the difference between the baseline nighttime signaling and the daytime signaling. Taking two or one day off does a similar thing. These receptors don't downregulate like dopamine receptors, but it still has increases the impact of the acute signaling in the morning. So what would you do? You would get prepared, start working. Once you've been working for about 15 minutes, you would then take your acute supplements. So you take 300 to 600 milligrams of uridine monophosphate. You take 50 to 200 milligrams of alpha GPC. You take 400 to 800 milligrams of pharmaceutical paracetam. And then once you take all of those, you take your nicotine. Now, how would you take the nicotine? You don't want some kind of like, well, you certainly don't want a nicotine pill that doesn't localize the nicotine in your brain. You want it really localized in your brain. That's one thing. But the second thing is you want the nicotine to be released sort of smoothly across the time that you're studying. So cigarettes are really horrible. Cigarette would be a horrible option for most people because you can't smoke indoors while working. In the 1940s and 1930s, cigarette smokers were probably functioning better cognitively. They probably aren't anymore because now they go outdoors to smoke, get their nicotine signaling, and then go back in and have a lower nicotine signaling while working than they do at other times. You see what I mean? So the ideal thing I think, and personally, I don't like nicotine gum. It's very expensive, huge ripoff, way more expensive than nicotine pouches, although I've heard some are affordable. What I like is I don't personally like nicotine pouches, but if you like them, there's several brands of them. I would check out Chad from snubi.com. I have a podcast with Chad. If you search Leo and Longevity, snubi snooby, you'll find the podcast there. Chad recommends the best nicotine pouch brands. I don't like those as much personally. I find that the nicotine release is a bit quicker. I like tobacco, and I'm willing to take the carcinogenic risk to my mouth a little bit, at least with snuff. I wouldn't take oral American tobacco, but I like tobacco, so I use snus. But in either case, what you would want to do is take something between two to maybe six milligrams total, depending on your biology. But for most people, two to four milligrams, maybe three, maybe not actually four, even though many of these pouches have four, something like that. And you would put it in your mouth, this pouch or snus, while working. So you would have it there for about 30 minutes or 40 minutes before you get tired of it. And then you take it out and put it back in maybe the next hour. And you can keep doing this throughout your studying time. Now, I would also consider redosing maybe the alpha-GPC and maybe the uridine monophosphate three hours into your studying session, or two and a half hours, maybe two hours in. And then I wouldn't redose it again, because it will cause issues in your circadian rhythms. Those are the things that I would consider redosing. So that's what I do. Now, here are a couple of tips. First of all, when you raise your nutritional choline or donapazil in particular, you will find that that nicotine pouch or snus or your nicotine gum that you normally used will be much more powerful acutely. It'll take you about two weeks to get to the maximum effect at any individual donapazil dose. But you'll find, for example, that if you try, if you get used to 20 milligrams of donapazil a day, you won't be able to keep the pouch in your mouth for more than two minutes. You'll notice. It is. So this system really does work. Everything I'm telling you is true. They're all connected. And that's why I have these considerations for you about baseline choline levels. So if you do notice suddenly that your nicotine is unusually powerful today, or your alpha-GPC is unusually powerful today, maybe your donapazil and your dietary choline that's doing that. And as such, a second tip is that you'll have to iteratively change this. The more you raise your donapazil dose, the more your acute dosing in the morning will change. And maybe also the more your dietary choline supplementation might change. These things will have to be changed iteratively for you to decide on your individual body what the best combination of doses are. And finally, you may notice that you start to dream much more vividly. For those that don't know, I have a video called, I don't know what it's called, but the protocol on lucid dreaming. You can make yourself dream lucidly by raising your cholinergic signaling at night. If you raise your cholinergic signaling generally, you'll start to notice your dreams are more vivid. That means you're entering into REM sleep better. This may be by the way, one of the ways that marijuana smokers can protect their brains from the damage of inhibiting REM sleep. If I was a marijuana smoker, which I was and sometimes encounter marijuana once in a while, I would use donapazil, which I do. Anyway, friends, thank you so much for bearing with me. Let's review really quickly here. How do you optimize this system and use nicotine to get the most performance out of your study? Well, first of all, nutritionally, you supplement with or eat enough choline. If you supplement probably from CDP choline or from phosphatidylcholine, taking at least 500 milligrams of choline in your diet. Second, you take donapazil daily. Although you may take your donapazil in the morning, it doesn't have so much of an acute effect. This builds up with time. The dietary choline and the donapazil set you up for your acute effects of turning on the cholinergic beast mode in the morning. That comes from using your uridine monophosphate, your alpha-GPC, and your paracetam, and your nicotine in some combination. Anyway, friends, thank you so much for bearing with me. I look forward to seeing you again tomorrow morning to discuss the five supplements that I think teenagers should most consider supplementing with. See you tomorrow.

=== FILE: I Snorted Tobacco So You Don’t Have To [G8oAZHaPgyg].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter converter, Nasal Tobacco I'm going to tell you what is the first forms of using tobacco introduced to Europe In fact, it was one of the first forms of using tobacco in general Native Americans often, I guess they sort of invented snuff Now, why do I know about snuff? The reason I know about snuff, it's a very indirect path But what I wanted to do in this video is that I recently received a question from a subscriber Which I thought I could answer very quickly About my experiences with snuff and my favorite snuff brands In this video, I'm going to answer those questions First of all, I'm going to tell you what I think snuff is useful for The reason why snuff is useful is because of its delivery mechanism Both the membranes here on the interior area of your nasal canal But also your nasal canal technically joins to something in the brain called the olfactory bulb You'd need a nanoparticle, a very small particle to pass through that blood-brain barrier at the end of that canal But what I've noticed, that's what's known in science So in science, it's thought to be that, or in research evidence It's thought to be that when people use cocaine, it's mostly absorbed in the nasal membranes But I believe that some of it is still absorbed directly into the brain Or somehow much quicker into the brain through experience This is what I've noticed, particularly regarding my experience with nasal tobacco This is what really taught me it Because I used to be a smoker for about 15 years And I've used oral tobacco for a long time Not American oral tobacco, but Swedish, which is called snus Which is also related to the same derivation of the word snuff But I've tried different methods And just for those that don't know The quickest way you can get something in your bloodstream usually is to inject it into your blood And the second quickest way is often to smoke it But interestingly, the first note I'll tell you positively about nasal snuff In the morning, it wakes you up more than a cigarette would It is very stimulatory In a way that's incomparable to cigarettes or oral tobacco in my opinion It's also a laxative, probably because of that reason So if you have issues going to the bathroom in the morning Taking one pinch of snuff will probably end your problems There are two more things that snuff can be valuable for, I think One is for lifting I think that snuff may differentially You know how there are studies that show that supplemental choline Or alpha GPC for example is thought to improve exercise performance The way that choline can improve exercise performance, nicotine can also And it can do this in the nervous system The quickest way I think to get it in the nervous system before a lift Would be to do some nasal snuff Or not maybe the quickest but the most effective It's more effective than smoking So there's no option that's more effective than it in my opinion But finally the most valuable reason to use snuff And really the reason I tried it Was just to experiment for people that are trying to quit smoking cigarettes You see using oral tobacco even if you use a high nicotine content For most people it will completely remove their desire to smoke Because it gives them something to do And gives them the same taste as tobacco And the same kind of nicotine in the same format But for people who are not satisfied there even with high nicotine snus brands Like G3 or Lab06 or these kind of brands If people are not satisfied there they can then use nasal snuff They'll find that combining the two you will not desire a cigarette There's no way Now if you're using oral snus which is quite healthy throughout the day And then when you're bored you want a cigarette throughout the day You take a little pinch of snuff You'll find your desires to smoke will be completely abated So for this reason it's quite valuable My concerns with nasal snuff though are There's a few concerns The first one is So for those that don't know Tobacco that is fermented Like American oral tobacco is highly carcinogenic Because of its N-nitros related compounds Snus from Sweden is less carcinogenic and government regulated It is not fermented The problem with the snuffs is none of them are government regulated We don't really know if they're fermented or not And we don't know what else they contain in them Like sugars which would make a lot of these issues worse But also pollutants So we don't know anything about them And introducing them a second concern As I said before There's you go directly to the brain here This is there's a blood brain barrier And there's also this vascular system in the nose I think somehow delivers nutrients quicker to the brain So there's less of a potential for your body to filter these pollutants And you may locally specifically locally cause inflammation in the brain As opposed to other parts of the body compared to smoking for example I think that the nasal tobacco really localizes the nicotine to the brain To be honest with you a great idea would be nasal nicotine This is a great product for someone to invent by the way But give me some credit please But if somebody creates a nasal nicotine product that is tolerable It'll be way more effective Doesn't have this carcinogenic effect It's perfect There's no reason honestly Unlike oral tobacco The pleasure of inhaling tobacco is not that high The taste isn't that great You don't really taste it in your nose and so on And finally I've noticed personally Although I determined now That the reason my nose has been irritated recently Is not because of the nasal snuff But the nasal snuff which I barely used by the way recently Very like like three times a week something like that recently That caused the irritation It did contribute to it I seem to have some allergic skin condition going on currently But what I've noticed is that my nasal canal is irritated by the nasal snuff More than what I noticed my mouth is irritated by oral snus I'm almost completely confident that the snuff has more carcinogenic compounds than the oral snus So I wouldn't recommend anyone use it honestly Unless you're going to use it very By the way it's not highly addictive It's really not If you're going to use it very sparingly like literally in the morning Or right before a workout It could be useful Useful for your arsenal Not that harmful But I wouldn't use it instead of snooze I wouldn't use it as my daily tobacco companion I would be concerned about the inflammation It could cause locally in the brain I have noticed that sometimes when I use nasal snuff more than once a day I felt exhausted mentally Which I've never experienced something like that before So these are my warnings about it Regarding brands Every brand I tried sucked Except for Toque T-O-Q-U-E Toque has a strong version which is fantastic And it has another version which I don't remember the name of I think it's called SP Extra Something like that But those are really fantastic Toque is great But the other brands I tried which were English were horrible Toque is I think German Anyway friends I hope this was helpful for those of you that were interested I'll see you again this afternoon

=== FILE: Muscle Builders, Vitamin D, Ashwagandha, GDAs & More with Lucas Aoun [ZeSHpd2RDRE].txt ===

 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl optimizing human health. And, you know, I've been in this space for a number of years now. And yeah, just really started out with a fascination into human biology and playing professional soccer. I was looking at different ways to enhance my performance on the soccer field. So I started experimenting with different supplements. I started playing around with acetyl L-carnitine as my very first like introductory supplement into the health and performance space. And, you know, I fell in love with this whole idea that we can pretty much take control of our biology. And then I, you know, started studying naturopathy. So, you know, I'm a fully qualified naturopath. That was four years of full-time study. And just during that period, I got involved in a number of different like startups. I was actually involved in Australia's first nootropic startup. So we were the very first company in Australia selling nootropic. back then, which no one had heard of that term nootropic before. And it was so unique and novel and foreign. And so just from there, I then, you know, expanded out my reach, created a YouTube channel, you know, my own podcast, my own Instagram. And until this day, my mission is to showcase new and novel health information that can, you know, benefit the world. Nice, nice. So are you, just before we start diving into more biohacking tips, so are you, you've done like naturopathy. I know in the US, there are two different kinds. They're like the doctor of naturopathy and then the regular naturopathy. Is it the same in Australia? Well, yeah, Australia is actually a lot less difficult than what, from what I've heard in the US. Like for us, it's a, it's a bachelor of health science. It is still four years of full-time study, but from what I've heard, like in the US and even Canada, it's a lot more technical and difficult to actually achieve that title. But yeah, in Australia, it's not as well, I would say, recognized compared to like the US and Canada. Yeah, because in the US, there's two, there, there's a doctor of naturopathy, which needs to go to medical school. And there, there are the naturopath, which is a six month degree you can get online. So that's why it's good to make the distinction of like, which is what, not the six, you're not the six month kind of person, you studied it for four years. That's correct. And even before I jumped into that course, I was actually studying exercise science before that. And I was doing, I did a year and a half of that exercise science degree. And it was funny because during, in between classes, I would be researching herbal medicine and supplements, which was not even related to my degree, but I was just too passionate about it. And then I was like, all right, well, what I'm studying, what I'm spending most of my time researching is basically a lot of the principles of naturopathy, which is like, get to the root cause. It's like functional medicine, supplementation, nutrition, lifestyle. And then I was like, yep, makes sense for me to study naturopathy. Okay. So during our conversations, you talked about some underrated muscle building compounds that are non-suppressive. So would you mind elaborating on which one are those? Because I'm sure the audience would love to know. Sure. Well, first of all, when it comes to different supplements in the, you know, sports performance space, we have a range of different, you know, forms and different types, amino acids, different vitamins, different compounds out there. And one in particular that I don't see, you know, talked about that often is a metabolite of the amino acid leucine. Now, before I get into this, the main emphasis and objective is to look for or utilize compounds that can be taken by men who do not want to suppress their natural testosterone production. So these are non-suppressive compounds. And these are highly desired by a number of men because they want to use things that they can, you know, take consistently that won't actually shut down their production of testosterone or affect DHT or estrogen and things like that. And so one of those that fits that criteria is HMB, which is better hydroxy, better methylbutyrate. So it's a metabolite of the amino acid leucine. And it's been studied for many decades and specifically in humans, HMB has been widely used as an ergogenic supplement, which basically means, and that was, you know, that was the name of my, my Instagram, which was ergogenic health. You know, I loved that, that word ergogenic, which basically means any supplement that can improve physiological or psychological performance. And so HMB fit that criteria as an ergogenic supplement, as a means to increase muscle mass, muscle mass and strength. And most of the research has focused on healthy young individuals, and in particular athletes to induce muscle buildup and strength, also enhance aerobic performance and resistance to fatigue from exercise. So I think HMB can definitely be considered as a, like a natty supplement that, that men can utilize for muscle growth. Okay. Any other compound that you think they can like add on to this stack if they want to stay like in the low key, like supplementation, let's say from building muscle? Yeah, definitely. Definitely. I mean, the gold standard when it comes to natural muscle building supplements is creatine monohydrate. There's a lot of research on creatine monohydrate dosage range from, you know, five grams per day. But there's actually a newer form of creatine that I personally think outperforms creatine monohydrate. And there's actually some pretty impressive research to suggest that this new form of creatine known as Cregatine, C-R-E-G-A-A-T-I-N-E, actually is superior to creatine monohydrate because what they've done is they've combined the precursor of creatine synthesis, GAA, alongside creatine, and they've combined them together. And from the research studies, it's quite impressive. I mean, regular creatine increases muscle creatine by about 2%, whereas this Cregatine form leads to an increase by 16.9%, which is about 8.5 times more than creatine monohydrate. So we're looking at a, we're just looking at an advanced form of a supplement that already has, you know, some robust research in humans as a means to stimulate muscle growth and even muscle strength as well. And I guess the other really important point to note is that with Cregatine, it doesn't only like, the way in which it actually outperforms creatine is that it uses three additional pathways to enter the cell, including GABA and taurine receptors, and even via passive diffusion. And so this is probably what makes it superior to creatine monohydrate. Any increased side effect compared to creatine? In terms of side effects, I mean, the one, I wouldn't say like a side effect, but an effect that I noticed early on was actually extremely vivid dreams because the GAA portion actually affects the creatine production in the brain. And I was noticing extremely vivid dreams when I was using this Cregatine form. So that could be, you know, a potential side effect. Okay. Next, you brought up the topic of D-chirro-inositol. I don't know if I'm pronounced properly, but I think I do. So can you explain like what it is, its significance to the body, particularly in relation to the 2021 pilot study on increasing androgen and reducing estrogen in males? Sure. Sure. So this one here will, you know, really excite a number of individuals, particularly those that are looking for ways to raise androgen levels and at the same time reduce estrogen synthesis in the body. And so this particular study was titled D-chirro-inositol. An aromatase down modulator increases androgens and reduces estrogens in male volunteers. So each of the 10 volunteers enrolled took this D-chirro-inositol orally, so they took it in capsule form, at one gram per day for one month. Now, in those that use D-chirro-inositol, it was associated with reduced serum levels of estrone by 85%, estradiol went down by 14.4%, and it increased serum testosterone levels by 23.4%, and also it raised DHEA levels by 13.8%. And so this is really significant because, you know, we see a number of like testosterone boosting supplements. You see things like Tonka Ali, Fidoja Regrestus, like Shilajit, different herbal supplements, and, you know, they claim to boost testosterone and some of them do, but like this is a human clinical trial, although, you know, a small sample size, only 10 volunteers. Yeah, I was going to say, is there any other studies? Because this is like a pilot studies, and I looked into the study on D-chirro-inositol on my own time, and it's mostly studied into women for mostly PCOS and type 2 diabetes, but most of the studies, I mean, I would say 99% of them are on women subjects. So except for this one, I couldn't find any other with male subjects. Did you find anything else by any chance? No, but it's a good point you raise because it's funny because most clinical studies on supplements are usually done on men, but in this case, like, and women are often left out, which is a bit unfair for women's understanding of their body and stuff, which, you know, this is an important deficiency or deficit in scientific research. But yes, you're right. I mean, there's limited research, but this study does seem pretty promising in terms of, like, there's quite a lot of studies on PCOS, you're correct, because it helps with insulin sensitivity. And so if those insulin sensitivity benefits also translate over into men, then we've seen studies that show that compounds that generally support insulin sensitivity can also have a supportive effect on hormonal output and production and also testosterone synthesis. So yeah, I'd love to see more human studies on and with a larger sample size, particularly, you know, like more than 10 volunteers. But, you know, for those early adopters, we'd find it pretty, pretty exciting. Yeah. And do you know how it compares to any other form of inositol like myo inositol? Well, I do know that myo inositol is probably like better studied than this D-chiro inositol. Myo inositol is very well researched in terms of modulating the central nervous system, assisting with like modulating neurotransmitters and even supporting magnesium balance and things like that. But there's actually, there is actually another form of inositol, which doesn't really get spoken about much at all. I'll be doing a video on it soon. It's called ITPP. And this one here, I'm not sure if Leo ever mentioned it on his channel. But this version of inositol, ITPP, is one that's heavily studied in horse racing to improve their stamina and endurance. And this one is a little bit different. It works on red blood cells and different things like that. Okay. So you see it like the world of D-chiro inositol and inositol in general, maybe involving in a field of supplements, especially for men? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it wouldn't surprise me if, you know, in three to five years from now, we see an explosion of, you know, D-chiro inositol being included as an ingredient in testosterone boosting formulations. It's really not considered at all right now. Like, I don't see any supplements on the market currently using D-chiro inositol as a testosterone booster, maybe because there's limited research. But hopefully in the next three to five years, we see more human studies and this would support its use even further. Have you tried it yourself? I've actually got some coming in the mail. So I've got that many experiments lined up, Lucy. I find it hard to, it's hard to track and keep up to date. But yeah, I'll definitely be giving it a shot very soon. Okay. Yeah. Let us know about the side effects that they might have as well, because the study was not very comprehensive, if I may say. So it's just early on, I think, in terms of the research. Next, I wanted to touch base on vitamin D. And so we often hear that the benefits of vitamin D, particularly in supplements form, because there are many studies that have shown vitamin D supplements can lower likelihood of co-rectal cancers, reduce mortality from cancer, also help with metabolic syndrome. Leo did a whole playlist on vitamin D. So how do you reconcile this with the idea of getting vitamin D naturally as something more effective than supplementation? Absolutely. Well, when it comes to vitamin D, first and foremost, the best way to increase vitamin D synthesis in the human body is through sunlight exposure, like being exposed to sunlight. Second to that, most people would think, okay, then if I'm in an environment or I'm living in a country where there's minimal sunlight, what is the next best thing to raise vitamin D? And most people will be like, okay, I'll take a vitamin D supplement orally. I'll take it orally, swallow the capsule or the pill and raise my vitamin D levels that way. There is another way to raise vitamin D. The other way... Actually, that's directly there. So it doesn't work like that, actually. So that's a misconception most people have, because vitamin D is actually processed by the liver. And it can be processed two ways. It can be processed by the 125-dehydroxides vitamin D or the 25-hydroxy vitamin D. And so because most people are inflamed, I mean, the US, 93% of the population is currently inflamed. The vitamin D cannot be processed properly by the liver. So they think taking vitamin D would raise their vitamin D levels. And oftentimes it's not the case because they're highly inflamed. Sorry. I just wanted to mention because people are very prone to vitamin D, but they don't understand. Like everything starts... Supplements won't fix it all. Like you have to start by changing your lifestyle or it won't work. Absolutely. And that's like vitamin D can get sequestered in fat cells is what you're mentioning. And so like if you are carrying excess body weight or body fat, then taking a vitamin D supplement may may not actually be raising blood levels of vitamin D because it's getting sequestered into fat cells and not being properly utilized, like you said, through the liver and different things. So definitely supplementation is considered. Like there are lots of research studies though, suggesting that taking vitamin D supplementation can help with immune health and preventing colds and flus and things like that. But if we're lacking sunlight or if somebody doesn't want to take a vitamin D supplement, there's one particular probiotic strain, lactobacillus ruteri, that one there has been shown to raise blood levels of vitamin D. And the other way to do it is also to potentially utilize a vitamin D lamp. So you can actually buy these vitamin D lamps at home, which I'm sure you've seen the spurty vitamin D lamp. And that can be used as well as a way to stimulate vitamin D synthesis with only three to five minutes per day. So that's another FDA approved medical device. Yeah, I've seen it and Leo had one actually. But another thing that I want to mention regarding vitamin D is that people have to realize that vitamin D deficiency in 90% of the case are only for European descent or Caucasian people. Some Asians also have vitamin D deficiency. But for some reason, in African descent, they oftentimes don't have vitamin D deficiency, even if they don't go to the sun. I find it like absolutely amazing to see the amount of studies that have shown that. And so it's like sometimes having exposure to the sun doesn't do it at all because your genetics also play a key role into it. Absolutely. And actually, a quick little biohack for those listening in, if they want to calculate how much vitamin D they're actually making by going out in the sun, there's a pretty cool app you can download called Dminder. Have you heard of that application? It's a free application where you can plug in your longitude and latitude on your phone and also input your skin complexion if you're like dark or lighter. And it can actually recommend roughly how many minutes you would need to be in the sun to generate, let's say, 10,000 IU or 15,000 IU of vitamin D. So that's a pretty cool little quick health trick. Nice. Nice. And can you get into details for those who don't know about the importance of vitamin Ds that goes beyond bone health? And so like, do you have a protocol to make sure that you have enough? Do you supplement with it? Like what is your approach when it comes to vitamin D? So first and foremost, the most important thing when it comes to vitamin D is to get routine blood testing. So this needs to be done at least twice, at least twice per year to assess your 25 hydroxy vitamin D. This is important because levels can fluctuate and they can vary depending upon so many different factors. Some people who take vitamin D supplementation, even if they take, let's say, 5,000 IU daily for, let's say, two months, some people will not see an increase in their vitamin D. They need to take even more. So in terms of its pleiotrophic effects, I mean, vitamin D, it's actually not a vitamin. It's a hormone. It regulates so many different chemical reactions. It turns on and off genes in the body. So it has an effect on potential cancer development, immune modulation. It even helps with mood as well. Vitamin D is crucial for neurotransmitter production. It has a suppressive effect on inflammatory cytokines. It helps with regulating different longevity pathways, you know, actually turning on longevity associated genes and pathways. So in general, it's definitely a vitamin that you really want to make sure that you're not low in year round. And particularly when it comes to like the cold and flu season, those that have high levels of vitamin D during those periods of time have a decreased risk of, you know, like the severity of their flu. Like if they get the flu, they recover faster. Okay. I don't think I did check my vitamin D. I got very sick during New Year's Eve and I found it very hard to recover for once. And I'm suspicious. It's like one strain of COVID that I'm not fully sure about. Was this only just recently, like 10 days ago? Yeah. I lost my voice completely for like a couple of days. Like I just started like now, I think it's the first day I'm able to talk long term without my voice going down. I mean, so far it's working. Um, and I, so I did everything I usually do when I get a cold. Like I kicked up for two days. I was in bed. Then I took all my vitamin supplements, you name it, tons of garlic. Uh, and I was fine because I helped one of my friends during her New Year's Eve events. So I was like, it was okay. But the recovery part, like I felt still like the sickness was in my body, like my throat part, like the tiredness. And I actually had stopped nursing for a month to see the, to see how it will affect me, how long the effect will go. But I'm starting again because I don't want to get long form of COVID. If it was COVID, I'm not sure. I stopped. I'm not going to go get tests just for this, but I lost my sense of smell of taste, which I usually don't want to get the cold. So that's how I became suspicious. But I, so yeah, I did all my tests. I didn't check vitamin D levels. So before the 90 day protocol, I started in between the sickness. Um, but that's something I should add to my blood test. Actually during, during that, uh, during that New Year's Eve period, I mean, I also got sick as well. Um, and so did a lot of people around me, like they, they, they actually got like, there might've been a strain of COVID going around that just seemed to hit a number of people at the same period of time. In that period, I thought everyone was just burnt out and fatigued after a big year, like, and everyone's just crashing and just they're stopping working and now their body gets sick. Um, but yeah, a lot of people around me were getting symptoms of COVID, like the, the dry cough, the fatigue, it's the heaviness, like the heavy feeling, feeling. It's a horrible feeling. Yeah, I know. I was not able to do it. And I felt stuck. I was like, I'm recovering, but I'm not fully there. Also I couldn't speak. So that's why I was doing research and I'm not recording anything. I was like, my voice is not there. There's no points. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing in Los Angeles. A lot of people got sick. Even now, I feel it's still going around. Um, all right. Go ahead. I might actually mention just with that, Lucy, um, one thing that, um, has helped personally, like recover from like that was, um, PEA, palmitoyl ethylamide, which is like a, it's an oral supplement. Um, PEA has got some pretty good anti-inflammatory effects and some actual studies in, in, in, uh, preventing long COVID as well. Well, somebody recommended me something a bit more controversial, but the, um, horse, the warmer based, I don't know if you've heard of what apparently Trump took, um, they're like, you should take it. I take it every once a month. So I'm sure I don't have COVID. And it's like, ah, I'll do some research on it. Um, I'm not that experimental. Um, so next I want to talk about cortisol. So we know cortisol is very complex hormones. My best friend, uh, at the same time, my worst enemy, because it has both like beneficial and detrimental effects. So it all depends on timing. Uh, it serves as anti-inflammatory agents when it's acute, but when it's chronic, you know, in messes everything. So giving the complex nature of cortisol, um, could you share like which supplementation you found the most effective of lowering cortisol levels, but particularly when it's not, when it's only chronically elevated, so it doesn't affect the acute benefits that we have on cortisol. Yeah, absolutely. And it's, um, it's important what you've said there around the fact that, you know, we don't want cortisol to be chronically too low, because then we're missing out on the, um, important effects that it has on, you know, inflammatory pathways. The immune system has an immunosuppressive effect. Um, and cortisol has been one hormone that I've been very interested in for a long time because actually my cortisol levels as measured through a Dutch test, uh, a, um, which is the most comprehensive assessment for your cortisol output. Um, my cortisol levels have always been actually too low and I will, I have always wanted things that can actually increase cortisol. So like I feel better when I take things that actually stimulate cortisol. Um, but in, if we're looking at the other way around, which is generally more towards like Cushing's disease or like they're, they're, they're actually, um, producing too much cortisol, they're under super, so much stress. You know, we, we both talked about, you know, taurine big doses of, of taurine can help with that, you know, suppressive effect and can help shut off, um, cortisol production. Glycine's another one that you're, you've also talked favorably about and I'm also a big fan of, but the other, um, constituents actually from a herb known as Polygonium, um, Cuspitatum and that's, um, Emodin, E-M-O-D-I-N. Um, and Emodin has some really powerful effects as like a over the counter supplement to suppress cortisol. Um, and actually, the formulator, um, of Chemex Labs, uh, the Gorilla Chemist, I think you may have seen him before. Um, he actually has a supplement called, uh, CortiBlock, which has this Emodin and that, um, suppresses 11, 11 beta HSD one. So it actually prevents the conversion of the inactive form of cortisol, cortisol, cortisone, so cortisone into cortisol. And it does it very, very powerfully. And I've seen a number of clients who have used this Emodin and they've used it like about two hours before bedtime. And they definitely notice that two hours after dosing, they feel more relaxed and tired and sleepy and they sleep really well. Yeah. Because cortisol levels is highly correlated with also your circadian rhythm. Ideally you want a cortical pick in the morning and you don't want it in the middle of the night and you don't want high cortisol before going to bed. Um, is this herb or supplements, is it a adaptogenic herb? Is it, uh, it can be considered. Yeah. It can be considered adaptogenic that, that term there adaptogenic is when I was studying, you know, naturopathy, we, we learned about that in the first year of our research and adaptogenic herbs, things like ashwagandha, rhodiola, rhodiola, ginseng, like these are very well studied herbal medicines that have a modulatory effect on the stress response. Um, and Emodin, E-M-O-D-I-N. If people look that up and they look up, um, corti block, um, they'll see that supplement and they'll see that it also has some beneficial effects on, um, helping with glucose metabolism. So, you know, assisting with blood sugar control. Um, and it also helps to improve the immune system. It also reduces appetite and also has a funnily enough, it actually has a pretty strong lack laxative effect. So it can actually, um, get the bowels moving as well. How does this compare to adaptogenic herbs basically? Like what I mean, what I'm trying to say is how effective is this compared to any other way we can, uh, model like cortisol? Um, it's a good question. I mean, in terms of, um, like potency, I would say that it's at least 30 to 40% more potent than something like ashwagandha or, um, like a big dose of magnesium or perhaps even some of the anti-stress ginsengs like, um, Siberian ginseng might have a anti-stress effect. But, um, if somebody, the only person who should be really using this supplement is someone who has tested, like they can't just, you know, randomly go and take the supplement. They have to do a blood test. They have to check their cortisol, make sure their cortisol was actually very high, um, do it, do a dried, do a Dutch test just to make sure, because otherwise, you know, if you make the mistake that I made four or five years ago where I was like, just taking every single cortisol lowering supplement before bed. And then I woke up feeling like I had no energy. That's what happens when you have no cortisol.  autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl But can you explain a bit more about your thought on ashwagandha? If you ever recommend it to anyone, if so, who would be those people? And how do you weigh basically the benefits of it compared to the risks, if there is any way to weigh it? Sure, sure. So ashwagandha is classified as an adaptogen. So it is considered like an adaptogenic herb. It helps to modulate stress. It helps to modulate the immune system, helps the nervous system. But the way in which it does these, the way in which it achieves these effects are not necessarily good for every individual. And there's a number of individuals who have now noticed a side effect associated with ashwagandha known as anhedonia or a blunting of the pleasure response and numbing of the emotions. And this is not a nice side effect, at least for most people. Well, whilst there are some people who welcome the side effect, they actually want to feel numb or they want to numb their emotions. Maybe after a breakup or after a stressful situation, they deliberately want to numb their emotions. That's a different story. But in terms of, you know, this side effect, we're seeing that it can actually last for weeks and even months after stopping usage. So let's say you take ashwagandha for two weeks or maybe three or four weeks and then you stop taking it. A lot of these side effects can actually linger and stay around for a number of weeks, even months after stopping. And so this anhedonia effect is what I personally believe to be linked to the serotonin system. It's specifically desensitizing the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor, which is a really challenging thing to reverse. And I would actually welcome people who are listening to this video now. If anyone has solutions or has figured out a way to reverse this side effect, leave a comment in the video. Let's see if people can help with, you know, solving this. So I've never taken ashwagandha, but I have experienced anhedonia the first time in my life after Leo and I separated. And because things got so stressful that my whole body shut down and I was not understanding why I had zero emotion and like everything was flat. And it was like you hear about anhedonia, but as soon as you experience it, it's different. Like, how is this possible? Like, how can you not feel anything? Like zero. And it made me like my friend was like, are you OK? I was like, I'm just. Eh, numb. And so I remember talking to Leo about this because we had hit it conversation at the time. And I was telling him, I was like, it's like, you're not answering. It's like, I don't. I don't feel like I have zero feeling zero emotion. And I have to. I have to have the supplement here. But I remember he told me it's like, hey, I have one of the supplements. Go check it. Take it. And it will help with the anhedonia. And it indeed did after a week. So I have to figure out it was a research compound. I forgot the name of it. I just know I have it. So I'll check on my box later and let you guys know. But I remember that it lasted for at least a month. And before I was not telling anyone, I was just not understanding it at the time. And so I can only imagine if people lasted for weeks. I mean, it was scary. I was even doing therapy and telling my therapist. She had no idea what it was like. She's just French therapist. Nice for other things, but not. They don't understand biology, really. And I was like, I ask me the questions like I don't feel anything. I don't have any feelings, emotions, nothing. I'm completely indifferent. And I got scared after like two or three weeks. I was like, how long is this going to last? Like, what can I do? And at the end, I ended up taking this compound and helped. I'm sure with time, it gets better. But I don't know. I can only imagine if people get into that state of anhedonia and can get out of it, how frustrating it must be. And how like it's bad. You don't enjoy anything. You don't have any heartbreak or anything else also. Depends where you are in life. Yeah. Yeah. Well, this is a, I mean, I'd love for you to share that. You know, once you figure out the name of that supplement, the compound that Leo recommended, there would be a number, there's thousands of people who are desperate for a solution. So if you make a video, you know, talk about it, that would be highly desired because too many people are suffering. You mentioned it in one of the videos, but it's still like, it's controversial. It's not something I think you want to recommend to people because it doesn't, it's not for everyone. I'll find it. I'll see if I make a video because sometimes I'm a bit afraid of making videos with certain compounds because most of the, what they call biohacking community. And I really hate that term, but most of them, they're looking for shortcuts of things. So they want a pill to fix whatever issue without doing all the work that needed to be beforehand. It's like, Kuperman says it best. It's like, first is lifestyle changes, then it's supplements. It's like, you can't go without starting from the roots of things. So that's why I'm always hesitant to making those compounds because it can have reversed effects for people that are not living a proper lifestyle when they take the supplement and they're not thinking through it. So they're like, oh, this might help, but I'm still drinking alcohol. I'm still doing these drugs. I'm still taking the steroid. So it's very, it's a fine line of what would I share? So, because ethically, I want to stay in the realm of, I don't want anybody to suffer from anything. I'm not going to do, I mean, a lie strategy of giving ibogaine to anyone. Like it's not, it's just not the way to go. Yeah, no, that's completely fair enough. And I respect, I respect your decision to do that. And that's like, yeah, it's a, it can be controversial. Some of these compounds, you know, can be potentially risky as well in terms of their, you know, use administration, they might have side effects. But when it comes to ashwagandha, when people just think that it's an over-the-counter supplement, they can take it. You know, it's not necessarily safe. And if they want to lower stress, why don't they choose other anti-stress supplements or, you know, magnesium, taurine, glycine, these other amino acids, L-serine, you know, much better. Yeah. No, it's been promoted. Like the big rush of ashwagandha, anything in general, like look at the CMOS rush that's been happening. And people are realizing that 90% of CMOS have like high level of heavy metal, which does nothing because heavy metals prevents you to absorb any vitamins. So it's like all those things is like driving me crazy all the time when people see trends and they just jump on it and not thinking through things. I don't know, ashwagandha is a frustrating one for me. For you, ashwagandha for me is CMOS. But we'll have different compounds against, we're against. So let's talk a bit about GDAs. So GDAs are gaining popularity. So GDAs, their role is to stabilize blood sugar levels. In your experience, how effective are they managing blood glucose? So let's talk about different case studies, let's say for individuals with insulin resistance or metabolic syndromes, but also for fitness enthusiasts slash wannabe bodybuilders. And can you touch a little bit about the mechanisms that GDA work on the body? Yeah, so I'm very passionate about this area, glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents, GDAs. Now, if you look at that term, basically what these supplements or drugs are designed to do are to, number one, help to lower blood sugar levels, or they can work by mimicking the effect of insulin. So, or they can work by potentiating and making insulin work even more effectively. Or they can even work on another pathway, which is upregulating receptors on cells to enable blood sugar to enter the cell. So let's have a look at different GDAs that are currently on the market. We have things like berberine. We have things like cinnamon. We have a pharmaceutical drug, metformin, which is technically a GDA. We have... I thought it was quite a bit different because I wouldn't... For fitness enthusiasts, I think we can touch base on that after. Like nobody, if you work out, do not take metformin. Like period. But go ahead, sorry. Yeah, no, that's a valid point in terms of blunting hypertrophy and, you know, lowering IGF-1. Not the best thing, particularly for natural lifters. They don't want to be using that. But in terms of other compounds, chromium is another one. You know, some other things like TUDCA. Alpha-lipoic acid. Which one? Alpha-lipoic acid. That's another great one. You know, these are powerful compounds that can help to... Some of them work by increasing muscle insulin sensitivity. Other ones work by increasing liver insulin sensitivity. I know that 1800 milligrams of TUDCA, T-U-D-C-A, can support liver insulin sensitivity. I just had some before this podcast, actually. And there's a range of... Leo talked a lot about it. Yeah. Was he talking about the other form? Like UDCA? The other one? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I haven't tried that. Yeah. I'm keen to try that. I haven't actually been able to source it here in Australia yet. But yeah, UDCA versus TUDCA. UDCA also has some beneficial effects, doesn't it? Yeah. A lot more potently. And I think I still have some. I have to check. Nice. I think I have TUDCA. Nice. Yeah. There's definitely a range of other compounds. But one in particular that I think has some pretty impressive research is dihydroberberine, which is an advanced form of berberine. And that's beneficial for lowering blood sugar, increasing insulin sensitivity. And what I notice is when I take dihydroberberine with a very high carbohydrate meal and then I go train later on that day, I get much better muscle pumps and strength in the gym. And I just feel a lot stronger overall. Okay. So is it the only one that you take? And is it your protocol? You only take it while you have high carb meal and then go to the gym after? Or do you think there is a specific combination that's optimal to not only control blood sugar but to increase, I would say, muscle mass and muscle power? The other one that I use also is brewer's yeast. That contains, yeah, some constituents. Yeah. Okay. Okay. That contains, sorry. What was that, sorry? What did you say? What does it contain? It contains a glucose tolerance factor. It also contains like chromium and B vitamins that are good for blood sugar control. And you only need really like two grams per day of brewer's yeast to get a beneficial effect. So you take it daily, no matter what your training is or what your meal looks like? Yeah. I went through a period where I was using it daily and then I've taken a break, but I've used it on and off quite a lot. Yeah. Okay. So I'm curious. What's your usual, and I'm pretty sure it changes, but your daily supplement stack? Okay. Well, all I'll do is I'll reveal what I had just this morning because it's 8.30 a.m. So I woke up, I had a sublingual adenosyl cobalamin, so a different form of vitamin B12. So I take that under the tongue. I do have a, I don't have a deficiency in vitamin B12, but I have levels that are being checked consistently. But I take that one under the tongue and I always notice energy increase after using that. I had five grams of taurine before this podcast. I had two capsules of artichoke extract. So that's for liver health. I also had L-phenylalanine, the amino acid for dopamine production. And I also had tutka as well. So I had a thousand milligrams of tutka. So that's pretty much all I had. That's all I had this morning. No real potent like stimulants. I haven't had any coffee. I save coffee for when I need it, like to train legs in the gym and, you know, do high performance activities. Okay. I see. And then you have your supplements during your first meal and I'm guessing at night? Yep. So then I have like, I'll have a range of like might have a GDA with my lunch because my lunch is higher in carbohydrates. Just for reference as well, people think that I don't eat much carbohydrates, but I definitely eat a lot of carbohydrates. I have at least 300 to 400 grams of carbs per day. And I don't, I'm not fearful of carbohydrates. If you've got good insulin sensitivity and you, and you train well and hard and intense, like you can tolerate carbohydrates. And then I've got a nighttime protocol as well. So that's pretty much what I do on a daily basis. Nice. I wish I had the time to do that again, but no, it's just once a day for easiness purposes. Nice. It gets a lot of planning and inconsistent taking them. It's tough. Do you plan them in advance? I'm pretty, yeah, I've actually recently reconfigured my supplement drawers. So it's all efficient and easy to use. Nice. Nice. Nice. The last topic that I wanted to touch base is more focused on aging and longevity. It's about nitric oxide. So nitric oxide has, again, another one that has a dual role in the body, particularly when it comes to aging. So it's known for its benefits for blood flow, muscle recovery. Nitric oxide. Nitric oxide. But you wanted to share some of the insight how nitric oxide can potentially accelerate aging and the science theory behind it. Yeah. So nitric oxide is pretty well known in the bodybuilding community as like a beneficial, opens up blood vessels, particularly for erection performance like Viagra, Sildanafil, improving blood flow circulation, dilating blood vessels. But actually nitric oxide. But actually nitric oxide, if we have excessive nitric oxide signaling and production, it can actually contribute to inflammation. There's research suggesting that high levels of nitric oxide is actually produced during inflammation. And nitric oxide is actually a pro-inflammatory free radical that can stimulate the peroxidation of unsaturated fatty acids. So if you've got very high nitric oxide, plus you eat a lot of polyunsaturated fatty acids or proofers, you know, that can create an environment where, you know, it's inhibiting mitochondrial respiration and affecting metabolism. So, yeah, nitric oxide is one that we, some people, you know, need to be cautious of deliberately raising. And actually methylene blue actually inhibits. Methylene blue lowers nitric oxide. Not many people know that, but it does have an effect on nitric oxide. Okay. Yeah. Nitric oxide also. I was looking at a study, I was researching for the podcast and I thought there are some of it that shows that it really plays a crucial role in oxidative stress. So I know the relationship between aging and nitric oxide is not being fully, like, studied, but one can make the link of, you know, how it does its work in this regard. Okay. I think we covered all the topics that we wanted to cover today. I wanted to see if you have anything else you want to add or share with the audience. No, I think that was great. I think most important thing is come back to self-awareness. Like when any of these practices, protocols, you know, like it's important to just maybe keep a log on your phone or like just document your experiences. That's invaluable. And that sort of data is going to help you for many, many years. So, yeah, thanks for the opportunity to come on, Lucy. And, yeah, I look forward to being in touch. All right. Well, thank you, Lucas. Have a great day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: My Gratitude to You [kxdt-6rwv5Y].txt ===

 X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 I learned one of the greatest lessons I learned was the value of gratitude. In fact, my personal daily prayer is focused on one of the principles that's focused around is expressing and thinking of my gratitude. One of the most surprising things about starting this YouTube channel is how grateful I've been because of the subscribers. I've never been, I think, so grateful in my life before. I am truly grateful to all of you. First of all, I'm obviously grateful for the subscribers who follow the channel because they were interested in it and just help the channel sort of by being there. But I'm particularly grateful to the subscribers who've commented, liked the videos, who've told their family about it, who've told their friends. I get surprised sometimes when I get consultations to learn that there are people who follow the channel whose names I don't recognize and who aren't comments that I saw often, who are stalwarts of the channel, champions of the channel, who tell others about the channel and are really quite a bit responsible for its growth. There are a lot of you silent subscribers who I don't necessarily know your names who did this. And I want you to know I'm very grateful for it. I think this is the main driving mechanism for the growth of my channel. It's because of you guys. And I'm very grateful. But more importantly, I wanted to point out these subscribers who've been commenting for a long time, commenting consistently, not just to help with the algorithm. Some of these subscribers have been commenting in defense of me in other places or commenting to cheer me up or commenting to encourage me when videos don't do well. These subscribers have made a world of difference in my life in the last two years. They have made me able to make this channel. You see, I really believe our minds, most of us, and particularly mine, are biased towards the negative salient elements of our life. So a negative comment, which there are many on YouTube, really harms somebody more than a positive comment. For these subscribers, the loyal long-term subscribers, like maybe I'll mention some off the top of my head, like Matt Epton, like Randy, like Stone, like my friend, the Roadrunner, like Hip Azen, like F Google. But there's many other subscribers. And I don't want to miss the names because there's at least maybe three dozen or four dozen people whose names I recognize who've been supporting me consistently like this for a long time. Morning Iron. There's so many other people. I am deeply grateful to all of you. When I meet you one day, I'll thank you in person. Truly, I'm very grateful. And for the other subscribers that may not have known that I really do appreciate those kind of comments, I really do. And if I don't recognize your name yet when you comment on the channel, if you continue to, I will eventually. And I'll always check in with you, see how you're doing, and be, of course, take your comments also more seriously because I very seriously consider the comments of these long-term subscribers about the nature of my content. I also want to mention that I've been able to meet some subscribers in person living in California. I guess there are a lot of subscribers living in California as well. And most of these subscribers are also people who have never messaged me before, never commented. But when I met them, we immediately had great encounters. This is a really interesting thing about YouTube. It seems to be, you know, there's a principle in life that like attracts like. It seems to be on YouTube, like really attracts like. There's a scale element to it. And so even if you're a very unusual, maybe weird person like myself, you can find other people that think like you, that are maybe introspective, that have thought about similar comments. I mean, sometimes when I read the comments on the videos, I get shocked by how similar many of us are. I think I've seen this in the people I've met in person as well, but I've certainly learned this in my conversations with people that I've met on the channel, but haven't met in person. I've learned to, I've actually developed some friends that I haven't met yet, but some friends that are more similar to me than many other people I've met throughout my life. So there's another beautiful thing about YouTube. YouTube, it gets you to meet people that are much, that are similar to you, that you would have never met otherwise. Like sort of attracts like, and I feel very much in common. I feel like I have a lot in common with the majority of my subscribers. Another thing I want to thank the subscribers for is when you tell me about something that the channel has done that may have helped you in life. For example, a couple of days ago, I received some of the most beautiful messages I ever received about someone who was trying to quit marijuana for a long time and finally succeeded. I've received similar comments from people trying to get over addiction and find other common addictions like opiates or alcoholism and finally been able to. I've received comments about people curing their anhedonia or anxiety or getting relief from anxiety or depression. Also, even the comment, especially, although my channel is limited to people 18 plus, sometimes I receive direct messages from teenagers who are able to avoid poor life choices thanks to the channel. These comments that you send me, I don't know if you guys realize how much they really mean to me. This is way more valuable to me than making money. It really is the principal goal of my channel is to help others avoid the mistakes that I've made. The other goal is to learn together, you know, and that's why I'm so into the democratization of knowledge. That's why I have that my how to research video. I love that element of being on YouTube, learning from each other and having a common sort of society. That's why I started the Reddit sub, the subreddit, the long lived. But I don't I'm not there enough. And I don't know how active the community is. Maybe it needs to be moved somewhere else one day. I don't know. We'll think about that later. But the point is, I'm very grateful to you, the subscribers. You guys made some you made you made my day so many times with your comments in the last two years. And I'm just so grateful to have developed the relationships that I have with you guys. Second, I wanted to thank two other people who have been on YouTube for a while. The first is Boston Lloyd. I've known Boston for a few years online. I originally started emailing him years ago asking about his experiences with different drugs. And he was always very humble and very kind to me, very responsive, didn't want money, didn't know me, didn't have anything to gain from me, but was always like that. And I encourage you other subscribers who are fans of the Boston podcast to message him or to email him specifically. He's very responsive and a wonderful guy. That's how I got to know him. I knew him before. But when I started my own podcast, initially, I was on YouTube working with another gentleman who Boston had ethical qualms with. But when I made my own channel, Boston was my first podcast guest. He was the first person willing to come on my channel when it had no subscribers. In fact, if you watch Boston, he usually goes on other channels. If he goes on someone else's channel, it's usually a small channel. He does it because he wants to help other people out. He did that for me, but he also later on chose against his own welfare. Basically, he had a situation in which some other channel was sort of basically encouraging and making him choose between me and the other channel. And the other channel was way more useful for Boston's career. But he chose to stay with me because he thought that I didn't do anything wrong. And the other channel was sort of doing something wrong to me. Boston is a loyal friend. He really did it in real life. He chose against his own welfare for me. He's a large reason why this channel succeeded. Although the content I make with Boston isn't the same kind of content I make with the rest of the channel, his consistent support, his willingness to stick up for the little guy, his willingness to choose others over himself, all these beautiful ethical qualities are some of the main reasons my channel still exists. And some of the main reasons I was resilient through those early difficult times. The second person I wanted to mention is Derek from More Plates, More Dates. Derek, I mean, if you guys knew how much time and effort Derek put into helping me, for no reason, I mean, initially I had barely any subscribers. He, I think, liked my channel and wanted just good for me. In fact, I think Derek and his group of friends have a tradition of helping get each other out. They seem to have really, really good morals. There was a guy named Chris from a channel called Good Looking Loser who also helped Derek. And Derek has continued the tradition in helping others. He spent a lot of time encouraging me not just about how to create my videos. See, one of the most difficult things when you're on YouTube is knowing how to, knowing the algorithm, knowing how the algorithm functions. As someone who doesn't, even, I used to watch YouTube a lot, but I never understood anything about it. I didn't know why people put clickbait titles. They annoyed me. It's not about the clickbait and that stuff only. I'm talking about how to structure your video, the beginning to the end, how much detail to go into, which topics to cover, how to, you know, these kind of very important things that make or break a channel. I would have never learned if Derek didn't selflessly talk to me about them at all hours of day for at least the last year. But in addition to that constructive, useful advice Derek would give me, he would give me the kind of advice that would encourage me to be resilient and to keep trying and to think that my channel may have value to others or I may be able to present information in a way that's valuable to others. This encouragement made the world of difference to me this year. I can say for sure that without Derek, I would not be at 100,000 subscribers. I would probably not be at 50,000 subscribers. And I would be much, honestly, I would be much less happy. I would be much less, I would believe in myself less. I mean, he really made a difference in my life. So Derek, I just wanted to thank you very much. It means the world to me what you did. I have more people to thank. I really want to talk about my wife as well, but I think I'm going to make an Instagram post on it so this video doesn't get too emotional. The point is, before I end, I want to leave you guys with one thing. See, I was just like you guys. I was a person that watches YouTube to learn and for entertainment and so on. I was not a YouTuber. I had a blog, but it didn't have many readers. They were mostly my friends. And I had some useful knowledge. I knew that. And oftentimes throughout my life, my friends would ask for my advice and so on. But I never thought that I would be somebody that should have a YouTube channel or that more importantly would potentially succeed on YouTube. I never thought so. I want to encourage you subscribers that are interested in living a life where you do what you like to do. If you like to learn or teach or discuss and learn together, YouTube may be for you. You might be nervous about being on camera, talking to a camera, being awkward. You might not believe in yourself. You may not believe that others may want to watch you. You may know you have some value to provide, but not believe in yourself. If you're one of these people, try it. You have nothing to lose but failure. And failure is just an indication of you trying to succeed. And let me give you two useful points here. The two biggest difficulties with starting a YouTube channel are beginning. When you begin and no one knows your channel, you have to like comment on other people's channels or do something like that for people to see your channel. That's the biggest difficulty initially. The second biggest difficulty is knowing how to structure your videos to make the algorithm not hate you. And I can talk a lot about the algorithm in a different video in the future. But here what I wanted to say is, so there's knowing people and knowing information. These two things can make your channel, make the world of difference in your channel's success. You know me now. I don't know all of you, but I know many of you and in particular many of you that are the most potentially the people that would start a YouTube channel. So I want you guys to know you already know me. If you start a channel that's informative, especially if it's not repeating what other channels do. If you introduce some kind of new stuff, I would love to advertise your channel to introduce it to other people on my channel. If you're providing quality information, that's that's something new. I would love to help you. And to be honest with you, if you're a longtime subscriber, even if it's not informative, I'd still love to advertise your channel. But more importantly, if you're very serious about this and you do start a channel, I'd love to be able to return the favor that others gave to me, which is to slowly offer you some kind of pieces of advice that may help you achieve your goal within your framework. Like you guys see how I have clickbait titles now. My thumbnails are like a certain way and have structured my videos, but I still do the content that I like to do. You can do a similar thing like that. All you need is somebody to put it into perspective for you, somebody to give you these nuggets of advice and information, which can really make the world of difference. And if I knew this information when I first started, it could have been even faster. So I wanted you guys to know as the subscribers of the channel that you guys are welcome to contact me if you want to start your own channel. If especially if you're providing, even if I don't know you, if the information that's not recycled on YouTube and especially if you cite your sources and it's interesting or useful, I would love to help. And if I do know you, I would love to help also with advice. Please feel free to reach out to me. The more of us there are that are doing this, the better. And I would love to help others experience what I experienced, which was a life changing year. Thank you so much, friends. I look forward to the next hundred thousand with you.

=== FILE: Nick Walker’s Big Decision [RnqqsQ8wb6k].txt ===

 X me a text. He's like, man, I don't take that shit or some shit. And I'm like, man, I'm like, you're a fucking liar. I said, you take a full bottle. I have the text. I'm like, you take a full bottle of Sterostim every day. He was like, nah, man, I wish. He's like, that shit's expensive. I'm like, get out of here, man. Okay, if you say he doesn't take a full 30 of Sterostim, that's might not be Sterostim. A full vial of Sterostim is like, what, 18 units? 18 IU? Yeah. Personally, I think he's taking 30 or something. Not even 18, honestly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nick, if you're telling us you're not taking 15, bro, who are you kidding? You're taking 15 at least. Dude, I know somebody in Matt's camp that's an amateur that's taking 10 IU. So if he's taking 10, and that's under Matt Jansen's recommendation. And the guy said, Matt said if I could afford more to take more, but he was at 10. So, dude, he's definitely taking more. But I don't want to be, so I'm not trying to invade Nick's personal business or anything like that. I plan to talk about this two days ago when we were going to record, but yesterday Fahad's podcast came out and they did interrogate him for half an hour. So it's not, I don't think it's too bad if we briefly mention. So this is what I want to know. What are your guys' thoughts? Because I find it a fascinating situation, huh? This is why I find it fascinating. So this guy, like you said, Boston, before, he's a dedicated guy. He put his blinders on, and he had a coach that had the recipe, and he followed it. But it's essentially all we know about Nick is with him and Matt Jansen. We also know he's a very loyal guy, family guy. We know he's probably actually hurt by the fact that he's separating. The question is this, and he's so close, right? He got fifth or fourth or whatever. He's very, very close to the old. So do you think, Boston, that this may prevent him from becoming a Mr. Olympia in two years? Maybe he would have and he would... I mean, how dangerous is it to have this instability? I think if it's meant to be, it's meant to be. I mean, we've already talked about who we think his next coach is going to be. Somebody's going to take good care of him. No, no. Tell people who you think it is. It won't harm anything, I'm sure. It's going to be either two people. It's going to be either AJ Sims. AJ Sims, because I see they're commenting on each other's shit. Or it's going to be one of the guys in Kuwait, because both of... AJ loves drugs. He loves drugs. And Nick Walker, obviously he loves drugs. Or he's either going to hook up with somebody in Kuwait, because they'll give him drug connects and they'll ship him everything he needs and sponsor him and all that stuff. Nick needs, obviously, somebody by his side that's going to help him. The thing with Nick, man, is I think if it's going to be, it's going to be. He could put in the work. It's not really rocket science. He already has been taking all the stuff that he knows that he needs to take to improve. He's been improving. No, but it is rocket science to get in his condition, which is the best. I'll tell you what, though. I'll tell you what. If he works with AJ Sims, AJ Sims is going to get more out of that coaching experience than Nick Walker will, because... That's my problem. Nick is going to tell him, be like, this is what Jansen has me doing and I've been taking all this shit. Yeah. And it's going to help AJ with his coaching. Just like when Deasha came from Kuwait and went to Jansen for a bit, it benefited Jansen more than it did Deasha, because Jansen was able to soak up all the knowledge that they were doing in Kuwait. So I think it would be AJ that gets the better of that experience. That's what I think, too. The only person that would be, in my opinion, that would know what these guys are really doing at that top level and be better than Matt would be Hany. And Hany's not going to take him because Hany only works with people that are with Evagen and somebody that's going to really give, give a lot of attention. And I just don't think Hany is that person. But yeah, I think Nick is destined to be good because of his work ethic and what he does, you know. But wait, wait, wait. We can't skip past Hany. Why wouldn't he pick Hany? That's my point. It's like... Hany won't take him. There's no way... Hany won't take him. There's no fucking way Hany would take him. Wait, why wouldn't Hany... Hany would look what he's taking and be like, no, no, this is not going to work. I think Nick leaving Matt is a good thing. I think Matt did with Nick what he could and push the drugs to the max. And Nick's physique is kind of like where it's at. No, but we have to keep mentioning always perfect condition, never miss. Yeah. Yeah. Something else can happen to the body. I don't know much size-wise, but not more some condition. But Hany would be able to change something. And I would think he would be able to lower the drug significantly. Oh, yeah. He'll be lower. I think it's for the best that Matt is... or Nick is leaving Matt, if he finds the right person, I think for his health and to teach and let him, you know, understand, you don't need all these drugs. Look, you're already built this big. You just have to kind of refine little stuff here and there. So I think it's going to be beneficial for him. You know? Everyone in that camp, Leo, that I've talked to said, and that we're good friends with both Nick and Matt, said Nick is being very, very shady about the thing. They said that he's... There's not one person in that camp that was friends with both of them that are on Nick's side. Everyone's on Matt's side, which is weird because I did bring up in a text to Nick about there has to be a different... I said, there's no way that you told him that you can't coach Brett Wilkin. And when I said that to him, he didn't even deny it. But... So he obviously... That is a true statement that Turgilly put out and that everyone's putting out is that he wouldn't... He literally wanted Matt to drop Brett. And I didn't think that was true. I'm like, there's no way Nick would do that. And he didn't deny it. He did not deny it. He's worrying about them passing him up, though. He's like, you know, like Brett Wilkins, I don't know much about him. But I think, you know, maybe he could pass him up physique-wise. Sure, he has the genetic structure to be better than Nick. He has a better structure. And I think that's what he's worried about. You can't give your coach an ultimatum like that. At the end of the day, I mean, fuck. I mean, Matt's not charging either of them. In fact, Matt's sponsoring them, you know, I mean. But, yeah, I just... Okay, okay. In defense of Nick first, two things. Seriously. First of all, everyone in Camp Creep is against Nick. So that indicates what... Nothing. These people are the ones who are okay with Jansen doing what we all know he does. So... These guys are all part of Camp Creep. That's true. Yeah, no. What I mean to say, I'm not talking about drug stuff. I'm saying, like, if you're talking about one of them betrayed each other or whatever, well, we know for sure that Matt Jansen betrays people. We don't know that Nick does. I know that. He's been with different companies. He's been through lawsuits. Companies have sued him because of... Yeah, of course. No, we're talking about personal relationships. So we know he's like that. We don't... We've never heard that about Nick or whatever. And the other thing is... No, no. We do know that about Nick. He's done that to Dominic Cardone. I mean, you could bring all these guys up. No, I'm saying that Matt Jansen is ethically bankrupt. Yes. No, no. We know that for sure. Yeah. And we don't know that Nick is ethically bankrupt. That's what I mean to say. And the second thing is this, which is that, Nick, you got to admit, after Dallas... And I want to ask you about this. How did Dallas leave Matt? We got to talk about that. After Dallas left Matt, since then until now, the only thing that brought Matt's reputation up in the bodybuilding community was Nick. So let me point out something. If you guys haven't noticed something, the first year of Fwad's podcast, they championed the hell out of that Patrick Ture guy. You hear about him anymore? No. No one's suggesting Patrick to coach Nick Fwad. I predicted that for fucking since day one. Yeah, but they were selling... I mean, he was the best thing since sliced bread for a while. But then now, no one's mentioning him. And now, and for the... Who have you heard for the last six months? Matt Johnson. And the reason is because of Nick's work. So Nick might be telling him, look, bro, your company Revive and Raw is growing. Everything is benefiting. I'm doing it. I'm killing myself. You know, I'm going to get the Olympia for you. Why won't you not give the secrets that are giving me the advantage, which are the drugs and protocols, to a guy who's going to be very close to me? In defense of Nick. I'm just playing devil's advocate. I get it. I get it. Yeah, I get it. And we don't really know everything, but I do get that point. I just... You know me, you knew me, Leo. When Dave gave me the ultimatum with you and him, I said, fuck you. Yeah, I see what you mean. I'm not going to do that. Yeah, I see what you mean. By the way, I mentioned... If somebody gives an ultimatum, dude, I don't even... The person that gives the ultimatum, bye-bye. I don't need you. Yeah, that's true. That's weird to do that. Yeah, imagine you're... I agree. Like, if you're white, even if you love your wife and you're willing to give something up for her, if she told you, I will leave you if you don't give this up, you're like, wait a minute. You would leave me? I mean, that changes the whole thing. Like, I would give it up for you, but not an ultimatum. I would tell the chick bye-bye. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Things go fast, too, especially in the industry. You could be like... Your confidence could be here, doing well, and then from here, it can jump all the way here from high confidence to super cockiness. I know because I was a young competitor. Of course, I wasn't at that level, but I was at a high level then because pro cards weren't giving out like crazy, and I just knew, like, you know, stuff would... Like, I'd go to the Olympia, and I'd be at the... Diamond Ties, the biggest booth, there'd be banners everywhere hanging from me. It goes to your head, and then you think you can start, like... You know, a lot of my friends are like, Armand, you're an asshole to a lot of people. I'm like, am I? And I didn't realize I was, but it kind of just goes to your head, and you really don't realize what you're doing until you kind of get, like, knocked on your feet again. Like, yeah, I really wasn't acting good. So, he's young, and I'm sure, you know, I think leaving that is... That's going to be a good decision. I think it'll be good for... Long... You're saying long-term, it'll be good. Long-term, yeah. Yeah, but I mean, also, I feel like I'm playing devil's advocate a lot, but if anyone had the right to let things get to their head, we would be... I mean, who's the biggest star in bodybuilding in the last 10 years? It's literally Nick Walker. Nobody has grown that fast. Nobody likes somebody... Nobody has liked a bodybuilder that much. They love him. I mean, other than the classic physique. Oh, excuse me. Sorry, what? Rami. Rami. I was thinking Rami since Rami is what I was thinking. Rami's not active enough on... He wasn't loved as much. He was more like... People who appreciate bodybuilding were like, holy shit, it's the biggest thing, you know? But Nick has the kind of Jay Cutler kind of vibe of following. Yeah, I agree with that. And, you know, and so what I'm saying is like, I mean, I can tell you guys, I'm a YouTuber. The second Nick started his YouTube channel, immediately the views are... They're about equal to Fouad's podcast. Really? Yeah, bro. No, he posts more videos, so he gets probably more watch time than Fouad. Yeah, so, I mean, it's a pretty... Anyway, but you guys, what do you guys expect to happen if he chose AJ Sims? Because this is what I wanted to see. I assume he can't get him in as good condition consistently. No, AJ will get him peeled. That's not an issue. I just don't think the off-season protocols, I don't think he'll get put on as much muscle as quick as he's been putting on with AJ because, yeah, no, AJ will get him peeled. There's no question. But as far as maybe holding the muscle, not as good. I know what AJ does. AJ likes to pull testosterone a couple weeks out. His guys do tend to come in flatter. The good combination that Matt has figured out is what Hany has. It's only Hany and Matt. No one else does that. I mean, Chad also. Yeah, but not with Rami yet, I think. Right? That's intermittent. Yeah, it's not as consistent as Hany. Very hit or miss. Thank you.

=== FILE: Nicotine is Underrated [XhRNE9Y51TE].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, good morning friends in this video i'm going to tell you why nicotine is a performance enhancing drug that may also protect your health but before i do please subscribe to the channel if you're not already like the video and comment on the video to help the channel's growth now let's get started first of all friends i recently made a video about nasal snuff which is nasal tobacco and sometime around that time i received a question from a subscriber who is i think a student intending to use nicotine to improve his ability to study or perform exams he asked me how should i supplement nicotine to improve my performance and what i decided to do was make a first video introducing you to the subject of why would you want to add nicotine into your daily regimen in the first place and the second video which will be released this afternoon at 12 p.m pst i'll tell you how i go about optimizing nicotine supplementation as well as related factors what i do personally and what i think others should do and the considerations in building their own plants now let's get started first we have to introduce nicotine to understand more about nicotine i'd highly recommend you check out my series in the playlist section called the cholinergic series if you haven't watched it i'll briefly introduce it to you here the issue that how to understand how nicotine works in our body mainly you need to understand something called the cholinergic system basically there's a dietary a part of our diet that we consume often in meat or in eggs or in various other sources called choline choline is actually a vitamin when you consume choline your body attaches an acetyl group from something called acetyl coa to the choline to produce a neurotransmitter that's active in our nervous systems called acetyl choline acetyl choline then signals that two kinds of receptors the cholinergic receptors but the receptors are called they're named separately two groups according actually to whether nicotine also agonizes them interestingly nicotine a molecule found in plants including tobacco binds to and activates a subset of our human nicotinic cholinergic well not a subset of a subset of our cholinergic receptors called the nicotinic cholinergic receptors so what does this really mean this means nicotine acts like a hormone that's naturally present in your brain and nervous system it acts just like it in some aspects it binds to and activates some of the gene transcription controlling receptors that acetyl choline also binds to and activates so you can think of nicotine sort of akin to how cabergoline for the bodybuilders is related to dopamine or how halotestin a little bit different halotestin or anivar is related to testosterone or DHT the nicotine is an analog of acetyl choline that does some of its activities next we have to distinguish between tobacco and nicotine and between smoking and tobacco also smoking anything is very harmful for your body and puts your body in an inflammatory state tobacco also depending on how it's cured can have some carcinogenic compounds in it so although smokers do have better cognition often they have better cognition despite the smoke it's the nicotine that causes them to have better cognition the nicotine in the tobacco whereas the smoke increases their inflammation so when smokers smoke more they get worse cognition but that's not just well we'll find out later partially because of nicotine but mainly because of the inflammation next let's talk about how nicotine affects cognition we're not going to be very comprehensive here because there are very many measures of cognitive performance but let me tell you that nicotine improves cognitive performance across mammals across a variety of tests of cognitive performance and it does so consistently in a u-shaped curve such that less nicotine is worse but too much nicotine is also worse so in even in humans that are nicotine naive that don't smoke even in people that have never used nicotine before two milligrams of nicotine gum will improve their cognitive performance acutely whereas four milligrams will worsen it compared to not taking anything and compared to taking two milligrams so there's a u-shaped curve with nicotine's effect on cognitive performance now why might nicotine improve cognitive performance well there's a few reasons we might think it does in fact there's quite a few i'll just focus on three here the first is a change in brain resting states so your brain has connective networks that are visible on fmri scans some of these networks you actually probably know about even though you may not have heard of them explicitly for example mindfulness meditation being mindful of your environment without thinking of something consciously is the attempt to introduce and empower what's called the salience network which recognizes salient aspects of your environment or life empower that and weaken the default mode network when you're in a train and you're looking out the window and you're just thinking about something without meaning to that's your default mode network the default mode network is thought to play a causal role in the development of depression and various other diseases of the brain nicotine weakens the predominance of the default mode network and strengthens the salience network which switches from the default mode network to the executive control network that's the focus network that you use on an exam so nicotine does something similar actually to mindfulness meditation in that sense but also nicotine controls catecholamine transmission you see the catecholamine related neurons in the midbrain of mammals is rich in or they are rich in nicotinic cholinergic receptors and nicotinic cholinergic receptor agonism is related to and modulates the dopamine network nicotine administration across mammals causes acute dopamine transmission for those of you that don't know what is one of the main tools used to improve cognitive performance aderol or some kind of or methylphenidate ritalin these are drugs that modulate the dopamine system well nicotine does also one of the reasons it may be addictive but also one of the reasons is cognitive enhancing and finally the third reason i wanted to point out is simply its modulation of the nicotinic cholinergic receptors the cholinergic system is integral to memory development and formation and it is the main modulator of our memory systems in our brains next you may be surprised to know that nicotine also affects our mood and depression in fact there is a very well developed actually cholinergic hypothesis of depression and nicotine administration is mood enhancing acutely in fact interestingly light smokers have less depression than non-smokers but also less than heavy smokers so the nicotine is involved in our mood as well and finally regarding our health although most of you think of nicotine as being unhealthy what you're really thinking of is smoking as i said earlier smoking combustion in general consuming things that are combusted but also tobacco has carcinogenic elements to it nonetheless because nicotine is so neuroprotective smokers have massively reduced rates of brain disease of parkinson's disease dementia and even alzheimer's disease this isn't true for all brain diseases like als for example what stephen hawking's had brain diseases that are very very very much modulated by inflammation their incidence may get worse like als but the nicotinic cholinergic stimulation from nicotine preserves brain health in fact the first line drug to treat memory deficits in people who have alzheimer's disease is a drug that inhibits the breakdown of the natural hormone that nicotine mimics acetylcholine so the main drug used to treat alzheimer's disease memory issues is a drug that makes acetylcholine more present in the brain sort of mimicking the effect of taking nicotine partially that drug by the way is called donapazole and we'll be talking about it again this afternoon so to conclude what did we learn here we learned that nicotine improves cognitive performance it is mood enhancing and it is potently neuroprotective and we learned that nicotine seems to have a u-shaped curve with most of these effects in the next video this afternoon i'll tell you how i go about supplementing with nicotine and other supplements to optimize my cognition acutely thank you so much friends i look forward to seeing you again this afternoon you

=== FILE: Remineralizing Natural Toothpaste Recipe ｜ Whiten & Restore Teeth ｜ Reverse Tooth Decay [KeaaYdD8Lsw].txt ===

 Are you ever wonder what's in your toothpaste, and maybe looking for some alternative to get a healthier smile? today I'm going to reveal to you my toothpaste recipe, and why I'm using those ingredients to get a brighter and healthier smile, so I don't never have to go back to the dentist. stay tuned, as we dive behind the science of each ingredient, and how they work together to protect your teeth. hello everyone, welcome back to the channel, I'm Lucy, and I'm here to keep Leo's memory and research alive, while educating people to live better and longer lives. Before we jump in, if you haven't subscribed yet, please do hit that like button and leave a comment below just to help the algorithm. Let's look into oral hygiene. It's more than just keeping our teeth white. And the states of your teeth can often give you an idea of your overall health. Poor oral health, especially gum disease, can have far-reaching effects. When we talk about gum disease, we're referring to the inflammation and infection of the gums, which can eventually lead to tooth loss. But the impact goes way beyond our mouth. See, the bacteria that's responsible for gum disease can enter the bloodstream and travel to other parts of our body. For instance, there's a well-established link between oral health and heart disease that have shown that the bacteria responsible for gum disease can actually get into your heart and can increase the risk of clogged arteries and strokes. But that's not all. So poor oral health is also linked to diabetes. And keep in mind that gum disease can be more severe and harder to control in people with diabetes. And conversely, effective gum disease treatment can also improve your blood sugar levels. And now let's shift our focus into something that a lot of you have experienced or known, which are cavities. Understanding how cavities are formed, I think is key for maintaining health. And understanding how cavities are formed, I think is key to prevent them, but also to keep a healthy mouth. Cavities, also known as dental caries, are essentially small holes in the teeth that are creating tooth decay. And this process begins with the most common culprits, which is bacteria. And our mouth is a host of many, many bacterias. And some of them are good, but some of them are not the one we want. Those bacterias love to feast on sugar and starches that we eat. Foods like candies, bread, soda, and even fruits leave starches and sugars on our teeth. And when these bacterias ingest those sugars, they produce acids as byproducts. It's these acids that start attacking the enamel, which is the odd layer of the teeth that protect them. So over time, the acids start attacking the enamel, which starts creating tiny openings and holes. And this is the first stage of cavities. And if those are left untreated, the decay can progress beyond the enamel into the deeper layers of the tooth, which cause pain and eventually tooth loss. So cavities, they come from a complex interplay of biological and chemical processes. Here is a breakdown on how this mechanism works. The plaque formation. And the plaque is like a sticky film that stays around our teeth. And it's primarily composed of bacteria, along with saliva, food particles, and also other natural substances. Then we have the bacterial activity. The mouth is home to hundreds of types of bacteria. So some of these bacteria, particularly those like cocus mutans, I hope I pronounced it right, they are very harmful and play a key role in creating cavities. And those bacteria feed on sugar and carbohydrates that we consume. Then we have the acid production. So as the bacteria digest the sugars, they're producing the acid, as we talked before. And keep in mind that this acid production occurs minutes after we eat any sugar. And the acid produced by the bacteria start to demineralize, so dissolve the enamel slowly over time. The enamel is composed of minerals like calcium and phosphate, along with water and some organic material. The acid attacks lead to a loss of those minerals. And this is the process of demineralization. Then start the cavity formation. Over time, if the teeth experience a continuous demineralization, which leads to the distractions of the enamel itself. And then we start seeing little holes or little cavities forming on the teeth. Initially, those little holes are actually microscopic. And over time, they just grow bigger and deeper if the tooth is not being treated. Then we have a progression into the dentin. If the cavity is not addressed, the decay can progress past the enamel into the underlying dentin layer, which is softer and less resistant to the acid. And once the decay gets to the dentin, that's when it progresses deeper and larger. It can spread more rapidly and cause more extensive damage. If the decay continue to spread and being not treated, it can reach the innermost part of the tooth, called the pulp, which contains nerves and the blood vessels. So when the decay reaches the pulps, it can lead to toothache, sensitivity, and also abscess. Lastly, I want to touch base on the role of saliva. The saliva plays a crucial role in our mouth and our teeth. It helps neutralize acids, provides minerals to remineralization, and also wash away food particles. So a lack of saliva or dry mouth can lead to an increase of cavities. So now that we've learned about how cavities are formed, I want to touch base on the subject that's highly controversial and I hear so much about fluoride. Fluoride is being seen as a hero for certain people and as a villain for others. Let's get into the science of it. So fluoride have been held for its remarkable abilities to prevent cavity. And the way it works, it straightens the tooth enamel, making it more resistant against those acid attacks. And this mineral can also help remineralize some of the area where minor decay has begun. So those tiny microscopic holes that we talked about earlier. Fluoride actually reverse early signs of cavities. There are plenty of studies that support fluoride's benefits. And the CDC even named water fluoridation one of the 20th centuries, great public health achievements. But now let's look at the other side of the story when it comes to fluoride. So fluoride, especially in community water supplies, has sparked a lot of debates. A lot of critics have pointed out the potential risks, effects like dental fluorosis, which is a condition caused by excessive fluoride in the tooth development, leading to white spots on teeth. And a side story, I do have a white spot on my teeth. I had no idea where it was coming from. Neither the dentist, by the way, because it happens when I was very young. Now I see exactly what happened. And it was the excess fluoride that stained my tooth. But that's not the only concern about fluoride. The overexposure of fluoride have been linked to some health issues. Some studies have suggested that fluoride is associated with bone problems, thyroid dysfunction, with the potential mechanism that may be involved is cellular damage, cell cycle arrest, mitochondrial dysfunction, DNA damage. Although these findings are often debated and require more research, that is something we should be aware of. Now that we've talked about fluoride, let's look into what are usually in commercial toothpaste. They are usually a cocktail of different ingredients, each serving a specific purpose. The component usually includes abrasive like calcium carbonate or hydrated silica, which helps remove plaque and stains. Then we also have the flavoring, like mint, to keep your breath fresh. Anthuride is often added as the cavity fighter. And lastly, we also have detergents, like sodium lauryl sulfate. It helps create the formi action we're familiar with. A side note about this formi action. If you know a little bit about the history of toothpaste, and I highly recommended the book by Obligi, I don't know how you say his name. But he mentioned in this, Obligi was a man that revolutionized the advertising and was the head of many campaigns that influence our daily lifestyle even now. And he's the one that made us buy toothpaste and use it every day. And at the beginning, people were not very inclined of doing it because they didn't feel that brushing their teeth was making them clean. That's the reason why they added the foamy component of it. And that should make one thing, excuse my French, how stupid we must be, to just add an ingredient to make something foam so in our mind things get clean. If people had better knowledge about how cavities are formed, maybe they will take brushing more serious and not use anything that's just foamy because it feels that it's cleaning your teeth more. So let's go back to this detergent foaming thing and see the side effects of that. While it helps spread the toothpaste across the teeth and also in our psyche and make our teeth more clean, it has also been linked to canker sores in some people. Plus, there is also concern of long-term effects on oral tissue health. But keep in mind, not all toothpaste are created equal and we have seen a new kind of toothpaste entering the market over the last few years. I'm talking about the nano toothpaste. If you ever look at TikTok, you've heard of it. So this is an innovative product that actually claim to use nanotechnology in order to enhance cleaning and whitening effects. The idea is those nanoparticles can actually get into the deeper layer of the skin and the tiny crevices that you may have, and so providing you a deeper cleaning. But let's keep in mind that these are not being fully backed by science and research as the research is catching on those new developed products. Now, before we get into my recipe for my natural toothpaste, let me tell you how I came up with this idea. And I've been having a fear of dentists since I can remember. Every time I would go to a dentist's office, even if the treatment was not for me, let's say the treatment was for my sister, within the next five minutes I would faint. That's how big the fear was. Moving on, coming to the United States, I didn't go see a dentist for years. Until 25 years old, with them teeth, started to come out. Didn't have them, never had any teeth problems, no issues, brushing my teeth all the time, flossing, you name it. My wisdom teeth actually had the space to come out, but the bottom two, on the left and right side, came only halfway. Which actually, the gum that was staying on top of it, basically was like, moving. I had the teeth there and the gum was halfway there, which increased the amount of bacteria and food that was able to go under there, which was very hard to actually remove. So a couple of times I felt like I started getting infected, and I went to the dentist, got antibiotics, and then she cut the gum that was on top of it. But the teeth, the study, keep on pushing, but was not coming out fully. So I did this process, and it's very, very bad. Probably like four or five times. Went to the dentist because I started getting infected because of the wisdom tooth. I was so afraid of the dentist that I keep delaying my wisdom teeth removal. And that's until I moved to Orange County and ended up finding this amazing doctor. And keep in mind, every time I will see the dentist, I'll be fainty. So she knew. We were aware of this. We were doing what we can in order to finish treatment. And it's not about the pain. I have very high pain tolerance. I got to the dentist in Orange County and for some reason it made me feel so comfortable. He was used to dealing with patients like me and he was absolutely amazing. I went for him for a checkup. Also when you're pregnant, once you have your child, usually it increases the amount of cavity you have. So it was all during my pregnancy. We were checking that everything is good. And he was so kind. And Leo was coaching me and he's like, you need to get them removed. Like that's it. After I had my daughter, I decided to go and make my appointment. And I asked him. I couldn't get full anesthesia. So I got local anesthesia because I was still breastfeeding. And I asked him to remove the four of them all at once. I didn't faint. And it was the best thing I could have done. Not a pleasant experience. Don't make me wrong. But it was worth it because now I do not have any more issue with my teeth. But after this experience, I promised myself that I will do absolutely anything to never have to go back to the dentist again. Or just to go to a checkup. After my with the teeth removal, I actually got a deep cleaning. Because I wanted to start with my new toothpaste and make sure I had no plaque whatsoever. So a deep cleaning for those who know is like they give you anesthesia and they really go on top of the gum and clean every teeth. It's a bit painful, but also worth it. After that, I'm like, let me look. What can I do? What ingredient? How can I make my own toothpaste? So I don't have those issues anymore. Coconut oil pulling was trending at the time. But I don't like trending things. I rather looked into the science of it and tried to draw my own conclusion about how to make sure my teeth have enough minerals and combat those acids and remove those harmful bacteria. The other element and aspect of it is that I have very sensitive skin. So I drink coffee. I love coffee. That's the only thing that could stain my teeth. And I was looking for a natural teeth whitening and I tried the stripes. I tried many things, but it really gets painful. To me, it's like my teeth are sensitive. So putting any stripes, anything, it works. It makes my teeth white. But it is also extremely painful and increases the sensitivity of my teeth, which I'm not looking to have. So here are all the ingredients that I choose for my natural toothpaste and why. Let's get into it. First, we have coconut oil. I use cold-pressed virgin organic coconut oil, which is known for its antimicrobial properties, particularly against oral patterns. Then we have turmeric. Turmeric contains curcumin, which has anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties as well. But turmeric is also added because turmeric actually whitens your teeth and it whitens them amazingly. Next on my list of ingredients, I have erythro. I think that's how it's pronounced. Not even sure. It is a sugar alcohol used as sweetener, but studies have shown that it helps reduce the plaque. And it's also a non-chariogenic, which means it doesn't cause tooth decay. There are also other sugar alcohol that are good for the teeth, like Xylitol. And it's hard to find a study with authors that are not part of any particular companies. Why I choose one compared to the other is from my own preference, but also because of this. Xylitol causes a higher digestive distress because exeritial gets into the bloodstream much quicker. And overall, it figures if you end up ingesting any of it, it's better for your overall health. Why I'm saying this is because I'm making a version of my toothpaste for my toddler. And I will tell you the differences between mine and my toddler's. You know, toddlers are ingesting some of the toothpaste for sure. But mine as well get the better sugar, knowing that they both have similar effect on the teeth. And even though studies have truly compared in an unbiased way the difference between those two in terms of tooth health, I decided to go with this one. Then we have baking soda. I've been using baking soda on my toothpaste since I can remember. That's my mom gave me the trick. She told me how it's going to help whiten your teeth. While I couldn't find studies on if it helps whiten your teeth, baking soda helps neutralize the acids in your mouth, which helps in terms reducing the risk of tooth decay and also gum. Then we have betonite clay. While there are no direct studies on how betonite clay can help with teeth health, if you learn about betonite clay and its mechanism and properties, one can only speculate of its benefits to the teeth. Well, my theory is that betonite clay helps with its detoxing properties and also helps finding and removing toxins from the teeth and the gum. My last ingredients are cloves. Cloves are known as their pain relieving properties. When I have my teeth issue, I would put claws in there. It will help. But they also have antimicrobial properties. So how do I make this? It's very simple, very straightforward. It's quick. Most of you have the ingredients at home. It's also very cheap. The amount I'm going to give you on the recipe, it's going to probably last you at least six months. I highly recommend keeping it in a cool place because it's better when it's hardened. You put three tablespoons of coconut oil and you make sure the coconut oil is melted. So I put it in the microwave so that it's melted. Then I put two tablespoons of turmeric, two tablespoons of erythyl, one tablespoon of baking soda, two tablespoons of clay, one tablespoon of ground cloves, or you can also put essential oil if you want to. So you mix it together and then I put it in a sanitized glass straw that I keep in my bathroom. I'm going to show you the before and after of my teeth. I purposely just brush my teeth directly with the toothpaste I made. Unfortunately, this liquid, I prefer to wait it to cool down, but just for the purpose of the video, that's how I did it. And you can see the before and after. And maybe it's just an aesthetic thing, the before and after. I brush my teeth for about a minute. I know it's not long enough, but I wanted to finish the video. If you leave it longer, your teeth is going to turn white a lot. After starting using it, I remember calling my sister and she's like, what did you do to your teeth? They look so white. Well, the turmeric in there really, really helps whiten your teeth. And it won't stain anything because it's mixed with the coconut oil. Again, this formula is not mess-free because of the turmeric, you're going to have yellow everywhere. But as long as you wash your hands very quickly, because it's mixed with the coconut oil, it won't stain for a long time. If you want to make this toothpaste for you, toddler, I recommend remove the turmeric. Why? Because toddlers are messy. So they will put the yellow everywhere and stain with the turmeric. And I don't think you want that. And they don't need teeth whitening anyway. Lastly, before we end, I just want to remind everyone that it is important for your overall health to not only brush your teeth, but also floss twice a day, placed between every teeth and you go to the left and to the right in between each tooth. And also do some tongue scraping. I love doing it with a copper tongue scraper. It helps remove some of those bacteria that can be stuck on your tongue. Don't forget to brush your tongue as well. And I highly recommend electrical toothbrushes because they are much more efficient than regular one. And when you have an electrical toothbrush, do not brush. Just leave the toothbrush in different areas and let it do its job. My dentist recommended me a very good one. And I find it at Costco for much cheaper than you will find it on Amazon. Please remember to do often dental checkup. I go once a year now and I haven't had any issue. Everything of my teeth looks well. My daughter just got her checkup and the dentist was actually surprised because she had no plaque, nothing. And she drank, I mean now she stopped, but she used to drink her bottle of milk before going to bed. And he was like, that's very surprising. Usually kids our age drinking milk before going to bed have tooth decay. And I was actually surprised. I didn't know kids will have tooth decay or plaque built quite young actually. But she didn't have any and she's been using this toothpaste. So I think it has something to do with it. I'm very confident it did. Alright, so I know a lot of you asked for this video and I hope it was very helpful. If you found this dive into oral health and natural toothpaste, please subscribe. Leave a comment below if you have any questions. Or maybe you want to learn more about also how I use all of those ingredients to create natural skincare. And also how I got down my skincare routine to less than five minutes a day for a very, very affordable price. Don't forget to give me a like to help boost the algorithm. Share with a friend or anybody you think might be useful. I also linked all the products that I use to make the toothpaste with the Amazon link. So it's easier for you to order everything and make it at home. Thank you for staying with me. Until next time, stay curious and stay well. Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time... Once in a second time...

=== FILE: Rich Piana Pumped His Muscle Full Of... Silicone？ [rGPHDA3ZoGw].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter that was in Rich's corner that he would go down to Mexico and very cheap get PMMA done. So, I mean, I don't know how credible Johnny has his sources, but who knows? Maybe he was doing PMMA and silicone. I mean, who knows? What do you think? What was your reaction to Armin? Because Armin has a lot of background with this. What's your thoughts? Yeah. So, I know Rich. I was friends with Rich. Like, when Rich and his ex-wife met Sarah, it was at FitCon, and I was there the first time they met. That was our first date. So, we hung out the whole weekend. I was with 5% at that time. I was sponsored by them. I like Rich a lot. He was a great guy, like, off camera. He was just a fun, cool guy to hang out with. The whole filler stuff, we kind of spoke on it one day because we were talking about, like, SEO, Synthol. He's like, Synthol's nonsense. You can use better stuff. And then one of my friends needed their bicep fixed because he tore his bicep and wanted it fixed. So, I hooked him up with my plastic surgeon friend, and they were trying to figure out which filler would be best. And it cost about $12,000 just to feel like half the bicep, but it looked amazing after he had it done. And Rich didn't say specifically what he was using, but I think he, I got back from, like, he's tried, he was trying different fillers and seeing which one worked the best. And then eventually, I guess the silicone was the cheapest and most effective. So, I think that's what he went with. And, you know, yeah. Very interesting. Rich was never honest about that. I talked to Rich many times about that. He was never honest about it. Rich was not honest about a lot of things he did, the fake plates that I sat out on personally. I said, Rich, I can't do this. Wait, did he tell people that he didn't use fake plates? Yeah. What do you mean? He wanted to do a video of me in the backstage of the Venice pit with fake plates. He wanted me to do fake plates. I said, Rich, I'm sitting out on this one. It was the same day that we did the video where we dropped the syringe on the pavement, and then he picked it up, and we were talking about that. It was the same day, except they were doing fake plates. And then I was like, hey, I'm not doing this. And then, dude, I caught him in another really bad lie, and I completely lost respect for him. It was about selling fake counterfeit GH. And after that, I really lost respect for him because I found out. And then at the Europa, he was hitting me up. He's like, hey, bro. And, dude, I never even had known where to even get Adderall or even used Adderall at this point. It was in 2016. He's like, hey, bro. He's like, do you have any extra Adderall laying around that you can bring to me at the expo? I'm like, dude, I don't even use that shit. But there were so many red flags with him, and I don't know if you guys know, but he used to train at the powerhouse right before he passed away, the powerhouse that I used to train at in Tampa. And he was asking people in there for pills like days before he died. So I don't know how many drugs he was getting himself into or what exactly happened. But I found out real quick that Rich was a big phony, unfortunately. You know, okay, wait. Well, to comment on that, I was shocked that a bodybuilder would have refused the fake plates. I mean, this is usually like strength athletes are really against that. It's immoral for us. But bodybuilders are usually like, hey, it doesn't matter. But Boston is so true. He's like, nope. You know who was there during that whole thing? Him and Rich had a falling out. I think he got annoyed with Rich too. Is that big boy? Oh, from Orange County. Yeah. Mexican. Mexican. That was when he was part of Rich's crew. Big boy was back there doing that. The tattoo artist, Angel, I think his name was fully tabbed. He had all the synth on his arms. It was like his little 5% crew. And they wanted me doing like a bench with fake plates and T-bar rows. And I had to sit down. I said, I can't do that. You know what? What I heard is because basically my, my arm wrestling team in LA was friends with Rich. If you go, if you search on YouTube, search Rich Piana arm wrestling, you'll see my arm wrestling team. All the guys that I used to arm wrestle with. I wasn't at the gym yet at that time. I joined a few months later or something like that. But when, when I asked one of them who knew Rich for 20 years, 25 years in California, he told me that Rich was a very good guy before and that they were very good friends and he was a true guy to him. But he told me that Rich changed in the last few years. He said that he just started acting different. Like the impression I got was that he got like maybe full of himself or maybe it was the drugs or something like that, but something changed. It's completely true. It's completely true because my, he used to train at my dad's gym when he was younger. And, and everyone, yeah, no, that's very true statement. Yeah. That's what I heard from him. And the other thing is I wanted to mention, because so, so I asked Johnny, by the way, Johnny brought his friend of mine, really nice guy. I messaged him a lot about the first day we were going to record this. And I've talked to him about it afterwards. He said he wanted to correct himself. He had a couple of things he wanted me to say, which I do, don't know where they went now, to be honest with you. Oh, there they are. Okay. The first one is he said, the reason why I wanted to bring up the silicone thing is to point out that the autopsy on Rich Piana couldn't be that reliable. He said, well, how could they ever not have tried to figure out what was in those things since technically a piece of the silicone, basically this issue, right? If you have an implant, like, which is what I thought, by the way, I heard from the guys at the gym that Rich had implants and that when they tried to bury him, they couldn't fit him in the coffin because of the implants on the side were too big and they felt the body. They thought it was implants, but maybe it could be a combination of both. I was talking to Armin, I think about this, right? So anyway, my point was this, if you have an implant that's like women, one of my wife's best friends now just had to have her fake breasts removed because women often get autoimmune issues with just the fake breasts, which has the silicone inside in a bubble. If you have any kind of thing that's not contained, including like steroids, if the steroids were toxic to your body, your body eventually eats it away. Even tattoos, by the way, even it's not just sun damage that gets tattoos. Your body gets it eventually. They call it breast implant illness. It's very common lately. Yeah. Yeah. So imagine, well, I think because people are noticing it more as well because they pay more attention to autoimmune stuff. But anyway, the point is, so if you were a mortician and you see this insanely looking weird body, Johnny's point is like, wouldn't you have wanted to check if there's something there that could have went to the heart and caused the problem or went to the brain so you could know what the reason was? It wasn't just a heart attack. Like, for example, if a little bit of the silicone got in the bloodstream, it could go to the brain, cause aneurysm, or it could go to the lungs, you know, it could go to different places to end up causing a heart attack that looks like a heart attack. That's what his first point wanted me to mention. The second one is, he wanted me to mention that the cause of death. So, you know, there's two ways this could happen. I just mentioned the aneurysm and that stuff with the heart attack. The other way it could happen is, you know, just simply, imagine you have so much of a foreign substance in your body that causes your body, your body's immune system to want to overreact. And we know like when your body system overreacts, it often damages the cells in your body, like damages your blood vessels, your heart, so on. If you've been pumping new crap, your body can't get rid of, that's causing you to be in a, like what they called in, with this virus, they called the cytokine storm. Rich would have been, if he was really just pumping random silicon in, he would have been in a cytokine storm for years. He did feel terrible all the time. 24-7, he felt really, really bad. That's why he was, the oxy, he was so, you know, addicted to oxy. That's what I was going to mention. I want to talk to you about that, because it felt like to me, he would be going through so much physical pain. And he's probably having to dull the pain, but then use the Adderall to be able to function. Because he's a booger. In the gym, he was asking for pain pills. Yeah. So, the other thing about it is that, when my arm wrestling coach, arm wrestled Rich, obviously Rich was weak, and he was using fake plates everywhere. Everyone knew that, but they went along with it. I'm surprised there were people who didn't know that. He would bring his fake plates wherever he went with them. But, because he was very weak. I thought he was extremely weak for just no reason. It could be this, guys. This, this ran, it's not an implant. It's like, his whole muscle is damaged, because it has permanent stuff in between it, that the body's trying to eat out. And then also, the other side of it is this. So, my arm wrestling coach, he doesn't exaggerate much. He's, he's from, he's from the Russian, Armenia side. He's very direct. He said, I've never held somebody's hand in an arm wrestling table, and felt so many clicks. Like, his hand was like a crippled old person. It was like, click, click, click, click, click, click. He said, it was so weak. And this guy doesn't exaggerate. He didn't even really know who Rich was. He's, he's just an arm wrestling guy. He was like, I've never felt anything like that. Well, what would happen if you had high inflammation all the time? You'd get arthritis. That's how arthritis happens. Did your coach smoke him? Of course, everyone, no, he couldn't smoke a girl, apparently. Like, he was that weak. No, no, I'm not insulting him. I mean, like, it was scary how weak he was. He trained at the powerhouse in Chatsworth, and he was always very, very high, high rep, low weight. Yeah. When we trained together, it was just really light. Pumpkot would be like, I would be training kind of light too, because my shoulder, he was like, you get a little lighter than that. So he would like, let's say, incline hammer, like a plate on each side, maybe like a plate and a 10. So, really, really super light. Yeah. Cool.

=== FILE: Save Your Eyes [zNzcP1II7ns].txt ===

 If you're somebody who upsets people a lot, or if you get in fights a lot, you may not want to get LASIK surgery. Good afternoon, friends. In this video, I'm going to tell you why I still wear glasses. But before I do, please subscribe to the channel if you're not already, like the video, and comment on the video to help with the channel's growth. Now, let's get started. I thought I'd offer a short video this afternoon, just to continue speaking with you guys throughout the day, as I really enjoy these two videos a day more than anything else. I got a question recently, as you guys know, I surveyed the subscribers for ideas for videos. I've recorded all of them, by the way, and I'm planning to make the majority of the most voted videos and make the other videos later. A couple of the questions I got were very short, and I could respond to very quickly. One of them was, why I never did LASIK surgery. As you guys can see, I wear glasses. I've worn glasses since I was about four years old. So glasses really affected my life. In a couple of ways. One of the ways is, honestly, it's hard to imagine, and it's even hard to imagine if you only have slightly weak vision. But it's hard to imagine if you have normal sight. What it's like to wake up every day and not be able to really move around your house without knowing where your glasses are. It's actually a safety risk, to be honest with you. It's really frustrating. And also, when you talk to people, you have limited vision. We don't see through part of what we normally see. So it's a bit frustrating. Obviously, also glasses are very frustrating if you ever get in physical conflict with someone. They usually fall off immediately with the first punch that you take. And so, therefore, you can't see fully during the rest of your fight. So that's an issue as well. And also, people judge you a little bit differently when you wear glasses. So, for example, actually, there was a time period in my life where I was wearing contacts. And I was trying to accomplish some difficult goals, and I wanted to leave good impressions on people. I actually switched from wearing contacts to glasses. This is when I used to study a lot of those, like the Influence book by Robert Cialdini I told you about before. So I switched from wearing contacts to glasses, and I noticed people treated me differently. So glasses really affect the way people perceive you. I never really wanted to get a surgery because my father did LASIK surgery in the early 2000s. And after the surgery, I noticed that he seemed to have a lot of problems with dry eyes. If any of you have worn contacts before and stayed up all night, you might notice late into the day you start to get dry eyes, which really bother you because you have the contacts in, right? I tried to research this quite a bit. It seems that a lot of people later in age develop dry eyes separately, not due to the surgery, but that the symptoms of the dry eyes worsen due to having the surgery. This almost scared me off getting the surgery. But then I discovered, and by the way, this was all like three years ago or so in LA. Then I discovered that apparently the LASIK surgery, which does a flap, that's the easy surgery to do. They cut your cornea, and they sort of cut it off in a very simple way. But they reattach it in a way where if you get struck, if you get trauma to your head, the flap can come off and can rip off. And if it rips off, they can't really easily solve it. So now you have eye problems, most likely for the rest of your life. When I discovered this from talking to a doctor, at the time I wasn't so much into reading medical papers. I was into genetics and stuff, but not so much into medicine in general. I was shocked. Nobody had told me about this before whatsoever. I had many friends with Dan LASIK. This scared me off. Then I found out there's another form of eye surgery in which they don't do this flap, but they sort of, by the way, I haven't studied this subject very much, but they sort of like shave off your cornea. So it takes, I assume, more artistic skill. It is much more invasive, obviously, and much more painful. But that is not as fragile in response to like trauma to your head. The problem is I didn't want to do something that invasive. And what if it went wrong? I thought of doing one eye first, doing this kind of shaving thing with one eye first, then doing the other eye. But even that is so invasive, painful. The idea of shaving my cornea freaks me out. I sort of decided in the end just to keep glasses and to live like this, which is unfortunate, you know, because as I might... Well, also another reason for that is the fact that even if I got the LASIK or the other surgery, I would start to develop another form of sightedness. I forgot what it's called, but where I can't see close things later in life. And I would still probably need glasses. But instead of bifocals, I could just have reading glasses. So, and that's about 15 to 20 years away. So, when I thought about all of this, I decided against it. Interestingly, after I decided against it by about a year or two, I met a bodybuilding coach who wears colored glasses. And as I got to know the guy, initially he told me he wears colored glasses because his eyes are sensitive to light or something like that. But later, as I got to know him, he told me that what had happened to him was exactly what I feared. He had the flap surgery, LASIK, and he got struck by somebody. He got hit in the eye. And when he got hit in the eye, the flap came off and I guess it got damaged permanently. So, now one of his eyes doesn't work properly. So, he's like partially blind in that eye. So, the reason I made this video was to briefly explain why I'm four-eyed. But also to warn you guys that don't know the dangers of LASIK surgery. If you're somebody who upsets people a lot or if you get in fights a lot, you may not want to get LASIK surgery. I am very grateful that I didn't get LASIK surgery. Although I hope nobody ever hits me again. It's likely to happen and I don't want the outcome to be me going blind. Anyway, guys, I hope this can protect some of you who are younger or considering LASIK. Think about it deeply before you get it. And there may be other issues other than the fight, as I mentioned, the dry eyes and wearing reading glasses later in life anyway and so on. Anyway, I hope this was slightly helpful and I'll see you guys again tomorrow morning.

=== FILE: The Faith Problem [EmWXD-1MG6Y].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter I do have a high power. I just don't know. I can't explain it with the words I have because it's where it is. It's these words were created on this material plane, for example. So I can't use things that are created here to explain what's something I don't even know. But I just know that there's something out there. And I personally, I should pray more and use it more in my program. But it's not my first reaction. And the only times I prayed with all my heart was the time that I was like suffering the most. I was like, okay, now, now, please help me. This is like I went on my knees and stuff a few handful of times in my life. But that's the point of it, right? Is to remind us constantly that we are so fallible and small beyond what is such something greater than us. And it's not whether the higher power is listening to us. It's for us to sit in gratitude and admire. Because think about every society we've ever come across in the world experience the same kind of religion. They sacrifice. They pray to idols. They have rituals. Why? Is it by accident? Or did every society that didn't do that die off? Is that part of, yeah, part of like an evolutionary design thing that keeps human beings? It's like mass therapy for some maybe countries or groups of people. Well, yeah, but for sure. But the thing is that I've seen people in the, everybody's higher power is different, though. That's the part of the thing, too. Like some people, they just believe in karma. Some people, they just believe in like a, so the atheist version of God, the meaning is called good orderly direction. God. Oh, so righteous way. So you just ask yourself, what's the most righteous way. So for those who don't believe in, in the sky daddy, because whatever, you know, like they will use that good orderly direction or I've also like in a group of drunks, because the media is greater than yourself. That's true. It's more than you. So people, they will have different versions of higher power. But in the program, if you just try to have one, you're open minded enough, you'll be, you'll have a much better chance at staying clean. But it can't be anything. It could be nature, whatever. It doesn't have to be anything. It's people put a lot of pressure on that. But me, I was really willing to like do whatever it took. It's like, I didn't care. You would have to tell me like, hey, Antoine, you have to believe in God. So you can get this bag of drugs. I'm like. Why would I not be as willing to stop doing drugs? Right. So I had this. I had this. No, no. Yeah, because the word, the word God scares a lot of people. That's why we actually use higher power a lot, because God is attached to religion. But it's the thing with the 12 step. It's not a religious program. It's a spiritual program. That's the thing. But it's just the AA was inspired by some religious principles from the Oxford group and stuff. So some inspired by them, but then they just changed the wording. So it would be, would be available to anybody from all trees of life, all religion, all races, all status, so everybody can do it. But, you know, I had a tremendous, tremendous difficulty for the people that are listening to us that think they're going to have a difficulty with this. I had a tremendous difficulty. My brain was very stubborn. And at the time I was convinced that I, that I could not get this God thing the way they're describing it to me. It caused me a lot of problems initially, like complete reservations. I couldn't deal with anything. Over time, I developed this. I think this is hard to disagree with, honestly. And I don't want to take much, much, much more time. But if you think, so say you believe that there is no God and you're, you have the feeling of like the militant atheist, right? So you think the world was created by randomness. Okay. Whatever this random occurrence that created the entire universe is, this thing you don't understand, right? And you don't need to understand it. It's just something so much beyond you that you're nothing compared to it, right? Say that this whole universe thing we can call God. It includes everything on the universe, including you. This whole system, which works somehow by itself without you doing anything about it and not understanding anything about it. Say this whole system has never listened to you once in your life. It doesn't matter. When you're praying to God or consoling or commuting, commuting with God, is that that? When you're doing that, you're not really, you're talking to God, but it's not that God should necessarily talk back to you. What you're doing is showing gratefulness because you were given this existence that you didn't deserve, that you don't know how it happened. And what you're supposed to show is what we say in Arabic, subhanAllah, which means praising God to say, you know, thank you for what you've done for us. I don't understand you, but I respect you. And I see that all your creatures in the world seem to work in unition in a way that goes with the flow of the river of life and not swimming against the river. I have been swimming against the river. Clearly, I don't know what I'm doing because I'm about to die. So maybe I should look at the river of life, observe nature and pray to God in the sense that I am learning from God, from the universe. God is what I don't know, and that's everything. And so it gives you respect, gratitude, communion. These are maybe the most important parts of religion. What do you think? Right? It's hard to disagree with that. No, it is hard because the thing is, you're... That trips him up is the word God. That's all. No, that's what I mean. You just describe God pretty much. Yeah, that's good. To me, that's... Some people would describe the same God using different words. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? So the thing is, it's all the same thing. That's my opinion too. It's like, all the religions are... They try to explain what you just tried to explain. It's just really hard to... Other people get really caught up on this idea that there's one religion, he says he has a beard and he has... Calm down. Okay, back off. Don't get stuck on that one. If somebody told you there's a guy listening to you and you don't believe him, does that mean that this whole universe, this grand, beautiful thing that nobody understands is not before you? If you see a nice car, don't you say, wow, this is a beautiful car. If you said, wow, this is a beautiful life every day, you wouldn't drink. That's what they're really saying to you at the end of the day, right? Yeah. Well, if you didn't like it, I mean, if you liked it, you accepted fully as it is, you wouldn't want to change it. Yeah, also. And you would want to go with the flow of life. Like in my mind, if we do things that are very unhealthy for ourselves, even in that way, we're going against the flow of life. I tend to do it naturally, which is why my channel is called Leo Longevity. You could say it's self-will and then going with the flow of the river is kind of God's will in a sense. True. And how do you know God's will? By learning God, by watching the flow of the universe also, which is that gratitude and meditation and observation. This is a good note. Thank you.

=== FILE: The Last NFBB Episode with Leo, Blue & Ariella [uH0HHcpoIVc].txt ===

 okay, Boston's Ariala is back and Blue is back, I'm excited. Sorry guys for the delay, for the audience to know, we haven't recorded in months and I'm really excited to talk to Ariala and Blue and we want to continue Boston's podcast and we'll go through it. What we want to talk about first is the Olympia and before the Olympia I wanted to ask about jazz, so we haven't heard from Jack for a long time, so you said he's in kindergarten? So it's VPK, it's like a program to get them ready for kindergarten. It's from 9 to 12 Monday to Friday, so it gives me like those three hours to do my errands, to do some cardio in the morning, so it's great and he learns a lot in it too, which is great. But what don't they start kindergarten at like four or three? Five. Oh really? Yeah, so he'll be five in April, so he's the perfect age for this program and then after I have to look into schooling for him too, there's some schools I looked into but it's just, I've had so much going on that I put him in VPK and I'm like, you know what, I'll just figure it out when he's older and but yeah, he's doing good so far and they learn a lot in it and the program's really good. But Ariella, you've been training. Every time I see your profile, I don't know the details, but I want to see you huge. Have you been working out? You look huge. Thank you. So after everything with Boston, I wasn't eating for like a really long time and I went from like one 70s to like one, I lost a lot of weight. I lost probably like 20 pounds or so. And I was like, you know what, let me just get back into the gym because mentally I needed that structure of just waking up, eating, cardio, training. I just needed that regimen because otherwise I would have gotten super depressive. I didn't have a routine. So that's really what fueled me to get back into working out. And then it's insane how fast the muscle memory came back. Like within a matter of weeks, I was just like, oh, this is great. Seeing little definition because I wasn't doing anything before. I was like training with Boston randomly, but like I would do no headphones. I wouldn't do a pre-workout. Leo, I would train after like eating fast food. I wouldn't eat all day and then train. Like I wasn't taking it seriously. It was just to like spend time with Boston, you know? So I really hadn't taken it seriously until probably the end of March into April. And then I just progressed really well. And I have that like, that itch again, you know, just to get into the gym every day. That powerful itch. You became powerful again. Okay, so I wanted to ask about Anakin. How's that? Good, man. It's amazing. I'm sucking up every moment. Every moment. You remember, I have older kids, so I'm kind of reliving everything over again. Yeah, exactly. For the audience that doesn't know, you have older children and you have a very young child. Yes, I have a 22 year old, a 23 year old and a one year old. That's crazy. That's so good. I don't know how you did it. You go through the whole child's very big all over. Yeah, it's amazing, though, man. Little things, you know, my wife and I, it's just things that we want to, that we went through, you know, with our other kids, it's just a completely different perspective now. You know, we were children raising children before, that, you know, now being older, more mature, established stuff like that, it's just a different perspective on things that we're loving every second of it. Absolutely. Yeah, children raising children is a good description. Okay, I'll tell you guys about that. So I'm in a room in a house in Tony Hughes's house. Well, both of us are renting a house. It's very interesting. So we have like a four, five bedroom house in that and it's very unusual. Tony is a very usual guy. Let me show you how unusual it is. Tony sent me a message tonight. This is ridiculous. Look at this. He sent me a message. I just saw this message because I was late coming to the dentist. This cookie is sending you rental house options on an app called live. Most of these types of things will happen online. It's an app because all the real estate agents use live. So check those messages sometimes. I'm at the gym, working out with a Thai tomboy lesbian. It's also a possible solution to my issue. Because if I have one of these, one of these then then she's a lesbian, she finds other girls. Like what? Tony, Tony is obsessed with, with three steps. So Tony, he hasn't changed at all. Oh, obsessed with reasons like his whole life. He's trying to organize these things and stuff. It's very funny. So yeah, it's a fun time. Okay. So next, yeah. So I wanted to, so I'm in Thailand. I've been spending time with Tony and he's really fantastic. Oh wait, let me see. Have you, have you went on a tuk-tuk yet? Yeah, I did when I was like 10. You know, you know, I came to Thailand first when I was like 10 or 11 years old. I came here twice for a month when I was young. Thailand's an interesting place. It's not for me. I gotta tell you the truth. It's really not for me. It's, it's funky. It's very funky. Okay. So next, next we wanted to talk about the Olympia. So what did you guys think about that? Let me ask this question. Did you guys expect Rami, when you saw Rami go off, did Ariel, did you watch the Olympia? I did. Yeah, I did. My friend actually had a Christmas party the same day. So we were all on the couch watching it. I didn't watch the full thing, but I did watch some of it. Yes. What did you think when you saw Rami off to the side? So this is what happened. Everybody saw Rami off to the side, like he was like out of the selection on the right side. And people were thinking that, that people were thinking that, that Rami is certainly not in the running because he's off on the side. And they didn't, they didn't, people were thinking that Rami won't have a shot at being at the top just because he was off to the side. Like people were judging his placing because he was placed on the side. They were judging based on how the judges were putting him. Did you guys see Rami Tezik as being fifth place when you saw him? Did you, did you judge that? Yeah, I mean, when he showed the video, you know, when I seen what he looked like a week out, a couple of weeks out, I thought everything was on schedule. Everything was good. Yeah, because so many people asked me what my predictions were. And I was like, he's going to win it again. He has everything. It's no doubt. But then when I seen him come out, I was like, Oh, fuck, like something was way off. And then when they put him out to the side, I was like, Wow, okay, he's bet. But you notice that in the finals, they still moved him around the center for a second. So he was compared. So I thought, okay, they're still going to give him some love, but they didn't, you know, they definitely let him know that the way he came in was not rewardable. He was, he was way off, way off. I don't know what happened behind the scenes. You know, I know Dennis watches over him, you know, at the end, but I think for him, at this stage, he needs Chad right by his side at the end. And I'm not sure how that plays out. But definitely way off. Chad was at his side. The thing is, Ariel, I don't know if you saw him, people were complaining that first of all, they were complaining about his quads before he came because they were like, then saw them. Then they were complaining about his back being undersized. Then they were complaining about his triceps being undersized. But I don't I, what did you think of his condition? His, um, you didn't hear anyone talk about his glutes. He had those like, well, it's like, it's like, if we get it, like everybody on that stage taking steroids, they're probably trying to move around pinning into as much areas as they can without getting lumps. So like, we get it, but like, they don't want to see that on stage, you know? So those were the first thing that stuck out to me was when he flexed his glutes from behind, like those two pointy marks stood out. And then his quads just, it was just weird. It's just he wasn't like him. He didn't seem like he was on. And it's like, you compare it to weeks out. Same thing with Sarah, physique, you compare them to weeks out. And then you're like, Well, what happened on stage? Sarah situation is different, though, because she tried, she posted, she tried to come in softer. I don't know if you saw that. And then it failed. Sarah, Yes. Yeah, she's insane. I think if she's like all the time, she shredded weeks out, she has to actually tone it down to come in. And that's what she did. She stays shredded like seven weeks out. That way she could slowly kind of fill in and bring the look that she's known for bringing. But what happened this year was she toned it down a little bit. Her abs weren't as lean. She wasn't as brisk that like she was weeks out when she was posting photos. So then you're like, Well, what happens? You look like that. And then on stage, it's like, that happens a lot with competitors, not just her. You're like, What happens in those few weeks, those few days, you know, they're posting hotel shots where they look amazing. And they're like, Oh, you're going to win it. And then on stage, it's like, they're softer. Like what happened? But with Sarah, she tried to bring in a softer look because she thought that that's what they wanted. And they didn't. And they rewarded somebody else over her. I forget who blew. What's her name? That one? Which one? I'm very confused about women's physique. Women's physique. She'd been like a top runner for years. Natalia? Natalia. Yeah, she finally got it. Yeah. She did, which was deserved. She came in super lean. But I do think that if Sarah came in her best, she's untouchable. Absolutely. I agree. I agree. Because even beforehand, when people ask me about that, Hey, who do you think is going to win? I was like, Oh, yeah, she's going to get it again. There's there's nobody close. But Natalia card slipping. Exactly. So she posted Sarah posted again, like, you're not going to catch me trying to soften up again. I'm not going to try to make the judges or anyone else happy or all these, you know, people are trying to get into her head. Oh, you should come in this way. Women's physique should be this and it gets into your head and she's like, I'm not going to do that anymore. I'm just going to come in the way that I know I can come in. So she does that. She I mean, she has it again, you know. Yeah, absolutely. I can ask you guys, what do you think about like women's bodybuilding compared to women's physique? I get confused when I see them on stage because women's physique. Okay, this is really, really like amateur. But when I look at the women's bodybuilder, it looks sort of out of place. Like the physique competitors have a better physique overall. The women's bodybuilders seem to be, I don't know, it's not streamlined. Like the blocky waist, it's like they're as, yes, they don't have that like, aesthetically pleasing X factor where they're the same. The small waist and the big shoulders and which they with all the stuff that they're all, I mean, but that's genetics to some of them. They just, you know, they're taking all the G H and they're blowing their waist out and they're just overdoing it too much. But there are those women who can do bodybuilding and really be on point with the shape and the symmetry to women's physique is, is like turning into it's insane because when I first competed in 2012, I think physique was just kind of hitting the NPC and I feel like they just added it. And my figure back then, when I competed on stage in 2012, that wouldn't have been able to stand a chance nowadays with the figure checks because it's insane how much bikini figure and physique has progressed. It's nuts. Like just the muscle that they want, the definition that they want because in women's physique, they didn't use to watch triations. I might be wrong on that. I'm pretty sure that years ago they didn't want really visible, like lean, hard striations because that was bodybuilding. They had to distinguish between physique and bodybuilding and they only added physique for the women that were maybe too muscular for figure, but not big enough for bodybuilding. And now it's like these physique checks. It's like, they're massive. They're huge. They're veiny. They're striated. It's like, it's insane. That's why if everyone wants to compete again, I'm like, I don't know. But the top bodybuilding chick is incredible. I forgot her name. Yes. Are you talking about the really pretty black girl? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know her name too, but she's gorgeous. She has a great shape, great muscle. She keeps her femininity. I don't know her name, but I admire her. I admire her. She keeps her femininity incredibly so, right? She does. Very impressive. Okay, so this is what my thought was honest. So when I saw Rami come on stage, I thought that he's, to be honest with you, I actually thought he was in very good condition. I don't know. It sounds a little bit ridiculous, but he was the driest he's ever been. He was the leanest he's ever been on stage. He was the young. He did obviously lose size. And I think it was possibly because, like, he lost size, I think, because he was so dry and not so flabby. But I don't know if it was because he wasn't in good condition. Anyway, the point is when I saw him on stage. Leo, my question is, like, I know Dennis watches over him at the end, but is Chad in person, like, within the last, like 48 hours? Yeah, Chad. I don't want to go in. Yeah. Chad, there was a little bit of an issue this long ago. Yeah, yeah, because I'm sure there was something behind the scenes. You know what I'm saying? I always tell everybody, you know, the greatest coaches on the planet is Chad and Hawni. I love. Did you guys get disconnected? Guys, I'm sure. Okay, it's recording. You guys, you think? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I figured something was with me. Tony just sent me a message. He said, I'm going to head to a tomboy lesbian park. Not from now if you're interested. I know you don't like seeing T girls that much, but I figure I should probably start offering to you just in case you're ever in the mood. I think I have a lot of interesting things like this that I still haven't seen also. Hold on, hold on. What's a T girl? It's a trans, it's a transsexual lady. Oh, bro. No, no, I'll throw up. Oh, this is my life. It's very interesting. So, so, yeah, I thought he was in good condition. Hawni was excellent, obviously I understand what he gave it to him. I think Derek was amazing. I think Derek is like a life changing. Like, we've never seen anyone in the history of body looking for that kind of. Or that kind of. Once he wins the Olympia, he'll keep it for years like Derek has the potential to be a jay Cutler. He has the potential to hold on to it. He has absolutely everything he's approachable. He's marketable. He has everything. It's just a matter of. Except to Andrew Jack. I like his physique, but the thing is is still from the rear. He does not have that this is he does not have the conditioning of those guys in those upper spots is. Once he fully fills out his frame and then brings the conditioning from the rear is going to be insanely dangerous. Okay, I agree. I want to challenge you get your body for this on this subject. When you see Andrew Jack on stage, there are no question he is the most impressive physique. You can't lie. When he stands facing front on a standing relaxed, nobody competes with him. Nobody on the stage. I think he's far better than everybody else. And so I was just shocked like he ended up nice or not nice is what I think he ended up. Or something like that. I just don't understand exactly. I understand when you turn around his boots and hands are not dug in. But that's one body part everything else is far better than everyone else. I agree. I think he has a great physique, but that's a huge thing for the judges. I mean, some of these judges when they look at that that is the one thing. If that is not up to par getting moved to the side. Can I can I be honest about this so obviously we understand that body fat gets removed from the boots last so if you're looking at competitors and you see that boots aren't dug in. I understand that they're not as competitive in a way, but it's a little game. It's a little game to be obsessed with people's boots to be honest with you. When you stand with everyone's boots, I want to say I don't think I don't think they're looking at it that way the way they were looking at it is basically this was this guy made the ultimate sacrifices. They got every bit of fat off. That's the way they're looking at it as this guy did everything he suffered more than the guy next one, because they look at it not just as a physical weakness but honestly, they look at it as a personal weakness, a mental weakness of okay, you couldn't go through what the guy next to you went through and so you just took your prep a little lighter. Yeah, that's because Leo, somebody turns around and has strided glutes the rest of them is going to be up to par. Nobody's ever going to turn around have strided glutes and have a soft soft abs or soft shoulders or soft like Derek like Derek Derek has strided. He has an excellent backside and his front chest and abs are sort of watch. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's slightly front to soft. But overall, still some maturity there it's just because so young. He's still overall in shape and yeah some people, you know genetically will have their glutes come in easier than others other people have to like, like, Andrew Jack you can tell when he turns around he's going to have to really suffer to get those glutes in, but a lot of bodybuilders have that like Cedric he was one of me and Boston's favorite bodybuilders and he could have had the Olympia so many times if he just came in shape with his blutes if his glutes were just crisp you know, like he had the potential he had the most. I mean he had the most impressive physique because he's tall he filled his frame out he was really really aesthetically pleasing to look at he had that old school look but also the like new school like muscle like he was really big and he filled out his frame but he just he couldn't come in like 100% and the one time he came in his best. I think that was the year that he won the Arnold. So he had the potential, but I think the glutes is just like, it's just the thing in bodybuilding it's like if your glutes aren't in then most likely the rest of you isn't going to be that impressive either. You know, what did you think of Nick Walker crunching down on his abs and all the positions that you guys noticed this. When he crunches down on his abs in the rear double by I mean the front double bicep. He moves down, and it makes his bike steps look sort of turned in. I don't think it's a very impressive look but I think he does it because he has to shorten the course of obviously everyone started but do you mean like from the front or from like this. Yeah, from the front he goes like this from behind also from behind he can't. He can't spread his lap very well I think it's because he's crunched down also. It's interesting look what do you think about that. I'm pulling it up now. Yeah, I know you're. I think he does it honestly to try to create some more detail from the front but also because his torso is longer. I think that's why he's just that's that's the one weapon he's lacking as structure. So he's trying to create more from the front. He's just, he's, he's in an awkward position man, because, you know, he's going to get near the top. The other thing is, those guys will structure is always going to be that bump in the road that's just as long as you have another guy that has the same size and condition. He's never going to get past them and so he's trying to create other things if I was him and I told this to many people. In his conditioning isn't even 100%. You know, he's got a freak factor but his legs still need to come up from the front like Nick is a good guy, and I wish the best run that honestly, he should hire honey, he should absolutely hire honey I've said it to multiple people. You know, I don't think I assume that I assume that honey doesn't want to to to be a sponsored athlete for evolution. I mean, I assume everybody right now would hire honey if they could. Right. Yeah, I mean, I don't know exactly. Who was honey's class just for people. Yeah, yeah, honey's amazing honey is seriously the best coach on planet Earth I mean it is what it is I'm never prideful with that stuff that's why I always speak out to people and tell you who's fake and who's not I have no problem doing it. You know, it's, but yeah, if he went to honey, he would be with somebody that can actually maximize his offseason in a healthy manner. And then there's no role of the dice, you were going to peak perfectly. There's no question about it everything at the end will be completely fluid, you know, but you know this is that's part of the trend in the sport today though. The guys hired free coaches. That's part of the trend unfortunately is you know and I talked to a couple of guys after the Olympia, you know that reached out to me and I like what do you think this and that I'm like well who do you work with and you know a couple of them I was completely blunt. I'm like, you hire this guy he's not charging you anything because he's using you for marketing. I'm like, shit. Yeah, there's so many guys they look like melted candy bars. And the thing is is. No, no, go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry. Oh yeah I was just going to say you know, some of these guys. They get the free coach. They get the free subs, and they get someone that's going to hold their hand and tell them they look so great but you know what, after the Olympia after the lights go off, you're pissed about the way you look. So you got your hand held, you got the free gear, you got the free coaching that you're furious after you're placing and how you looked. You need to regroup, change their perspective, put out the money, hire a real coach with a real resume that can get you to where you need to be because you know, if some of these guys, you know went to Hawni just the way the chat had a group of people, you know in the 90s. He had them all at their best and let them battle it out. I would love to see someone like Hawni have a group of guys that were all at absolute best and let them battle it out. But I don't know if Hawni wants that. Does Hawni want that? Because he, like if you think about it for Epojent, he wants the top two athletes. He has the top two athletes. So I don't know if he wants to have like five guys competing for the Olympia and he's putting all his energy into each other. Can I say something? I want to sit on people a little bit. George Fah is a horrible coach. I don't know why this guy gets great feedback. He did horribly with Andrew Jack repeatedly, three times in a row last year. First he said 80% condition, then he said 85% condition or something like that. And then he brought him to the Olympia just looking the same as last time. That comes back to that. Oh, go ahead. Sorry, go ahead. No, I'm going good. Well, my thing is this, it comes back to that same thing. George Farah is really good with some people. Some people, because he has one way of doing things. Well, he was great with Branch Warren. He was great with Dexter Jackson. Dexter Jackson is always in condition no matter what. George is non-fensical. Whenever he talks about insulin, he doesn't make sense in biology. He's like, oh, insulin causes cancer and I hate insulin and insulin ruin bodybuilding. The things he said doesn't make sense all the time. I agree that insulin is a negative aspect in bodybuilding, but he doesn't understand what insulin is. And he got colon cancer, obviously. He doesn't know about vitamin D, magnesium, calcium, effect of colon cancer. He never talks about it. He just talks about insulin. He clearly has it. And every time he talks about stuff, he's like, my doctor, my wife is a doctor. And he just talks about his wife being a doctor. What does that do with anything? Anyway, my point is that George, I don't understand his conditioning. I haven't seen a broad bring anyone in condition except Dexter Jackson. I didn't know about, what's his name? Branch Warren. Branch Warren. I didn't know that he was training. Yeah. I mean, his recipe for a couple of people have worked well, but you know, George is a nice guy. But the thing is, is that I don't want to name certain names, but there's other people that because they were fantastic, well-known bodybuilders as pros in the 90s, they now coach and absolutely, you know, maybe hit the mark 5% of the time, but people still hire them because who they were as a bodybuilder as a pro in the 90s. So it's honestly, if George wasn't who he was in the 90s, would people go and hire him? No. And you got to remember, it still comes back to that same thing is that George uses Andrew for marketing, right? So he's not going to be that same coach like Hawni or somebody or myself that's going to say, I don't care who you are. You're fat from the rear or soft, whatever you want to call it, you're not up to par. We're going to the Olympia to have you at your absolute best. I don't care who you are. This is what you need to do. And it's okay if you walk away, but other people have to hold on to those people and tell them, look at Hunter Labrada. It's the same thing. People use him for marketing, hold his hand, tell him he looks great. He goes on stage and looks absolutely horrible. It's the same thing he needs in his corner that will just tell him, hey, I don't care who you are, what your name is, you're soft, you're better than this. Can we talk about Hunter? Ariel, I don't know if you're interested in this, but Hunter last Olympia confused the hell out of me because he did like very well in his place, but he was very soft. Like very soft. He had a good shape, but he was very soft. And of course, people are bringing up the fact that this guy doesn't eat solid food, which I think is a bit ridiculous. Probably he's having some inflammation from the, maybe even from the, from the like zero calorie sweetness. I don't know what it is, but he has come like light film of water also, not just fat, and he also has fat. But anyway, the point is this. So like last Olympia, he got an undeserved placing everybody. And then this Olympia, he did very poorly and he came in just as bad condition as last Olympia almost everyone think he came in better. I don't know what you're talking about. He came in similarly bad. So what do you think about that? But what do you think about the fact that his father is a top top competitor? He had a good coach before or like a guy that was well respected. And he still does. Ben is a nice guy and helpful, but he's constantly losing back edition. Yeah, but that's, yeah, but it comes to that same thing though. And it's not me talking shit. It's real. Just like I've said it forever with everybody. Check the resume, look these dudes up. Just because they were affiliated with a certain bodybuilder who was successful does not mean look them up.  worseyourclients, worsethe-resonate. As soon as they looked these dudes up, I had people that messaged me about his coach, and I said, I'm not gonna say a word, go to his Instagram, count his bodybuilders, show me someone he's turned into a freak, show me somebody he's gotten shredded. Multiple people texted me back and said, fuck, dude, I thought you just talked shit. Everything you're saying is absolute facts. And it's not me being a jerk, it's that same thing. They hire a coach that's maybe local, wants to hold their hand. The coach is like, fuck, I'm gonna use this dude for marketing so other people will hire me. This guy's gonna look like shit. I don't know what I'm doing. It's the same thing over and over. And a hunter could be so much better that he needs somebody in his corner that's gonna say, hey, again, I don't care who you are, who your dad is, what your last name is, you need to be pilled. Do you want to be first call out at the Olympia? Do you want to be in the top five? He quit. This is what you do. Absolutely. But you know what? He doesn't have the guidance in his corner or the accountability for someone to just say, hey, you know, what I do isn't free. You want to be at the top. This is what you need to do. I don't need you for marketing. If you want to eat cereal and drink protein shakes, and the doors over there, but other people aren't gonna do that because they have no clients and they're gonna hold on to that one guy to market. Can I be honest? So guys, just for the audience, listen, when I started to help William Buona, everyone started to respect me. Or people started respecting me more than before in bodybuilding, because I was the arm wrestler. I don't know much about bodybuilding, but clearly I helped William Buona with his off-season last year, which is when you grew massively. And I wrote the off-season, not chatting at the beginning of the off-season. So some people were like respecting that. I just want to be clear that when you have a athlete like that at the top 10, in any way you help them, everyone starts to like take your advice with a seriously. So what I wanted to say is that having like Andrew Jack or having one of these guys is a huge credibility to your CV or to your resume. And people are living off that stuff. Like if you get a top 10 guy, it will make your career as a coach. So people should keep that in mind. What you should look at is the top 10 guy that's not coming in condition. Like William was not in great condition this Olympia. If you see that happening, then you know that the coach is not being well, because he has an elite athlete and he's not being in condition like Hunter. Can I ask something? So we have to talk about Samson, but briefly about Nick. Matt Johnson, I want to understand how the hell blew? I want your impression. How does he get these muscles to be so segmented and so filled with lipogen, but then on the outside, superficially so dry? How, what is this look? Do you know what it is? And what I want to ask you is this, do they keep the age in? Do they keep it in? That's the thing with the growth hormone, it depends on the person. Some guys, I'll have them run all the way to the day of the show, they're still dry. It depends on the person. But you have to look at, again, who he's working with. I've said it before, Sean Clarita, Stevie Wonder could train. He would still look the same. Same with Nick, these things are not, it's not rocket science. If you take an average guy and have Matt peak them, they don't look like that. They don't look like that. That's what I'm wondering, what did they look like? Yeah. Well, the magic is they're genetics, how they respond to those drugs. Some of these guys, you don't have to do much at all. I have some guys where I don't have to do shit. I can keep water the same and they wake up on show day, like it's a Tuesday and they look absolutely insane. But what's, just like me and Boston used to always just beat the drum. When you really do your research, look these dudes up. It's not, how is he doing it? How is he creating this look? No, no, no. Why is it that it's only two or three guys he's able to create this look with and the other 100 guys look like garbage? You see what I'm saying? And it's not talking shit, it's the truth. Once you really look into it, you're like, okay, what's the one variable here that those three guys have? Why is he able to peak them and not the other 100 guys? It's because genetically, they're able to get so lean to where their body doesn't hold on to water. Everything is just formulated correctly. There doesn't need to take a lot of manipulations. Guys like that, you could peak blindfolded. Nick still needs to get a bit drier. His conditioning is not perfect. Yeah, he definitely needs to get drier. Yeah, on the rear side, he still needs to get drier. I think he's fine from the front, but from the rear, Sean has been crazy conditioning like that since day one, he's always had currency condition. He took his time over the years to put on his size and John Meadows is the one who had a lot to do with him putting on all that size. So it's like people forget about that fact. And then at the end, Matt gets all the glory, but again, it's a couple of guys that respond exceptionally well to chemicals. And it's not a method because if it was a method, then why did the other 100 people look horrible? I didn't know that. I thought Matt Jackson was creating a similar look because Sean Clarita has a very similar look to Nick Walker. Honest, must I? Yeah, and again, you could say, okay, well, Sean looks great. Well, why does Breton look like that? You know what I'm saying? Yeah, Bret Wilkin looks nothing like that. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I haven't seen him on stage. A couple of times he showed up where he looked absolutely horrible and then you look at Matt's amateurs. How come these guys look nothing like that? It's because of the actual athlete and how they respond to these chemicals. Some of these guys are so genetically inclined that it doesn't take a whole lot to do anything. Can I ask you something, Ariela, you haven't talked for a while, I don't know if you've heard but I wanna ask you guys about Samson. Okay, guys, can you explain Samson to me because, okay, look, I seem to be very negative today but I'm not trying to be negative. When I see Samson on stage, first of all, I respect Samson and Milo Shalant. Milo is very nice to me and very friendly. When I had this episode last year, Milo is one of the first people to reach out to me. He reached out to me for no reason, encouraged me to continue making my videos, told me that I had a good influence and this was at a time where I was arguing with him so I liked Milo very much. But can we just be honest about Samson? First of all, he has a linear album of separation. His abs are separating in the center. What's his name? Our friend that died, the Chad's client that died at 20 or 27, the huge, huge guy. He's like Nick Walker. The first... Oh, you're talking, yeah, but that wasn't checked when Dallas died, he was with Matt Jensen. Yeah, he wasn't with exactly, he was with Matt Jensen, yeah. So Dallas had that huge separation in his abs. So Samson has a similar separation and Nick, by the way, okay, let me tell the guys the truth. So Nick Walker, I don't wanna comment on this because I love Nick Walker, but I wanna, I have to say it now. So last year, his abs were very defined, like statue-esque. It was incredible. This year, everyone's like, oh, he has amazing abs, Nick Walker has the best abs on stage. He's gonna look great. He has these washboard abs, but this year it's separated. And now that it's separated, it will never mark my words. It will never be the same again. And what will happen is slowly it'll get washed up, sort of the way Williams is and other peoples that start separating and the abs are less clear. He's already in the process of doing it, but Samson is separated. If you look at his abs, they're not very clear. They're separated. His waist is slightly wide actually, even though his hips are narrow, but then his double bicep looks, in my opinion, horrible. His biceps look really bad. I don't know what it is when he looks like this. He has a great V shape. Once he does this, it doesn't look good. It's flat. I don't know what it is exactly. I don't know if he's injecting his arms or something like that. But the other thing he has is a b shaped head. I don't know if you notice this. His head gets wider like a pyramid upside down. And no, no, no, I'm not insulting him. I don't know if it's due to the... No, I know. Before G is, but it's so bad that when he poses, his, he's going like a B and then his head is doing another B. So it's like ruining the aesthetic, in my opinion. And I just don't know exactly how he beat Andrew Jack. I know, actually I don't know. His goods weren't better than Andrew's much. So I don't know what it is. Those guys are so similar. Those guys are so similar. I don't even understand how he did better than Andrew. Both of those guys need to fully fill out their frames and then be completely peeled and dry from the rear. Both of those guys, if they brought that package, it'd be very hard to beat, very hard to beat. But again, an offseason, really putting on denser tissue, staying leaner in the offseason. So they create a new standard for themselves. So that way, when they do go into prep, that they're starting from a different point, you know, that will end up leading to thinner skin, you know, leaner conditioning from the rear. But honestly, like they say, you know, when the show's in the offseason, I think that they... Yeah, I think so. You know, they need to get with somebody that can truly grow in the offseason. Truly... Let's be honest with you. This is, and I respect Milos tremendously, but I've never seen him grow, and I don't know if Milos would maybe offend the players, but I've never seen him grow someone in the offseason. I mentioned this last year with Boston when Milos took Regan off. I said, Regan will not grow. This is the worst choice for him, because he's already big. He's never ended up in great condition. He's not big enough. He needs a proper offseason, like with jazz or jazz or something like that. But Milos gets people filled out and brings them in condition usually on stage. But the problem is he's going from competition to competition. You're not doing that long offseason. And I know Samson grew tremendously last year. It's unusual. Milos usually doesn't do that. He did that with Nassau and a couple of other guys because of their response to insulin. And maybe Samson was diabetic, by the way. His response is so good that he may have been diabetic. Because like, if you respond that much to insulin, you gain 30 pounds, probably you were diabetic and you were not able to store glycogen before and not just store nutrients before. But anyway, my point is he's not doing that offseason. So I don't know how, I don't know. It's not a good choice for him. It's surely not a good choice to spend a year like this, going from competition to competition. And plus, he's gonna destroy his kids. He's going one after the other. What do you think about that? Shouldn't he have an offseason, like 68 months and gain five pounds a month? Are you asking me or Ariela? Yeah, I'm not. Yeah, I'm not. Yeah, I'm not. I'm not saying names or anything like that. I can't count how many of these guys reach out to me in the offseason and they're like, dude, I know you're brutally honest. Tell me what's up. What do you think about this? And I tell them the truth. I'm like, dude, this is what's up. You need to do this. And I'm like, I'm not gonna do this. And a couple of them, not a couple, more than a few have said, dude, I couldn't handle you because you're so OCD and you're a lot harder. You let things slip. And I'm like, well, yeah, that's me. My nature, I want you to be, I would like you to come out on stage and fucking blow people's minds to where people are like, what did he do? And a couple of these guys, two dudes, well, I had a few people at the Olympia this year, two guys I ghost trained, looked at their best ever and I'm not gonna say their names, anything like that. And their coach got the credit. I never said anything. I still don't even want to put these other dudes. I said, hey, if I was to do your stuff, as long as I get paid and I do my job because I don't do free coaching, I don't do handholding any of that. I was like, you can give the credit to whoever you want. I truly don't even care. I do this because I'm OCD and I absolutely love doing what I do. You can give the credit to whoever you want. I just want to see you come out absolutely freaky. But some of these guys don't want to do that. They want to be able to have a flexible offseason. They want to be able to go and eat or party or do whatever. They need somebody that's hardcore in their corner. That's very big on health, but isn't going to allow them to just send in check-ins and look like shit and say, okay, I'll be better next week. That's not doable. Do you want to go to the Olympia or do you want to go to the Olympia and actually get looked at? There's a big difference. Arielle, what did you say? Yeah, everything with Blue said it. It's really hard to find coaches like Blue that are willing to coach somebody, not get credit for it and be totally okay with it. Because a lot of these coaches, it's the opposite. They want the credit. They want people to be like, oh my God, you're amazing. You brought this person in like this. So it's very rare to have somebody like Blue that's like, look, I don't care if I get the credit. I just want you to be your best. So that's really rare. That's my comment on that. The comment before you talking about Samson, I actually had to pull up his Instagram because I couldn't even tell you what he looked like before you even said his name because I'm not familiar with bodybuilders. But it seemed like he had that app separation even in 2018 and it just seemed like it progressively got worse because he posted like a before and after and it's like he had there and it just got worse and now it's farther apart. And the same thing with his head shape as well. I think he always kind of had. That's kind of like just what Blue was talking about before, just like genetics and drugs. Even with the small stuff like the bad side effects, like Boston, for example, with all the stuff he ran, he never lost any hair, which was bizarre. But some guy could take a 10th of the dose of Boston and just go bald. It's just like their genes, just it's such a big part of bodybuilding. So you're either going to have to get that separation. What's that? Did he get the separation in his apps? Did Boston ever get that? I never saw. Like, did his apps ever separate? No, not that I had his like bloated, you know, bloated belly, but his apps were never separated. He had like really good thick apps. But no, as far as I can remember, his apps never separated. His stomach was always just really distended even when he was prepping offseason. But as far as app separation, no. We had a great competitor at the top 20 that was from 10th to 20th. I forgot what his position was. He had, he does a vacuum. He's a black guy. He does a vacuum now that makes his apps look better, but he has no app. You talked about Charles Griffin. Charles Griffin, perfect. So Charles Griffin, by the way, I love what he's doing. That's the only solution you can do is to do a crazy vacuum and never flex your apps. But once you get to that point, once the apps separate, by the way, I have this also for no reason. I mean, I don't know why I have it. I'm not a bodybuilder, but add that separation. Once it separates, it will never go back to normal. And the truth is, a bodybuilder should be marked down for that. It looks grotesque. Your app just separating because something's coming out of the midsection. And that's exactly what just happened to Billy. By the way, Billy's recently made a video of him going to some jacuzzi. I don't know why. And as he's tilting down in the jacuzzi, you can see like a helium coming out of the stomach. It's still there. It's still there. In between the apps, there's a bulge in between the apps. So this thing will never get better. Like Samson's just gonna go downhill. Nick will go downhill in the apps. There's no way around it. And I wish people would talk about this. Like when they see Samson on stage, he has great apps. No one doesn't. Why are you lying? His apps are separating. Like this is grotesque and people should comment on that. But I wanted to ask you guys, before we go to the women's division real quick, and I know I don't want to take too long at the time. I know where you're at in school. But really quickly, what do you guys think is gonna happen at the arm? Because you have Romney, Nick, Samson, Sean Clarita. You have Kamal. And I think some other people are forgetting who right now. But mainly I really, I'm fully of one app. Of course, I want to know what you guys, who you guys think is gonna be in the top three. Specifically, most likely. Honestly, if all of these guys are at their absolute best, I'm just picturing them that way. It would be between Rami and Bonac easily. Them two would definitely battle it out. It'd be really interesting. Do you think if Bonac is in his best condition, like at the Boston or at the Arm of the Last Year, do you think he beats Nick? Oh, absolutely. Yeah, because again, he has that one weapon that Nick lacks in that structure. With Bonac at his absolute best, completely peeled, dry, and still when he has that pop to his muscle, to kind of the icing on the cake for his physique, he's insanely dangerous. He could win the entire thing. But of course, I'm just coming from the perspective if everybody was at their best. So I think it'd be between him and Rami. And then if everybody else was still at their best, Andrew and Samson would be battling it out for, third, and then Nick would fall somewhere after that because then you're getting down to, who has the least weaknesses? And then it would get down to Nick, you have muscle, conditioning's 90%, but you're lack structure, and it would get down to Sean Clarita to where you have beautiful shape, great conditioning, but you lack size. And not size for his frame, but size comparatively to the other guys standing next to him. I mean, but of course I'm talking if everybody was at their best. But if I based it on how they looked at the Olympia, Sean's gonna catch people slipping because his conditioning's great, he's very smart about it. I think Nick will too. I hope his conditioning's even better. I would love to see Rami redeem himself. I like Rami a lot. I think he's a good person and he's got an incredible physique. I would love to see him at his absolute best because if he comes out and he is the same at the Olympia or worse, like anything, his stock, you know what I'm saying, is gonna drop. Can we be totally honest? Rami got fifth because he didn't go to the pitch break. That's the real reason. Manion invited him to the pitch break, he didn't go. They got offended. He wouldn't have gotten third bro, he wouldn't have gotten fifth. It doesn't make sense. He was in great condition, no Olympia competitor has ever came in better condition than ever and gone fifth. It's never happened. The one guy that got fifth, the Arab guy from the line of Lebanon, he wasn't in better condition at Olympia. I mean, I understand his muscles were downflanked, but he was in better condition. He tried hard. Yeah, he missed. What happens is when your muscle bellways are not full and volumized and pushing against the skin, it gives a soft, watery look with him downsized. And again, these guys have different weapons and his weapon is size. And when you have that size with his structure, it gives that freak factor. But let's be totally honest. When you saw Ronnie Coleman in his last Olympia winning, he looked like shit. If you see the Dory Needs in his last Olympia winning, he looked like shit. He had no muscles. No, no, no, I agree with you. I definitely think they punished him a little worse than he deserved. I punished him really bad. I didn't. I didn't. They only punished Arab bodyboots. Well, only bodyboots who ever got fifth from Olympia are Arabs. I know I don't want to be that guy claiming racism, but truly both of them are Arabs. It's coincidence, 30 years apart. And they just destroyed it. They've moved it to fifth because he didn't come to the fifth room. I mean, it's obvious. Anyone who doesn't want to say this is just turning a blind eye to the situation. Ronnie was, I mean, maybe you give him, I don't know, maybe he could get fourth, but I really think he could have gotten third. Can I ask you something? Nick Walker thinks that Derek Lunsford should have, that he should have beat Derek Lunsford. He said it recently, talking to Tarak Al-Gunzi and other people in the Olympia with Olympia YouTube channel. He said that I'm not happy that Derek beat me. I think I should have beaten him. Do you guys think that he should have beaten Derek? No, right? Not even close. It's not even close. I like Nick, but I don't think it should have been. Yeah, I like Nick too. I like Nick. I think he's a great person. And what he's done is great. I wish nothing but the best for him. Like I said, I wish he would go to somebody like Ronnie that could fully bring him into his absolute best regarding, you know, even if he doesn't ever get into that top spot, I would still like to see him at his absolute best. But, no, Derek is just on another level. And again, genetics, genetics, genetics. Derek's physique is just amazing. The shoulder to waist ratio. I mean, he has certain shots where he looks like he's photoshopped. You know, there's just, yeah. Somebody like as long as Derek and Potti are at their best, he's never gonna get past those guys ever because of structure. Can I point out something? So the word is not mentioned. Dwarfs. Dwarfs have long torso. You know what I'm talking about. They have long torsos and short legs. That's a dwarf symptom. You can be short and not a dwarf. And how you can tell is your torso is equivalent to your legs. When your torso starts to get long for your legs, that's the dwarf syndrome. Yeah, that's me. That's me. Not why. Nick beats you also. But yeah, yeah, that's the dwarf kind of look slightly. Nick has more of that. And the thing is like, when you go on stage, his thigh, his quads look short. They actually, he's fixing the torso by going down. But when you compare his legs to other people's, they're smaller because they're short. That's what I'm saying. They're trying. My thought is that they're maybe like, okay, how can we make this look prettier? I mean, this is just a very, you know, this pose here is the winning pose for most Olympians here. So how can we make this look prettier? Okay, we'll crunch down. But like you said, it changes the way his arms looks because it almost looks like they're rotated forward. He loses his lats a little bit because he's crunching down, makes his waist look a little bit wider. And then they're, maybe I'm just, you know, thinking out loud, maybe they're thinking, okay, but if you do the dramatic way, like a Dennis Wolf and have everything up, then you're gonna elongate the torso even more and the legs are gonna look weird. So they're trying to bring a little bit more balance, but they're making the structure look worse by doing that pose. Like a very tough position. Like what I was thinking Nick could do is Botox, I know this sounds ridiculous, but Botox, his waist muscles, like his obliques a little bit, you don't have to blow it up fully, but right before the competition, like two, three weeks before, it'll cause it to undersize a little bit because physically his weight and why his torso is long and he's strong, so he has muscle and his obliques. You can't avoid this. I mean, I don't know what you could do to minimize this. You can't hide it on stage. He's doing it. I think maybe he's doing the best job he can, but you can't compete with Derek when you have a distorsed long, really long pose. Can I ask you? So I understand what you're saying, but Han, sorry, with Branch Warren, because Branch Warren was a perfect example of what he can do with him. So I totally understand that. Do you see Samston as being at the top three at this, you say if he does bring condition, can he beat Andrew if they're both in condition with the current muscle that they have? If Andrew lost all the fat and what? If they're at their absolute best, I mean, I would, I like Andrew's physique a lot. I really do. Can I go now that Samston's been working out since 2003, competing since 2013, I think, or 14 or 15, and Samston, Andrew's been doing it for three years. Less than three years he's been body. This guy, I mean, he's like 38 or something, like Samston, difficult, but three years, but this guy, he had the potential to overwhelm everybody. Sorry, I didn't try to be, I got too excited. Oh yeah, yeah, no problem, yeah. I think it'd be super interesting. I would love to see him at their best and battle it out. I still think I'm a little more of a fan of Andrew's physique. I think if they were at their absolute best, Andrew just has, like you're saying, from the front, your eye just automatically goes to him, he just amazing physique from the front, but you know. I mean, if you got anyone from the street and brought them into the audience, who's the best bodybuilder here, and they don't know about bodybuilding, they will pick Andrew. And this is a problem because they wouldn't pick Arnold too. And now we're picking people that the public doesn't understand why you're picking them, because they don't look good. You're just getting into this glute and all this, well, there it is. Leo, you know, it's funny. So my sister flew down the same weekend that the Olympia was. So she was watching it and she knows nothing about bodybuilding. So it was interesting hearing her, she was actually pretty spot on with what we would look at when we're judging, but it was funny hearing some of her other opinions as to what looks better for her, because usually to the general eye, it's more like, like you said, who's your eye going to and the bigger stature. So there was a lot of bodybuilders that she liked that she was like, oh my God, who's that? Who's that? And they're not people that would have been top five. She was really good with like pointing out other stuff, but it was funny hearing her side. And this came down to the females as well, just her kind of looking at who she thinks would be top five that may not have been top five, but because of what she thinks, because she's looking at stuff just from what looks better. And you know, we're looking at things more critical. And you know, like you said, the glutes and the hamstrings in and the abs, and all these other really specific things. So. But I want to be critical about the clavicles. I want to say if you don't, if you're not a white guy, don't be a bodybuilder. And Nick is not a white guy. Sean is not a white guy, Phil he's not a white guy. I know he has good muscle and stuff, but these are not white people at all. Like not, Phil it's actually really not white. When I saw him doing this, getting into the thing with an alien, I saw like he moved his shoulders and I realized, whoa, all your shoulders, muscle, it actually just ended here. Like these people are very narrow. And then you have Andrew Jack. Listen, this guy is the specific, this guy trains with Larry Wheels and is relatively strong with Larry Wheels. Like from nowhere, he just came from Africa and lived in Dubai, just training with people, trained people and he's very strong. He has the incredible B shape. He's a true talent. He's like a hard rock from back in the day to some degree. And the reason why Bodybuilding did great in the 70s was because Arnold looked great and nobody really did after him to the public. No one was tall, no one had that incredible, Franco didn't look incredible, that very thin guy that won the Olympia once that took Amphetamines, forgot his name. Do you remember what I'm talking about? What's Olympia? Well, the aesthetic Olympia guy, the most aesthetic Olympia guy in the 80s. Very, very thin guy. He's not really muscular. He's like, well, you're talking about...  Zain. Zain, yeah. So Zain is not impressive to the public. I mean, maybe he's a little bit cut, but nothing like Arnie. So that's, people who say like, why is body not popular anymore? Because they're not impressive to the public. They're not like Arnie. They're not shocking sentiment. Andrew is. You know, and I just feel like it's, anyway. So that's about Arnie. Ariel, before you leave, can you tell us about what you thought of the women's divisions? I'm very uneducated. I don't even know what figure it's. I'd be honest with you. I know what fitness is, because I know Oksana Groshina. Yeah, she's favorite. You mean like what they're, like what they look for? I don't think what they compete in a figure. I never watched properly and I just realized recently, I actually don't know what it is. Like, is it more muscular fitness or is it less muscular fitness? Is it more muscular than bikini? What's the gradient of the muscularity and cuts? So muscle wise, it's probably for figure, it's probably most similar to fitness girls. If you had to pick, it's probably more similar to fitness girls. Over the years, it's gotten way more muscular when it comes to shoulder cap and how lean they want them. Some of these figure girls, they're quads. And I'm like, this is insane. These tricks are like, these tricks are jacked for figure. And back then it was, it was, it was softer. It was a softer look. It's hard to kind of pinpoint. So you know, bikini is just like bikini, you know, they're not looking for much, a little bit of ab definition, a little bit of, you know, gluten quad. And then figure is just significantly more muscular, probably on the same scale of, I would say the fitness girls. A lot of the fitness girls when they do their posing, I, that's kind of more similar to figure. And then physique is just the next level up. That's just it's, especially nowadays, it's insane. These physique girls are no joke. They're jacked. They're huge. You know, they're way bigger than they were five years ago. It's insane. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. It's almost like the bodybuilding chicks are like older physique chicks, like now, because they're like in their 30s, they have a bit more muscle and they're less tired. Or, or it's just those girls that just can't help their, their shape and their frame and they're just better bodybuilders. Like they can't, they probably could shrink down. But that girl we were talking about the really pretty black girl that does bodybuilding like her, like her frame is, is, is beautiful to look at. It's, she's big. You know, I don't, she could probably size down and do physique if she wanted to, but her frame better fits a bodybuilder for sure. 100%. She's amazing. She doesn't even get that hair loss. Like, I don't think she wears a wig. That's a real, that's a real ear. That's the thing. That's a major difference. It's like, actually, even a lot of these physique girls, they're wearing wigs. Boston used to tell me he's like, a lot of the chicks don't have hair. It's, it's crazy talking to some hairdressers too when they get some bodybuilders there, they're like their hair is just like that short. And then they need the wigs and everything like that, which is, it's crazy. It's like that, if like if that, if you're healthy and that's what makes you happy and you just happen to suffer from hair, I mean, I don't know how healthy some of these girls can be that have no hair. It's like, I'm not trying to judge, but it's like, at what point, at what point are you like, no, I don't, I don't want to do this. I'm losing my hair, you know, No, and I'm not judging them because I think they go through probably a lot of self confidence issues when they go through this. I don't think any woman can go through hair loss, male pattern, hair loss and not feel somewhat self critical and not maybe just probably just feel bad and I don't want them to go through that obviously. But yeah, I think, I think it's interesting that some guys don't go bald like Boston and me. I never protected it. And then some chicks go completely bald. And some chicks go like get full beard, like full like you can just see that they're shaving in the morning. Some of the chicks, they wear the bandanas to cover their hairline and there's some side effects I told Boston that I'm willing to deal with. I'm like, you know what those side effects I'm willing to deal with and there's others that I'm just, you know, I'm not. I think the clip growth, sorry, the clip growth is okay. I don't think anyone's like, oh, this is crazy. But the balding and the beard because that doesn't go away. And you stop like I don't remember that there was this female bodybuilder or competitor from another division got caught in Las Vegas for she was on a meth run or something. And in her mug shot, she just has like a long goatee. It was this long. Yeah, no, I was being like, she was like, she was on math. She was like, shock. And there's go he was just there. She was a bodybuilder. Yeah, I said your picture after I'll remember who it was. So, so also the fitness competitor who not oxana, the other competitor. I don't know if she wants to hear. Yeah, Missy is amazing. He's really she has like such an impressive physique and she's very beautiful. She's very, very impressive. Okay, so I think we covered this a little bit. I think next week, I don't know, Ariel. So just for the audience to know, I have to go right now but I would love to do is, and eventually Ariel can have one chance to do is if she wants but I was hoping we could get like a female podcast for example, because there are very few for female competitors, they are very few like recently I found a bikini, but they're very few and area has a lot of expertise, not only that, but she never masculinize yourself which is an incredible accomplishment now maybe because of her genetics or whatever, but she certainly knows a lot about. So I think she can. So what I was hoping is to do like a, if you're if you're open to it in the future and if you're not of course, but maybe you can start to interview people females and you can start on my child and start your own channel, whatever you prefer. And whenever you want. Exactly. Okay, great. That's what was. Whenever you want you can also come to the one I next week, we'll take questions from the audience like we used to with Boston, and we'll probably have a guest. And then Ariel can continue whenever. And well, it's great to see you. It really makes me happy. Thank you. Yeah, thank you for having me if any of your guests ever have questions about Boston. I mean, I always love talking about Boston. I always love talking about what me and Jackson's life is like, you know, at any point I'll be really happy to come on a podcast and just talk about that. So at any time you let me know, because I have mornings available and Jackson's that he became I'd be happy to come on. And we could talk more about the women's podcast to I'd be happy. I'd be happy to help because it is kind of lacking in, in that field too. So yeah, I agree. You know, I think like the biggest problem in life is death. And anyone who's conscious and intelligent realizes initially in early life like this is a joke. I'm going to die and not exist anymore. And this, and this is so close is going to happen any minute. And for me to walk around presenting I'm relaxed and life is really good. It's such a serious problem. It's the major problem of life. The only way I found to get around along with death. It's like my child's called Leo and longevity because I'm always close to death. And I'm trying to live longer I'm trying to incentivize myself to live longer. But there's another way also, which is to be remembered. I'm hoping that one day when I die people will remember me a little bit. Let me give you an example. Jerry Ward from bio is three chain. I watched so many of his videos. I was somewhat friends with them but just because I watched so many of his videos. Sometimes I think of him like he's dead. And then sometimes I think that I miss that guy. Like, I have that feeling. Of course I think of Boston away but I knew Boston more. I think that's the way to live on for a turn to be to be deathless sort of is if people remember you and take the effort to remember, which I think Boston has that from everywhere I get messages all the time about Boston constant. Like just some of them you voice notes. Yes, I'm going to be voice of saying like explaining like, I know Leo I didn't know Boston, but I watch well since 2012. And I feel like I knew him and losing him was an impact of losing a friend. So many of those messages actually Leo I've been saving them any comments or emails I get I copy and paste into my notes. Who said it and what they said because I want to print it out and I want to show Jackson when he's older, how many lives Boston had impacted whether it's a client a fan or whatnot because that's so important to me. Jackson was such a, he was three, four, he was so young that he couldn't. He knew Boston is like his dad but he didn't really know who his dad was he didn't know really who his dad was in the bodybuilding community and that bothers me, you know it hurts to know that Jackson's never going to see his dad that way in person, but you all these messages. Yes, through all these messages and all the podcasts that are still there I'm hoping that Jackson can can see that when he's older I'm really looking forward to it. Really quickly I know you have to go but I just wanted to say he will because I grew up sort of similar to this I had an ancestor who was dead, but he was very famous in Dubai, because of his unusual life. And even though I lived in the shadow. I heard about him all the time constantly. And I always use them as a role model of what can happen in life. What you can do if you put your will to it. Boston is literally a legend. Literally a legend. There's no question that Boston's a legend. Anyone who says otherwise ridiculous they don't understand. He's more of a legend than any current competing bodybuilding. Here. So, yeah, Jackson will feel that I'm a little biased but I agree. No, I agree. So the Jackson will feel that and that's awesome also but okay this is great. I don't want to get too emotional, but I get happy talking stuff. Yeah, I feel Boston. I did want to mention I talked to people about Boston. All week. Almost every day somebody says something about Boston. Yeah, whether you know it's something just the smallest thing or to a funny ass story of something he said or whatever like I will not be forgotten. I won't allow it. He never will be because he was such a unique person and Leo, like you've talked about, you know, in detail, like, his honesty was on another level. And, you know, that's why me and him connected so well. I mean, he's just brutally honest and didn't matter, you know, the truth was just so important to him. But yeah, he's not forgotten. Jackson will absolutely know who his dad is. He's honest and a very good person, which are enough reason for him to be alive. But his just influence his because sometimes I think about this like you can be a good person, but not influence many people toward good, or you can be a influence. I mean, you can be a smart person but not it make much of a difference in life because you can influence when you're just yourself. Boston had a major I'm not talking about influencer stuff. I'm saying his thinking is one personal discoveries change body. So he had a major influence and what I was saying earlier was that because Ariel was talking about remembering Boston talk about Boston. I think that's our duty to keep his, his himself alive. You know, because how we live on past ourselves is really that our actions echo in the halls of the turn and they echo when people remind people of you know what I mean. Okay, I'm gonna get I'll get depressing by stay on so I have to get off. Okay, so I'll text you and blue and blue we did go next week for sure and area if you want to. Yeah, definitely. Oh, in every other the peptide site. Oh, yes. And also the four sides. Yep. Everything is still being run. I'm still on Boston's forum. So selling the pre-workout the synthol and real peptides as well. So everything is still running. I know some people asked me are you still doing the synthol you're still doing this and I am so that's probably just shadow the simple. Did you see that a couple months ago is like, he is like, I have to send all companies. He mentioned like, what are the two simple ones you study carry blue. Do you remember? Oh, back in the day it was like painless pumps. I don't know if they're painless pumps. So painless pumps guy died and the other guy died also both of the simple covers. So he was like, I still have a bit of stock with them. These have real silence to them. So I recommend them other simple companies don't have real science. I was like, I did. Bombo science is not what you include in this oil that you're injecting. What do you think it is? Bro, this guy is the back. Today he's in a kidney video criticizing Nick to Julie. And in the kidney videos making mistakes about kidney biology. You can't do anything right. But anyway, he's trying to sit on the simple thing that since all this oil just so you guys know there is no science to any of it. It's all. I mean, there's a lot on the for sure the quality of oil. So Boston made sure he formulated it. That wasn't some shitty oil that's going to cause redness and it's going to hurt because a lot of these oils will have like a pain killer kind of in them to help with the inflammation and the fact that it hurts so bad. Yeah, and they don't have that in Boston, since all because it's not going to cause an excruciating pain. It's a it's oil that's going to be absorbed better. Each formula that goes up it adds something else. So one adds shark oil one at silica the next one has hyaluronic acid in it as well. So they all are for different body parts. It's really good quality oil it sells so well barely without me promoting it and that's from reoccurring customers so that just speaks for itself I barely promote it then thought and we get sales. It's like insane it's the number one thing. I'm not promoting it at all. No, and like some guy just bought five bottles a few hours ago it's just like it just it sells itself so that just the proof is in the pudding you know people are going to keep buying it because they like how it looks they like the results they like, you know, it's just it speaks for itself so that's all I have to say about the Blue next week I want to ask you a lot about getting in conditional stage and also I want to ask you about simple I have a lot of questions because finally, I don't like body building in terms of dehydration getting on stage I don't know anything about it, because I was an arm rest and stuff, but now by force because of when I can other things I've been following the, the people getting ready for competitions and I'm very confused about. And I've also been rewriting like I've been writing contest prep stuff and like for example leaving at a draw or or using super draw instead of at a draw class moments to fill people up. I want to talk to you about these things next week. So yeah, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely next week. All right guys we'll talk to you soon. Thank you for waiting for me. I'm very grateful. And I'll see you guys again next week. Bye bye blue.

=== FILE: The Legend of Bostin Loyd [xkQIDLcE67E].txt ===

 ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, We have a couple of people here. So John Bravo can't join the podcast because last night somebody slashed his tires and he was supposed to be gotten the car out of the garage by the time the podcast started but he couldn't. He sends his apologies. He believes that Boston was one of the main reasons he started on YouTube and that I'll let him speak about it maybe in a future podcast as this podcast will continue. Hey Dave, welcome. Oh, Lou. Hey, how are you doing? We still have a couple more people coming. So who is coming to this party? I think it's just Tony Huge and then Pete Rubish. Okay. Basically, Dom Super Slice will be here. Yeah, Super Slice. I keep calling him. I keep calling him Super Spleiced by mistake. I don't know why. He's never been spliced but he has been spliced. That's how you'll remember that forever and ever. Has he been spliced? No, but he's been spliced. I'll see that later. You'll never forget that. I guess we could... I'll give you a volume. Yeah, you're good. Very good. Tony, how are you doing? Good, guys. Look at you. You're all wearing warm clothing. Looks like you're all in cold environments there. I am. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I am actually in my house. That's true. I think we have probably just Dom joining otherwise. Cardone couldn't come. You wanted to. Dom Cardone wanted to come but couldn't. So I think we can probably get started and let the next person come in. Before anything else, because I know not everybody is going to watch the podcast all the way through, I want to establish some facts. First, I want you guys to know that there will be a GoFundMe link in the comments section. This is the same GoFundMe that was made for the funeral on the wake but you have to understand that if you just exceed the amount of donations, they go to Areola and to help with Jackson. Areola does not have any source of income to my knowledge other than Boston. So first of all, I highly encourage you to donate to that GoFundMe. Even though Boston did not want to GoFundMe in his name, it really helps Areola out personally. Boston did not expect to die this young and we'll get into why later. So the GoFundMe is in the comments section. The second thing I wanted to let you guys know is I never had anything really to do with this Boston Lloyd Forum. It was Boston's forum. I didn't really manage it much myself. I knew some people on the forum and I liked the forum because it provided a lot of value to people. It genuinely saves people a lot of money and stuff like that. But I used to recommend it every week because it was Boston's main source of income. And so the reason why I'm right now trying to help some of the truest fans and I want to give a call out. The truest fans of Boston, you should probably make a comment. Maybe I'll make a post on my Instagram asking about the forum. And the truest fans, we need a couple of you guys to manage the forum and then we need maybe one of the like anabolic pharmacist or something to also help. So the reason for that would be just to continue some income for Jackson and Areola. In fact, I'm uncomfortable doing this a little bit because it's quasi-illegal but the reason to do it is only because of Areola and Jackson. So just to... What? Yeah, Siding Handsome Oil. Do you know if she's going to keep that up, that in the pre-workout? That's a good point, Paul. I didn't think about that and I haven't asked her yet. I mean... Well, with the oil, that would be good to keep going. That's a great point. Okay, so actually I'll take an order. Nail and Spomps is gone now. So I mean, he's like really the true go-to person. So the oil and the pre-workout? He has a pre-workout also? Yeah. Okay. So I'll mention that to her for sure. Areola, I talk to her every day by the way, guys. She's doing very poorly. She's deeply in love with Boston. She was a true wife, not one of these women that just use you for your career or something like that. She loved Boston to death. He was her best friend and she can't even imagine her life without him. So I've been talking to her every day about it. Anyway, a couple more housekeeping things. Just one more. I wanted to stop making videos about bodybuilding. To be honest with you guys, I made a lot of videos about bodybuilding because it's one of the areas where PEDs are used the most. And it's one of the areas where I learned about PEDs from. I'm a power lifter, arm-ruster guy. I'm not even bodybuilding guy. And as Miloš pointed out, that piece of shit so many times, I'm not a bodybuilder. So because of Miloš actually and other people like him, these creeps, I thought, you know, before a couple of months ago, I wanted to stop making content, but Boston wanted to keep doing the podcast with me. The only reason I kept making any bodybuilding content was because of Boston because I loved talking to him and he was my true friend, even though I never met him. And so I didn't know this. I was thinking of not making any more content, but then I thought I should make more content to advertise the forum as my channel grows, to continue for Areola. But then a lot of subscribers, fans of this podcast, messaged me over the last few days telling me that they want the podcast to keep going, even though Boston's not there. They want the podcast to keep going in his spirit and the kind of honesty that he had, the kind of humility that he had, which I don't embody. I would only aspire to be 5% of that or 10% of his extreme honesty and stuff like that. But the point is I just want you guys to know for Boston's sake, for Areola's sake, for Boston's legacy and for the subscribers of the channel who genuinely like the podcast, I will keep it going with the podcast regulars that are willing to come regularly, which will include for sure Blue and Arman, and we'll see who else is willing as well. So that's all I have to say as an introduction, guys. I thought maybe each of us could talk about our experiences with Boston. Maybe we could start with, does someone want to start in particular? And then later we could talk about his cause of death. I have, by the way, I'd like to make clear from the beginning Dave Palambo wrong as always in everything that he made about, said about Boston was incorrect and disrespectful to a dead person. And I don't like it. I'm going to fix it all in this podcast. But whenever it comes up. What did you say, which part of what Dave said? First of all, he said, first of all, he said it was an aortic dissection. They are not sure yet. He rushed to that delivery. Yes, man. I'm in contact with the father. First of all, Areola and the father John are the first people who got the autopsy, not the mother Mary. Mary, for some reason, rushed to Dave before they even know if it's a thoracic or aortic rupture. So they don't even know. Second of all, Dave said that this has nothing to do with his previous background or whatever. No, it has a lot to do with it. Dave doesn't know what happened to Boston in his recent life. Also the last two videos Dave made about Boston were disrespectful as hell. He said, Dave, Boston would never listen to him and he just didn't pay attention. And that's what happens when you don't pay attention. No, Boston changes life dramatically over the last year as much as he could. He really tried all the time and Dave, that piece of shit turned his back on him a year and a half ago. And I know that not just because Boston told me that, not just because Dave canceled Boston's kidney stuff order two months before his death. Two months before his death, he canceled the order when it came from Boston Lloyd. Not only that, I talked to Dave on the phone by myself a year and a half ago. I told Dave, Boston has kidney failure. We have to save him. Dave said he cannot be saved. He's going to die. I said, no, we still have to try. And then he said, no, there's no point. He's going to die. So this piece of shit turned his back on someone. He calls his own son and refused his order of kidney stuff and yet made three videos about him before I even made one video. That piece of shit creeps, snake. I'm sick and tired of you, Dave Palumbo, you piece of shit. Anyway, sorry, I tried to take a volume so I don't get. It's blood pressure, Lillio. You're blood pressure. I have blood pressure. Yeah, I took a few Xanax. You know, this is this. This is the bad one. You know, Dave is a piece of shit and he has to be called out for it. Don't fucking talk about dead people that you refused their orders of kidney stuff. That you refused. You let them to die a year and a half ago. He never called them once a month to say, hey, bro, try to lose weight. Try to lose some muscle. Come on, you can do it. Never called. Not once after years of knowing him. I called him every two or three days to check on him. He would not listen to me, but I kept trying. Just in case five to 10% gets better and it did. I failed him personally when I was so obsessed. I was a selfish piece of shit at the end of last year and the beginning of this year. I had some family problems. Because I had these family problems, I was not making videos and I was not communicating with you guys and I had these kinds of things. And I thought I had a problem. I didn't know Boston had a bigger problem than I had. Boston first had a bacterial infection. This is why we were talking. I didn't have my family problem. It wasn't so bad. I tried to help him as much as I could with bacterial infection, but he didn't treat it very well. This contributed to his eventual death. I'm sure. Second, after the bacterial infection, I didn't know this, but when I was sitting feeling sorry for myself, Boston had an almost deathly encounter with COVID and this long deathly encounter with COVID that he didn't even tell me about because he's not selfish. He just checked on me. He was messaging me asking how I'm doing. I wasn't there for him at the time, so I couldn't give him any advice during that time at all. Maybe he wouldn't have listened to it anyway, but maybe I could have helped a little, but I didn't. Then when I came back, I felt better and things got better with my family. I talked to Boston and he told me, hey, I almost died from COVID, man. I thought I was going to die any day. So I blame myself and that's one of the reasons I've been quite depressed over the last couple of weeks. I blame myself. Then Palombo, what the fuck are you as a human being? Anyway, so I'm sorry about that. I just had to make that clear because I am a defender of Boston. No, no, no, no, no, it's not escalation shit like that. No, no, I defend my friends. I don't play those games. Somebody talks about the dead and says he didn't care about his health. No, he cared about his health. And if he talks about the dead, says he died in one manner immediately because he just got the information. No, it's not even decided. You piece of... Anyway, I won't go further. Who wants to start with their experiences with Boston? You can't get an autopsy report back in less than a minute. He didn't get the report. It's not done, bro. He fucking piece of... It's not done. I asked Arielle last night. She said she's personally annoyed with Dave for going and saying it's a aortic dissection. It could have been thoracic. And not only that, by the way, guys, Dave doesn't know what happened. What happened was an abdominal aneurysm. His pain was in his abdomen. They were in the... I'm not going to go into details because Arielle will come on the podcast and tell it to herself. But what happened involves him feeling extreme pain in his abdomen. If you guys don't know this, acromegalyx and giants and basketball players also often die of abdominal aneurysms. Something to do with growth hormone IGF causes that often. Complicating factor. If you've had bacterial infection for a long time, serious one, it damages your cells across your body. If you've had CKD chronic kidney disease for a year and not been cleaning your blood, the uremic toxins damage all your little cells in your body. And then if you get COVID, as everybody knows, bacterial and viral infections can directly cause heart failure. Forget about your arterial walls. So it was it was damaged on a system over time. And then that night, he went to go work out his serious workout, the workout he takes the painkiller for. So that workout was a hard workout. A light workout. And they may have pushed his cardiovascular system too far. Now, those are more details that could have been useful if somebody actually wanted to communicate stuff. Anyway, who wants to start to talk about the good things of Boston, not the negative stuff about people talking about it? I'll start. I guess I'm at Boston in, I guess, 2013. He contacted me. You know, everybody of course probably knew Boston from his viral video of his transformation. And he contacted me 2013. We were talking about prep wanted to work with me. We spoke back and forth. I said, Bras, Boston, you're so extreme. I was like, we can't do all that. I can't prep you for going to do all that. He was just laughing. You know, it's no secret. Okay. People that say, Boston, this is, he never denied, you know, he was very open with what he did, what he used. He didn't push it on other people. If you see as other clients programs is a very moderate that everybody has their decision in life. That's what made him happy. You know, you know, not everybody agreed with him, but it doesn't matter. You know, so we stayed friends since then. Work on and off. There's last couple years, two, three years, got even closer, start speaking almost, you know, at least every week and more and more and more. Then about a year ago when I, you know, I had that stint, that opiate BS that I went through. You know, we started talking a lot more. And then, you know, I reached out to him, I was like, Hey, you know, ask Leo, let me see if I can come on show once or something like that. And he said, okay. And then I think that's, that's when we started before that we were speaking almost, almost a day. You know, Boston, I have a question, you know, how he was, he'd asked the same person, the same question. Yeah, she'd ask everyone the same down question. And he wouldn't, he wanted, he wanted to get the answer. He wanted to hear. So, yeah, so, you know, basically for the past year, we would speak every day, you know, just about everything, just BS and his sleep schedule is always crazy. I'm like, Boston is four in the morning. I'm asleep. But he goes, oh, I'm just, you know, so, I mean, the guy, you know, people that, you know, I get it, he has a lot of trolls and haters because people don't know him. All they know is Boston extreme, you know, this, this, this, but he was always there for people. He'd always text people back, you know, you know, since his passing, you know, how many people text me, you know, they would be like, no matter what. But, you know, I wasn't even paying Boston for a program or this and that he always answered my texts back and, and I'm surprised he never said, you're annoying, leave me alone. And, you know, just, he was just a good person and just wanted to help people and just nice and, you know, like to troll people, but it was always playful. You know, and no one really can say anything really bad about him that actually knows him. I mean, there can be strangers that are like, oh, he's, you know, he represented this and kids listen to him and this and I think, you know, Well, actually, actually, Armand, can I interrupt you for one second? Because that's, that's actually, I don't know, someone disappeared, but that's actually the main thing that bothered me with some of the reviews from other channels. They didn't realize that Boston changed his recommendations in the last two years. Boston does not recommend extreme doses to anybody and he doesn't exactly on the channel if people want to know, just watch my podcast with Boston. The last of the year, it was a podcast about how he damaged his body with extreme doses. That was, that's what it was about. And he talked to me privately. He said, I want to do this. I want to expose this. When he first got kidney failure, we talked about it privately. I said, are you going to go public or not? He said, I want to go public. I want to protect people. And so that was the whole purpose of it. Yeah. So I started to opt to Armand, but I just wanted people to know that he changed his recommendations and he really wanted people to avoid his mistakes. It was really serious. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he did. And, you know, he, John Romano said something about like his influence overall was bad. I don't think so. There was a lot of influence from this podcast in the last year that was really good. And I don't think you can say overall is influenced about sorry, Armand again. No, not that. I think people that didn't know him or maybe watch the show, they would just hear his name and just like, oh, you know, this or that, they didn't know him or even know what he spoke about now. He, you know, agreed. Yeah, I did a lot of, you know, stuff I would never recommend anybody to do. And he realized that you don't have to take that much stuff for it to work. He realized it makes you feel worse. But you know, it's just, I think everybody that was close to him, I'm on my phone so I can't see everybody who's on here right now. I know Blue is on here. But I just know he, you know, this was good. This was going to be a hard one today. And it's like, I just kind of lost the words. I mean, it's just, I don't feel real. It just doesn't feel real. When Armand first heard of the news, he was texting me and we were voicing on each other. I think he called, I don't know if he called, but he was then, we were, most of us were crying. One of the reasons I wanted to wait to make this video is because I didn't want that to happen on the video as much. I mean, I don't mind if it happens. I just didn't, I want to be able to speak and Armand could not speak originally. For people to know. Dom, I know you have to go a bit earlier, brother. Do you want to? Yeah, sure. So like, I'll tell you my experience with Boston. I wish everyone really got to know, know him for the person that he really was kind of like how we are, because everyone just sees him, you know, for his brutal honesty. But my first experience I ever had with him, like, I've known him probably for like 10 or 12 years. But I remember in like 2015, after I took second at the USA's and he writes a message, he goes, you're lucky that you get in such good shape because that's the highest you're ever placing with that God awful structure is a typical Boston comment. And, you know, I'm not like these other people that take offense to it. I mean, he's got, he's got a good point, but some of the things that you said, I mean, he's not lying about it. So I just laughed it off. And then over over the years, I think that I started helping like one of his friends close friends in really good shape. And then we became like really, really good friends. And, you know, for the people that don't know him, I've seen him go ahead and even rip apart even like clients that I work with saying, you know, your, your, your structure sucks, you have pencil legs, whatever it may be. But those same people I was at a show with and Boston's like, Hey, like, are you going to be in town? Do you want to come by? And I would tell him, you know, I'm with these two other clients that he just got done ripping apart. He's like, tell them to come by. They could, they could spend the weekend here. You know, my wife will cook for them. And, you know, and that's the thing that people need to realize. Like he was brutally honest, which I love that about him. That's what made him so unique. And that's like, he would say the things that people were thinking in their head, but wouldn't say. And, you know, but like, he did not have a mean, malicious bone in his body. You know, like whatever he would say about anyone, he would never wish to harm amongst anyone, no matter how big of a piece of shit that they are or not. I know, like I said, like he would give the shirt off of his back for anyone. And that's the truth, you know, I'm going to like. I'm going to miss him so much. I mean, the unfortunate thing is there, there's no one really that you're never going to find anyone that like him. You know, I'm going to miss his spill vis videos. You know, those are priceless. And just everything that he did, he could really like brighten up the room. Like once you really got to know him, you know, like words can't really describe the type of person that he is, unless you've truly like got to know him on that level, which I think, you know, everyone here that's on that's on this zoom call right now can kind of vouch for that. You know, and he'll definitely never be forgotten. And I think like the people that really did get, did know him like we did, like need to try to go ahead and show people actually the type of person that he was, not what the way that people think that he was. Because I know, like when this first happened, initially, like I was getting into like some heated battles with people, like online. And then like where it was like consuming two days straight of just like fighting with assholes all day long. And then I realized, you know, like, you're never going to get through these people. And these people just, they don't have the slightest clue of the type of person that he actually was, you know, and that's really like, like my whole experience with him. I became very, very close with him over the last five years. You know, I found out initially just like Leo did when he went into renal failure. And, you know, like I tried talking to him too many times. I told him, you know, like, you can't be doing crazy hypertrophy training, eating tons of protein. You know, but the thing was, is that Boston loved this lifestyle and everything about it. Like that was his drug. Like there's some people look that are alcoholics and people that are addicted to opiates. Well, those drugs like that, that's what bodybuilding and stuff. That's what that was like for Boston. That was his drug. And I will tell you what, if Boston wasn't living that lifestyle and carrying one says he wouldn't be happy. So, you know, the thing that one positive way, I guess you could look at this is that, you know, he, he still did like pass, like doing still what he, what he did love. And I feel like over the past couple of years, one thing positive take out of this is that his image to other people started to change where he did start saying, listen, I'm not recommending these doses. He's like, I've done these things to myself so I could educate, educate others on what to do and what not to do. And I'll tell you the truth. Like as a coach, you could read tons of clinical studies on different things. And most of the time, clinical studies are done in doses that are such small amounts that are really not applicable to what bodybuilders are really doing. So a lot of times, like when I would want to get feedback on different things, there wasn't a better reference to talk to Boston. Like, you know, he really was truly like a special and genuine friend and individual very much. So Dave, do you want to? I want to touch upon something that's been touched upon a little bit already, but in a slightly different way. I think Boston's legacy, truly his, his true legacy is about 180 degrees from what everyone thinks it was. Yeah. Everyone's got this notion of him as this reckless guy who is making other people be reckless. Do. And that's not the case at all. And let's put it this way. You tell a child not to do something or they can't have that or don't do that because it's dangerous or it might hurt you. The kids, they're not going to listen. You can't tell that child or that person not to do something, not even just a child, just a person. Do you have to lead by example, you have to show them or they have to experience it before they'll believe it. And what Boston did for the, for this community, for our industry is to show us, guess what? Not only does it not produce, you know, the kind of results that you think it will, and he showed us that he didn't just tell us, look, you know, he's not really like, drugs are bad. Okay. You can do that all day long and not going to listen. But he actually showed us him doing it and the results of it in real time. And the results were not what people thought they were going to be. And the young people needed to see that. And then the health implications, the, the afterwards that showed the other side. So he wasn't just preaching or telling, he was showing. And that to me is his legacy. No one else has done that. I don't think anyone else ever will. It's such a good point, Dave. Nobody's actually done that before. Even like Rich wasn't that open with what he was doing. And so was Boston was the most open. And if you think about it also, Dave, right before Boston became really popular online, that was the days that Gege 15 on get big was really popular. That's about when I met him, by the way. And so a lot of people were thinking then genuinely that like 300 milligrams of Trinidad will mutate you and you will become, you know, William Bonac one day or something like that. And you're right, because like, even for me, because we saw Boston use higher doses and not do better in some shows, remember that one show, I use really high doses. I can't remember. We watched it and we learned like, oh, okay, that doesn't work. And you know, without being too dramatic, you can actually go on a limb and say that he sacrificed his life for us. Yeah. You know, in the industry for the generation coming up. That's what better learning tool than what this man gave us. That's so beautiful. That's so true. Is it someone else have want to speak or? Yeah, I'll go. Boston was really one of a kind, like everyone said. I mean, I've never met anyone who just cannot lie. He wouldn't even exaggerate. I mean, he would come on this podcast and admit to things that we would probably consider humiliating and we would not talk about openly. But he didn't give a shit, man. That's who he was. If he did it, he would, he would tell you about it. You know, he was totally open and his integrity. I mean, I know for a fact he's turned down a lot of deals from people. YouTubers off money for a few hours work. Good money for three, four hours to collab with them. And if he didn't agree or particularly, you know, not dislike, like if he didn't feel comfortable with him, he wouldn't do it. I mean, who does it? Somebody contacts me, you know, with a couple of grand for an hour at work. I'm going to do it. And, you know, even with other things like pre workouts, that type companies, a lot of people wanted to use his name and if the quality wasn't good, if he didn't think the products were legit, he put them on. He didn't want to be associated with anything that wasn't 100% legit. So, and I met Austin in 2014. He wrote me out of the blue and he said something similar like he did to dump. He said, you know, I really respect you in a way more than somebody like Dexter Jackson. He said, because you don't have good genetics. But I'm not kind of complimenting, but he doesn't mean it. Well, he starts out so nicely. That is. But he said that, I mean, obviously you're doing something right. He said, you know, you've got all this muscle. He said, you know, you know what you're doing and you just keep doing it. It's obvious you love it. So he asked me my doses when I told him the numbers were so high that he knew I wasn't lying and he was like, wow, he said, nobody tells me the truth. He said, I can count on a few fingers. The amount of people that told me the truth. And I think right then we just click like he kind of respected me for telling him the truth. And we just started going back and forth. And in the beginning really it was mainly bodybuilding. I mean, like everyone else said, I'm on Boston's same sleep schedule. Yeah, I don't go to sleep. And you know, all through the night, 430, 530, just some random drug question pop up, you know, and he wants to get into it at like 530 a.m. After his workouts, right? Yeah. Yeah. And I missed that, man. I can't tell you over the past two weeks how many times I've been like an IG coast that was maybe cringe or something I knew Boston would laugh his ass off. And I can't even tell you how many times I'd be like, oh, man, I'd love to, I'd love to send for that to Boston or he already would have sent it to me. Like we just laughed all night. And during the day, I would only text him with something important. I didn't want to forget because I knew, you know, daytime was like Ariela and Jackson. So we really like mainly would be on the phone all night. And so like I said, in the beginning, it was mainly bodybuilding. But after a while, you know, we started talking about family. We were both really into our dogs. And he always chipped up on me during dialysis and the transplant. And then after that, like the past year and a half when his problems developed, I think we really like we really formed a bond because, you know, doctors don't tell you so much. But if you know, someone who's been through it firsthand and they've done what you've done, you know, you can read. And but that was kind of difficult for me because I didn't lie to Boston. You know, I felt like he deserved the same respect that he could, you know, I couldn't lie to him about what I've done and what I do. But I was also very careful. I didn't want to glorify certain things, you know, like, OK, yeah, you're on dialysis. Take this. And, you know, I'm saying like he's want to give him that. Like he like he was trying to find ways out of it to sort of like ways to be on dialysis and still live. And that's what you're talking about, right? Yeah, yeah. I want to be a hypocrite because he knew, you know, he knows everything about me. So I would tell him that, like, I got to the point where, like, literally every tech started with, well, me personally, you know, saying like I didn't want to say you I never told Boston, you should do this. You should do that. I couldn't lie to him. If he asked me what did you do? I told him, you know. But.  I was very mindful not to, I never, I mean, I tried to persuade him not to, but just very lightly, I didn't want to preach to him. I don't like when people do that to me. So that was kind of like a tightrope for me. I was always concerned about, you know, being truthful, but not giving him hope that, you know, okay, I'm gonna jump into that too. And I don't know, man, I just, I really miss the guy. I don't get attached to people like that. I mean, I have friends that I've known for 10 years and I like them. When I see him, I'd love to hang out with him, I enjoy their company, but I'm not the type that still needs to be in touch with you every day. But I was like, I would bust him, man. And he was a good guy, very, one of a kind. One of a kind. I think Dommie told me that is Brent available now? So I text him. Okay, I just texted him. He said he couldn't in an hour maybe, because he's a school teacher. Sure, sure, sure. He was very close with him. I'm sorry about that. That was my mix up because I didn't invite him to the group chat by mistake. Oh, I tried, I think, and I couldn't get him on it. So I'm sorry guys, just to let you know Brent Swanson, that's who we're talking about. Hopefully you can join with, we're still on. And if not, then you can come to next week's podcast because the podcast will have to continue for Boston. So we'll continue to talk about them, of course. Bo, I wanted to, just before we go to the next person, I just wanted to comment on the integrity aspect that you talked about. Guys, I swear to God, I know you guys know I like to talk well of my friends, but I swear to God, this guy's integrity was unbelievable. Nothing could move it. You know why, like I knew Boston before I started on YouTube, like by two years. I used to text him on an email, just like you guys say, he responds to everybody. Sweetest guy on earth, you don't need anything from him, he'll still respond to you late at night usually. And so I became sort of friends with him somewhat, quasi friends, like we knew each other online, and he liked me. When I started my channel, at the time I had Amina Lai on my channel, and I didn't know that as much about Amina Lai, I didn't know as much about his background. I invited Boston to come on the channel with Amina Lai so that he could help Amina Lai's channel grow. And he said, absolutely not. I was like, bro, what are you talking about? He's like, I was like, we're friends. He's like, I'll come on the channel if you're there, but not on his channel. I said, why? So I'm not gonna get into Amina, that's not the issue. The issue is that's how, like he was like that. So then for example, when a Tragile had asked to come on my channel and do a series, he joined my channel for a while, he was trying to fix his reputation online and so on. When Tragile came on my channel, Boston stopped coming. So what happened was basically, at first I was with Amina, then I opened my own channel, when I opened my own channel, Boston's my first guest. First person willing to come on my podcast. Guys, check this out. If you search Boston Lloyd online, you'll see he goes to only the smallest channels to go to the podcast. Big channels invite him, he ignores it. He says that they don't really need it, but a small channel, he goes to help them out. And he did that to me so many times until, listen to this, until Nick Tragile came on my channel, they said, I'm sorry, Leo, I can't come anymore. I said, what do you mean? I thought he has a personal issue. I didn't understand this, like, I didn't understand his integrity level. It is that high. He cannot associate with what he calls a phony or something like that. You know what I mean? And to disagree- And actually, Leo, hand in hand with the fact that he can insult people to the quick. He can insult people like that because he's so honest. That's honest, he's bastard's cousin. Yeah, that's a good point. That's such a good point. You know, you could have been a comedian, David. You're very- You're a truly honest person. You gotta take that along with it. That's a good point. He was only able to comment the way he did because he lived that life. And you know, personally also, let me tell you guys, this guy was not, I mean, probably a personal issue. The last year I've been struggling a little bit with some issues because I live my life sort of not for financial reasons, not commercially. For the last five years or more, I've been trying to live a spiritual life and live for myself and not for society. You know what I mean? And Boston had the exact same mentality on his own without even going through all the meditation, all that crap that I tried to do to get to that point. Boston was already there. He only cared about money as it related to Ariela and Jackson as he could support his family. And he would get offered just like Beau said all the time and refused him immediately if he sensed any kind of lack of integrity. So that's just my piece there, but blue or- It's a good foundation. Yeah, I'm glad to speak. It's, oh boy. Me and Boston, you know, we clicked from the get go. Like I've never met anybody as honest as him, as loyal. The integrity, like you've all spoken, it's just insane. I mean, we clicked from the get go. Like, I, oh my God. I've never met anybody like that. I was raised differently, had a very hard upbringing. And that was one of the things that I like highly value is being real, being honest, no matter what. Even if you piss somebody off because you want to share your truth and people might disagree with some of Boston's truth. But you know what? That was always his truth. That was always his heart. There was never any wavering. Like all of you guys have said, there's never any wavering. It was just complete honesty. He challenged me in many ways, you know? He never would hesitate to say, hey man, you know, like, you know, why are you doing it like this? Or why are you doing this? Like I respected that, you know? Because not many people do that. It's someone who truly cares for you and a true friend will challenge you, will bring up things that they disagree with, you know? Because they care about you. And I've known so many people in this industry over the years. There's nobody like him. There will never be anyone like him again, you know? That's just on, you know, that level. You know what people saw, you know, was just that outer layer of Boston, you know? The shocking stuff, but the deeper stuff, you know? All of us got to see him grow into, you know, a mature man, a family man. That Boston had so many special things about him that I truly believe that God put in him that not many people have. It's an amazing thing. And it hurts every time I think about it. It makes me sick because that's such a beautiful thing about somebody and it's not here anymore. People want life that way. Yeah, I mean, I think too, like he inspired all of us to look at ourselves and try to be more loyal and be more honest. And those are the two qualities that stand out the most, I think, like when I look at how he was with everybody, he was so honest. And I even confided in him things that nobody knows about me because I trusted him. And I didn't know him that long, you know? I knew him pretty much the last year. First time I met him was on the podcast. And I'd like known about him because we were about the same age, we kind of came up around the same time. But he was the pioneer, he was the first guy who was really the open true honesty within the industry. He was the first guy who kind of broke down those walls and said what nobody was saying. And everybody was too scared to, he was courageous for that. It was at a time when everyone thought you were getting trouble for that sort of thing, for talking about your dosages or what you're doing or showing everything that was behind the curtain. So for him to have the courage to be the first person to do that, that says a lot about him. And from that point on his honesty, that's what everybody saw. And it just, it honestly made me, it made me want to be better myself. Like, you know, seeing that through his character and how he was a family man. Because if he wasn't at the gym, he was with his wife and kid at home. Like that's what he did, he was all about that. If he wasn't around them, he was at the gym, that was it. And just seeing the number of friends he has and the number of people who he touched, that's a special person. So it's just, it's hard to think we're at this point now because I know we were all, most of us probably were all texting them, you know, the day before. And we texted, you know, we texted almost every day and deep stuff. It wasn't just, it wasn't just about supplements. You know, we texted about everything. It was to be religion, it could be anything. And even if he didn't necessarily agree with you on a certain subject, he was willing to listen. So that was another thing that's out. Like he didn't have to take, he didn't have to agree with you, but he was always going to be respectful and listen to what you had to say and your point of view. And you know, I just, even in just this last year that I've known him, he definitely left a huge impression on me. He's what, he's what loyalty is all about. He wouldn't, I mean, he turned on Dave because Dave tried to turn on Leo and he was loyal to Leo. And that's just another example. And there's so many examples like that. Like he was loyal to his friends. He was honest. He wasn't gonna, you knew you could trust him. And there's not too many people like that nowadays, especially in this industry. So, I don't know. It's just, sorry guys, I'm just inviting Brent. You know, he was almost like generous to where it made you kind of uncomfortable. Like I didn't want to take advantage of his generosity back when he left that time. Yeah. And who was the, his CEO. You know, he told me, look, don't go to the website in order. Just text me your order. And you know, just take care of it through me. So, you know, give me the discount and then he would forward it to the webmaster. So I would do that. He'd give me a discount, but then I'd get the pack and it'd be like, all this extra shit. And I'm like, this is like way too much. You know, it's like, it got to the point where after a couple of times, I got, you kind of felt like you're taking advantage because it's just, I understand wanting to be nice to your friend, but it's just like a lot, you know? And, you know, he's got a son and a kid. I mean, a wife and kid. So it got like after a few times of that, actually started placing the order in my wife's name and just went on the website. So the webmaster wouldn't see Bo Bayston and just send it through that way. And I never even told Boston. Cause I was like, you know, he got responsibilities too. So, you know, I want to pay full price. But he was just like that in every way, man. He would out in any way he could. On that topic. If I may interject real quick, one of the last things Boston did with his life was possibly to save mine. I was talking to him a couple of days before he passed and I was telling him about my plight with my blood pressure, which has been really horrendous lately. It'll be fine. It'll be like 130 over 80 for most of the, and then I'll just wake up feeling like shit. And it'll be 210 over 120 for no reason, right? So I discussed this with him and he told me about a supplement that I could take and I was like, okay, a natural supplement. He was Dave, trust me. Gave it to my dad and he got off his medications. You know, I'm on three medications for my blood pressure and it still does that. So he recommended this stuff called cartotone to me. And I ordered two bottles. I started taking it. I'll be damned. I'm 120 over 60 every day. And I haven't even been able to tell him that he helped me. And I might even be able to get off a medication or two. Dave, the same thing happened. We always used to bounce stuff off of each other like that. Dave, he was doing the same thing. Imagine this, look at this angel. Two days before he died, he was helping you. Two days before he died, he was helping me with my family issues. He was telling Gary Ella to help also. They were both helping. And his racism was coming out in it. He's just telling Gary Ella secretly, he's like, I think this is Leo's Middle Eastern issues. This is the problem. Middle Eastern issues are causing family issues for him. He was always making it. It would make fun of me. You know what's funny about Boston? Someone mentioned this earlier. He would always, even though he was naturally trusting, and he was genuinely curious. That was one of the most beautiful things about his personality. He was so curious about, you know, to learn. But one thing about him, though, if he'd ask you a question, sometimes he'd doubt you. Like you'd tell him, he'd ask you, like, how much did you use this week? And you'd tell him and he'd be like, you sure? Tell me the truth. How much did you use? He wouldn't believe you fully. He did this to me, not about drugs. He did this to me, but he thought my mother was Arab the whole time. He's like, come on, man. Your mother's not white. That's what she is. She is. I swear, he doesn't believe me. Only believe me like a week or two ago. He's so funny. Tony, I noticed you wanted to talk earlier. We interrupted you. I'm sorry about that, brother. Tony's awake at 2 AM, by the way, in Thailand, or it's more than 2 now. He woke up just for us and he did it two days in a row, actually, for his last yesterday. Yes, it did. Let the men speak. Let the men speak. I've got a good example that represents some of the stuff you guys said. The background first, I first found out about Boston because of his crazy steroid transformation, that just absolutely epic to publish something like that and track something like that. But what really got me excited was when he was showing inside his fridge, like, here's actually what I take and that openness. Back in the time when YouTube wasn't so censored, he was the one that opened the door and then I became a YouTube influencer later and he paved that path for me because I also started doing that same type of content, which is showing the injections on camera and the real-time diaries of the experiments I was doing on my body. For me, my path to grow was to get in touch with Boston and really follow in his footsteps of doing this transparent experimentation stuff. That's what I wanted to do. So I was still practicing law at the time. I wasn't full-time on YouTube, but I wanted to transition to do YouTube stuff. So I thought a fastest way to do that would be to contact Boston and offer him a lot of money so he couldn't possibly say no. And at the time, I thought, okay, Boston probably has a lot of opportunities, so I need to say something to really catch his attention. So I started communicating with him and he was responsive, which again, like amazing, like you guys said, he actually responds to people and fans like that. And I offered him $5,000 and that I would fly to Florida and I would spend just a couple hours with him, but I would rent us Lamborghinis, have them delivered to his house where we would take the Lamborghinis and we would drive to the gym together. I'd give him $5,000 and we'd just connect and make videos. And he said, no, I couldn't believe he said no. I mean, I really planned this whole offer to be like, how could anybody say no to the offer I made him? And then later, finally, I was able to connect with him. The way I ended up connecting with him and getting to know him and befriending him was through Coach Trevor because Coach Trevor somehow went to school with him or something. So they had some sort of prior relationship or trust or something amongst them. So it was Coach Trevor that reached out. And then Boston really obviously liked, but by that time later, Boston had been watching my content. And so when we reached back out to him, we got a warm reception because it wasn't the money that got his attention, but it was like the fact that I was experimenting with the extreme chemistry that he was really excited about. So then we flew out there and Coach Trevor and I spent a week with him in Florida and injecting all kinds of stuff and trying kinds of stuff and going to the gym and doing all this stuff. And wow, Boston really was reckless. Like I had to see it in person to believe it. Like it is really shocking. The most shocking thing. He would use the same insulin needle over and over and he would shoot his clothing. Like, no, not even no alcohol. Wait, what? What? What? How does he do it? He shoot the insulin syringe through his clothing? Yeah. Right outside the gym where everybody can see. And I was like, oh, wow, I'm like, how am I going to one up this? Like, I'm trying to be the most extreme in the industry. And here Boston's injecting himself through his clothing with an old dirty needle. I'm like, man, how am I going to outdo this? So later that trip we go out to dinner, Ariela, my baby mama, Boston and I, and I pull out the syringe and I go, all right, right here. And I say, we're going to inject our insulin growth hormone at the dinner table here and we do it. And then the manager comes over later and says, yeah, we had some complaints about objecting things. And I did. I actually made Boston nervous. He's like, Boston was actually really nervous about it. Like we were getting too much attention. And I was like, yes, I did it. My question to you, Tony, is why did you feel that you had to outdo that? Oh, well, that's the thing. No, we were like kids, you know, he's like a kid and he's, you know, what can I do to talk that? Basically, if we spent more time together, we'd probably both be dead, you know, a lot earlier. So both pushed each other in bad direction. Yeah, that's very true. I think everyone's commented a bit. So unless someone want to add some more stuff, I have a couple of things I wanted to mention that we didn't, I think, mention. One is the funny story with me and Boston about a year ago. No, no, no, it couldn't have been a year ago. So when Nick Trigilli stopped coming on my channel, Boston had refused to come the whole time. Okay. So like, he's still texting, he's still my friend, but he's like, I will not come on your channel. This is not possible. So when when Trigilli left, I was like, bro, will you come on my channel? Because I don't have any, I don't have any, I don't have any, I don't have any regular guests. So he's like, okay, I'll come. I'll come. He didn't really want to do the podcast. He was doing it for me. The first few weeks he was doing it for me, he's like, I can do one every two, three weeks, something like that. But later he liked talking to me. He loved the people who would message him after. He would love to talk to them and stuff. So he'd really like to come. But anyway, along the way, so when he started coming and we started the podcast, by the way, the reason we called it the non-fraudiland bodybuilding podcast was a Boston joke. It was one of Boston's many jokes. He used to call Fawad fraud. So he called the channel non-fraudiland to be the opposite. It was a joke, meaning he didn't mean it in a bad way. But when he started coming on my channel, I don't know if it was, maybe it was right before he came on my channel, Tragilli actually, and another YouTuber who I won't say his name, came to me privately because they know I hate rats. I really don't like snitches and shit like that. So they came to me privately and they're like, listen, Boston snitched. And they have this elaborate story. It's a very specific story. I spent, you guys would know, you know, I'm a weird guy. I spent like three hours trying to get to the bottom of this with Boston. I called Boston, called them, called back Boston, called them again. I was trying to figure out if Boston really did snitch because if he snitched, I wouldn't be able to be friends with him. And it turned out he, whatever he did, he didn't do it intentionally. He really did not realize that it affected anyone or whatever. When I confirmed that is only after that point, I kept having a boss on the channel. Boston knows that and he liked it. It was pretty funny. And he, and he stayed on the phone with me for hours, like convincing me in detail, like exactly what happened, telling me how everything happened. That's one thing I want to talk about. Like it's a funny story. Another one is that you guys mentioned this already, but he spent his entire day with Ariela and Jackson in the day. He was so protective over this that for the first like six months or more of my podcast, I had to record at nine or more or later PST, but he's an EST. So this guy's recording at three in the morning, two in the morning. I'm like, why are you doing this? Because I think it's ruining the podcast because I'm a daytime person. So at night, I'm like, I can't talk much. So I'd be like once a week, every week, my schedule would completely flip. I'd have to like drink coffee at night to go talk to him. And the only reason he used to do this is because he wanted his whole day to be spent with Jackson and Ariela. Later I asked Ariela once because I was having such difficulty with the schedule. I was like, why is Boston so adamant about this? She said that's the way Boston shows his love. It's one of the ways he shows his love. Like to him, being there always for us was a way to show his love. And this is before he passed, by the way. So this is the kind of person he was. Another thing I wanted to mention about him is his loyalty. Pete mentioned his loyalty to me. Honestly, Boston's loyalty wasn't really to me at that time. That was Boston standing up for his integrity. He felt like a big channel was trying to hurt a small channel. And he felt that there was no legitimate reason for it. So he stood by that. He didn't pick sides. He just said, I can't stop going on Leo's channel because of this reason. It doesn't make sense to me. What happened is the other person said, then you're not welcome on my channel. So he didn't betray anyone. He was just standing up for his integrity. So that's what happened there. But he was also a loyal guy. He was very loyal to me, but he would not be loyal to you if he thought that you were doing something unethical. If he thought that you were doing something unethical, he would direct it to you. He would bring it up to you directly. And as long as he always believed you were ethical, he'd be loyal always. And so the loyalty, the daytime with the family. And the other thing is the cheating and the honesty. Let's talk about those two things. So one, Boston never cheated on Ariela. I know how much that means. I've been with my wife Lucy for four years almost. I have never responded to a single message from a girl. I have never texted a girl looking for something. I have never even looked. I don't even look at girls. And I've never cheated, obviously. And to me, this, I've done it myself. And I know other people here on this, on the podcast have surely done it before. It takes a lot for a guy to do that for many years. It means that you're a truly loyal person, especially someone like Boston, who was quite famous. I mean, he could get probably a lot of girls if you wanted to. He could be like a lot of other people cheating, hiding. He never did that ever. He was always honest with Ariela. She was in fact telling me this after his passing that he was always honest and never, you know, you never cheated. And this means a lot also. And then finally about the honesty thing. You guys, many of you mentioned that he didn't know how to lie. I agree. And I never comment on this fully on the podcast because I didn't want to like psychoanalyze him or something. But I figure that Boston has a very unique brain. The way his brain developed was very unique. He literally didn't really understand why people lied and he couldn't really get himself to do it. It wasn't just a mental principle. It was the physical thing about his brain. You guys agree? Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Well, that's what I have to say about this. Yeah, the cheating thing was a, yeah, the cheating thing was like huge deal. He was just like, I don't understand why did, why does someone with somebody if they want to cheat? That's like Boston men or men, you know, like we're, you know, we do a lot of bad things, you know, I mean, but, you know, of course, when you get married, that's a different story. You want to grow out of that and all that, but he just never understood. I just don't get it. I just don't understand. Yeah. That's how loyal he was, you know, especially on marriage, right? Yeah. He believed in marriage. I wouldn't know if he was cheating on her. Back when they were having their problems, I was very, very tight with him at that point. We were texting every day. If he had cheated on her, I would have known about it. He didn't. He wouldn't. He couldn't. He didn't want to do it. He didn't even understand why other people would do it. He couldn't understand it. It was such a harassment. Exactly. Like, why do people do that? If you're, if you're committed, why would you do that? He just didn't get it. Yeah. Boston and I were competing opposites in that area. He invented the word Eurofic. Yeah. Eurofic. Hey, we should make a, we should make some merchandise with Eurofic for the family for Ariel and Jackson. Eurofic, yeah. We should do that. We should do that. Because I always told him, hey, that's another example. I always told Boston, sell the Eurofic hats. Absolutely. He, Ariel had made him one. He wouldn't, he was like, but why? He doesn't want to make money. He's not like- He didn't get it. He didn't get how people would want those. And no, so he didn't get, because like for the, for the people listening who aren't YouTubers or aren't bodybuilders or whatever, you'd be surprised how many bodybuilders, or not so much bodybuilders, but YouTubers, their main goal is money. Like they come to you, they talk about health or whatever the fuck. They don't, they're literally main goal is to make money from you. They just weren't good enough to be bankers or whatever. Right? Boston was so unusual in that sense. Like I barely know anyone on YouTube who cares so little about money. He was just, he was making v- In fact- He was all about the content. If you guys remember his channel, had a ton of followers. It had like 500,000. It got closed. He never even reopened one. And he would go on podcasts, there were people who had like 500 views. Yes. He didn't have a big following. He clicked with the person and he liked it. He's like, yeah, sure. I'll come on and talk to you. Yeah. Exactly. It was a wonderful person. Well brothers, I hope that Brent would, would be able to join us, but I think what we'll do is we'll just record next week as we used to with Boston on Wednesday. If anyone, if any of you would like to join, you're all welcome. You guys are- What time next week? For the podcast to keep going. Yeah. What time? He loved it. Yeah. Boston, I was interrupting. What did you say, sir? Boston would definitely prefer for the podcast to keep going. He really liked doing it. When you took that break in December, he completely, you needed your personal time, but he missed it. I know he missed it. I left him alone. This was the, yeah. But do you guys think we should rename the podcast, the Boston Lloyd podcast, or should it be the non-Farget and the NFVP? I don't know. I'm going to ask Ariela also. Like I want to keep his name so alive that it's like very- He bears his name going forward. Huh? He should bear his name going forward. Yeah. Bear his name somehow. Yeah. Exactly. I agree. I agree. So just for you guys to know, the funeral, I don't know what a wake is, by the way. I'm not Christian, so what is a wake? It's where they meet with the family the day before. Oh, okay. This is a night before, kind of like a gathering. If you can't, sometimes people can't make the funeral. They go to the wake the night before. Unfortunately, I won't be at the funeral. I have my probation and I'm on probation and bond. So unfortunately, I didn't have enough time to get cleared. No, he literally, there's no way you could have gotten cleared in time. I'm going to really want to be there. So just for you guys to know the wake. I'm going to try to release this video today just so people know the wake is tomorrow in Florida. The information is online. Maybe I can make another post about it today. The funeral is, so that's Friday and then the funeral is Saturday to my knowledge. I, of course, I was adamant about being there, but my because of my family issues, I physically cannot leave right now because of some emergency issues. So I will be visiting Ariela separately with one of Boston's clients, Saul, who we've mentioned on the channel before, maybe in a week or two, and we'll go personally to check on her and see her. I'm talking to her every day. If you guys were listening to the podcast can give her some support. Ariela truly loved Boston, truly, truly loved him. She's the kind of woman that all of us would have wanted to have that if we passed, she would maintain his name and, and you know, she's so loyal, you know, and she's going through so much stuff. So really Ariela and Jackson, Jackson needs to know the legend of his father, his father needs to live on. You know, I was going to make a video about grief actually. I was being asked to make a video about grief like two weeks before Boston passed. I'll make a video on day, not that I know much about it, but the one thing that I've always done with people who have died around me because I have one of my best friends was killed by one of my other friends a few years ago. And this guy and noose that died, I sometimes even swear on his name. I say on and noose. That's how much I maintain his name. I remember it. I believe that if somebody dies, I don't believe that we're all really beings completely. I think that we're all parts of beings all put together and parts of us are our thoughts, part of parts of us are actions. And if you live a really truly noble life or a meaningful life that has impact on a lot of people, your actions echo in the halls of eternity. They keep going. So Boston keeps living if we keep them.  amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, am like I am. You guys agree? Any last words? Thank you so much for letting me be a part of this, man. Dave, I'm sorry I didn't even invite you earlier. He loved all of you guys specifically. Every one of you, he messaged me about you guys and said very, very, very kind things about you. That's why I picked these names. Brent Swanson, he didn't used to talk to me as much about him, but I used to hear his name, but I didn't know who he was, so that's why I made the mistake not scheduling that. That's my fault. But just for the audience, these people are the people that Boston loved. And I want to comment on something Blue did also before he finished. Blue donated not only massively to the fund for Ariela, but also Boston's clients that signed up with Blue, he had them sign up through their donation on to Ariela. So these are the kind of actions that real friends do in the absence of their friends, and they don't talk about it if you notice Blue didn't even mention it in the podcast. So, you know, this is what Boston deserves. Maybe I'll do another video later to discuss why I think he died specifically. I do think it was avoidable. I think I made, I played some small role not being available during the COVID illness. Some, maybe small role because he didn't used to listen to everything I said. If you guys remember the bacterial infection, it lasted a long time. I tried to get him to the ICU. I even saw poor guy, he has a medical facility in California. We offered to fly Boston in secretly so he doesn't have to go to an emergency room. To treat it, but he wouldn't listen. The longer those infections go on, the more damage goes to those little cells everywhere in the body. And if you had just some genetic weakness slightly, and then so the bacterial infection lasts a long time, then he had the COVID for a long time. And guys, I don't know. I've never told this story properly on the channel, but the reason why I stopped, I started lifting weights last year. You guys remember I started lifting weights for like two months. I got a bit bigger and then I stopped four months in. The reason why I got in COVID while my wife was pregnant, I didn't notice anything. When I started lifting weights, I noticed my heart rate was going really weird. If something was off, I've never experienced this in my life. I was lifting weights out of breath, have to sit down. So that is, that was something was going on structural changes to my heart because of the damage to the virus. I felt that and I was like, you know what, I shouldn't even exercise at all. I should just, yeah, take a beta blocker and sit at home. So that's what I've been doing the last few months because of that reason. This could have happened to any of us. There isn't something that Boston, yeah, it could have, I mean, you could have treated the bacterial infection quicker. Maybe you could try to treat COVID quicker. You could have done the, you know, these different therapies, but you can't protect yourself from these small damages that can happen suddenly when you go to the gym and lift very hard. You know, it could happen to anyone. But Leo, I would like to add one thing. The week before it happened, he was going to go in for his last two tests with cardiologists. That is the last evaluation they canceled on him. So even if, you know, like the heart can, yeah, they canceled his appointment. So if he went into that appointment and there was something going on with his heart, it would have been found immediately because it's thorough. They do everything. That's such a good point, Bob, because what happened was he had done the initial scans, but he was going for the echocardiogram. I know he was going for the CT scan, I think, like the big one. Yeah, what they're doing is the basic, you know, very, but yeah, the last two tests are they, like that determines your final decision and they go through everything. I don't, I do forget the names of the two exams they give you, but it's a complete scan. So whatever was going on, they would have found that and they canceled the appointment. That's true. That's another example of how much Boston was falling through with his health. Sorry, Dave, go ahead. Oh, wait. One more thing. I'm sorry. I have seen a lot of people online saying he wasn't following protocol. He was going against doctor's orders. No, he was in a transplant evaluation. He went to every appointment. They do your blood work every time you go there. He wasn't being okay. Maybe he was doing some things he talked about on the podcast on his own, but he was not, he was in compliance. Yes, yes, absolutely. Yeah. Dave, sorry, I interrupted you, Dave. No, I wasn't. Oh, well, yeah, he was not only in compliance, he was, he was managing his blood pressure very carefully with doctor's supervision. He was, the only thing that he could have maybe, there are two things he could have done that he didn't do. One was to just get very skinny and stop lifting. If he got very skinny and stopped lifting, this probably wouldn't have happened because he wouldn't have been lifting that day. So there wouldn't have been so much pressure on the cardiovascular system so that the abdominal aneurysm is happened, which is what I think happened. Not the aortic originally. And then that caused either the aortic or thoracic. But the only other thing he could have done is go on dialysis, which he didn't do. But I don't know how much impact that really had in those few months. He could get by with that. He could have started it if he chose to. But he also could have waited. I mean, he wasn't at the point where he, it was life or death. He needed to go on. Exactly. Yeah. People have to understand he was not like playing Russian. Actually, let me say it for Areola. She'll be on the channel to say it herself. But last night, Areola specifically told me, because I was telling her like, my thing is I always had an excuse for why Boston didn't lose all the weight. It was because he had like, he has like an OCD mentality. Like someone mentioned earlier about we all have different addictions. His addiction was partially going to the gym. Like he loved to work out actually. He loved to go to the gym in the morning. It was his, that's why he used to text us in the morning because he was in a great mood. He loved to go to the gym. So he, I felt like he couldn't do some of the things, but everything that he could do, I felt like he tried to do and people should know that he wasn't like Areola. Yesterday told me Boston, she told me that the night before she asked Boston, she said, is everything okay? Are you sure nothing can happen to you? And Boston said, yeah, everything's okay, babe. My heart is fine. They checked it. So he was really being really careful. He was still taking all his supplements as a straggler, whatever, all these kind of things. He was, he was trying to eat less. He wasn't taking much gear, by the way, for people to know. He spent over four months on like 150 milligrams of testosterone, 200 or 250. And then recently he just added a little bit of other things, but I don't think they contributed to his death at all. He was just getting tired because he was like, I'm not getting better from not taking anything. I'm not going to take a lot. You know what I mean? But I just want people to know he was not being reckless. That's it. He didn't go good that day. He would skip them for a few days. And then if he had a good day where he had a lot more energy, he would take them. So he wasn't taking a lot of stuff. Not at all. Not at all. Leah, what triggered him to start looking into his heart and start getting heart testing in the first place? This, this, it's been a year of personal transformation for Boston or more than a year of him slowly learning about health, being interested in learning about his health. For example, like he's, he was just asking us to do some blood work for him to see if how his kidney changed after COVID. We were just looking into it because I was telling him, maybe there's some damage from COVID to your kidney. We have to see how the market changed in detail, not just the eGFR and creatinine, but in the CSTAN-C and the other things. So he was constantly looking into, he was, he wanted to live for Areola. And Jackson. And let me tell you another thing guys. I just want to be clear. When Boston first got kidney failure, just to be clear, this is a huge psychological thing. Like when you get, he got kidney failure. Imagine as Boston Lloyd getting kidney failure. Like knowing that everyone would say, I told you so, I told you so, you idiot, you killed yourself. You know, he knew that. He didn't ever say it directly to me. But he felt that and that's why I called him. I was calling him a lot when he first found out about the kidney failure. And I was saying, listen brother, it's not the end of who you are. It's a change. Now you can show people what those things did and you can help people prevent themselves from being in the same situation. And that was genuinely his initial agreement to come on this on this podcast. You know, so You know, you know, people always saw him on the podcast. So, you know, at 29 years old, 28, 29, going through something like this is, you know, he projected like, oh, everything's fine. I'm happy. But what you're going through, you're going, you're in kidney failure. 29 years old. People understand like he was going through a lot that he kept in. He didn't come on the show and be like, oh poor me, you know, this and this, you know, so people don't realize like they were seeking laughs, smile all the time. What he was dealing with at 29 years old having to deal with kidney failure. You know, I hooked him up with my doctor friend that had COVID and he went into kidney failure and he was like home dialysis. Because I was like start dialysis soon. You know, I don't know much about it. So he spoke to my doctor about two hours when I, doctor friend, he's like, thanks for letting me talk to him. But just what he was, what the psychological part of it, people don't understand when you're going through that type of health issues unless you've been through it. Like they just saw him smiling, like laughing like, oh, what a great, you know, and that's how he wanted projected. Like, oh, poor me, you know, so, you know, it's just, he was going through a lot. But he did warn people. He would warn people, but he would not show his pain on the podcast. And there was, I'm sure there was, I know there was, because I talked to him a lot privately. There was fear and there was concern and there was worrying about his family if he dies early. When he was, about a month ago, Boston asked me, are you afraid of dying? And we had a discussion and of course his family was the only reason he said, you know, when I was younger, if you asked me that, it would just be bodybuilding, you know, well, I got a bodybuild until I can't do it. But he said, no, he said, I have to be here. I have to be here for them. Wow. What a glorious man. What a man of gravitas and impact and noble spirit. He's a true noble spirit. You know what I was thinking the other day? Good people, they come from like a couple of scenarios. Some learn lessons in life and decide to enact an ethical code. Some people are religious. Religion usually cures the soul, honestly, and makes good people. But then there are other people, I call them noble spirits. They're just born with good ethics and they just have a noble spirit. And I think Boston was one of the best examples of a noble spirit. All right, brothers, I'll let you guys be for now. I'll try to get this podcast out soon. I might not be much editing, but it's been too long and I want people to hear it before the funeral and the wake. Dave, you're muted. You muted yourself. Let me try to unmute you. Dave, you're muted. I asked to unmute you. There you go. Let me try it again. How about that? Yeah, that works. I thought about it now. Yeah. But you're frozen now. I thought about it now. We hear you. We hear you fine about it. He's like changing stuff. We hear you. We hear you. You don't hear us? Oh, you do? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, now I do. Yeah, I hear you. What were you saying? I just wanted to say it was good sitting down with all you guys and reminiscing about Boston. It's good for my soul to do this, to be honest with you. And thank you for having me. I really appreciate it. It's my honor. And I hope you guys will continue to come on the podcast, including you, Dave, even if it's not so regular. But I really... Yeah, okay. All right, guys. Well, I'll contact you all soon. Long live Boston Lloyd.

=== FILE: The Rise of African Genetics [exvb_Z_FeHA].txt ===

 naringin,liśmyum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightn is around the world. In this video, you're going to find out my reasoning as to why. But before I do, please subscribe to the channel if you're not already, like the video, and comment on the video for the sake of the algorithm or restarting that algorithm really. First of all, I just want to distinguish. While there have been a lot of people with African descent in bodybuilding, there haven't been as many people with recent African ancestry. One notable one, or one of the first, was Victor Richards. In the early 2000s and the late 90s, Victor Richards was rumored to be this person who was paid not to compete because he was too competitive, because he would ruin the plans of the IFBB Weider Group or something like that. That may not have been true. He may have been a little bit lazy and maybe didn't like to compete or like the legend that he had. But in either case, you can see pictures of him online and hopefully I'll include some here. He was a really shocking creature. He was more muscular in the off-season, I think, than anybody has ever seen anyone before, or at least before that point. Now, African Americans and people with African descent that have, through the slave trade that ended up in America and other countries, sometimes have less of a percentage of West African ancestry. In America, I think the average is something around 20%. So while we have a lot of African Americans, and there may be advantages also genetically in intermixing between groups that haven't ad-mixed so much in the past, when we're talking about West African ancestry and direct West African ancestry, it's only really recently entered in high levels in the IFBB. This Olympia, we had four West Africans who also share some things in common, which are interesting. Place among the top two, in we had Patrick Johnson, who's 39 years old, according to my best estimate, and originally from Sierra Leone via Denmark. He's a Danish citizen. Then in ninth, we had William Bonak, or Bonak, who was originally from Ghana, but is a Dutch citizen. Then in eighth, we had Andrew Jack, who is, I think, 30. Oh, I should mention, William Bonak is turning 40. Then we have Andrew Jack, who was, I believe, 38, the second youngest of the group, who placed eighth. And then we had Samson Dowda, who is also Nigerian like Andrew Jack, who I believe is turning 36 this year, who placed sixth. So some very high placings from people who haven't placed so highly before in this Mr. Olympia, all of them above the age of 36, between 36 and 40, except for, of course, William Bonak, who placed many times in high positions. But now we have four people in the top 12. Will we have more? Is this the end of that? Or is this a beginning? First of all, you have to realize that these four gentlemen had some advantages. Nigeria, which is the source of Samson Dowda, who also is British, I believe, and Andrew Jack, who lives abroad, but I don't know what his nationality is. Nigeria is one of the richest and most well-developed, sophisticated nations in Africa in general, and especially in West Africa. So these two gentlemen already had an advantage in some way. There's also, now while William Bonak is from Ghana and Patrick Johnson is from Sierra Leone, both of these countries are less well-developed, but both of them were living for a very long time in Europe and are European citizens. So these people had some advantages potentially. You can think of the people who don't have advantages in Africa for comparison. For example, William Bonak told me in an interview that I did on my channel that in Africa it was common for him growing up in Ghana to see men training with concrete weights. Because, of course, the act of going to the gym itself is difficult because you need access to a gym and to pay for a gym and also to have enough protein in your diet and so on, but especially the gym element. I mean, take the example, for example, of swimming in America and hockey also. Hockey and swimming are some of the only sports not dominated by people with African ancestry in North America. And people often comment on maybe people with African ancestry disliking the cold or disliking water. This is not the case. There's a much more reasonable explanation, which is that people of African descent in North America frequently live in impoverished communities and much less frequently have access to a lap pool or a skating rink to practice with or the equipment to buy to practice in hockey. And if they did, they would probably dominate those sports also. Still notice even with these advantages, the two Nigerians and the two Europeans of African descent that now place in the top 12, all are in their later ages, except Bonak maybe started a little bit earlier, but they were all mostly in their 30s. We know how growth hormone has much more profound effects earlier in life. Basically, there are more cells that can divide the younger you are. So we've seen a lot of crazy transformations, what we call mutations among younger athletes taking growth hormone like Dave Palumbo and Nick Walker, for example, but much less of these dramatic transformations with people starting PEDs later in life, like Greg Doucette and others. Even Kai Green, who looked fantastic afterwards. We can only imagine what would have happened if he started earlier. So all these guys are still a bit older. So if bodybuilding was more popular around the world, such that it was more popular in Africa also, Sub-Saharan Africa, or if Sub-Saharan Africa was less impoverished and there was more access to gyms, or Sub-Saharan Africans were particularly interested in bodybuilding, I think that this number would climb dramatically. To understand why Sub-Saharan Africans are so gifted in athletics, which, by the way, you'd want to know how is their myostat and how is their IGF-1, which, by the way, their IGF-1 levels are around average. They have differences in IGF binding proteins. But there are so many different characteristics that may make them better athletes. But the question is, why are they better athletes? And why are all these better athletes, particularly from Sub-Saharan Africa? Well, to know the reason behind that, you have to know about a people called the Bontus. The Bontus describe a linguistic family of about 400 languages that originate in West Africa. Before I get started, I want to mention that the Saharan desert used to be a jungle. It used to be called, they call it the Green Sahara, or the Human African Period, something like that. During the Green Sahara, the Sub-Saharan Africans got separated from North Saharan Africans. And around the end of the Green Sahara, which ended, the Green Sahara was around 14,000 years ago to around 5,500 years ago. Around 5,500 years ago, the approximate estimate is 500 years after that, very close to after that, the Bontu-speaking peoples spread from West Africa, somewhat middle or central northern, southwards and to the east. And as they spread, they replaced other people. They dominated everything they came across. So much so, Bontu phenotype of what you think a Sub-Saharan African looks like is probably what you imagine when you think of a Sub-Saharan African. There are other peoples though. The other African groups can be broadly, genetically also, divided according to their region and language families. So, for example, North Africans, because of the ending of the Green Sahara, the arid desert that separated the North and the South, admixed very little with the other groups. And they also have a very unique history, which we won't get into here. But they did admix quite a bit with the Afro-Asiatic-speaking peoples, like the Ethiopians, because of proximity. The Afro-Asiatic-speaking peoples also intermixed a little bit with the, sometimes called the Nubian peoples, or the Nilo-Saharan people. The Nilo-Saharan people are most densely concentrated in South Sudan, if you've seen the South Sudan people. They tend to be very tall and quite dark-skinned, but have very different features than Bontus, are much less stocky and muscular by definition. Almost, you know, the phenotype is like that. And by the way, this population is closer to Adam. So, Adam being the haplogroup A, and them being the closest to Adam. B contains A and B, but there's a lot of interesting B in the Nubian peoples, these tall Nilo-Saharan people. On the other hand, in Sub-Saharan Africa, in very small pockets now, you find the people that they used to call pygmies, the Khoisan. The Khoisan look also dramatically different, being much shorter, having different textured hair than Bantu people, being lighter-skinned on average. And the Khoisan people, interestingly, were decimated by the Bantus in their expansion. In fact, the majority of the ancestry that we find now from Khoisan are from the women that either were raped or married into Bantu men's families. There are still Khoisan that exist in small pockets, but it's believed that a lot of people were sort of removed from the map of Africa with the expansion of the Bantus. So, what we've just learned is that around 5,000 years ago or so, a people emerged from West Africa that were fighting in a primitive style, right? They didn't have guns and these kind of things. So, physical prowess and athleticism was important. And they physically moved around and conquered all other Sub-Saharan Africans, essentially, that they encountered, and almost always won. So, they're genetically maybe somehow superior or culturally superior, who knows? But they defeated everybody else, and to the point where when we imagine a black guy or a Sub-Saharan African, we're imagining a Bantu-looking phenotype. So, that's one thing. But why is domination in Africa genetically so important or so relevant? It's because Africa has the highest amount of genetic diversity. You see, when humans did the out-of-Africa migration, which is thought to be around 65,000 years ago or so, there's several of them. When that happened, the further away people got from Africa, the more bottlenecks and breeding they had, which means the more founder effects they had due to natural disasters and so on, which means the more genetic drift they had. You can Google genetic drift to learn more about it, but it's basically when odd phenotypes develop due to founder effects, and over time through mating the phenotype and genes get very far from an original group, like in Iceland, for example. So, there are these founder effects. The further you go from Africa, the more they are. Also, to be clear, when I'm saying there's more genetic diversity in Africa, I mean as a continent compared to other continents. So, it's more than the diversity in all of Asia, in Europe, in the Americas, and so on. But nothing is more diverse in the rich genetic architecture and varied as the African population. So, you have, and there's other reasons potentially why, but there's this interesting idea of this domination of one group over several groups, generally this group having the most genetic diversity. Now, not everything is bright and rosy for the African athlete. There are some health issues that come with adaptations to their former environment in sub-Saharan Africa that may cause pathologic circumstances nowadays. For example, you've probably heard of sickle cell anemia being originally a consequence of adaptation to defend against malaria. You've also probably heard me mention the APOL1 gene. The APOL1 gene is the main reason that African Americans are much more likely to suffer from end-stage renal disease or chronic kidney disease than Caucasians. It's mainly that one gene, the APOL1 gene, and maybe several genotypes at that gene. However, the APOL1 gene mutation that arose among sub-Saharan Africans seems to have arose to protect them from sleeping sickness, from the pathogen that causes sleeping sickness. So, even the kidney dysfunction was at one point protective potentially. Also, the diabetes and the increased risk potentially of peripheral artery disease, which, for example, Flex Wheeler has, which is less common among Caucasians, may have been protective mechanisms to deal with their environments, adaptations. And I'm not really sure exactly how the diabetes risk among African Americans, which, by the way, is genetically unique. African or people of African descent have different reasons for becoming diabetic genetically than Caucasians, which I'm just calling people of European descent, I mean. But it may also play a role in their peripheral artery disease. There are other, by the way, health defects among African Americans, in particular, for example, that may be due to lifestyle or due to economic differences. And it's always been a question as to whether the environment or genetics played more of a role in heart disease, for example, among African Americans. It seems like coronary artery disease is not very genetically determined among them. But now with the advent of genome-wide association studies, we can really determine these things for sure. So it's not all bright and rosy for people of African descent, especially in bodybuilding. They are going to be more at risk of kidney disease on average than people who aren't black. So here's my non-bodybuilder analysis of what I'm seeing in terms of how bodybuilding judges maybe look at it. The advantages that people of African descent seem to have is the narrowest hips of all. Small joints also generally, it seems. Not like some Eastern Europeans and some Caucasians or people of European descent tend to have wider joints, I've noticed. They also, and the other thing is their muscle, the way it looks. It's so much rounder. And I don't know why it is. It could be, realize how complex this is. There are so many genes that affect power and muscular development and endurance in exercise. There's so many ways it can be done that it's better to just describe the impact overall, to be honest. Like even imagine the number of muscle fibers that there are, the distribution of the fibers, the length of the muscle bellies, the attachment points of the fibers, how perpendicular or parallel they are. There's so many complexities that we don't really understand it. But it seems to be the case that people of African descent, particularly West African descent, tend to have this unusually rounded three-dimensional type looking muscle, which also they tend to keep easier at a lower body fat. I know there are a lot of people with African descent with diabetes or obesity issues, but there are also a lot of them that keep a very low body fat very naturally while having higher muscle level, muscularity, which I think is such an important thing in bodybuilding. The better you are to keep low body fat, the easier it is to just eat and grow, as opposed to eating, getting fat, and then taking time off and so on. Remember, and the reason for that, of course, is because calories and protein change gene transcription in the body, which is why people like Chad Nichols will have people do cardio in the off-season just to eat more, to get more of that signal. People of African descent also seem to have more of an ability to get more maximal size out of their muscles. The muscles seem to be more full more easily, and they seem to be stronger on average, which is very, and more athletic in general. By the way, about the joint issue, consider my friend Scott Mendelson's wrists and compare them to any of the African bodybuilders you can think of. His wrists almost go into his hand. You know what I mean? And there's a lot of arm wrestlers that are like that sort of genetically, Russian arm wrestlers that maybe you guys don't know of, but that look like when they flex and do a bicep pose, they look like they don't have muscle because the joint is so big. It's such a difference. Now, they also have cons, though, on the bodybuilding stage. First of all, the Africans, people of African descent, don't ever seem to be the widest naturally or with the most pointed look to their shoulders. It seems like for some reason Middle Eastern people have this a lot, and some big white guys are the widest of all. That's one thing I notice. Another consideration is a lot of them have shorter muscle bellies. This doesn't seem to be always the case, but a lot of people with West African ancestry seem to have shorter calves, but also sometimes a higher peak on their biceps, maybe because it is shorter. They certainly don't usually have that very full bicep, tricep kind of arm that, for example, Derek is showing right now, Derek Lunsford at the Olympia, even though I know his arms aren't a strong point, but do you know what I mean by the full arm? And finally, one of the other weaknesses that many people know about, and it seems to be a lot of bodybuilding coaches, including Boston Lloyd used to say, the darker their skin, the more likely this could be an issue. It's famous with Akeem Williams, which is getting them to be dry on stage. This could be another adaptation to their environment in sub-Saharan Africa. So this may be a real one. While there are these slight drawbacks, to conclude, bodybuilding is really a competition of physique presentation, muscularity, low body fat, and in almost all of these things, I believe the gene pool in West Africa is so much more competitive than the rest of the world, and that if bodybuilding became popular or more accessible to West Africans, I think that it would be hard to get a non-West African into the top ten. That's what I really think would happen. Like think of Andrew Jacked. Andrew Jacked maybe had the resources, was abroad, and so on, and maybe he is in the top 0.1% of the sub-Saharan African gene pool. But there are probably some others also. And if there were enough others, there could just be no non-West Africans in the top ten. Tell me what you think in the comment section below. Thank you for your patience in me returning to videos. I'm happy to talk to you guys again, and I've missed you. We'll see you in the second half.

=== FILE: The Science-Backed Pregnancy Diet for a Healthier, Smarter Baby [P3Jwchuzw8M].txt ===

 dmikn, back everyone, I'm Lucy continuing Leo's legacy of research and dedication to improving lives through knowledge. In this episode we're gonna get into a topic close to every expecting mother's heart and mine, the optimal pregnancy diet. This is not just about health, it's about giving your baby the best start in life right from the womb. And before we get into this vital topic, I just have a small favor to ask. If you haven't already, please subscribe to the channel, hit the like button, and leave a comment below. As a side note, this video is not made on a proper protocol from Leo's research. It is a combination of the research we have made regarding diet during my pregnancy and all the supplements I have taken. Did you know that the birth weight of a child is not just a number on a scale, but it is a critical indicator of their future health? It is true, research have shown a fascinating correlation. The bigger the baby is, the healthier the adult might be. And this isn't just about the size, it's about the foundation of lifelong health. And here's where it gets a little bit more interesting. So the weight and overall health of a baby can be significantly influenced by the mother's diet and supplementation intake during pregnancy. Let's look into the research. So a landmark study by Baker in 1995 suggested that undernutrition during pregnancy lead to adaptation by the fetus, which, while beneficial for immediate survival, could predispose the individual to coronary heart disease in later life. But it's not just about the heart health. Other studies have echoed these findings, showing that low birth weight is associated with increase of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and obesity in adulthood. This phenomenon is often referred as the Baker hypothesis. It's underscoring the critical importance of maternal nutrition. Moreover, a study published in The Lancet in 2018 took this a step further. It found that a mother's diet before and during the pregnancy can affect the baby's DNA, potentially influencing the child's health and susceptibility to diseases like diabetes and heart disease later in life. Alongside physical health, did you know that a mother's diet during pregnancy can also play a pivotal role in shaping the cognitive ability and neurological development of her offspring? So this aspect of prenatal care is not just about growth. It's about setting the stage for a child's learning abilities, memory, and overall brain health. A study published in the American Journal of Epidemiology found that higher intake of certain nutrients like omega-3 fatty acids, which are crucial for brain development, during pregnancy was associated with improvement in cognitive performance in children. These nutrients are often found in food like fish and are also available as supplements. We will get back into supplements at the end of this video. But it's not just about adding beneficial nutrients. It's also about avoiding harmful deficiency. Emerging research have begun to explore the potential link between inadequate prenatal nutrition and the risk of developmental disorders, including autism spectrum disorder. A study reported that low levels of prenatal folic acid, which is a vital B vitamin, are associated with a high risk in autism. Moreover, a lack of proper nutrition during pregnancy have been correlated with an increased risk of neurodevelopmental disorder. What we're seeing here is a very compelling narrative. The nutrition and supplements an expectant mother received not only influences the physical health of her baby, but also have profound implications for the child cognitive development and risk of developmental disorders. What does this mean for expecting mothers? It means that the choice that you make about what you eat and the supplements you take during pregnancies aren't just shaping your pregnancy experience. They're shaping your child's health trajectory for decades to come. And as a side note, I am well aware that this channel is permanently followed by men. However, I really hope and truly wish for every one of you to one day, if not already, become fathers. The role of a partner getting this nutritional intake during pregnancy, especially during first trimester, is really key to success. So any men out there, I highly recommend you to watch this video fully or save it for later. Your partner will need your support in order to get the optimal nutrition, in order to get the best for your child's health. Let's get into the specifics of what to eat during pregnancy to ensure both you and your baby receive the best nutrition. Remember, it's not just about eating more, but eating smart. So you need a balanced plate composition. Aim for half of your plate being filled with low-carbohydrate vegetables. These are packed with essential vitamins and fiber. For the other half, divide it between quality, carbohydrates, and protein. Good carb choices include like berry, Greek yogurt, roots, vegetables like potatoes and carrots. And ideally, like the Japanese herbal potatoes. For protein, think of eggs, red meat, and poultry with skin and bones to add some nutrients. Now let's talk about the power of liver and eggs. So liver, and particularly organic beef liver, is a powerhouse in nutrients like vitamin A, crucial for fatal development. However, it's important to consume it in moderation due to the risk of vitamin A toxicity. As for my own experience with liver, and Leo have mentioned it a couple of times, organic beef liver is a lot more difficult to come across than organic chicken liver. I know they have it at Whole Foods, for example. And during my whole pregnancy, I made a chicken liver pate. You add all your chicken livers into a pan, you put some garlic and some onions, you cook it well all together, then you blend it. And this is not the true version, but it's the healthy version of the chicken liver pate. You put it in the fridge, and then you cut it into small portions. So I used to like having a small cube of it, and you freeze it. Every day, I will defrost one of the cube, and I will eat it with a piece of bread or a cracker. Eggs, especially those that are pasta-raised and omega-3 enriched, they are another superfood for pregnancy. You should aim to eat around four well-cooked eggs daily, I know it's hard, and spread them out throughout the day. Eggs are a great source of choline and vital for fetal brain development. Next, let's talk about iodized salt. So don't shy away from iodized salt. Iodine is essential for thyroid function, which is crucial during pregnancy. A study in thyroid showed that iodine deficiency during pregnancy could lead to hypothyroidism, affecting both the mother and the child. Now let's talk about frequency. I noticed, especially in the later stage of pregnancy, having many small meals can really aid digestion and maintain steady energy levels, which is crucial in the third trimester. Now, incorporating fish like salmon, herring, or sardine into your diet is crucial. These are rich in omega-3 fatty acids and vital for fetal brain development. Choose wild-caught and organic options with the least mercury content. Numerous studies have underscored the importance of selecting low-mercury fish for pregnant women, in order to avoid neurodevelopmental risk. And lastly, don't forget full-fat organic grass-fed dairy products. They're not just great for calcium, but also contain essential fats and vitamins. In summary, for this part, a well-rounded pregnancy diet is about quality and balance. It's about providing your body and your growing baby with the right nutrients in the right amount to support optimal development and health. And I want to make another side note here. I am well aware that this can be extremely difficult, especially in the first trimester. And the key component here, and from my own experience, I had very difficulties getting all my nutrient intakes in the first trimester. Sometimes I would be so nauseous that I would not be able to eat. The key here is to try to do it as often as you possibly can. You're really trying to be consistent. But as a woman being pregnant, your hormones are already out of whack. Your first trimester, you're extremely tired. And if you go into a mental space where you're blaming yourself for not being able to get the nutrient possible, it's not going to get you anywhere. The key here is now that you have this information, as much and as often as you possibly can, get those nutrients. Another other side note that I want to make is that oftentimes I hear about craving during pregnancies. And this is like a very interesting topic to me. I didn't get any craving in particular. However, I got an obsession. What I mean by that is that my body was not craving anything in particular. And when you hear that pregnant woman crave things like pickle or any other kind of weird food, it often means that the pregnant woman is deficient in one of the nutrients and her body is craving it. So her child has all the proper nutrients. I highly recommend that if you have any particular like specific cravings that are out of the ordinary, there are true cravings and not obsessions, I think it's good to distinguish those two, try to figure out why your body is craving it and what you're probably missing in terms of nutrients. Now on a touch base of food and product to absolutely avoid during pregnancy. While focusing on what to eat is crucial, it's equally important to know what to avoid during pregnancy to protect both your health and your baby's health. So let's look at some of key items to stay clear from. First, we have soy products. So soy contains phytoestrogen, which can mimic estrogen in the body. A study have shown that high consumption of soy could impact hormonal balance, which is particularly sensitive during pregnancy. Next, we have soft cheese and daily meat. So this can harbor listeria, a bacteria harmful to pregnant women and their fetus. The CDC recommends avoiding these in order to prevent listeriosis, which can lead to miscarriage or severe illness in newborns. Third, we have anti-acids. So frequent use of certain anti-acids can interfere with your body's absorption of essential nutrients. Fourth, we have avoiding certain plastic. So plastic, especially those containing BPA, and now we have found out other BPs as well, can disrupt endocrine function. I know we talk about this a lot, but make sure in your household you're not cooking or heating anything with plastic. Look at your cookware. Is it stainless steel or wood? Because if it's not, it is highly toxic for you and your body. Not only when you're pregnant, it's for your whole life. We're exposed to plastic quite often in our lives, and it is important to take preventive measures. One of them, for example, the first one I did is to stop using plastic bottles. I use stainless steel bottles of water. And when you're pregnant, you drink a lot of water. So get a bigger one. I used to get the huge one. And it really helps while being pregnant to get enough intake of water, but also while breastfeeding. Next, we have canned food and aluminium exposure. Canned food often contain BPA lining and aluminium exposure can be harmful. Next, we have a non-stick cookware. Non-stick pans can release harmful chemicals when overheated. Opt for a safer alternative like cast iron, stainless steel, but also ceramic. Next, we have fluoride. So while fluoride is commonly used for dental health, is used during pregnancy is debated. A study that shows a potential risk between high fluoride exposure in pregnancy and lower IQ score in offsprings. I personally have given up fluoride for myself and my daughter. And that might sound a little bit hippie-ish, but I actually created my own toothpaste because I couldn't find anything with all the components that I needed. I have a strong fear of dentists. And yes, it took me five years to remove my wisdom teeth where it was absolutely needed. But because of that fear, I am very careful of how I take care of my teeth. I have done hours and hours of research to figure out what products will work best in order to protect my teeth, make them whiter, and make sure they are as strong as I can make them. And I couldn't find any toothpaste that were containing all those ingredients. So I ended up buying all the ingredients myself, making it, and now I'm making it for a lot of my friends, myself and my daughter, and we use it on a regular basis. We recently went to the dentist and the doctor was very shocked when he saw my daughter's teeth. She's two years old and she still drink milk and she drinks a bottle to fall asleep at night. I know this is not the best approach, but he told me that oftentimes kids that were going to bed with drinking a bottle of milk had a lot of cavities and you didn't even see plaque on my daughter's teeth. So for me this is a win. And every time I go to the dentist now, since I had my wisdom teeth removed because that caused also some issues, I never had cavities in my life and since then I don't even have plaques anymore. I strongly believe that fluoride is absolutely not necessary when it comes to oral health. And if you want me to make a video on the research I've made on this toothpaste of how I'm making it and what are the ingredients, let me know in the comment below. I'll be more than happy to share the recipe. We need to be very mindful of these dietary and environmental factors that can significantly contribute to a safer and healthier pregnancy. It's not just about avoiding awful harmful substances, it's all about also creating a nutrient environment for your developing baby. And now ensuring optimal nutrition during pregnancy isn't just about food. Supplements play a key role too. Let's look into a comprehensive supplemental regimen that Leo and I designed in order to support both mother and the baby's health. This is all based on extensive research and studies, but please always consult with your healthcare provider before starting anything new. I am not a medical doctor, this is not medical advice, the list I'm going to share with you is actually all the supplements that I have personally taken. Leo's intention when I was pregnant was to make sure that I have the proper nutrition, but also that my child will have the proper nutrition so she will get the most advantages in life. He wanted to make sure that I give birth to a pretty big baby. And this is not just about weight, now I'm gonna look at the supplemental list and I'll share the link of that spreadsheet below. Those are affiliate links, I'll probably make a cent or two per sales, I don't care if you buy it from this link, it was just to help some of my friends prior and because the amazon is linked to an affiliate account, I get affiliate link every time I share something. So that's why it's on this list. I highly recommend you if you cannot find the product or looking for better alternative to go on consumerlab.com and check the quality of the product before buying anything. You will also find some of the studies on each of the supplements, I'm not going to mention them here, it will be too long. And also for those of you who have difficulties swallowing pills, or for women that get extremely nauseous, I put the ones that are the most important. Meaning in the first trimester I had to pick and choose because I was very limited and I would like throw up or be extremely nauseous while taking pills. I ended up switching to powder for a lot of them and making a shake in the morning, that was a good alternative. And then at the second trimester I was able to take my pill as usual. So those are options that you might have, but let us go into the list detail. So we have DHEA, which reduces the risk of miscarriage. We have pregnenolone, and NAC prevents necrotic death and hemorrhagic damage in the fatal brain tissue. We have L-thoracine, DOTCA, which improve implementation and life birth rates. We also have Rodiola, Mastic Gun, which improve like the microbiome and help human system during pregnancy and lactation. We have fish oil, which we talked tremendously, which is correlated with a healthy birth weight in pregnancy, but also higher cognitive assessment in children. We have Onositol, and this one, the one I'm taking in the morning. I actually separated the one taking in the morning with the meal and with your 5-ES meal on the spreadsheet. We have, what was that? Uperzine, which improves short-term memory. That's something much needed when you're pregnant and even after when you're in postpartum. We have vitamin C, L-theanine, which reduces anxiety. That's something you also can have during pregnancy. We have serine, which reduces nevonatal hypostick. We have ureterine and magnesium. And with the meal, we have berberine, vitamin C again, NAC, glycine, TOTCA, ubiquinol, garlic, and L-thoranine. You will see that in the description, like the reasons why Leo and I decided to put that into the supplement regimen. And lastly, with your 5-ES meal, we have Ficetil, Lutein, Terra Curcumin, B-Right, which was a special brand with love B vitamin, grapeseed, versatine, citrus bergamot, seed probiotics. Not sponsored or anything like that, but I take seed personally. I also have my daughter take seed probiotics. They're, I think, the higher quality probiotics and also the one that don't need to be refrigerated because of the way they're being produced. I was taking some Verso, which is NAD+, vitamin K, vitamin D, and lastly, choline. I will add the link of this spreadsheet on the description below. So each of these supplements have been chosen for its potential to support healthy pregnancy and optimal fetal development. However, it's crucial to remember that supplements are just one part of the puzzle. A balanced diet, regular exercise, and prenatal care are equivalently important. As always, always consult with your healthcare provider before starting anything new. It's probably good to mention that I think this regimen is not only getting, having a healthy pregnancy, but also giving the highest opportunity for your children moving forward. The higher cognitive ability they will get, the further they will get in life. And that's something Liu and I really try to achieve and I'm still continuing in this journey. Okay, so we've covered a lot of ground today and I know it's been a lot to take in. I want to acknowledge up front that this journey we've discussed, optimizing your diet and supplement intake for pregnancy, it's no small feat. It's challenging and I've been there. During my first trimester, I was dealing with nausea, I was trying to stick up to the supplement regimen and it was tough. But I did my best and that's all we can ask of ourselves. A key side note that everyone should hear, if you're planning to get pregnant or are currently trying, I strongly recommend to start this diet and supplement routine at least three months in advance. This preparation period is actually crucial for your body to adjust and also enhancing the quality of your eggs through positive epigenetic changes and for ensuring you're in the best possible health as you embark on this absolutely incredible journey. And to all the partners out there, the ones that are probably watching this video, this is also very important. Please offer encouragement and support to your significant other. But avoid pressuring them. This process is demanding enough as it is. And don't forget, your health matters too. Optimizing your diet and lifestyle three months before conception, at least, is really key to improving semen quality, reducing DNA fragmentation, and positively influencing your own epigenetics. And how do I know all of this works? Well, during my own pregnancy, I gained about 30 pounds. But it wasn't just weight gain. It was a healthy, nurturing process. I gave birth to my daughter, who was 9 pounds 12 ounces. And she was in the 99 percentile of her head, height, and head size. My pregnancy belly was so large that my doctor keep on joking about me carrying twins. Here's the kicker. I had a natural birth without any stitches and I managed to avoid gestational diabetes, which is a common concern when women experience so much gain weight. I understand that a lot of our audience is male, but if you are interested, I have quite the story to tell about my birth experience. I learned some invaluable tips on navigating conversations with doctors and nurses, and even some techniques on how to deliver a baby efficiently. And believe it or not, I did it in less than five minutes, despite my labor being for 24 hours. Plus, I have some insight also on how to recover from hormonal changes and postpartum depression. If you'd like to hear more of this, let me know in the comment section below. Thanks again for sticking with me through this long video. Please remember that every step you take, no matter how small, is a step towards a healthy pregnancy and a healthiest baby. Stay tuned for more videos as we're going to explore DACA and all the biohacking hacks. Don't forget to subscribe and share your thoughts and questions down below. You know your engagement helps keep this channel and Leo's legacy thriving. This video was a mix of some Leo's research and mine, and everything have been applied to my own pregnancy. Until next time, stay curious and stay well.

=== FILE: This Bodybuilding ＂Guru＂ Gave His Baby a Psychedelic [Hw_v9oSDBno].txt ===

 aromasin. doesn't make sense it's nonsensical even through the cannabinoid agonist it doesn't make but there's other people that tell you marijuana just changed my life or like to be honest with you i don't know how spiritual you are but even the dmt stuff i don't give drugs this kind of secret thing and i think it's dangerous to do so because for example i won't name who this person is just but this person was another person a bodybuilding coach who was into ibogaine this guy i he told me this i didn't ask him about he told me thinking i don't know that i wouldn't judge it i i told him this is insane what you just did this is reckless unbelievable and you may cause your child autism but what he did was he gave with her permission his again reckless girlfriend ibogaine at a full dose while she was breastfeeding the baby now the baby is much older you can almost clearly tell the baby's autistic and autism by the way one of the theories of it is high serotonin signaling as a baby or high growth factors in the brain as a baby in the belly or as a baby no no no while it was in the belly would be protected while it was breastfeeding in the belly it's more protected yeah so that's just to show you like some of these people there they may believe that this thing is god sent but you shouldn't fall into their trap and the thing is fuck the baby doesn't have any consent no oh bro you may have just ruined the child's mind for life for life this is all speculations obviously like maybe you know the child is fine or maybe if he has autism it was just that's how it was supposed to be anyway but yeah you're literally like you are what you eat so if you take something you know what you you piss no no he told me i saw a difference in the child's actual behavior afterward he was very happy about this yeah if you think if you take a drug and you piss on a drug test you're gonna piss dirty i'm pretty sure if you would squeeze that milk yes drugs in the milk 100 bro i've researched it so much because i had a child recently well moral of the story don't don't fucking take drugs when you're breastfeeding wait no no they did it intentionally to put it in the breast milk to give it to the kid it was planned because they believe it's a magical thing oh they're crazy yeah yeah bro i'm trying to tell you and i'm leaving the person nameless because i'm not a prevention person the only reason i ever talked about i mean was just to protect me like that's pretty much my opinion like child abuse or something yeah it is child abuse but there are people like that so and these are coaches that you some of you guys trusted and would ask for this kind of help from so keep in mind people have different perceptions it may not be just that they're greedy it may be they have a they think this thing is good and they think even if you have no consent you should take it

=== FILE: Unveiling the Truth： The Mystery Surrounding Leo's Death ｜ Investigation Update [3OnGoxIv_z0].txt ===

 naringin, hi everyone, ummm, it's hard to make this kind of video, and it's with a heavy heart that I'm making it. I need to give you an update on what I know so far about Lathis death. And in all honesty, I'm doing this video because I'm hoping that the mainstream media will pick up the story again and write about it again so we can put more pressure on the embassy and furthermore in in in in in in in in in 1994 in 1994 in 1994 in 1994 in! in 1994 in 1994 in! in 1994 in 1994 in Thailand at Tony's house that's where they found Leith that you all know as Leo, Leo Rex, Leo Longevity. For me on January 30th 2023 I received a text message. The text message was just saying Leith is dead and the text was sent by Tony's associate Ennis. I don't know exactly the nature of their relationship. I found out that Ennis is the one managing Swiss scam and I know he was going to the house often and from my understanding he was there when the cops came. So I got the text message at 4am in the morning with a time difference and I didn't see it until the morning. I at first didn't believe it and then I received a call from Leo's mother that actually confirmed that he passed away. I can't even tell you what I felt at first but this is not about me. I was in complete shock and in order to... I didn't know what to do so I did the first thing that a sane person will do it just I googled it. I don't know why I just went on Google and surprisingly the first thing I found was the article on the Pattaya news mentioning his death and showing pictures of the scene. Keep in mind that was just a few hours after he passed. You can look at the text and see the time difference and look at when the article was published on the Pattaya news. So shortly after that I desperately called the US Embassy in Thailand which they were closed but they have an emergency line for this kind of matter and nobody picked up the phone so I kept on calling and calling and calling until the morning somebody finally answered. And to my surprise the afferents didn't believe me. I had to call multiple times to speak to different people in order for them to take me seriously. When I was telling them that I have the news confirmed because there is a news article about it they were as shocked as I was. And the news article also mentioned that they were already in touch with the US Embassy which was not at all. So for merely three months Laith had been residing with Tony and his multiple girlfriends. So what could have gone wrong? I have multiple theory and I'm just gonna let it all out today. So Tony was the financial pillar for his girlfriend slash baby mamas and I know Leo and he was very forthcoming with his thoughts. He was under the impression that they were using Tony and not giving him the respect that he deserved and that he was giving too much. Tony respected Leo's thoughts and he ended up making changes. Some of those changes including moving one of the baby mama from a big house she had to a much smaller one and apparently making other financial changes that I don't think is necessary to get into. But could have this trigger some animosity and maybe revenge? I don't know. So Leo was found behind his bathroom door. The bathroom door was located inside his bedroom which had- the bedroom had a sliding door but the bathroom door only had a small window that nobody could go through. As Tony loved to mention he was found behind the door and apparently it was very hard to actually push the door because his body was laying right behind it. And I love the fact that this was mentioned many many many times just to prove that it could have not been full play. It could have just been an accident. But I get back to this. So another thing that was very triggering is the fact that many photos have been released online and some of them that I've seen and I don't know how I've seen them and trust me I don't want my daughter to ever see them um shows his body and and all the concussion he had. The autopsy report which I get back to actually showed also that he had wounds and bruises that to me means there was a fight. I was I'm almost certain that the fight happened. How, why, I don't have all the details but what I think happened is that someone came and attacked him or multiple people who knows. And Leo was somebody that would defend himself and it was very strong. One of his punches hurt someone very bad. Somebody probably came with an object because that's what I've done to get somebody like him. And the fight ended up in the bathroom. And I think he got hit in the head. And I think the internal breathing, brain injury that started making him weaker, that the scion closed the bathroom door, that he tried to open it. And why do I think that? It's because of the door handle from the inside of the bathroom. That's broken. And I think he didn't have the strength and it just passed out and died behind the door. There was also something with the bathroom, the toilet in particular, that looked like there was bolts that were coming out and or like somebody had some tools. And this is what I found. I found a series of text messages between Tony and Leo. And Leo mentioned to Tony that there is a mold issue or some kind of issue with the bathroom and asked Tony to send a plumber to fix it. I knew Leo very well. He would have never touched a tool from a mile away unless it was something big and he was very scared of them all. So that could have been maybe he tried to do something with the toilet, but he would have not done anything further than that. So the police actually got fingerprints from the place and DNA sample. They got fingerprints on the bathroom and they got some other DNA. I've got the confirmation that they have found another DNA that was not latest. But as same for the fingerprints, no results, nothing came out of this. Meaning they have not produced any report. They have not processed the evidence. We are eight months from the time that they found his body and those evidence have not been processed and analyzed. And we're talking here about the Thai police, which I do not trust to be throughout. I do not trust that they're biased and I do trust that they're corrupted. And multiple evidence show that I think somebody is trying to make this case closed. I think it will be best for multiple people. That's just my opinion. The official cause of death was brain trauma with skull fracture with a blunt object impact. This was the cause of death that was given to me and put on his death certificate. It left me with more questions than answered because which object would have caused this? The police didn't find anything concluent that could have made this impact in the room. So they never search or never give any more details than that. And I thought we'll get more details on the autopsy report, which was not the case. To give you some context about everything that had transpired, the autopsy report was made on February 2nd, 2023. It took months for me to get it. I finally obtained it in May 18th, 2023, after calling the Thai police multiple times at the US Embassy. But it left out crucial details that in an autopsy report in the States we were seeing that they didn't provide to us. We never had the exact time of death, because the official time of death when it was found. But we know that he actually died a couple of days before because of the high decomposition states of his body. They never put the real time and date of death. A lot of people love to speculate that it was a manic episode. Oh, there was some substance that he took that could make him manic and caused this accident. No. On the autopsy report, you can see that he had a tiny bit amount of alcohol, like so minimum that is, you're not even feeling drunk at this point. I have translated it. So the concentration is zero. I mean, the conversion from percentage to the amount of blood alcohol is 0.010. So they have found presence of telmarcetin. Tell me. They have found the presence of telmarcetin, which I knew he was taking, and THC, which we also knew he was smoking. So that was not unexpected. Um, but they didn't even find anything else. There was no other substance that they have found in his body, and they have tested for a lot of things. And you can see on the autopsy report yourself that there is nothing that could have made him having a manic episode. And on the external appearance part, you can see that he had bruises and concussions. And it was in, like I said, high decomposition states that they couldn't even analyze certain parts of his body. You can see that they actually measured, like the fracture, his skull fracture, and how big it was, which side it was, which again, doesn't correlate with anything that was actually in that bathroom. It is very hard for me to go back and look at all those pictures. I know they're online, and I know a group of people try to help with the investigation, which I truly appreciate, but it was not the right time, and I was not ready to talk about it. And I was dealing with so many other things. But now, given that I'm sharing all this information, if you or anybody who wants to take a look at those images and try to make sense, or at least try to prove that none of the things that was found in this bathroom could have been making this impact that he had in his brain, which led to his death. So all his external injuries, like really pointed towards confrontation, at least to me. He had injuries around his left eye, forehead, knees, and ankle that to me are not consistent with an accident or self-infliction. Many of you have actually inquired about the fact that the local Thai police and the FBI are involved in the case and were actually questioning if this was true. Well, nothing comes easy. The reason why the FBI... So to clarify, the FBI maintain presence in different countries. However, for example, for Thailand, there's only a few agents that handles three countries, Thailand being one of them. So it's not a lot of presence. They're just there. And the FBI got involved because of the amount of call I probably did to the US embassy, but also because of the circumstance of this case, but also the profiles of the individuals under investigation. That's the reason why they're still investigating. And I know, I know for a fact that the case is not closed on the FBI side, but neither it is on the Thai police side. However, initially, a few months ago, the Thai police closed the case for no reason. After contacting them and asking for answers, they actually reopened the case and are working closely with the FBI, exchanging information to try to solve this. But this has been a very slow process. And with the corruption of the local police, it just doesn't make things easy. In order to have as much pressure as possible on the Thai police and the FBI to get this solved, I actually reached out to my Congress representative, Congressman Adam Schiff. Schiff, not sure how it's pronounced. And to my surprise, I got an answer to my email within two days. And he followed up twice, which was very contrasted with the lack of response from the representative of Leith is Leo's mother in Colorado. I just want to mention that I think it's important to thank people that helped you along the way. And I think it's important to mention that his intervention actually prompted the embassy to put pressure on the Thai law enforcement so we can get the autopsy report quicker, which actually helped. Now, when it comes to the suspects, Tony seemed unlikely. Let me rephrase. Tony seemed unlikely to have done it. He didn't have any defense injury on him. He made video immediately after. I don't know if he's involved or if he knows more than he's saying. I will let you be the judge of that. Another thing that happened is the FBI got his phone and laptop, but they were not able to open them. I was trying to help them remotely, but they couldn't do it. So I ended up asking them to send it to me. And after a few months, they actually agreed because if they had sent it to Washington, it would have taken a year, maybe two before they were able to open it. I told him that I'm pretty certain that I will be able to do that. And after they sent it, it took me 48 hours in order to do that. And I ended up getting them the whole content of his phone and his laptop. But I have seen a couple of things. And one of them is the last pictures that was on his phone. You probably heard the story of the call girl mentioned by Tony that Leo saw on the 27th at night. So it's Thailand time zone. And apparently she came out of the room saying that he tried to strangle her or hurt her in some way and she was crying. And Tony made her forget about it. I don't know. And even take a video to show that she was fine in case she was going to the police and then offer to pay her up. And he said that he offered to pay her also, so she doesn't go report anything. Again, that's Tony's story, allegedly. But what I can say is that on Leo's phone, the picture of that girl was taken at 3.52am on the 27th. So multiple pictures were taken there, but that's not the last image taken on his phone. The last image, it's a bizarre image. It's like a blackout. And it's followed by a video that's like two seconds with no sound and it's all pitch black, which was taken at 6.02am. Interestingly, and I don't know if I'm making connection where there is none, but you can think by yourself and make your own conclusion. But the same girl that was seen by Leo, I keep in mind that she was the friend of the girl Tony was seeing. She worked for one of those Thai bar. And the individual owning that bar is the same individual that owns Bataia News, which was the first article that I found regarding Leo's passing. Coming back to that article, you can see from the photos from the scenes, they were all over the place. And you can also see that when the police is on the scene doing their job, trying to do their job. And when Leo was lay there, you can also see Tony in the same scene, which I questioned the embassy and the FBI about this. And I mentioned that Thai have different rules and don't do the same thing as the US. But it's still not normal that he was allowed on the scene with them hanging. Just let me share my DNA left and right. And to me, it just compromised the integrity of the scene and the investigation to begin with. But that's not the only thing. After reviewing the pictures published on the news articles, so there were pictures taken by God knows who. But I can see from Leo's pictures on his phone to the pictures there that some things are missing. And I do believe his room was tempered prior to the police arrival. Again, just my own opinion, not accusing anyone. I'm just seeing what I found. Another thing I want to mention is that I was told that reporters or whoever took the picture, again, don't not sure who exactly, but were on the scene before the police arrived. That lets you think like, how did they know? Who contacted them? Why? How much money did they pay that person of this person? So after I received his laptop, I also received one of his notebook. And on his notebook, he wrote a lot of things. And one of them was the fact that he actually wanted to leave Thailand. He wrote it in there. And he also wrote that his main goal was to come back to the US to be closer to his daughter. For those of you who think he had any risk or fled the country, that was not the case at all. Just everything is online. You can just go look and check. And Leo was a complex man. And we have a complex relationship after everything that happened. And I'm not surprised that deep down he wanted to come back and be closer to his daughter. Because I knew and I know he loved her. But also during heightened emotions, which he was known for, he would also text many women and ask him to have more children just to despite me. So that's a fact that I want to share. Because I have a feeling some people are going to love expressing this after I post this video. And two weeks prior to his death, he actually reached out to me and wanted to reconcile. But I told him that I needed more effort on his part. And that I needed him to cease any intoxicants and to pursue therapy. But he declined and asserted that he felt more informed than medical professionals. And so our conversation stopped there two weeks before he was found dead. This is what I know so far. This is where the investigation is at. These are the hard truths and the facts and the persistent questions. You're free to interpret and think as you see fit. And regardless, I'm going to continue my search for more information. And there's still a reward out there for anyone who can provide anything insightful. And I'm seeking your assistance to share this video. I'm aiming to capture the attention of the mainstream media again. And the embassy should sense both the duty and urgency to helping to uncover the truth. Because especially, especially when a couple months, I forgot my timeline is bad in general, but there is this German citizen that face another tragedy and they caught the suspect within a week. So how does this reflect on the US? Like Germany can do better than you, please. I feel like this is a big joke and it still feels surreal. I still have a lot of unanswered questions, but I appreciate everyone's support and everyone's help. Thanks again. Thank you.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.468760Z ===
