 They alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazaza, alwayzazazaza, alwayzazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazazaza than it is on the east coast and a lot of people use meth here. I wanted to make an observation of one of the side effects of long-term meth use to you which you probably never thought of yourself and which I noticed by myself but since then every time I told someone about this face-to-face somebody that knows meth users they always agreed with me immediately although they hadn't noticed it before themselves. The first time I ever made this observation was actually in the LA County Jail. I was very friendly there and when new people would come in I'd ask them about their lives and so on. What I noticed was that people who came in who smoked meth from what they call a pookie often had one thing in common which is that their jaws didn't seem to align perfectly with their heads. So let me show you how. When they were talking to you their jaw would move randomly so they'd be talking like this or sometimes you'd see them just it's not that the jaws forward it's that it's misaligned. Like I said I grew up there middle class wasn't anything real spectacular just living. It's constantly misaligned it's almost seems what I noticed there after a while was that the longer people used meth the longer they smoked meth people snorted meth often didn't have this but the longer they smoked meth the more unstable the jaw was to the point where at some point they would just people would be walking around and you could really tell who was using meth by that but just by the way their jaw was. I'm very very excited to be here to talk to obviously your listeners and you know you have a very big influence in uh bodybuilding space I'm very familiar with your background so it's awesome again um the question about how I got into this is I you know I was sharing with you off the air is uh I later met some IV meth users some people from the San Fernando Valley white guys and they also had this meth thing so I realized it wasn't just people who smoked people who even IV'd from the beginning of their use had the same kind of meth mouth thing whereas people who snorted it often didn't so I think it was about the amount of meth and the speed at which they received it in their body. Now interestingly people who use cocaine are often known to grit their jaw but I've never seen them do this kind of really bizarre jaw flip. Describe yourself as the black sheep of the family the wild one. Yeah I was considered the black sheep of the family only because I like I was like the daredevil I used to uh like set up jumps in on the sidewalk in front of the house and take my um take my my bike and just jump over stuff like trash can. And since that time I've sort of used this misaligned jaw thing to be a proxy for meth use. When I encounter somebody with a misaligned jaw I just immediately assume they use meth and I'm almost always correct when I talk to them about it. Anyway guys have you also noticed this misaligned jaw that comes from long-term meth use? Have you ever seen it in someone who didn't use meth but used cocaine for example? Have you ever seen it in someone who snorted meth? And what in the world do you think causes it? Anyway guys thank you for bearing with me it was another quick observation but I hope we can have an interesting conversation in the comment section. I look forward to seeing you again tomorrow morning. Thanks