 okay, Boston's Ariala is back and Blue is back, I'm excited. Sorry guys for the delay, for the audience to know, we haven't recorded in months and I'm really excited to talk to Ariala and Blue and we want to continue Boston's podcast and we'll go through it. What we want to talk about first is the Olympia and before the Olympia I wanted to ask about jazz, so we haven't heard from Jack for a long time, so you said he's in kindergarten? So it's VPK, it's like a program to get them ready for kindergarten. It's from 9 to 12 Monday to Friday, so it gives me like those three hours to do my errands, to do some cardio in the morning, so it's great and he learns a lot in it too, which is great. But what don't they start kindergarten at like four or three? Five. Oh really? Yeah, so he'll be five in April, so he's the perfect age for this program and then after I have to look into schooling for him too, there's some schools I looked into but it's just, I've had so much going on that I put him in VPK and I'm like, you know what, I'll just figure it out when he's older and but yeah, he's doing good so far and they learn a lot in it and the program's really good. But Ariella, you've been training. Every time I see your profile, I don't know the details, but I want to see you huge. Have you been working out? You look huge. Thank you. So after everything with Boston, I wasn't eating for like a really long time and I went from like one 70s to like one, I lost a lot of weight. I lost probably like 20 pounds or so. And I was like, you know what, let me just get back into the gym because mentally I needed that structure of just waking up, eating, cardio, training. I just needed that regimen because otherwise I would have gotten super depressive. I didn't have a routine. So that's really what fueled me to get back into working out. And then it's insane how fast the muscle memory came back. Like within a matter of weeks, I was just like, oh, this is great. Seeing little definition because I wasn't doing anything before. I was like training with Boston randomly, but like I would do no headphones. I wouldn't do a pre-workout. Leo, I would train after like eating fast food. I wouldn't eat all day and then train. Like I wasn't taking it seriously. It was just to like spend time with Boston, you know? So I really hadn't taken it seriously until probably the end of March into April. And then I just progressed really well. And I have that like, that itch again, you know, just to get into the gym every day. That powerful itch. You became powerful again. Okay, so I wanted to ask about Anakin. How's that? Good, man. It's amazing. I'm sucking up every moment. Every moment. You remember, I have older kids, so I'm kind of reliving everything over again. Yeah, exactly. For the audience that doesn't know, you have older children and you have a very young child. Yes, I have a 22 year old, a 23 year old and a one year old. That's crazy. That's so good. I don't know how you did it. You go through the whole child's very big all over. Yeah, it's amazing, though, man. Little things, you know, my wife and I, it's just things that we want to, that we went through, you know, with our other kids, it's just a completely different perspective now. You know, we were children raising children before, that, you know, now being older, more mature, established stuff like that, it's just a different perspective on things that we're loving every second of it. Absolutely. Yeah, children raising children is a good description. Okay, I'll tell you guys about that. So I'm in a room in a house in Tony Hughes's house. Well, both of us are renting a house. It's very interesting. So we have like a four, five bedroom house in that and it's very unusual. Tony is a very usual guy. Let me show you how unusual it is. Tony sent me a message tonight. This is ridiculous. Look at this. He sent me a message. I just saw this message because I was late coming to the dentist. This cookie is sending you rental house options on an app called live. Most of these types of things will happen online. It's an app because all the real estate agents use live. So check those messages sometimes. I'm at the gym, working out with a Thai tomboy lesbian. It's also a possible solution to my issue. Because if I have one of these, one of these then then she's a lesbian, she finds other girls. Like what? Tony, Tony is obsessed with, with three steps. So Tony, he hasn't changed at all. Oh, obsessed with reasons like his whole life. He's trying to organize these things and stuff. It's very funny. So yeah, it's a fun time. Okay. So next, yeah. So I wanted to, so I'm in Thailand. I've been spending time with Tony and he's really fantastic. Oh wait, let me see. Have you, have you went on a tuk-tuk yet? Yeah, I did when I was like 10. You know, you know, I came to Thailand first when I was like 10 or 11 years old. I came here twice for a month when I was young. Thailand's an interesting place. It's not for me. I gotta tell you the truth. It's really not for me. It's, it's funky. It's very funky. Okay. So next, next we wanted to talk about the Olympia. So what did you guys think about that? Let me ask this question. Did you guys expect Rami, when you saw Rami go off, did Ariel, did you watch the Olympia? I did. Yeah, I did. My friend actually had a Christmas party the same day. So we were all on the couch watching it. I didn't watch the full thing, but I did watch some of it. Yes. What did you think when you saw Rami off to the side? So this is what happened. Everybody saw Rami off to the side, like he was like out of the selection on the right side. And people were thinking that, that people were thinking that, that Rami is certainly not in the running because he's off on the side. And they didn't, they didn't, people were thinking that Rami won't have a shot at being at the top just because he was off to the side. Like people were judging his placing because he was placed on the side. They were judging based on how the judges were putting him. Did you guys see Rami Tezik as being fifth place when you saw him? Did you, did you judge that? Yeah, I mean, when he showed the video, you know, when I seen what he looked like a week out, a couple of weeks out, I thought everything was on schedule. Everything was good. Yeah, because so many people asked me what my predictions were. And I was like, he's going to win it again. He has everything. It's no doubt. But then when I seen him come out, I was like, Oh, fuck, like something was way off. And then when they put him out to the side, I was like, Wow, okay, he's bet. But you notice that in the finals, they still moved him around the center for a second. So he was compared. So I thought, okay, they're still going to give him some love, but they didn't, you know, they definitely let him know that the way he came in was not rewardable. He was, he was way off, way off. I don't know what happened behind the scenes. You know, I know Dennis watches over him, you know, at the end, but I think for him, at this stage, he needs Chad right by his side at the end. And I'm not sure how that plays out. But definitely way off. Chad was at his side. The thing is, Ariel, I don't know if you saw him, people were complaining that first of all, they were complaining about his quads before he came because they were like, then saw them. Then they were complaining about his back being undersized. Then they were complaining about his triceps being undersized. But I don't I, what did you think of his condition? His, um, you didn't hear anyone talk about his glutes. He had those like, well, it's like, it's like, if we get it, like everybody on that stage taking steroids, they're probably trying to move around pinning into as much areas as they can without getting lumps. So like, we get it, but like, they don't want to see that on stage, you know? So those were the first thing that stuck out to me was when he flexed his glutes from behind, like those two pointy marks stood out. And then his quads just, it was just weird. It's just he wasn't like him. He didn't seem like he was on. And it's like, you compare it to weeks out. Same thing with Sarah, physique, you compare them to weeks out. And then you're like, Well, what happened on stage? Sarah situation is different, though, because she tried, she posted, she tried to come in softer. I don't know if you saw that. And then it failed. Sarah, Yes. Yeah, she's insane. I think if she's like all the time, she shredded weeks out, she has to actually tone it down to come in. And that's what she did. She stays shredded like seven weeks out. That way she could slowly kind of fill in and bring the look that she's known for bringing. But what happened this year was she toned it down a little bit. Her abs weren't as lean. She wasn't as brisk that like she was weeks out when she was posting photos. So then you're like, Well, what happens? You look like that. And then on stage, it's like, that happens a lot with competitors, not just her. You're like, What happens in those few weeks, those few days, you know, they're posting hotel shots where they look amazing. And they're like, Oh, you're going to win it. And then on stage, it's like, they're softer. Like what happened? But with Sarah, she tried to bring in a softer look because she thought that that's what they wanted. And they didn't. And they rewarded somebody else over her. I forget who blew. What's her name? That one? Which one? I'm very confused about women's physique. Women's physique. She'd been like a top runner for years. Natalia? Natalia. Yeah, she finally got it. Yeah. She did, which was deserved. She came in super lean. But I do think that if Sarah came in her best, she's untouchable. Absolutely. I agree. I agree. Because even beforehand, when people ask me about that, Hey, who do you think is going to win? I was like, Oh, yeah, she's going to get it again. There's there's nobody close. But Natalia card slipping. Exactly. So she posted Sarah posted again, like, you're not going to catch me trying to soften up again. I'm not going to try to make the judges or anyone else happy or all these, you know, people are trying to get into her head. Oh, you should come in this way. Women's physique should be this and it gets into your head and she's like, I'm not going to do that anymore. I'm just going to come in the way that I know I can come in. So she does that. She I mean, she has it again, you know. Yeah, absolutely. I can ask you guys, what do you think about like women's bodybuilding compared to women's physique? I get confused when I see them on stage because women's physique. Okay, this is really, really like amateur. But when I look at the women's bodybuilder, it looks sort of out of place. Like the physique competitors have a better physique overall. The women's bodybuilders seem to be, I don't know, it's not streamlined. Like the blocky waist, it's like they're as, yes, they don't have that like, aesthetically pleasing X factor where they're the same. The small waist and the big shoulders and which they with all the stuff that they're all, I mean, but that's genetics to some of them. They just, you know, they're taking all the G H and they're blowing their waist out and they're just overdoing it too much. But there are those women who can do bodybuilding and really be on point with the shape and the symmetry to women's physique is, is like turning into it's insane because when I first competed in 2012, I think physique was just kind of hitting the NPC and I feel like they just added it. And my figure back then, when I competed on stage in 2012, that wouldn't have been able to stand a chance nowadays with the figure checks because it's insane how much bikini figure and physique has progressed. It's nuts. Like just the muscle that they want, the definition that they want because in women's physique, they didn't use to watch triations. I might be wrong on that. I'm pretty sure that years ago they didn't want really visible, like lean, hard striations because that was bodybuilding. They had to distinguish between physique and bodybuilding and they only added physique for the women that were maybe too muscular for figure, but not big enough for bodybuilding. And now it's like these physique checks. It's like, they're massive. They're huge. They're veiny. They're striated. It's like, it's insane. That's why if everyone wants to compete again, I'm like, I don't know. But the top bodybuilding chick is incredible. I forgot her name. Yes. Are you talking about the really pretty black girl? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know her name too, but she's gorgeous. She has a great shape, great muscle. She keeps her femininity. I don't know her name, but I admire her. I admire her. She keeps her femininity incredibly so, right? She does. Very impressive. Okay, so this is what my thought was honest. So when I saw Rami come on stage, I thought that he's, to be honest with you, I actually thought he was in very good condition. I don't know. It sounds a little bit ridiculous, but he was the driest he's ever been. He was the leanest he's ever been on stage. He was the young. He did obviously lose size. And I think it was possibly because, like, he lost size, I think, because he was so dry and not so flabby. But I don't know if it was because he wasn't in good condition. Anyway, the point is when I saw him on stage. Leo, my question is, like, I know Dennis watches over him at the end, but is Chad in person, like, within the last, like 48 hours? Yeah, Chad. I don't want to go in. Yeah. Chad, there was a little bit of an issue this long ago. Yeah, yeah, because I'm sure there was something behind the scenes. You know what I'm saying? I always tell everybody, you know, the greatest coaches on the planet is Chad and Hawni. I love. Did you guys get disconnected? Guys, I'm sure. Okay, it's recording. You guys, you think? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I figured something was with me. Tony just sent me a message. He said, I'm going to head to a tomboy lesbian park. Not from now if you're interested. I know you don't like seeing T girls that much, but I figure I should probably start offering to you just in case you're ever in the mood. I think I have a lot of interesting things like this that I still haven't seen also. Hold on, hold on. What's a T girl? It's a trans, it's a transsexual lady. Oh, bro. No, no, I'll throw up. Oh, this is my life. It's very interesting. So, so, yeah, I thought he was in good condition. Hawni was excellent, obviously I understand what he gave it to him. I think Derek was amazing. I think Derek is like a life changing. Like, we've never seen anyone in the history of body looking for that kind of. Or that kind of. Once he wins the Olympia, he'll keep it for years like Derek has the potential to be a jay Cutler. He has the potential to hold on to it. He has absolutely everything he's approachable. He's marketable. He has everything. It's just a matter of. Except to Andrew Jack. I like his physique, but the thing is is still from the rear. He does not have that this is he does not have the conditioning of those guys in those upper spots is. Once he fully fills out his frame and then brings the conditioning from the rear is going to be insanely dangerous. Okay, I agree. I want to challenge you get your body for this on this subject. When you see Andrew Jack on stage, there are no question he is the most impressive physique. You can't lie. When he stands facing front on a standing relaxed, nobody competes with him. Nobody on the stage. I think he's far better than everybody else. And so I was just shocked like he ended up nice or not nice is what I think he ended up. Or something like that. I just don't understand exactly. I understand when you turn around his boots and hands are not dug in. But that's one body part everything else is far better than everyone else. I agree. I think he has a great physique, but that's a huge thing for the judges. I mean, some of these judges when they look at that that is the one thing. If that is not up to par getting moved to the side. Can I can I be honest about this so obviously we understand that body fat gets removed from the boots last so if you're looking at competitors and you see that boots aren't dug in. I understand that they're not as competitive in a way, but it's a little game. It's a little game to be obsessed with people's boots to be honest with you. When you stand with everyone's boots, I want to say I don't think I don't think they're looking at it that way the way they were looking at it is basically this was this guy made the ultimate sacrifices. They got every bit of fat off. That's the way they're looking at it as this guy did everything he suffered more than the guy next one, because they look at it not just as a physical weakness but honestly, they look at it as a personal weakness, a mental weakness of okay, you couldn't go through what the guy next to you went through and so you just took your prep a little lighter. Yeah, that's because Leo, somebody turns around and has strided glutes the rest of them is going to be up to par. Nobody's ever going to turn around have strided glutes and have a soft soft abs or soft shoulders or soft like Derek like Derek Derek has strided. He has an excellent backside and his front chest and abs are sort of watch. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's slightly front to soft. But overall, still some maturity there it's just because so young. He's still overall in shape and yeah some people, you know genetically will have their glutes come in easier than others other people have to like, like, Andrew Jack you can tell when he turns around he's going to have to really suffer to get those glutes in, but a lot of bodybuilders have that like Cedric he was one of me and Boston's favorite bodybuilders and he could have had the Olympia so many times if he just came in shape with his blutes if his glutes were just crisp you know, like he had the potential he had the most. I mean he had the most impressive physique because he's tall he filled his frame out he was really really aesthetically pleasing to look at he had that old school look but also the like new school like muscle like he was really big and he filled out his frame but he just he couldn't come in like 100% and the one time he came in his best. I think that was the year that he won the Arnold. So he had the potential, but I think the glutes is just like, it's just the thing in bodybuilding it's like if your glutes aren't in then most likely the rest of you isn't going to be that impressive either. You know, what did you think of Nick Walker crunching down on his abs and all the positions that you guys noticed this. When he crunches down on his abs in the rear double by I mean the front double bicep. He moves down, and it makes his bike steps look sort of turned in. I don't think it's a very impressive look but I think he does it because he has to shorten the course of obviously everyone started but do you mean like from the front or from like this. Yeah, from the front he goes like this from behind also from behind he can't. He can't spread his lap very well I think it's because he's crunched down also. It's interesting look what do you think about that. I'm pulling it up now. Yeah, I know you're. I think he does it honestly to try to create some more detail from the front but also because his torso is longer. I think that's why he's just that's that's the one weapon he's lacking as structure. So he's trying to create more from the front. He's just, he's, he's in an awkward position man, because, you know, he's going to get near the top. The other thing is, those guys will structure is always going to be that bump in the road that's just as long as you have another guy that has the same size and condition. He's never going to get past them and so he's trying to create other things if I was him and I told this to many people. In his conditioning isn't even 100%. You know, he's got a freak factor but his legs still need to come up from the front like Nick is a good guy, and I wish the best run that honestly, he should hire honey, he should absolutely hire honey I've said it to multiple people. You know, I don't think I assume that I assume that honey doesn't want to to to be a sponsored athlete for evolution. I mean, I assume everybody right now would hire honey if they could. Right. Yeah, I mean, I don't know exactly. Who was honey's class just for people. Yeah, yeah, honey's amazing honey is seriously the best coach on planet Earth I mean it is what it is I'm never prideful with that stuff that's why I always speak out to people and tell you who's fake and who's not I have no problem doing it. You know, it's, but yeah, if he went to honey, he would be with somebody that can actually maximize his offseason in a healthy manner. And then there's no role of the dice, you were going to peak perfectly. There's no question about it everything at the end will be completely fluid, you know, but you know this is that's part of the trend in the sport today though. The guys hired free coaches. That's part of the trend unfortunately is you know and I talked to a couple of guys after the Olympia, you know that reached out to me and I like what do you think this and that I'm like well who do you work with and you know a couple of them I was completely blunt. I'm like, you hire this guy he's not charging you anything because he's using you for marketing. I'm like, shit. Yeah, there's so many guys they look like melted candy bars. And the thing is is. No, no, go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry. Oh yeah I was just going to say you know, some of these guys. They get the free coach. They get the free subs, and they get someone that's going to hold their hand and tell them they look so great but you know what, after the Olympia after the lights go off, you're pissed about the way you look. So you got your hand held, you got the free gear, you got the free coaching that you're furious after you're placing and how you looked. You need to regroup, change their perspective, put out the money, hire a real coach with a real resume that can get you to where you need to be because you know, if some of these guys, you know went to Hawni just the way the chat had a group of people, you know in the 90s. He had them all at their best and let them battle it out. I would love to see someone like Hawni have a group of guys that were all at absolute best and let them battle it out. But I don't know if Hawni wants that. Does Hawni want that? Because he, like if you think about it for Epojent, he wants the top two athletes. He has the top two athletes. So I don't know if he wants to have like five guys competing for the Olympia and he's putting all his energy into each other. Can I say something? I want to sit on people a little bit. George Fah is a horrible coach. I don't know why this guy gets great feedback. He did horribly with Andrew Jack repeatedly, three times in a row last year. First he said 80% condition, then he said 85% condition or something like that. And then he brought him to the Olympia just looking the same as last time. That comes back to that. Oh, go ahead. Sorry, go ahead. No, I'm going good. Well, my thing is this, it comes back to that same thing. George Farah is really good with some people. Some people, because he has one way of doing things. Well, he was great with Branch Warren. He was great with Dexter Jackson. Dexter Jackson is always in condition no matter what. George is non-fensical. Whenever he talks about insulin, he doesn't make sense in biology. He's like, oh, insulin causes cancer and I hate insulin and insulin ruin bodybuilding. The things he said doesn't make sense all the time. I agree that insulin is a negative aspect in bodybuilding, but he doesn't understand what insulin is. And he got colon cancer, obviously. He doesn't know about vitamin D, magnesium, calcium, effect of colon cancer. He never talks about it. He just talks about insulin. He clearly has it. And every time he talks about stuff, he's like, my doctor, my wife is a doctor. And he just talks about his wife being a doctor. What does that do with anything? Anyway, my point is that George, I don't understand his conditioning. I haven't seen a broad bring anyone in condition except Dexter Jackson. I didn't know about, what's his name? Branch Warren. Branch Warren. I didn't know that he was training. Yeah. I mean, his recipe for a couple of people have worked well, but you know, George is a nice guy. But the thing is, is that I don't want to name certain names, but there's other people that because they were fantastic, well-known bodybuilders as pros in the 90s, they now coach and absolutely, you know, maybe hit the mark 5% of the time, but people still hire them because who they were as a bodybuilder as a pro in the 90s. So it's honestly, if George wasn't who he was in the 90s, would people go and hire him? No. And you got to remember, it still comes back to that same thing is that George uses Andrew for marketing, right? So he's not going to be that same coach like Hawni or somebody or myself that's going to say, I don't care who you are. You're fat from the rear or soft, whatever you want to call it, you're not up to par. We're going to the Olympia to have you at your absolute best. I don't care who you are. This is what you need to do. And it's okay if you walk away, but other people have to hold on to those people and tell them, look at Hunter Labrada. It's the same thing. People use him for marketing, hold his hand, tell him he looks great. He goes on stage and looks absolutely horrible. It's the same thing he needs in his corner that will just tell him, hey, I don't care who you are, what your name is, you're soft, you're better than this. Can we talk about Hunter? Ariel, I don't know if you're interested in this, but Hunter last Olympia confused the hell out of me because he did like very well in his place, but he was very soft. Like very soft. He had a good shape, but he was very soft. And of course, people are bringing up the fact that this guy doesn't eat solid food, which I think is a bit ridiculous. Probably he's having some inflammation from the, maybe even from the, from the like zero calorie sweetness. I don't know what it is, but he has come like light film of water also, not just fat, and he also has fat. But anyway, the point is this. So like last Olympia, he got an undeserved placing everybody. And then this Olympia, he did very poorly and he came in just as bad condition as last Olympia almost everyone think he came in better. I don't know what you're talking about. He came in similarly bad. So what do you think about that? But what do you think about the fact that his father is a top top competitor? He had a good coach before or like a guy that was well respected. And he still does. Ben is a nice guy and helpful, but he's constantly losing back edition. Yeah, but that's, yeah, but it comes to that same thing though. And it's not me talking shit. It's real. Just like I've said it forever with everybody. Check the resume, look these dudes up. Just because they were affiliated with a certain bodybuilder who was successful does not mean look them up.  worseyourclients, worsethe-resonate. As soon as they looked these dudes up, I had people that messaged me about his coach, and I said, I'm not gonna say a word, go to his Instagram, count his bodybuilders, show me someone he's turned into a freak, show me somebody he's gotten shredded. Multiple people texted me back and said, fuck, dude, I thought you just talked shit. Everything you're saying is absolute facts. And it's not me being a jerk, it's that same thing. They hire a coach that's maybe local, wants to hold their hand. The coach is like, fuck, I'm gonna use this dude for marketing so other people will hire me. This guy's gonna look like shit. I don't know what I'm doing. It's the same thing over and over. And a hunter could be so much better that he needs somebody in his corner that's gonna say, hey, again, I don't care who you are, who your dad is, what your last name is, you need to be pilled. Do you want to be first call out at the Olympia? Do you want to be in the top five? He quit. This is what you do. Absolutely. But you know what? He doesn't have the guidance in his corner or the accountability for someone to just say, hey, you know, what I do isn't free. You want to be at the top. This is what you need to do. I don't need you for marketing. If you want to eat cereal and drink protein shakes, and the doors over there, but other people aren't gonna do that because they have no clients and they're gonna hold on to that one guy to market. Can I be honest? So guys, just for the audience, listen, when I started to help William Buona, everyone started to respect me. Or people started respecting me more than before in bodybuilding, because I was the arm wrestler. I don't know much about bodybuilding, but clearly I helped William Buona with his off-season last year, which is when you grew massively. And I wrote the off-season, not chatting at the beginning of the off-season. So some people were like respecting that. I just want to be clear that when you have a athlete like that at the top 10, in any way you help them, everyone starts to like take your advice with a seriously. So what I wanted to say is that having like Andrew Jack or having one of these guys is a huge credibility to your CV or to your resume. And people are living off that stuff. Like if you get a top 10 guy, it will make your career as a coach. So people should keep that in mind. What you should look at is the top 10 guy that's not coming in condition. Like William was not in great condition this Olympia. If you see that happening, then you know that the coach is not being well, because he has an elite athlete and he's not being in condition like Hunter. Can I ask something? So we have to talk about Samson, but briefly about Nick. Matt Johnson, I want to understand how the hell blew? I want your impression. How does he get these muscles to be so segmented and so filled with lipogen, but then on the outside, superficially so dry? How, what is this look? Do you know what it is? And what I want to ask you is this, do they keep the age in? Do they keep it in? That's the thing with the growth hormone, it depends on the person. Some guys, I'll have them run all the way to the day of the show, they're still dry. It depends on the person. But you have to look at, again, who he's working with. I've said it before, Sean Clarita, Stevie Wonder could train. He would still look the same. Same with Nick, these things are not, it's not rocket science. If you take an average guy and have Matt peak them, they don't look like that. They don't look like that. That's what I'm wondering, what did they look like? Yeah. Well, the magic is they're genetics, how they respond to those drugs. Some of these guys, you don't have to do much at all. I have some guys where I don't have to do shit. I can keep water the same and they wake up on show day, like it's a Tuesday and they look absolutely insane. But what's, just like me and Boston used to always just beat the drum. When you really do your research, look these dudes up. It's not, how is he doing it? How is he creating this look? No, no, no. Why is it that it's only two or three guys he's able to create this look with and the other 100 guys look like garbage? You see what I'm saying? And it's not talking shit, it's the truth. Once you really look into it, you're like, okay, what's the one variable here that those three guys have? Why is he able to peak them and not the other 100 guys? It's because genetically, they're able to get so lean to where their body doesn't hold on to water. Everything is just formulated correctly. There doesn't need to take a lot of manipulations. Guys like that, you could peak blindfolded. Nick still needs to get a bit drier. His conditioning is not perfect. Yeah, he definitely needs to get drier. Yeah, on the rear side, he still needs to get drier. I think he's fine from the front, but from the rear, Sean has been crazy conditioning like that since day one, he's always had currency condition. He took his time over the years to put on his size and John Meadows is the one who had a lot to do with him putting on all that size. So it's like people forget about that fact. And then at the end, Matt gets all the glory, but again, it's a couple of guys that respond exceptionally well to chemicals. And it's not a method because if it was a method, then why did the other 100 people look horrible? I didn't know that. I thought Matt Jackson was creating a similar look because Sean Clarita has a very similar look to Nick Walker. Honest, must I? Yeah, and again, you could say, okay, well, Sean looks great. Well, why does Breton look like that? You know what I'm saying? Yeah, Bret Wilkin looks nothing like that. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I haven't seen him on stage. A couple of times he showed up where he looked absolutely horrible and then you look at Matt's amateurs. How come these guys look nothing like that? It's because of the actual athlete and how they respond to these chemicals. Some of these guys are so genetically inclined that it doesn't take a whole lot to do anything. Can I ask you something, Ariela, you haven't talked for a while, I don't know if you've heard but I wanna ask you guys about Samson. Okay, guys, can you explain Samson to me because, okay, look, I seem to be very negative today but I'm not trying to be negative. When I see Samson on stage, first of all, I respect Samson and Milo Shalant. Milo is very nice to me and very friendly. When I had this episode last year, Milo is one of the first people to reach out to me. He reached out to me for no reason, encouraged me to continue making my videos, told me that I had a good influence and this was at a time where I was arguing with him so I liked Milo very much. But can we just be honest about Samson? First of all, he has a linear album of separation. His abs are separating in the center. What's his name? Our friend that died, the Chad's client that died at 20 or 27, the huge, huge guy. He's like Nick Walker. The first... Oh, you're talking, yeah, but that wasn't checked when Dallas died, he was with Matt Jensen. Yeah, he wasn't with exactly, he was with Matt Jensen, yeah. So Dallas had that huge separation in his abs. So Samson has a similar separation and Nick, by the way, okay, let me tell the guys the truth. So Nick Walker, I don't wanna comment on this because I love Nick Walker, but I wanna, I have to say it now. So last year, his abs were very defined, like statue-esque. It was incredible. This year, everyone's like, oh, he has amazing abs, Nick Walker has the best abs on stage. He's gonna look great. He has these washboard abs, but this year it's separated. And now that it's separated, it will never mark my words. It will never be the same again. And what will happen is slowly it'll get washed up, sort of the way Williams is and other peoples that start separating and the abs are less clear. He's already in the process of doing it, but Samson is separated. If you look at his abs, they're not very clear. They're separated. His waist is slightly wide actually, even though his hips are narrow, but then his double bicep looks, in my opinion, horrible. His biceps look really bad. I don't know what it is when he looks like this. He has a great V shape. Once he does this, it doesn't look good. It's flat. I don't know what it is exactly. I don't know if he's injecting his arms or something like that. But the other thing he has is a b shaped head. I don't know if you notice this. His head gets wider like a pyramid upside down. And no, no, no, I'm not insulting him. I don't know if it's due to the... No, I know. Before G is, but it's so bad that when he poses, his, he's going like a B and then his head is doing another B. So it's like ruining the aesthetic, in my opinion. And I just don't know exactly how he beat Andrew Jack. I know, actually I don't know. His goods weren't better than Andrew's much. So I don't know what it is. Those guys are so similar. Those guys are so similar. I don't even understand how he did better than Andrew. Both of those guys need to fully fill out their frames and then be completely peeled and dry from the rear. Both of those guys, if they brought that package, it'd be very hard to beat, very hard to beat. But again, an offseason, really putting on denser tissue, staying leaner in the offseason. So they create a new standard for themselves. So that way, when they do go into prep, that they're starting from a different point, you know, that will end up leading to thinner skin, you know, leaner conditioning from the rear. But honestly, like they say, you know, when the show's in the offseason, I think that they... Yeah, I think so. You know, they need to get with somebody that can truly grow in the offseason. Truly... Let's be honest with you. This is, and I respect Milos tremendously, but I've never seen him grow, and I don't know if Milos would maybe offend the players, but I've never seen him grow someone in the offseason. I mentioned this last year with Boston when Milos took Regan off. I said, Regan will not grow. This is the worst choice for him, because he's already big. He's never ended up in great condition. He's not big enough. He needs a proper offseason, like with jazz or jazz or something like that. But Milos gets people filled out and brings them in condition usually on stage. But the problem is he's going from competition to competition. You're not doing that long offseason. And I know Samson grew tremendously last year. It's unusual. Milos usually doesn't do that. He did that with Nassau and a couple of other guys because of their response to insulin. And maybe Samson was diabetic, by the way. His response is so good that he may have been diabetic. Because like, if you respond that much to insulin, you gain 30 pounds, probably you were diabetic and you were not able to store glycogen before and not just store nutrients before. But anyway, my point is he's not doing that offseason. So I don't know how, I don't know. It's not a good choice for him. It's surely not a good choice to spend a year like this, going from competition to competition. And plus, he's gonna destroy his kids. He's going one after the other. What do you think about that? Shouldn't he have an offseason, like 68 months and gain five pounds a month? Are you asking me or Ariela? Yeah, I'm not. Yeah, I'm not. Yeah, I'm not. I'm not saying names or anything like that. I can't count how many of these guys reach out to me in the offseason and they're like, dude, I know you're brutally honest. Tell me what's up. What do you think about this? And I tell them the truth. I'm like, dude, this is what's up. You need to do this. And I'm like, I'm not gonna do this. And a couple of them, not a couple, more than a few have said, dude, I couldn't handle you because you're so OCD and you're a lot harder. You let things slip. And I'm like, well, yeah, that's me. My nature, I want you to be, I would like you to come out on stage and fucking blow people's minds to where people are like, what did he do? And a couple of these guys, two dudes, well, I had a few people at the Olympia this year, two guys I ghost trained, looked at their best ever and I'm not gonna say their names, anything like that. And their coach got the credit. I never said anything. I still don't even want to put these other dudes. I said, hey, if I was to do your stuff, as long as I get paid and I do my job because I don't do free coaching, I don't do handholding any of that. I was like, you can give the credit to whoever you want. I truly don't even care. I do this because I'm OCD and I absolutely love doing what I do. You can give the credit to whoever you want. I just want to see you come out absolutely freaky. But some of these guys don't want to do that. They want to be able to have a flexible offseason. They want to be able to go and eat or party or do whatever. They need somebody that's hardcore in their corner. That's very big on health, but isn't going to allow them to just send in check-ins and look like shit and say, okay, I'll be better next week. That's not doable. Do you want to go to the Olympia or do you want to go to the Olympia and actually get looked at? There's a big difference. Arielle, what did you say? Yeah, everything with Blue said it. It's really hard to find coaches like Blue that are willing to coach somebody, not get credit for it and be totally okay with it. Because a lot of these coaches, it's the opposite. They want the credit. They want people to be like, oh my God, you're amazing. You brought this person in like this. So it's very rare to have somebody like Blue that's like, look, I don't care if I get the credit. I just want you to be your best. So that's really rare. That's my comment on that. The comment before you talking about Samson, I actually had to pull up his Instagram because I couldn't even tell you what he looked like before you even said his name because I'm not familiar with bodybuilders. But it seemed like he had that app separation even in 2018 and it just seemed like it progressively got worse because he posted like a before and after and it's like he had there and it just got worse and now it's farther apart. And the same thing with his head shape as well. I think he always kind of had. That's kind of like just what Blue was talking about before, just like genetics and drugs. Even with the small stuff like the bad side effects, like Boston, for example, with all the stuff he ran, he never lost any hair, which was bizarre. But some guy could take a 10th of the dose of Boston and just go bald. It's just like their genes, just it's such a big part of bodybuilding. So you're either going to have to get that separation. What's that? Did he get the separation in his apps? Did Boston ever get that? I never saw. Like, did his apps ever separate? No, not that I had his like bloated, you know, bloated belly, but his apps were never separated. He had like really good thick apps. But no, as far as I can remember, his apps never separated. His stomach was always just really distended even when he was prepping offseason. But as far as app separation, no. We had a great competitor at the top 20 that was from 10th to 20th. I forgot what his position was. He had, he does a vacuum. He's a black guy. He does a vacuum now that makes his apps look better, but he has no app. You talked about Charles Griffin. Charles Griffin, perfect. So Charles Griffin, by the way, I love what he's doing. That's the only solution you can do is to do a crazy vacuum and never flex your apps. But once you get to that point, once the apps separate, by the way, I have this also for no reason. I mean, I don't know why I have it. I'm not a bodybuilder, but add that separation. Once it separates, it will never go back to normal. And the truth is, a bodybuilder should be marked down for that. It looks grotesque. Your app just separating because something's coming out of the midsection. And that's exactly what just happened to Billy. By the way, Billy's recently made a video of him going to some jacuzzi. I don't know why. And as he's tilting down in the jacuzzi, you can see like a helium coming out of the stomach. It's still there. It's still there. In between the apps, there's a bulge in between the apps. So this thing will never get better. Like Samson's just gonna go downhill. Nick will go downhill in the apps. There's no way around it. And I wish people would talk about this. Like when they see Samson on stage, he has great apps. No one doesn't. Why are you lying? His apps are separating. Like this is grotesque and people should comment on that. But I wanted to ask you guys, before we go to the women's division real quick, and I know I don't want to take too long at the time. I know where you're at in school. But really quickly, what do you guys think is gonna happen at the arm? Because you have Romney, Nick, Samson, Sean Clarita. You have Kamal. And I think some other people are forgetting who right now. But mainly I really, I'm fully of one app. Of course, I want to know what you guys, who you guys think is gonna be in the top three. Specifically, most likely. Honestly, if all of these guys are at their absolute best, I'm just picturing them that way. It would be between Rami and Bonac easily. Them two would definitely battle it out. It'd be really interesting. Do you think if Bonac is in his best condition, like at the Boston or at the Arm of the Last Year, do you think he beats Nick? Oh, absolutely. Yeah, because again, he has that one weapon that Nick lacks in that structure. With Bonac at his absolute best, completely peeled, dry, and still when he has that pop to his muscle, to kind of the icing on the cake for his physique, he's insanely dangerous. He could win the entire thing. But of course, I'm just coming from the perspective if everybody was at their best. So I think it'd be between him and Rami. And then if everybody else was still at their best, Andrew and Samson would be battling it out for, third, and then Nick would fall somewhere after that because then you're getting down to, who has the least weaknesses? And then it would get down to Nick, you have muscle, conditioning's 90%, but you're lack structure, and it would get down to Sean Clarita to where you have beautiful shape, great conditioning, but you lack size. And not size for his frame, but size comparatively to the other guys standing next to him. I mean, but of course I'm talking if everybody was at their best. But if I based it on how they looked at the Olympia, Sean's gonna catch people slipping because his conditioning's great, he's very smart about it. I think Nick will too. I hope his conditioning's even better. I would love to see Rami redeem himself. I like Rami a lot. I think he's a good person and he's got an incredible physique. I would love to see him at his absolute best because if he comes out and he is the same at the Olympia or worse, like anything, his stock, you know what I'm saying, is gonna drop. Can we be totally honest? Rami got fifth because he didn't go to the pitch break. That's the real reason. Manion invited him to the pitch break, he didn't go. They got offended. He wouldn't have gotten third bro, he wouldn't have gotten fifth. It doesn't make sense. He was in great condition, no Olympia competitor has ever came in better condition than ever and gone fifth. It's never happened. The one guy that got fifth, the Arab guy from the line of Lebanon, he wasn't in better condition at Olympia. I mean, I understand his muscles were downflanked, but he was in better condition. He tried hard. Yeah, he missed. What happens is when your muscle bellways are not full and volumized and pushing against the skin, it gives a soft, watery look with him downsized. And again, these guys have different weapons and his weapon is size. And when you have that size with his structure, it gives that freak factor. But let's be totally honest. When you saw Ronnie Coleman in his last Olympia winning, he looked like shit. If you see the Dory Needs in his last Olympia winning, he looked like shit. He had no muscles. No, no, no, I agree with you. I definitely think they punished him a little worse than he deserved. I punished him really bad. I didn't. I didn't. They only punished Arab bodyboots. Well, only bodyboots who ever got fifth from Olympia are Arabs. I know I don't want to be that guy claiming racism, but truly both of them are Arabs. It's coincidence, 30 years apart. And they just destroyed it. They've moved it to fifth because he didn't come to the fifth room. I mean, it's obvious. Anyone who doesn't want to say this is just turning a blind eye to the situation. Ronnie was, I mean, maybe you give him, I don't know, maybe he could get fourth, but I really think he could have gotten third. Can I ask you something? Nick Walker thinks that Derek Lunsford should have, that he should have beat Derek Lunsford. He said it recently, talking to Tarak Al-Gunzi and other people in the Olympia with Olympia YouTube channel. He said that I'm not happy that Derek beat me. I think I should have beaten him. Do you guys think that he should have beaten Derek? No, right? Not even close. It's not even close. I like Nick, but I don't think it should have been. Yeah, I like Nick too. I like Nick. I think he's a great person. And what he's done is great. I wish nothing but the best for him. Like I said, I wish he would go to somebody like Ronnie that could fully bring him into his absolute best regarding, you know, even if he doesn't ever get into that top spot, I would still like to see him at his absolute best. But, no, Derek is just on another level. And again, genetics, genetics, genetics. Derek's physique is just amazing. The shoulder to waist ratio. I mean, he has certain shots where he looks like he's photoshopped. You know, there's just, yeah. Somebody like as long as Derek and Potti are at their best, he's never gonna get past those guys ever because of structure. Can I point out something? So the word is not mentioned. Dwarfs. Dwarfs have long torso. You know what I'm talking about. They have long torsos and short legs. That's a dwarf symptom. You can be short and not a dwarf. And how you can tell is your torso is equivalent to your legs. When your torso starts to get long for your legs, that's the dwarf syndrome. Yeah, that's me. That's me. Not why. Nick beats you also. But yeah, yeah, that's the dwarf kind of look slightly. Nick has more of that. And the thing is like, when you go on stage, his thigh, his quads look short. They actually, he's fixing the torso by going down. But when you compare his legs to other people's, they're smaller because they're short. That's what I'm saying. They're trying. My thought is that they're maybe like, okay, how can we make this look prettier? I mean, this is just a very, you know, this pose here is the winning pose for most Olympians here. So how can we make this look prettier? Okay, we'll crunch down. But like you said, it changes the way his arms looks because it almost looks like they're rotated forward. He loses his lats a little bit because he's crunching down, makes his waist look a little bit wider. And then they're, maybe I'm just, you know, thinking out loud, maybe they're thinking, okay, but if you do the dramatic way, like a Dennis Wolf and have everything up, then you're gonna elongate the torso even more and the legs are gonna look weird. So they're trying to bring a little bit more balance, but they're making the structure look worse by doing that pose. Like a very tough position. Like what I was thinking Nick could do is Botox, I know this sounds ridiculous, but Botox, his waist muscles, like his obliques a little bit, you don't have to blow it up fully, but right before the competition, like two, three weeks before, it'll cause it to undersize a little bit because physically his weight and why his torso is long and he's strong, so he has muscle and his obliques. You can't avoid this. I mean, I don't know what you could do to minimize this. You can't hide it on stage. He's doing it. I think maybe he's doing the best job he can, but you can't compete with Derek when you have a distorsed long, really long pose. Can I ask you? So I understand what you're saying, but Han, sorry, with Branch Warren, because Branch Warren was a perfect example of what he can do with him. So I totally understand that. Do you see Samston as being at the top three at this, you say if he does bring condition, can he beat Andrew if they're both in condition with the current muscle that they have? If Andrew lost all the fat and what? If they're at their absolute best, I mean, I would, I like Andrew's physique a lot. I really do. Can I go now that Samston's been working out since 2003, competing since 2013, I think, or 14 or 15, and Samston, Andrew's been doing it for three years. Less than three years he's been body. This guy, I mean, he's like 38 or something, like Samston, difficult, but three years, but this guy, he had the potential to overwhelm everybody. Sorry, I didn't try to be, I got too excited. Oh yeah, yeah, no problem, yeah. I think it'd be super interesting. I would love to see him at their best and battle it out. I still think I'm a little more of a fan of Andrew's physique. I think if they were at their absolute best, Andrew just has, like you're saying, from the front, your eye just automatically goes to him, he just amazing physique from the front, but you know. I mean, if you got anyone from the street and brought them into the audience, who's the best bodybuilder here, and they don't know about bodybuilding, they will pick Andrew. And this is a problem because they wouldn't pick Arnold too. And now we're picking people that the public doesn't understand why you're picking them, because they don't look good. You're just getting into this glute and all this, well, there it is. Leo, you know, it's funny. So my sister flew down the same weekend that the Olympia was. So she was watching it and she knows nothing about bodybuilding. So it was interesting hearing her, she was actually pretty spot on with what we would look at when we're judging, but it was funny hearing some of her other opinions as to what looks better for her, because usually to the general eye, it's more like, like you said, who's your eye going to and the bigger stature. So there was a lot of bodybuilders that she liked that she was like, oh my God, who's that? Who's that? And they're not people that would have been top five. She was really good with like pointing out other stuff, but it was funny hearing her side. And this came down to the females as well, just her kind of looking at who she thinks would be top five that may not have been top five, but because of what she thinks, because she's looking at stuff just from what looks better. And you know, we're looking at things more critical. And you know, like you said, the glutes and the hamstrings in and the abs, and all these other really specific things. So. But I want to be critical about the clavicles. I want to say if you don't, if you're not a white guy, don't be a bodybuilder. And Nick is not a white guy. Sean is not a white guy, Phil he's not a white guy. I know he has good muscle and stuff, but these are not white people at all. Like not, Phil it's actually really not white. When I saw him doing this, getting into the thing with an alien, I saw like he moved his shoulders and I realized, whoa, all your shoulders, muscle, it actually just ended here. Like these people are very narrow. And then you have Andrew Jack. Listen, this guy is the specific, this guy trains with Larry Wheels and is relatively strong with Larry Wheels. Like from nowhere, he just came from Africa and lived in Dubai, just training with people, trained people and he's very strong. He has the incredible B shape. He's a true talent. He's like a hard rock from back in the day to some degree. And the reason why Bodybuilding did great in the 70s was because Arnold looked great and nobody really did after him to the public. No one was tall, no one had that incredible, Franco didn't look incredible, that very thin guy that won the Olympia once that took Amphetamines, forgot his name. Do you remember what I'm talking about? What's Olympia? Well, the aesthetic Olympia guy, the most aesthetic Olympia guy in the 80s. Very, very thin guy. He's not really muscular. He's like, well, you're talking about...  Zain. Zain, yeah. So Zain is not impressive to the public. I mean, maybe he's a little bit cut, but nothing like Arnie. So that's, people who say like, why is body not popular anymore? Because they're not impressive to the public. They're not like Arnie. They're not shocking sentiment. Andrew is. You know, and I just feel like it's, anyway. So that's about Arnie. Ariel, before you leave, can you tell us about what you thought of the women's divisions? I'm very uneducated. I don't even know what figure it's. I'd be honest with you. I know what fitness is, because I know Oksana Groshina. Yeah, she's favorite. You mean like what they're, like what they look for? I don't think what they compete in a figure. I never watched properly and I just realized recently, I actually don't know what it is. Like, is it more muscular fitness or is it less muscular fitness? Is it more muscular than bikini? What's the gradient of the muscularity and cuts? So muscle wise, it's probably for figure, it's probably most similar to fitness girls. If you had to pick, it's probably more similar to fitness girls. Over the years, it's gotten way more muscular when it comes to shoulder cap and how lean they want them. Some of these figure girls, they're quads. And I'm like, this is insane. These tricks are like, these tricks are jacked for figure. And back then it was, it was, it was softer. It was a softer look. It's hard to kind of pinpoint. So you know, bikini is just like bikini, you know, they're not looking for much, a little bit of ab definition, a little bit of, you know, gluten quad. And then figure is just significantly more muscular, probably on the same scale of, I would say the fitness girls. A lot of the fitness girls when they do their posing, I, that's kind of more similar to figure. And then physique is just the next level up. That's just it's, especially nowadays, it's insane. These physique girls are no joke. They're jacked. They're huge. You know, they're way bigger than they were five years ago. It's insane. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. It's almost like the bodybuilding chicks are like older physique chicks, like now, because they're like in their 30s, they have a bit more muscle and they're less tired. Or, or it's just those girls that just can't help their, their shape and their frame and they're just better bodybuilders. Like they can't, they probably could shrink down. But that girl we were talking about the really pretty black girl that does bodybuilding like her, like her frame is, is, is beautiful to look at. It's, she's big. You know, I don't, she could probably size down and do physique if she wanted to, but her frame better fits a bodybuilder for sure. 100%. She's amazing. She doesn't even get that hair loss. Like, I don't think she wears a wig. That's a real, that's a real ear. That's the thing. That's a major difference. It's like, actually, even a lot of these physique girls, they're wearing wigs. Boston used to tell me he's like, a lot of the chicks don't have hair. It's, it's crazy talking to some hairdressers too when they get some bodybuilders there, they're like their hair is just like that short. And then they need the wigs and everything like that, which is, it's crazy. It's like that, if like if that, if you're healthy and that's what makes you happy and you just happen to suffer from hair, I mean, I don't know how healthy some of these girls can be that have no hair. It's like, I'm not trying to judge, but it's like, at what point, at what point are you like, no, I don't, I don't want to do this. I'm losing my hair, you know, No, and I'm not judging them because I think they go through probably a lot of self confidence issues when they go through this. I don't think any woman can go through hair loss, male pattern, hair loss and not feel somewhat self critical and not maybe just probably just feel bad and I don't want them to go through that obviously. But yeah, I think, I think it's interesting that some guys don't go bald like Boston and me. I never protected it. And then some chicks go completely bald. And some chicks go like get full beard, like full like you can just see that they're shaving in the morning. Some of the chicks, they wear the bandanas to cover their hairline and there's some side effects I told Boston that I'm willing to deal with. I'm like, you know what those side effects I'm willing to deal with and there's others that I'm just, you know, I'm not. I think the clip growth, sorry, the clip growth is okay. I don't think anyone's like, oh, this is crazy. But the balding and the beard because that doesn't go away. And you stop like I don't remember that there was this female bodybuilder or competitor from another division got caught in Las Vegas for she was on a meth run or something. And in her mug shot, she just has like a long goatee. It was this long. Yeah, no, I was being like, she was like, she was on math. She was like, shock. And there's go he was just there. She was a bodybuilder. Yeah, I said your picture after I'll remember who it was. So, so also the fitness competitor who not oxana, the other competitor. I don't know if she wants to hear. Yeah, Missy is amazing. He's really she has like such an impressive physique and she's very beautiful. She's very, very impressive. Okay, so I think we covered this a little bit. I think next week, I don't know, Ariel. So just for the audience to know, I have to go right now but I would love to do is, and eventually Ariel can have one chance to do is if she wants but I was hoping we could get like a female podcast for example, because there are very few for female competitors, they are very few like recently I found a bikini, but they're very few and area has a lot of expertise, not only that, but she never masculinize yourself which is an incredible accomplishment now maybe because of her genetics or whatever, but she certainly knows a lot about. So I think she can. So what I was hoping is to do like a, if you're if you're open to it in the future and if you're not of course, but maybe you can start to interview people females and you can start on my child and start your own channel, whatever you prefer. And whenever you want. Exactly. Okay, great. That's what was. Whenever you want you can also come to the one I next week, we'll take questions from the audience like we used to with Boston, and we'll probably have a guest. And then Ariel can continue whenever. And well, it's great to see you. It really makes me happy. Thank you. Yeah, thank you for having me if any of your guests ever have questions about Boston. I mean, I always love talking about Boston. I always love talking about what me and Jackson's life is like, you know, at any point I'll be really happy to come on a podcast and just talk about that. So at any time you let me know, because I have mornings available and Jackson's that he became I'd be happy to come on. And we could talk more about the women's podcast to I'd be happy. I'd be happy to help because it is kind of lacking in, in that field too. So yeah, I agree. You know, I think like the biggest problem in life is death. And anyone who's conscious and intelligent realizes initially in early life like this is a joke. I'm going to die and not exist anymore. And this, and this is so close is going to happen any minute. And for me to walk around presenting I'm relaxed and life is really good. It's such a serious problem. It's the major problem of life. The only way I found to get around along with death. It's like my child's called Leo and longevity because I'm always close to death. And I'm trying to live longer I'm trying to incentivize myself to live longer. But there's another way also, which is to be remembered. I'm hoping that one day when I die people will remember me a little bit. Let me give you an example. Jerry Ward from bio is three chain. I watched so many of his videos. I was somewhat friends with them but just because I watched so many of his videos. Sometimes I think of him like he's dead. And then sometimes I think that I miss that guy. Like, I have that feeling. Of course I think of Boston away but I knew Boston more. I think that's the way to live on for a turn to be to be deathless sort of is if people remember you and take the effort to remember, which I think Boston has that from everywhere I get messages all the time about Boston constant. Like just some of them you voice notes. Yes, I'm going to be voice of saying like explaining like, I know Leo I didn't know Boston, but I watch well since 2012. And I feel like I knew him and losing him was an impact of losing a friend. So many of those messages actually Leo I've been saving them any comments or emails I get I copy and paste into my notes. Who said it and what they said because I want to print it out and I want to show Jackson when he's older, how many lives Boston had impacted whether it's a client a fan or whatnot because that's so important to me. Jackson was such a, he was three, four, he was so young that he couldn't. He knew Boston is like his dad but he didn't really know who his dad was he didn't know really who his dad was in the bodybuilding community and that bothers me, you know it hurts to know that Jackson's never going to see his dad that way in person, but you all these messages. Yes, through all these messages and all the podcasts that are still there I'm hoping that Jackson can can see that when he's older I'm really looking forward to it. Really quickly I know you have to go but I just wanted to say he will because I grew up sort of similar to this I had an ancestor who was dead, but he was very famous in Dubai, because of his unusual life. And even though I lived in the shadow. I heard about him all the time constantly. And I always use them as a role model of what can happen in life. What you can do if you put your will to it. Boston is literally a legend. Literally a legend. There's no question that Boston's a legend. Anyone who says otherwise ridiculous they don't understand. He's more of a legend than any current competing bodybuilding. Here. So, yeah, Jackson will feel that I'm a little biased but I agree. No, I agree. So the Jackson will feel that and that's awesome also but okay this is great. I don't want to get too emotional, but I get happy talking stuff. Yeah, I feel Boston. I did want to mention I talked to people about Boston. All week. Almost every day somebody says something about Boston. Yeah, whether you know it's something just the smallest thing or to a funny ass story of something he said or whatever like I will not be forgotten. I won't allow it. He never will be because he was such a unique person and Leo, like you've talked about, you know, in detail, like, his honesty was on another level. And, you know, that's why me and him connected so well. I mean, he's just brutally honest and didn't matter, you know, the truth was just so important to him. But yeah, he's not forgotten. Jackson will absolutely know who his dad is. He's honest and a very good person, which are enough reason for him to be alive. But his just influence his because sometimes I think about this like you can be a good person, but not influence many people toward good, or you can be a influence. I mean, you can be a smart person but not it make much of a difference in life because you can influence when you're just yourself. Boston had a major I'm not talking about influencer stuff. I'm saying his thinking is one personal discoveries change body. So he had a major influence and what I was saying earlier was that because Ariel was talking about remembering Boston talk about Boston. I think that's our duty to keep his, his himself alive. You know, because how we live on past ourselves is really that our actions echo in the halls of the turn and they echo when people remind people of you know what I mean. Okay, I'm gonna get I'll get depressing by stay on so I have to get off. Okay, so I'll text you and blue and blue we did go next week for sure and area if you want to. Yeah, definitely. Oh, in every other the peptide site. Oh, yes. And also the four sides. Yep. Everything is still being run. I'm still on Boston's forum. So selling the pre-workout the synthol and real peptides as well. So everything is still running. I know some people asked me are you still doing the synthol you're still doing this and I am so that's probably just shadow the simple. Did you see that a couple months ago is like, he is like, I have to send all companies. He mentioned like, what are the two simple ones you study carry blue. Do you remember? Oh, back in the day it was like painless pumps. I don't know if they're painless pumps. So painless pumps guy died and the other guy died also both of the simple covers. So he was like, I still have a bit of stock with them. These have real silence to them. So I recommend them other simple companies don't have real science. I was like, I did. Bombo science is not what you include in this oil that you're injecting. What do you think it is? Bro, this guy is the back. Today he's in a kidney video criticizing Nick to Julie. And in the kidney videos making mistakes about kidney biology. You can't do anything right. But anyway, he's trying to sit on the simple thing that since all this oil just so you guys know there is no science to any of it. It's all. I mean, there's a lot on the for sure the quality of oil. So Boston made sure he formulated it. That wasn't some shitty oil that's going to cause redness and it's going to hurt because a lot of these oils will have like a pain killer kind of in them to help with the inflammation and the fact that it hurts so bad. Yeah, and they don't have that in Boston, since all because it's not going to cause an excruciating pain. It's a it's oil that's going to be absorbed better. Each formula that goes up it adds something else. So one adds shark oil one at silica the next one has hyaluronic acid in it as well. So they all are for different body parts. It's really good quality oil it sells so well barely without me promoting it and that's from reoccurring customers so that just speaks for itself I barely promote it then thought and we get sales. It's like insane it's the number one thing. I'm not promoting it at all. No, and like some guy just bought five bottles a few hours ago it's just like it just it sells itself so that just the proof is in the pudding you know people are going to keep buying it because they like how it looks they like the results they like, you know, it's just it speaks for itself so that's all I have to say about the Blue next week I want to ask you a lot about getting in conditional stage and also I want to ask you about simple I have a lot of questions because finally, I don't like body building in terms of dehydration getting on stage I don't know anything about it, because I was an arm rest and stuff, but now by force because of when I can other things I've been following the, the people getting ready for competitions and I'm very confused about. And I've also been rewriting like I've been writing contest prep stuff and like for example leaving at a draw or or using super draw instead of at a draw class moments to fill people up. I want to talk to you about these things next week. So yeah, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely next week. All right guys we'll talk to you soon. Thank you for waiting for me. I'm very grateful. And I'll see you guys again next week. Bye bye blue.