 ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, We have a couple of people here. So John Bravo can't join the podcast because last night somebody slashed his tires and he was supposed to be gotten the car out of the garage by the time the podcast started but he couldn't. He sends his apologies. He believes that Boston was one of the main reasons he started on YouTube and that I'll let him speak about it maybe in a future podcast as this podcast will continue. Hey Dave, welcome. Oh, Lou. Hey, how are you doing? We still have a couple more people coming. So who is coming to this party? I think it's just Tony Huge and then Pete Rubish. Okay. Basically, Dom Super Slice will be here. Yeah, Super Slice. I keep calling him. I keep calling him Super Spleiced by mistake. I don't know why. He's never been spliced but he has been spliced. That's how you'll remember that forever and ever. Has he been spliced? No, but he's been spliced. I'll see that later. You'll never forget that. I guess we could... I'll give you a volume. Yeah, you're good. Very good. Tony, how are you doing? Good, guys. Look at you. You're all wearing warm clothing. Looks like you're all in cold environments there. I am. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I am actually in my house. That's true. I think we have probably just Dom joining otherwise. Cardone couldn't come. You wanted to. Dom Cardone wanted to come but couldn't. So I think we can probably get started and let the next person come in. Before anything else, because I know not everybody is going to watch the podcast all the way through, I want to establish some facts. First, I want you guys to know that there will be a GoFundMe link in the comments section. This is the same GoFundMe that was made for the funeral on the wake but you have to understand that if you just exceed the amount of donations, they go to Areola and to help with Jackson. Areola does not have any source of income to my knowledge other than Boston. So first of all, I highly encourage you to donate to that GoFundMe. Even though Boston did not want to GoFundMe in his name, it really helps Areola out personally. Boston did not expect to die this young and we'll get into why later. So the GoFundMe is in the comments section. The second thing I wanted to let you guys know is I never had anything really to do with this Boston Lloyd Forum. It was Boston's forum. I didn't really manage it much myself. I knew some people on the forum and I liked the forum because it provided a lot of value to people. It genuinely saves people a lot of money and stuff like that. But I used to recommend it every week because it was Boston's main source of income. And so the reason why I'm right now trying to help some of the truest fans and I want to give a call out. The truest fans of Boston, you should probably make a comment. Maybe I'll make a post on my Instagram asking about the forum. And the truest fans, we need a couple of you guys to manage the forum and then we need maybe one of the like anabolic pharmacist or something to also help. So the reason for that would be just to continue some income for Jackson and Areola. In fact, I'm uncomfortable doing this a little bit because it's quasi-illegal but the reason to do it is only because of Areola and Jackson. So just to... What? Yeah, Siding Handsome Oil. Do you know if she's going to keep that up, that in the pre-workout? That's a good point, Paul. I didn't think about that and I haven't asked her yet. I mean... Well, with the oil, that would be good to keep going. That's a great point. Okay, so actually I'll take an order. Nail and Spomps is gone now. So I mean, he's like really the true go-to person. So the oil and the pre-workout? He has a pre-workout also? Yeah. Okay. So I'll mention that to her for sure. Areola, I talk to her every day by the way, guys. She's doing very poorly. She's deeply in love with Boston. She was a true wife, not one of these women that just use you for your career or something like that. She loved Boston to death. He was her best friend and she can't even imagine her life without him. So I've been talking to her every day about it. Anyway, a couple more housekeeping things. Just one more. I wanted to stop making videos about bodybuilding. To be honest with you guys, I made a lot of videos about bodybuilding because it's one of the areas where PEDs are used the most. And it's one of the areas where I learned about PEDs from. I'm a power lifter, arm-ruster guy. I'm not even bodybuilding guy. And as Miloš pointed out, that piece of shit so many times, I'm not a bodybuilder. So because of Miloš actually and other people like him, these creeps, I thought, you know, before a couple of months ago, I wanted to stop making content, but Boston wanted to keep doing the podcast with me. The only reason I kept making any bodybuilding content was because of Boston because I loved talking to him and he was my true friend, even though I never met him. And so I didn't know this. I was thinking of not making any more content, but then I thought I should make more content to advertise the forum as my channel grows, to continue for Areola. But then a lot of subscribers, fans of this podcast, messaged me over the last few days telling me that they want the podcast to keep going, even though Boston's not there. They want the podcast to keep going in his spirit and the kind of honesty that he had, the kind of humility that he had, which I don't embody. I would only aspire to be 5% of that or 10% of his extreme honesty and stuff like that. But the point is I just want you guys to know for Boston's sake, for Areola's sake, for Boston's legacy and for the subscribers of the channel who genuinely like the podcast, I will keep it going with the podcast regulars that are willing to come regularly, which will include for sure Blue and Arman, and we'll see who else is willing as well. So that's all I have to say as an introduction, guys. I thought maybe each of us could talk about our experiences with Boston. Maybe we could start with, does someone want to start in particular? And then later we could talk about his cause of death. I have, by the way, I'd like to make clear from the beginning Dave Palambo wrong as always in everything that he made about, said about Boston was incorrect and disrespectful to a dead person. And I don't like it. I'm going to fix it all in this podcast. But whenever it comes up. What did you say, which part of what Dave said? First of all, he said, first of all, he said it was an aortic dissection. They are not sure yet. He rushed to that delivery. Yes, man. I'm in contact with the father. First of all, Areola and the father John are the first people who got the autopsy, not the mother Mary. Mary, for some reason, rushed to Dave before they even know if it's a thoracic or aortic rupture. So they don't even know. Second of all, Dave said that this has nothing to do with his previous background or whatever. No, it has a lot to do with it. Dave doesn't know what happened to Boston in his recent life. Also the last two videos Dave made about Boston were disrespectful as hell. He said, Dave, Boston would never listen to him and he just didn't pay attention. And that's what happens when you don't pay attention. No, Boston changes life dramatically over the last year as much as he could. He really tried all the time and Dave, that piece of shit turned his back on him a year and a half ago. And I know that not just because Boston told me that, not just because Dave canceled Boston's kidney stuff order two months before his death. Two months before his death, he canceled the order when it came from Boston Lloyd. Not only that, I talked to Dave on the phone by myself a year and a half ago. I told Dave, Boston has kidney failure. We have to save him. Dave said he cannot be saved. He's going to die. I said, no, we still have to try. And then he said, no, there's no point. He's going to die. So this piece of shit turned his back on someone. He calls his own son and refused his order of kidney stuff and yet made three videos about him before I even made one video. That piece of shit creeps, snake. I'm sick and tired of you, Dave Palumbo, you piece of shit. Anyway, sorry, I tried to take a volume so I don't get. It's blood pressure, Lillio. You're blood pressure. I have blood pressure. Yeah, I took a few Xanax. You know, this is this. This is the bad one. You know, Dave is a piece of shit and he has to be called out for it. Don't fucking talk about dead people that you refused their orders of kidney stuff. That you refused. You let them to die a year and a half ago. He never called them once a month to say, hey, bro, try to lose weight. Try to lose some muscle. Come on, you can do it. Never called. Not once after years of knowing him. I called him every two or three days to check on him. He would not listen to me, but I kept trying. Just in case five to 10% gets better and it did. I failed him personally when I was so obsessed. I was a selfish piece of shit at the end of last year and the beginning of this year. I had some family problems. Because I had these family problems, I was not making videos and I was not communicating with you guys and I had these kinds of things. And I thought I had a problem. I didn't know Boston had a bigger problem than I had. Boston first had a bacterial infection. This is why we were talking. I didn't have my family problem. It wasn't so bad. I tried to help him as much as I could with bacterial infection, but he didn't treat it very well. This contributed to his eventual death. I'm sure. Second, after the bacterial infection, I didn't know this, but when I was sitting feeling sorry for myself, Boston had an almost deathly encounter with COVID and this long deathly encounter with COVID that he didn't even tell me about because he's not selfish. He just checked on me. He was messaging me asking how I'm doing. I wasn't there for him at the time, so I couldn't give him any advice during that time at all. Maybe he wouldn't have listened to it anyway, but maybe I could have helped a little, but I didn't. Then when I came back, I felt better and things got better with my family. I talked to Boston and he told me, hey, I almost died from COVID, man. I thought I was going to die any day. So I blame myself and that's one of the reasons I've been quite depressed over the last couple of weeks. I blame myself. Then Palombo, what the fuck are you as a human being? Anyway, so I'm sorry about that. I just had to make that clear because I am a defender of Boston. No, no, no, no, no, it's not escalation shit like that. No, no, I defend my friends. I don't play those games. Somebody talks about the dead and says he didn't care about his health. No, he cared about his health. And if he talks about the dead, says he died in one manner immediately because he just got the information. No, it's not even decided. You piece of... Anyway, I won't go further. Who wants to start with their experiences with Boston? You can't get an autopsy report back in less than a minute. He didn't get the report. It's not done, bro. He fucking piece of... It's not done. I asked Arielle last night. She said she's personally annoyed with Dave for going and saying it's a aortic dissection. It could have been thoracic. And not only that, by the way, guys, Dave doesn't know what happened. What happened was an abdominal aneurysm. His pain was in his abdomen. They were in the... I'm not going to go into details because Arielle will come on the podcast and tell it to herself. But what happened involves him feeling extreme pain in his abdomen. If you guys don't know this, acromegalyx and giants and basketball players also often die of abdominal aneurysms. Something to do with growth hormone IGF causes that often. Complicating factor. If you've had bacterial infection for a long time, serious one, it damages your cells across your body. If you've had CKD chronic kidney disease for a year and not been cleaning your blood, the uremic toxins damage all your little cells in your body. And then if you get COVID, as everybody knows, bacterial and viral infections can directly cause heart failure. Forget about your arterial walls. So it was it was damaged on a system over time. And then that night, he went to go work out his serious workout, the workout he takes the painkiller for. So that workout was a hard workout. A light workout. And they may have pushed his cardiovascular system too far. Now, those are more details that could have been useful if somebody actually wanted to communicate stuff. Anyway, who wants to start to talk about the good things of Boston, not the negative stuff about people talking about it? I'll start. I guess I'm at Boston in, I guess, 2013. He contacted me. You know, everybody of course probably knew Boston from his viral video of his transformation. And he contacted me 2013. We were talking about prep wanted to work with me. We spoke back and forth. I said, Bras, Boston, you're so extreme. I was like, we can't do all that. I can't prep you for going to do all that. He was just laughing. You know, it's no secret. Okay. People that say, Boston, this is, he never denied, you know, he was very open with what he did, what he used. He didn't push it on other people. If you see as other clients programs is a very moderate that everybody has their decision in life. That's what made him happy. You know, you know, not everybody agreed with him, but it doesn't matter. You know, so we stayed friends since then. Work on and off. There's last couple years, two, three years, got even closer, start speaking almost, you know, at least every week and more and more and more. Then about a year ago when I, you know, I had that stint, that opiate BS that I went through. You know, we started talking a lot more. And then, you know, I reached out to him, I was like, Hey, you know, ask Leo, let me see if I can come on show once or something like that. And he said, okay. And then I think that's, that's when we started before that we were speaking almost, almost a day. You know, Boston, I have a question, you know, how he was, he'd asked the same person, the same question. Yeah, she'd ask everyone the same down question. And he wouldn't, he wanted, he wanted to get the answer. He wanted to hear. So, yeah, so, you know, basically for the past year, we would speak every day, you know, just about everything, just BS and his sleep schedule is always crazy. I'm like, Boston is four in the morning. I'm asleep. But he goes, oh, I'm just, you know, so, I mean, the guy, you know, people that, you know, I get it, he has a lot of trolls and haters because people don't know him. All they know is Boston extreme, you know, this, this, this, but he was always there for people. He'd always text people back, you know, you know, since his passing, you know, how many people text me, you know, they would be like, no matter what. But, you know, I wasn't even paying Boston for a program or this and that he always answered my texts back and, and I'm surprised he never said, you're annoying, leave me alone. And, you know, just, he was just a good person and just wanted to help people and just nice and, you know, like to troll people, but it was always playful. You know, and no one really can say anything really bad about him that actually knows him. I mean, there can be strangers that are like, oh, he's, you know, he represented this and kids listen to him and this and I think, you know, Well, actually, actually, Armand, can I interrupt you for one second? Because that's, that's actually, I don't know, someone disappeared, but that's actually the main thing that bothered me with some of the reviews from other channels. They didn't realize that Boston changed his recommendations in the last two years. Boston does not recommend extreme doses to anybody and he doesn't exactly on the channel if people want to know, just watch my podcast with Boston. The last of the year, it was a podcast about how he damaged his body with extreme doses. That was, that's what it was about. And he talked to me privately. He said, I want to do this. I want to expose this. When he first got kidney failure, we talked about it privately. I said, are you going to go public or not? He said, I want to go public. I want to protect people. And so that was the whole purpose of it. Yeah. So I started to opt to Armand, but I just wanted people to know that he changed his recommendations and he really wanted people to avoid his mistakes. It was really serious. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he did. And, you know, he, John Romano said something about like his influence overall was bad. I don't think so. There was a lot of influence from this podcast in the last year that was really good. And I don't think you can say overall is influenced about sorry, Armand again. No, not that. I think people that didn't know him or maybe watch the show, they would just hear his name and just like, oh, you know, this or that, they didn't know him or even know what he spoke about now. He, you know, agreed. Yeah, I did a lot of, you know, stuff I would never recommend anybody to do. And he realized that you don't have to take that much stuff for it to work. He realized it makes you feel worse. But you know, it's just, I think everybody that was close to him, I'm on my phone so I can't see everybody who's on here right now. I know Blue is on here. But I just know he, you know, this was good. This was going to be a hard one today. And it's like, I just kind of lost the words. I mean, it's just, I don't feel real. It just doesn't feel real. When Armand first heard of the news, he was texting me and we were voicing on each other. I think he called, I don't know if he called, but he was then, we were, most of us were crying. One of the reasons I wanted to wait to make this video is because I didn't want that to happen on the video as much. I mean, I don't mind if it happens. I just didn't, I want to be able to speak and Armand could not speak originally. For people to know. Dom, I know you have to go a bit earlier, brother. Do you want to? Yeah, sure. So like, I'll tell you my experience with Boston. I wish everyone really got to know, know him for the person that he really was kind of like how we are, because everyone just sees him, you know, for his brutal honesty. But my first experience I ever had with him, like, I've known him probably for like 10 or 12 years. But I remember in like 2015, after I took second at the USA's and he writes a message, he goes, you're lucky that you get in such good shape because that's the highest you're ever placing with that God awful structure is a typical Boston comment. And, you know, I'm not like these other people that take offense to it. I mean, he's got, he's got a good point, but some of the things that you said, I mean, he's not lying about it. So I just laughed it off. And then over over the years, I think that I started helping like one of his friends close friends in really good shape. And then we became like really, really good friends. And, you know, for the people that don't know him, I've seen him go ahead and even rip apart even like clients that I work with saying, you know, your, your, your structure sucks, you have pencil legs, whatever it may be. But those same people I was at a show with and Boston's like, Hey, like, are you going to be in town? Do you want to come by? And I would tell him, you know, I'm with these two other clients that he just got done ripping apart. He's like, tell them to come by. They could, they could spend the weekend here. You know, my wife will cook for them. And, you know, and that's the thing that people need to realize. Like he was brutally honest, which I love that about him. That's what made him so unique. And that's like, he would say the things that people were thinking in their head, but wouldn't say. And, you know, but like, he did not have a mean, malicious bone in his body. You know, like whatever he would say about anyone, he would never wish to harm amongst anyone, no matter how big of a piece of shit that they are or not. I know, like I said, like he would give the shirt off of his back for anyone. And that's the truth, you know, I'm going to like. I'm going to miss him so much. I mean, the unfortunate thing is there, there's no one really that you're never going to find anyone that like him. You know, I'm going to miss his spill vis videos. You know, those are priceless. And just everything that he did, he could really like brighten up the room. Like once you really got to know him, you know, like words can't really describe the type of person that he is, unless you've truly like got to know him on that level, which I think, you know, everyone here that's on that's on this zoom call right now can kind of vouch for that. You know, and he'll definitely never be forgotten. And I think like the people that really did get, did know him like we did, like need to try to go ahead and show people actually the type of person that he was, not what the way that people think that he was. Because I know, like when this first happened, initially, like I was getting into like some heated battles with people, like online. And then like where it was like consuming two days straight of just like fighting with assholes all day long. And then I realized, you know, like, you're never going to get through these people. And these people just, they don't have the slightest clue of the type of person that he actually was, you know, and that's really like, like my whole experience with him. I became very, very close with him over the last five years. You know, I found out initially just like Leo did when he went into renal failure. And, you know, like I tried talking to him too many times. I told him, you know, like, you can't be doing crazy hypertrophy training, eating tons of protein. You know, but the thing was, is that Boston loved this lifestyle and everything about it. Like that was his drug. Like there's some people look that are alcoholics and people that are addicted to opiates. Well, those drugs like that, that's what bodybuilding and stuff. That's what that was like for Boston. That was his drug. And I will tell you what, if Boston wasn't living that lifestyle and carrying one says he wouldn't be happy. So, you know, the thing that one positive way, I guess you could look at this is that, you know, he, he still did like pass, like doing still what he, what he did love. And I feel like over the past couple of years, one thing positive take out of this is that his image to other people started to change where he did start saying, listen, I'm not recommending these doses. He's like, I've done these things to myself so I could educate, educate others on what to do and what not to do. And I'll tell you the truth. Like as a coach, you could read tons of clinical studies on different things. And most of the time, clinical studies are done in doses that are such small amounts that are really not applicable to what bodybuilders are really doing. So a lot of times, like when I would want to get feedback on different things, there wasn't a better reference to talk to Boston. Like, you know, he really was truly like a special and genuine friend and individual very much. So Dave, do you want to? I want to touch upon something that's been touched upon a little bit already, but in a slightly different way. I think Boston's legacy, truly his, his true legacy is about 180 degrees from what everyone thinks it was. Yeah. Everyone's got this notion of him as this reckless guy who is making other people be reckless. Do. And that's not the case at all. And let's put it this way. You tell a child not to do something or they can't have that or don't do that because it's dangerous or it might hurt you. The kids, they're not going to listen. You can't tell that child or that person not to do something, not even just a child, just a person. Do you have to lead by example, you have to show them or they have to experience it before they'll believe it. And what Boston did for the, for this community, for our industry is to show us, guess what? Not only does it not produce, you know, the kind of results that you think it will, and he showed us that he didn't just tell us, look, you know, he's not really like, drugs are bad. Okay. You can do that all day long and not going to listen. But he actually showed us him doing it and the results of it in real time. And the results were not what people thought they were going to be. And the young people needed to see that. And then the health implications, the, the afterwards that showed the other side. So he wasn't just preaching or telling, he was showing. And that to me is his legacy. No one else has done that. I don't think anyone else ever will. It's such a good point, Dave. Nobody's actually done that before. Even like Rich wasn't that open with what he was doing. And so was Boston was the most open. And if you think about it also, Dave, right before Boston became really popular online, that was the days that Gege 15 on get big was really popular. That's about when I met him, by the way. And so a lot of people were thinking then genuinely that like 300 milligrams of Trinidad will mutate you and you will become, you know, William Bonac one day or something like that. And you're right, because like, even for me, because we saw Boston use higher doses and not do better in some shows, remember that one show, I use really high doses. I can't remember. We watched it and we learned like, oh, okay, that doesn't work. And you know, without being too dramatic, you can actually go on a limb and say that he sacrificed his life for us. Yeah. You know, in the industry for the generation coming up. That's what better learning tool than what this man gave us. That's so beautiful. That's so true. Is it someone else have want to speak or? Yeah, I'll go. Boston was really one of a kind, like everyone said. I mean, I've never met anyone who just cannot lie. He wouldn't even exaggerate. I mean, he would come on this podcast and admit to things that we would probably consider humiliating and we would not talk about openly. But he didn't give a shit, man. That's who he was. If he did it, he would, he would tell you about it. You know, he was totally open and his integrity. I mean, I know for a fact he's turned down a lot of deals from people. YouTubers off money for a few hours work. Good money for three, four hours to collab with them. And if he didn't agree or particularly, you know, not dislike, like if he didn't feel comfortable with him, he wouldn't do it. I mean, who does it? Somebody contacts me, you know, with a couple of grand for an hour at work. I'm going to do it. And, you know, even with other things like pre workouts, that type companies, a lot of people wanted to use his name and if the quality wasn't good, if he didn't think the products were legit, he put them on. He didn't want to be associated with anything that wasn't 100% legit. So, and I met Austin in 2014. He wrote me out of the blue and he said something similar like he did to dump. He said, you know, I really respect you in a way more than somebody like Dexter Jackson. He said, because you don't have good genetics. But I'm not kind of complimenting, but he doesn't mean it. Well, he starts out so nicely. That is. But he said that, I mean, obviously you're doing something right. He said, you know, you've got all this muscle. He said, you know, you know what you're doing and you just keep doing it. It's obvious you love it. So he asked me my doses when I told him the numbers were so high that he knew I wasn't lying and he was like, wow, he said, nobody tells me the truth. He said, I can count on a few fingers. The amount of people that told me the truth. And I think right then we just click like he kind of respected me for telling him the truth. And we just started going back and forth. And in the beginning really it was mainly bodybuilding. I mean, like everyone else said, I'm on Boston's same sleep schedule. Yeah, I don't go to sleep. And you know, all through the night, 430, 530, just some random drug question pop up, you know, and he wants to get into it at like 530 a.m. After his workouts, right? Yeah. Yeah. And I missed that, man. I can't tell you over the past two weeks how many times I've been like an IG coast that was maybe cringe or something I knew Boston would laugh his ass off. And I can't even tell you how many times I'd be like, oh, man, I'd love to, I'd love to send for that to Boston or he already would have sent it to me. Like we just laughed all night. And during the day, I would only text him with something important. I didn't want to forget because I knew, you know, daytime was like Ariela and Jackson. So we really like mainly would be on the phone all night. And so like I said, in the beginning, it was mainly bodybuilding. But after a while, you know, we started talking about family. We were both really into our dogs. And he always chipped up on me during dialysis and the transplant. And then after that, like the past year and a half when his problems developed, I think we really like we really formed a bond because, you know, doctors don't tell you so much. But if you know, someone who's been through it firsthand and they've done what you've done, you know, you can read. And but that was kind of difficult for me because I didn't lie to Boston. You know, I felt like he deserved the same respect that he could, you know, I couldn't lie to him about what I've done and what I do. But I was also very careful. I didn't want to glorify certain things, you know, like, OK, yeah, you're on dialysis. Take this. And, you know, I'm saying like he's want to give him that. Like he like he was trying to find ways out of it to sort of like ways to be on dialysis and still live. And that's what you're talking about, right? Yeah, yeah. I want to be a hypocrite because he knew, you know, he knows everything about me. So I would tell him that, like, I got to the point where, like, literally every tech started with, well, me personally, you know, saying like I didn't want to say you I never told Boston, you should do this. You should do that. I couldn't lie to him. If he asked me what did you do? I told him, you know. But.  I was very mindful not to, I never, I mean, I tried to persuade him not to, but just very lightly, I didn't want to preach to him. I don't like when people do that to me. So that was kind of like a tightrope for me. I was always concerned about, you know, being truthful, but not giving him hope that, you know, okay, I'm gonna jump into that too. And I don't know, man, I just, I really miss the guy. I don't get attached to people like that. I mean, I have friends that I've known for 10 years and I like them. When I see him, I'd love to hang out with him, I enjoy their company, but I'm not the type that still needs to be in touch with you every day. But I was like, I would bust him, man. And he was a good guy, very, one of a kind. One of a kind. I think Dommie told me that is Brent available now? So I text him. Okay, I just texted him. He said he couldn't in an hour maybe, because he's a school teacher. Sure, sure, sure. He was very close with him. I'm sorry about that. That was my mix up because I didn't invite him to the group chat by mistake. Oh, I tried, I think, and I couldn't get him on it. So I'm sorry guys, just to let you know Brent Swanson, that's who we're talking about. Hopefully you can join with, we're still on. And if not, then you can come to next week's podcast because the podcast will have to continue for Boston. So we'll continue to talk about them, of course. Bo, I wanted to, just before we go to the next person, I just wanted to comment on the integrity aspect that you talked about. Guys, I swear to God, I know you guys know I like to talk well of my friends, but I swear to God, this guy's integrity was unbelievable. Nothing could move it. You know why, like I knew Boston before I started on YouTube, like by two years. I used to text him on an email, just like you guys say, he responds to everybody. Sweetest guy on earth, you don't need anything from him, he'll still respond to you late at night usually. And so I became sort of friends with him somewhat, quasi friends, like we knew each other online, and he liked me. When I started my channel, at the time I had Amina Lai on my channel, and I didn't know that as much about Amina Lai, I didn't know as much about his background. I invited Boston to come on the channel with Amina Lai so that he could help Amina Lai's channel grow. And he said, absolutely not. I was like, bro, what are you talking about? He's like, I was like, we're friends. He's like, I'll come on the channel if you're there, but not on his channel. I said, why? So I'm not gonna get into Amina, that's not the issue. The issue is that's how, like he was like that. So then for example, when a Tragile had asked to come on my channel and do a series, he joined my channel for a while, he was trying to fix his reputation online and so on. When Tragile came on my channel, Boston stopped coming. So what happened was basically, at first I was with Amina, then I opened my own channel, when I opened my own channel, Boston's my first guest. First person willing to come on my podcast. Guys, check this out. If you search Boston Lloyd online, you'll see he goes to only the smallest channels to go to the podcast. Big channels invite him, he ignores it. He says that they don't really need it, but a small channel, he goes to help them out. And he did that to me so many times until, listen to this, until Nick Tragile came on my channel, they said, I'm sorry, Leo, I can't come anymore. I said, what do you mean? I thought he has a personal issue. I didn't understand this, like, I didn't understand his integrity level. It is that high. He cannot associate with what he calls a phony or something like that. You know what I mean? And to disagree- And actually, Leo, hand in hand with the fact that he can insult people to the quick. He can insult people like that because he's so honest. That's honest, he's bastard's cousin. Yeah, that's a good point. That's such a good point. You know, you could have been a comedian, David. You're very- You're a truly honest person. You gotta take that along with it. That's a good point. He was only able to comment the way he did because he lived that life. And you know, personally also, let me tell you guys, this guy was not, I mean, probably a personal issue. The last year I've been struggling a little bit with some issues because I live my life sort of not for financial reasons, not commercially. For the last five years or more, I've been trying to live a spiritual life and live for myself and not for society. You know what I mean? And Boston had the exact same mentality on his own without even going through all the meditation, all that crap that I tried to do to get to that point. Boston was already there. He only cared about money as it related to Ariela and Jackson as he could support his family. And he would get offered just like Beau said all the time and refused him immediately if he sensed any kind of lack of integrity. So that's just my piece there, but blue or- It's a good foundation. Yeah, I'm glad to speak. It's, oh boy. Me and Boston, you know, we clicked from the get go. Like I've never met anybody as honest as him, as loyal. The integrity, like you've all spoken, it's just insane. I mean, we clicked from the get go. Like, I, oh my God. I've never met anybody like that. I was raised differently, had a very hard upbringing. And that was one of the things that I like highly value is being real, being honest, no matter what. Even if you piss somebody off because you want to share your truth and people might disagree with some of Boston's truth. But you know what? That was always his truth. That was always his heart. There was never any wavering. Like all of you guys have said, there's never any wavering. It was just complete honesty. He challenged me in many ways, you know? He never would hesitate to say, hey man, you know, like, you know, why are you doing it like this? Or why are you doing this? Like I respected that, you know? Because not many people do that. It's someone who truly cares for you and a true friend will challenge you, will bring up things that they disagree with, you know? Because they care about you. And I've known so many people in this industry over the years. There's nobody like him. There will never be anyone like him again, you know? That's just on, you know, that level. You know what people saw, you know, was just that outer layer of Boston, you know? The shocking stuff, but the deeper stuff, you know? All of us got to see him grow into, you know, a mature man, a family man. That Boston had so many special things about him that I truly believe that God put in him that not many people have. It's an amazing thing. And it hurts every time I think about it. It makes me sick because that's such a beautiful thing about somebody and it's not here anymore. People want life that way. Yeah, I mean, I think too, like he inspired all of us to look at ourselves and try to be more loyal and be more honest. And those are the two qualities that stand out the most, I think, like when I look at how he was with everybody, he was so honest. And I even confided in him things that nobody knows about me because I trusted him. And I didn't know him that long, you know? I knew him pretty much the last year. First time I met him was on the podcast. And I'd like known about him because we were about the same age, we kind of came up around the same time. But he was the pioneer, he was the first guy who was really the open true honesty within the industry. He was the first guy who kind of broke down those walls and said what nobody was saying. And everybody was too scared to, he was courageous for that. It was at a time when everyone thought you were getting trouble for that sort of thing, for talking about your dosages or what you're doing or showing everything that was behind the curtain. So for him to have the courage to be the first person to do that, that says a lot about him. And from that point on his honesty, that's what everybody saw. And it just, it honestly made me, it made me want to be better myself. Like, you know, seeing that through his character and how he was a family man. Because if he wasn't at the gym, he was with his wife and kid at home. Like that's what he did, he was all about that. If he wasn't around them, he was at the gym, that was it. And just seeing the number of friends he has and the number of people who he touched, that's a special person. So it's just, it's hard to think we're at this point now because I know we were all, most of us probably were all texting them, you know, the day before. And we texted, you know, we texted almost every day and deep stuff. It wasn't just, it wasn't just about supplements. You know, we texted about everything. It was to be religion, it could be anything. And even if he didn't necessarily agree with you on a certain subject, he was willing to listen. So that was another thing that's out. Like he didn't have to take, he didn't have to agree with you, but he was always going to be respectful and listen to what you had to say and your point of view. And you know, I just, even in just this last year that I've known him, he definitely left a huge impression on me. He's what, he's what loyalty is all about. He wouldn't, I mean, he turned on Dave because Dave tried to turn on Leo and he was loyal to Leo. And that's just another example. And there's so many examples like that. Like he was loyal to his friends. He was honest. He wasn't gonna, you knew you could trust him. And there's not too many people like that nowadays, especially in this industry. So, I don't know. It's just, sorry guys, I'm just inviting Brent. You know, he was almost like generous to where it made you kind of uncomfortable. Like I didn't want to take advantage of his generosity back when he left that time. Yeah. And who was the, his CEO. You know, he told me, look, don't go to the website in order. Just text me your order. And you know, just take care of it through me. So, you know, give me the discount and then he would forward it to the webmaster. So I would do that. He'd give me a discount, but then I'd get the pack and it'd be like, all this extra shit. And I'm like, this is like way too much. You know, it's like, it got to the point where after a couple of times, I got, you kind of felt like you're taking advantage because it's just, I understand wanting to be nice to your friend, but it's just like a lot, you know? And, you know, he's got a son and a kid. I mean, a wife and kid. So it got like after a few times of that, actually started placing the order in my wife's name and just went on the website. So the webmaster wouldn't see Bo Bayston and just send it through that way. And I never even told Boston. Cause I was like, you know, he got responsibilities too. So, you know, I want to pay full price. But he was just like that in every way, man. He would out in any way he could. On that topic. If I may interject real quick, one of the last things Boston did with his life was possibly to save mine. I was talking to him a couple of days before he passed and I was telling him about my plight with my blood pressure, which has been really horrendous lately. It'll be fine. It'll be like 130 over 80 for most of the, and then I'll just wake up feeling like shit. And it'll be 210 over 120 for no reason, right? So I discussed this with him and he told me about a supplement that I could take and I was like, okay, a natural supplement. He was Dave, trust me. Gave it to my dad and he got off his medications. You know, I'm on three medications for my blood pressure and it still does that. So he recommended this stuff called cartotone to me. And I ordered two bottles. I started taking it. I'll be damned. I'm 120 over 60 every day. And I haven't even been able to tell him that he helped me. And I might even be able to get off a medication or two. Dave, the same thing happened. We always used to bounce stuff off of each other like that. Dave, he was doing the same thing. Imagine this, look at this angel. Two days before he died, he was helping you. Two days before he died, he was helping me with my family issues. He was telling Gary Ella to help also. They were both helping. And his racism was coming out in it. He's just telling Gary Ella secretly, he's like, I think this is Leo's Middle Eastern issues. This is the problem. Middle Eastern issues are causing family issues for him. He was always making it. It would make fun of me. You know what's funny about Boston? Someone mentioned this earlier. He would always, even though he was naturally trusting, and he was genuinely curious. That was one of the most beautiful things about his personality. He was so curious about, you know, to learn. But one thing about him, though, if he'd ask you a question, sometimes he'd doubt you. Like you'd tell him, he'd ask you, like, how much did you use this week? And you'd tell him and he'd be like, you sure? Tell me the truth. How much did you use? He wouldn't believe you fully. He did this to me, not about drugs. He did this to me, but he thought my mother was Arab the whole time. He's like, come on, man. Your mother's not white. That's what she is. She is. I swear, he doesn't believe me. Only believe me like a week or two ago. He's so funny. Tony, I noticed you wanted to talk earlier. We interrupted you. I'm sorry about that, brother. Tony's awake at 2 AM, by the way, in Thailand, or it's more than 2 now. He woke up just for us and he did it two days in a row, actually, for his last yesterday. Yes, it did. Let the men speak. Let the men speak. I've got a good example that represents some of the stuff you guys said. The background first, I first found out about Boston because of his crazy steroid transformation, that just absolutely epic to publish something like that and track something like that. But what really got me excited was when he was showing inside his fridge, like, here's actually what I take and that openness. Back in the time when YouTube wasn't so censored, he was the one that opened the door and then I became a YouTube influencer later and he paved that path for me because I also started doing that same type of content, which is showing the injections on camera and the real-time diaries of the experiments I was doing on my body. For me, my path to grow was to get in touch with Boston and really follow in his footsteps of doing this transparent experimentation stuff. That's what I wanted to do. So I was still practicing law at the time. I wasn't full-time on YouTube, but I wanted to transition to do YouTube stuff. So I thought a fastest way to do that would be to contact Boston and offer him a lot of money so he couldn't possibly say no. And at the time, I thought, okay, Boston probably has a lot of opportunities, so I need to say something to really catch his attention. So I started communicating with him and he was responsive, which again, like amazing, like you guys said, he actually responds to people and fans like that. And I offered him $5,000 and that I would fly to Florida and I would spend just a couple hours with him, but I would rent us Lamborghinis, have them delivered to his house where we would take the Lamborghinis and we would drive to the gym together. I'd give him $5,000 and we'd just connect and make videos. And he said, no, I couldn't believe he said no. I mean, I really planned this whole offer to be like, how could anybody say no to the offer I made him? And then later, finally, I was able to connect with him. The way I ended up connecting with him and getting to know him and befriending him was through Coach Trevor because Coach Trevor somehow went to school with him or something. So they had some sort of prior relationship or trust or something amongst them. So it was Coach Trevor that reached out. And then Boston really obviously liked, but by that time later, Boston had been watching my content. And so when we reached back out to him, we got a warm reception because it wasn't the money that got his attention, but it was like the fact that I was experimenting with the extreme chemistry that he was really excited about. So then we flew out there and Coach Trevor and I spent a week with him in Florida and injecting all kinds of stuff and trying kinds of stuff and going to the gym and doing all this stuff. And wow, Boston really was reckless. Like I had to see it in person to believe it. Like it is really shocking. The most shocking thing. He would use the same insulin needle over and over and he would shoot his clothing. Like, no, not even no alcohol. Wait, what? What? What? How does he do it? He shoot the insulin syringe through his clothing? Yeah. Right outside the gym where everybody can see. And I was like, oh, wow, I'm like, how am I going to one up this? Like, I'm trying to be the most extreme in the industry. And here Boston's injecting himself through his clothing with an old dirty needle. I'm like, man, how am I going to outdo this? So later that trip we go out to dinner, Ariela, my baby mama, Boston and I, and I pull out the syringe and I go, all right, right here. And I say, we're going to inject our insulin growth hormone at the dinner table here and we do it. And then the manager comes over later and says, yeah, we had some complaints about objecting things. And I did. I actually made Boston nervous. He's like, Boston was actually really nervous about it. Like we were getting too much attention. And I was like, yes, I did it. My question to you, Tony, is why did you feel that you had to outdo that? Oh, well, that's the thing. No, we were like kids, you know, he's like a kid and he's, you know, what can I do to talk that? Basically, if we spent more time together, we'd probably both be dead, you know, a lot earlier. So both pushed each other in bad direction. Yeah, that's very true. I think everyone's commented a bit. So unless someone want to add some more stuff, I have a couple of things I wanted to mention that we didn't, I think, mention. One is the funny story with me and Boston about a year ago. No, no, no, it couldn't have been a year ago. So when Nick Trigilli stopped coming on my channel, Boston had refused to come the whole time. Okay. So like, he's still texting, he's still my friend, but he's like, I will not come on your channel. This is not possible. So when when Trigilli left, I was like, bro, will you come on my channel? Because I don't have any, I don't have any, I don't have any, I don't have any regular guests. So he's like, okay, I'll come. I'll come. He didn't really want to do the podcast. He was doing it for me. The first few weeks he was doing it for me, he's like, I can do one every two, three weeks, something like that. But later he liked talking to me. He loved the people who would message him after. He would love to talk to them and stuff. So he'd really like to come. But anyway, along the way, so when he started coming and we started the podcast, by the way, the reason we called it the non-fraudiland bodybuilding podcast was a Boston joke. It was one of Boston's many jokes. He used to call Fawad fraud. So he called the channel non-fraudiland to be the opposite. It was a joke, meaning he didn't mean it in a bad way. But when he started coming on my channel, I don't know if it was, maybe it was right before he came on my channel, Tragilli actually, and another YouTuber who I won't say his name, came to me privately because they know I hate rats. I really don't like snitches and shit like that. So they came to me privately and they're like, listen, Boston snitched. And they have this elaborate story. It's a very specific story. I spent, you guys would know, you know, I'm a weird guy. I spent like three hours trying to get to the bottom of this with Boston. I called Boston, called them, called back Boston, called them again. I was trying to figure out if Boston really did snitch because if he snitched, I wouldn't be able to be friends with him. And it turned out he, whatever he did, he didn't do it intentionally. He really did not realize that it affected anyone or whatever. When I confirmed that is only after that point, I kept having a boss on the channel. Boston knows that and he liked it. It was pretty funny. And he, and he stayed on the phone with me for hours, like convincing me in detail, like exactly what happened, telling me how everything happened. That's one thing I want to talk about. Like it's a funny story. Another one is that you guys mentioned this already, but he spent his entire day with Ariela and Jackson in the day. He was so protective over this that for the first like six months or more of my podcast, I had to record at nine or more or later PST, but he's an EST. So this guy's recording at three in the morning, two in the morning. I'm like, why are you doing this? Because I think it's ruining the podcast because I'm a daytime person. So at night, I'm like, I can't talk much. So I'd be like once a week, every week, my schedule would completely flip. I'd have to like drink coffee at night to go talk to him. And the only reason he used to do this is because he wanted his whole day to be spent with Jackson and Ariela. Later I asked Ariela once because I was having such difficulty with the schedule. I was like, why is Boston so adamant about this? She said that's the way Boston shows his love. It's one of the ways he shows his love. Like to him, being there always for us was a way to show his love. And this is before he passed, by the way. So this is the kind of person he was. Another thing I wanted to mention about him is his loyalty. Pete mentioned his loyalty to me. Honestly, Boston's loyalty wasn't really to me at that time. That was Boston standing up for his integrity. He felt like a big channel was trying to hurt a small channel. And he felt that there was no legitimate reason for it. So he stood by that. He didn't pick sides. He just said, I can't stop going on Leo's channel because of this reason. It doesn't make sense to me. What happened is the other person said, then you're not welcome on my channel. So he didn't betray anyone. He was just standing up for his integrity. So that's what happened there. But he was also a loyal guy. He was very loyal to me, but he would not be loyal to you if he thought that you were doing something unethical. If he thought that you were doing something unethical, he would direct it to you. He would bring it up to you directly. And as long as he always believed you were ethical, he'd be loyal always. And so the loyalty, the daytime with the family. And the other thing is the cheating and the honesty. Let's talk about those two things. So one, Boston never cheated on Ariela. I know how much that means. I've been with my wife Lucy for four years almost. I have never responded to a single message from a girl. I have never texted a girl looking for something. I have never even looked. I don't even look at girls. And I've never cheated, obviously. And to me, this, I've done it myself. And I know other people here on this, on the podcast have surely done it before. It takes a lot for a guy to do that for many years. It means that you're a truly loyal person, especially someone like Boston, who was quite famous. I mean, he could get probably a lot of girls if you wanted to. He could be like a lot of other people cheating, hiding. He never did that ever. He was always honest with Ariela. She was in fact telling me this after his passing that he was always honest and never, you know, you never cheated. And this means a lot also. And then finally about the honesty thing. You guys, many of you mentioned that he didn't know how to lie. I agree. And I never comment on this fully on the podcast because I didn't want to like psychoanalyze him or something. But I figure that Boston has a very unique brain. The way his brain developed was very unique. He literally didn't really understand why people lied and he couldn't really get himself to do it. It wasn't just a mental principle. It was the physical thing about his brain. You guys agree? Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Well, that's what I have to say about this. Yeah, the cheating thing was a, yeah, the cheating thing was like huge deal. He was just like, I don't understand why did, why does someone with somebody if they want to cheat? That's like Boston men or men, you know, like we're, you know, we do a lot of bad things, you know, I mean, but, you know, of course, when you get married, that's a different story. You want to grow out of that and all that, but he just never understood. I just don't get it. I just don't understand. Yeah. That's how loyal he was, you know, especially on marriage, right? Yeah. He believed in marriage. I wouldn't know if he was cheating on her. Back when they were having their problems, I was very, very tight with him at that point. We were texting every day. If he had cheated on her, I would have known about it. He didn't. He wouldn't. He couldn't. He didn't want to do it. He didn't even understand why other people would do it. He couldn't understand it. It was such a harassment. Exactly. Like, why do people do that? If you're, if you're committed, why would you do that? He just didn't get it. Yeah. Boston and I were competing opposites in that area. He invented the word Eurofic. Yeah. Eurofic. Hey, we should make a, we should make some merchandise with Eurofic for the family for Ariel and Jackson. Eurofic, yeah. We should do that. We should do that. Because I always told him, hey, that's another example. I always told Boston, sell the Eurofic hats. Absolutely. He, Ariel had made him one. He wouldn't, he was like, but why? He doesn't want to make money. He's not like- He didn't get it. He didn't get how people would want those. And no, so he didn't get, because like for the, for the people listening who aren't YouTubers or aren't bodybuilders or whatever, you'd be surprised how many bodybuilders, or not so much bodybuilders, but YouTubers, their main goal is money. Like they come to you, they talk about health or whatever the fuck. They don't, they're literally main goal is to make money from you. They just weren't good enough to be bankers or whatever. Right? Boston was so unusual in that sense. Like I barely know anyone on YouTube who cares so little about money. He was just, he was making v- In fact- He was all about the content. If you guys remember his channel, had a ton of followers. It had like 500,000. It got closed. He never even reopened one. And he would go on podcasts, there were people who had like 500 views. Yes. He didn't have a big following. He clicked with the person and he liked it. He's like, yeah, sure. I'll come on and talk to you. Yeah. Exactly. It was a wonderful person. Well brothers, I hope that Brent would, would be able to join us, but I think what we'll do is we'll just record next week as we used to with Boston on Wednesday. If anyone, if any of you would like to join, you're all welcome. You guys are- What time next week? For the podcast to keep going. Yeah. What time? He loved it. Yeah. Boston, I was interrupting. What did you say, sir? Boston would definitely prefer for the podcast to keep going. He really liked doing it. When you took that break in December, he completely, you needed your personal time, but he missed it. I know he missed it. I left him alone. This was the, yeah. But do you guys think we should rename the podcast, the Boston Lloyd podcast, or should it be the non-Farget and the NFVP? I don't know. I'm going to ask Ariela also. Like I want to keep his name so alive that it's like very- He bears his name going forward. Huh? He should bear his name going forward. Yeah. Bear his name somehow. Yeah. Exactly. I agree. I agree. So just for you guys to know, the funeral, I don't know what a wake is, by the way. I'm not Christian, so what is a wake? It's where they meet with the family the day before. Oh, okay. This is a night before, kind of like a gathering. If you can't, sometimes people can't make the funeral. They go to the wake the night before. Unfortunately, I won't be at the funeral. I have my probation and I'm on probation and bond. So unfortunately, I didn't have enough time to get cleared. No, he literally, there's no way you could have gotten cleared in time. I'm going to really want to be there. So just for you guys to know the wake. I'm going to try to release this video today just so people know the wake is tomorrow in Florida. The information is online. Maybe I can make another post about it today. The funeral is, so that's Friday and then the funeral is Saturday to my knowledge. I, of course, I was adamant about being there, but my because of my family issues, I physically cannot leave right now because of some emergency issues. So I will be visiting Ariela separately with one of Boston's clients, Saul, who we've mentioned on the channel before, maybe in a week or two, and we'll go personally to check on her and see her. I'm talking to her every day. If you guys were listening to the podcast can give her some support. Ariela truly loved Boston, truly, truly loved him. She's the kind of woman that all of us would have wanted to have that if we passed, she would maintain his name and, and you know, she's so loyal, you know, and she's going through so much stuff. So really Ariela and Jackson, Jackson needs to know the legend of his father, his father needs to live on. You know, I was going to make a video about grief actually. I was being asked to make a video about grief like two weeks before Boston passed. I'll make a video on day, not that I know much about it, but the one thing that I've always done with people who have died around me because I have one of my best friends was killed by one of my other friends a few years ago. And this guy and noose that died, I sometimes even swear on his name. I say on and noose. That's how much I maintain his name. I remember it. I believe that if somebody dies, I don't believe that we're all really beings completely. I think that we're all parts of beings all put together and parts of us are our thoughts, part of parts of us are actions. And if you live a really truly noble life or a meaningful life that has impact on a lot of people, your actions echo in the halls of eternity. They keep going. So Boston keeps living if we keep them.  amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, amalodex, am like I am. You guys agree? Any last words? Thank you so much for letting me be a part of this, man. Dave, I'm sorry I didn't even invite you earlier. He loved all of you guys specifically. Every one of you, he messaged me about you guys and said very, very, very kind things about you. That's why I picked these names. Brent Swanson, he didn't used to talk to me as much about him, but I used to hear his name, but I didn't know who he was, so that's why I made the mistake not scheduling that. That's my fault. But just for the audience, these people are the people that Boston loved. And I want to comment on something Blue did also before he finished. Blue donated not only massively to the fund for Ariela, but also Boston's clients that signed up with Blue, he had them sign up through their donation on to Ariela. So these are the kind of actions that real friends do in the absence of their friends, and they don't talk about it if you notice Blue didn't even mention it in the podcast. So, you know, this is what Boston deserves. Maybe I'll do another video later to discuss why I think he died specifically. I do think it was avoidable. I think I made, I played some small role not being available during the COVID illness. Some, maybe small role because he didn't used to listen to everything I said. If you guys remember the bacterial infection, it lasted a long time. I tried to get him to the ICU. I even saw poor guy, he has a medical facility in California. We offered to fly Boston in secretly so he doesn't have to go to an emergency room. To treat it, but he wouldn't listen. The longer those infections go on, the more damage goes to those little cells everywhere in the body. And if you had just some genetic weakness slightly, and then so the bacterial infection lasts a long time, then he had the COVID for a long time. And guys, I don't know. I've never told this story properly on the channel, but the reason why I stopped, I started lifting weights last year. You guys remember I started lifting weights for like two months. I got a bit bigger and then I stopped four months in. The reason why I got in COVID while my wife was pregnant, I didn't notice anything. When I started lifting weights, I noticed my heart rate was going really weird. If something was off, I've never experienced this in my life. I was lifting weights out of breath, have to sit down. So that is, that was something was going on structural changes to my heart because of the damage to the virus. I felt that and I was like, you know what, I shouldn't even exercise at all. I should just, yeah, take a beta blocker and sit at home. So that's what I've been doing the last few months because of that reason. This could have happened to any of us. There isn't something that Boston, yeah, it could have, I mean, you could have treated the bacterial infection quicker. Maybe you could try to treat COVID quicker. You could have done the, you know, these different therapies, but you can't protect yourself from these small damages that can happen suddenly when you go to the gym and lift very hard. You know, it could happen to anyone. But Leo, I would like to add one thing. The week before it happened, he was going to go in for his last two tests with cardiologists. That is the last evaluation they canceled on him. So even if, you know, like the heart can, yeah, they canceled his appointment. So if he went into that appointment and there was something going on with his heart, it would have been found immediately because it's thorough. They do everything. That's such a good point, Bob, because what happened was he had done the initial scans, but he was going for the echocardiogram. I know he was going for the CT scan, I think, like the big one. Yeah, what they're doing is the basic, you know, very, but yeah, the last two tests are they, like that determines your final decision and they go through everything. I don't, I do forget the names of the two exams they give you, but it's a complete scan. So whatever was going on, they would have found that and they canceled the appointment. That's true. That's another example of how much Boston was falling through with his health. Sorry, Dave, go ahead. Oh, wait. One more thing. I'm sorry. I have seen a lot of people online saying he wasn't following protocol. He was going against doctor's orders. No, he was in a transplant evaluation. He went to every appointment. They do your blood work every time you go there. He wasn't being okay. Maybe he was doing some things he talked about on the podcast on his own, but he was not, he was in compliance. Yes, yes, absolutely. Yeah. Dave, sorry, I interrupted you, Dave. No, I wasn't. Oh, well, yeah, he was not only in compliance, he was, he was managing his blood pressure very carefully with doctor's supervision. He was, the only thing that he could have maybe, there are two things he could have done that he didn't do. One was to just get very skinny and stop lifting. If he got very skinny and stopped lifting, this probably wouldn't have happened because he wouldn't have been lifting that day. So there wouldn't have been so much pressure on the cardiovascular system so that the abdominal aneurysm is happened, which is what I think happened. Not the aortic originally. And then that caused either the aortic or thoracic. But the only other thing he could have done is go on dialysis, which he didn't do. But I don't know how much impact that really had in those few months. He could get by with that. He could have started it if he chose to. But he also could have waited. I mean, he wasn't at the point where he, it was life or death. He needed to go on. Exactly. Yeah. People have to understand he was not like playing Russian. Actually, let me say it for Areola. She'll be on the channel to say it herself. But last night, Areola specifically told me, because I was telling her like, my thing is I always had an excuse for why Boston didn't lose all the weight. It was because he had like, he has like an OCD mentality. Like someone mentioned earlier about we all have different addictions. His addiction was partially going to the gym. Like he loved to work out actually. He loved to go to the gym in the morning. It was his, that's why he used to text us in the morning because he was in a great mood. He loved to go to the gym. So he, I felt like he couldn't do some of the things, but everything that he could do, I felt like he tried to do and people should know that he wasn't like Areola. Yesterday told me Boston, she told me that the night before she asked Boston, she said, is everything okay? Are you sure nothing can happen to you? And Boston said, yeah, everything's okay, babe. My heart is fine. They checked it. So he was really being really careful. He was still taking all his supplements as a straggler, whatever, all these kind of things. He was, he was trying to eat less. He wasn't taking much gear, by the way, for people to know. He spent over four months on like 150 milligrams of testosterone, 200 or 250. And then recently he just added a little bit of other things, but I don't think they contributed to his death at all. He was just getting tired because he was like, I'm not getting better from not taking anything. I'm not going to take a lot. You know what I mean? But I just want people to know he was not being reckless. That's it. He didn't go good that day. He would skip them for a few days. And then if he had a good day where he had a lot more energy, he would take them. So he wasn't taking a lot of stuff. Not at all. Not at all. Leah, what triggered him to start looking into his heart and start getting heart testing in the first place? This, this, it's been a year of personal transformation for Boston or more than a year of him slowly learning about health, being interested in learning about his health. For example, like he's, he was just asking us to do some blood work for him to see if how his kidney changed after COVID. We were just looking into it because I was telling him, maybe there's some damage from COVID to your kidney. We have to see how the market changed in detail, not just the eGFR and creatinine, but in the CSTAN-C and the other things. So he was constantly looking into, he was, he wanted to live for Areola. And Jackson. And let me tell you another thing guys. I just want to be clear. When Boston first got kidney failure, just to be clear, this is a huge psychological thing. Like when you get, he got kidney failure. Imagine as Boston Lloyd getting kidney failure. Like knowing that everyone would say, I told you so, I told you so, you idiot, you killed yourself. You know, he knew that. He didn't ever say it directly to me. But he felt that and that's why I called him. I was calling him a lot when he first found out about the kidney failure. And I was saying, listen brother, it's not the end of who you are. It's a change. Now you can show people what those things did and you can help people prevent themselves from being in the same situation. And that was genuinely his initial agreement to come on this on this podcast. You know, so You know, you know, people always saw him on the podcast. So, you know, at 29 years old, 28, 29, going through something like this is, you know, he projected like, oh, everything's fine. I'm happy. But what you're going through, you're going, you're in kidney failure. 29 years old. People understand like he was going through a lot that he kept in. He didn't come on the show and be like, oh poor me, you know, this and this, you know, so people don't realize like they were seeking laughs, smile all the time. What he was dealing with at 29 years old having to deal with kidney failure. You know, I hooked him up with my doctor friend that had COVID and he went into kidney failure and he was like home dialysis. Because I was like start dialysis soon. You know, I don't know much about it. So he spoke to my doctor about two hours when I, doctor friend, he's like, thanks for letting me talk to him. But just what he was, what the psychological part of it, people don't understand when you're going through that type of health issues unless you've been through it. Like they just saw him smiling, like laughing like, oh, what a great, you know, and that's how he wanted projected. Like, oh, poor me, you know, so, you know, it's just, he was going through a lot. But he did warn people. He would warn people, but he would not show his pain on the podcast. And there was, I'm sure there was, I know there was, because I talked to him a lot privately. There was fear and there was concern and there was worrying about his family if he dies early. When he was, about a month ago, Boston asked me, are you afraid of dying? And we had a discussion and of course his family was the only reason he said, you know, when I was younger, if you asked me that, it would just be bodybuilding, you know, well, I got a bodybuild until I can't do it. But he said, no, he said, I have to be here. I have to be here for them. Wow. What a glorious man. What a man of gravitas and impact and noble spirit. He's a true noble spirit. You know what I was thinking the other day? Good people, they come from like a couple of scenarios. Some learn lessons in life and decide to enact an ethical code. Some people are religious. Religion usually cures the soul, honestly, and makes good people. But then there are other people, I call them noble spirits. They're just born with good ethics and they just have a noble spirit. And I think Boston was one of the best examples of a noble spirit. All right, brothers, I'll let you guys be for now. I'll try to get this podcast out soon. I might not be much editing, but it's been too long and I want people to hear it before the funeral and the wake. Dave, you're muted. You muted yourself. Let me try to unmute you. Dave, you're muted. I asked to unmute you. There you go. Let me try it again. How about that? Yeah, that works. I thought about it now. Yeah. But you're frozen now. I thought about it now. We hear you. We hear you fine about it. He's like changing stuff. We hear you. We hear you. You don't hear us? Oh, you do? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, now I do. Yeah, I hear you. What were you saying? I just wanted to say it was good sitting down with all you guys and reminiscing about Boston. It's good for my soul to do this, to be honest with you. And thank you for having me. I really appreciate it. It's my honor. And I hope you guys will continue to come on the podcast, including you, Dave, even if it's not so regular. But I really... Yeah, okay. All right, guys. Well, I'll contact you all soon. Long live Boston Lloyd.