 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter I do have a high power. I just don't know. I can't explain it with the words I have because it's where it is. It's these words were created on this material plane, for example. So I can't use things that are created here to explain what's something I don't even know. But I just know that there's something out there. And I personally, I should pray more and use it more in my program. But it's not my first reaction. And the only times I prayed with all my heart was the time that I was like suffering the most. I was like, okay, now, now, please help me. This is like I went on my knees and stuff a few handful of times in my life. But that's the point of it, right? Is to remind us constantly that we are so fallible and small beyond what is such something greater than us. And it's not whether the higher power is listening to us. It's for us to sit in gratitude and admire. Because think about every society we've ever come across in the world experience the same kind of religion. They sacrifice. They pray to idols. They have rituals. Why? Is it by accident? Or did every society that didn't do that die off? Is that part of, yeah, part of like an evolutionary design thing that keeps human beings? It's like mass therapy for some maybe countries or groups of people. Well, yeah, but for sure. But the thing is that I've seen people in the, everybody's higher power is different, though. That's the part of the thing, too. Like some people, they just believe in karma. Some people, they just believe in like a, so the atheist version of God, the meaning is called good orderly direction. God. Oh, so righteous way. So you just ask yourself, what's the most righteous way. So for those who don't believe in, in the sky daddy, because whatever, you know, like they will use that good orderly direction or I've also like in a group of drunks, because the media is greater than yourself. That's true. It's more than you. So people, they will have different versions of higher power. But in the program, if you just try to have one, you're open minded enough, you'll be, you'll have a much better chance at staying clean. But it can't be anything. It could be nature, whatever. It doesn't have to be anything. It's people put a lot of pressure on that. But me, I was really willing to like do whatever it took. It's like, I didn't care. You would have to tell me like, hey, Antoine, you have to believe in God. So you can get this bag of drugs. I'm like. Why would I not be as willing to stop doing drugs? Right. So I had this. I had this. No, no. Yeah, because the word, the word God scares a lot of people. That's why we actually use higher power a lot, because God is attached to religion. But it's the thing with the 12 step. It's not a religious program. It's a spiritual program. That's the thing. But it's just the AA was inspired by some religious principles from the Oxford group and stuff. So some inspired by them, but then they just changed the wording. So it would be, would be available to anybody from all trees of life, all religion, all races, all status, so everybody can do it. But, you know, I had a tremendous, tremendous difficulty for the people that are listening to us that think they're going to have a difficulty with this. I had a tremendous difficulty. My brain was very stubborn. And at the time I was convinced that I, that I could not get this God thing the way they're describing it to me. It caused me a lot of problems initially, like complete reservations. I couldn't deal with anything. Over time, I developed this. I think this is hard to disagree with, honestly. And I don't want to take much, much, much more time. But if you think, so say you believe that there is no God and you're, you have the feeling of like the militant atheist, right? So you think the world was created by randomness. Okay. Whatever this random occurrence that created the entire universe is, this thing you don't understand, right? And you don't need to understand it. It's just something so much beyond you that you're nothing compared to it, right? Say that this whole universe thing we can call God. It includes everything on the universe, including you. This whole system, which works somehow by itself without you doing anything about it and not understanding anything about it. Say this whole system has never listened to you once in your life. It doesn't matter. When you're praying to God or consoling or commuting, commuting with God, is that that? When you're doing that, you're not really, you're talking to God, but it's not that God should necessarily talk back to you. What you're doing is showing gratefulness because you were given this existence that you didn't deserve, that you don't know how it happened. And what you're supposed to show is what we say in Arabic, subhanAllah, which means praising God to say, you know, thank you for what you've done for us. I don't understand you, but I respect you. And I see that all your creatures in the world seem to work in unition in a way that goes with the flow of the river of life and not swimming against the river. I have been swimming against the river. Clearly, I don't know what I'm doing because I'm about to die. So maybe I should look at the river of life, observe nature and pray to God in the sense that I am learning from God, from the universe. God is what I don't know, and that's everything. And so it gives you respect, gratitude, communion. These are maybe the most important parts of religion. What do you think? Right? It's hard to disagree with that. No, it is hard because the thing is, you're... That trips him up is the word God. That's all. No, that's what I mean. You just describe God pretty much. Yeah, that's good. To me, that's... Some people would describe the same God using different words. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? So the thing is, it's all the same thing. That's my opinion too. It's like, all the religions are... They try to explain what you just tried to explain. It's just really hard to... Other people get really caught up on this idea that there's one religion, he says he has a beard and he has... Calm down. Okay, back off. Don't get stuck on that one. If somebody told you there's a guy listening to you and you don't believe him, does that mean that this whole universe, this grand, beautiful thing that nobody understands is not before you? If you see a nice car, don't you say, wow, this is a beautiful car. If you said, wow, this is a beautiful life every day, you wouldn't drink. That's what they're really saying to you at the end of the day, right? Yeah. Well, if you didn't like it, I mean, if you liked it, you accepted fully as it is, you wouldn't want to change it. Yeah, also. And you would want to go with the flow of life. Like in my mind, if we do things that are very unhealthy for ourselves, even in that way, we're going against the flow of life. I tend to do it naturally, which is why my channel is called Leo Longevity. You could say it's self-will and then going with the flow of the river is kind of God's will in a sense. True. And how do you know God's will? By learning God, by watching the flow of the universe also, which is that gratitude and meditation and observation. This is a good note. Thank you.