 naringin,liśmyum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightnum alrightn is around the world. In this video, you're going to find out my reasoning as to why. But before I do, please subscribe to the channel if you're not already, like the video, and comment on the video for the sake of the algorithm or restarting that algorithm really. First of all, I just want to distinguish. While there have been a lot of people with African descent in bodybuilding, there haven't been as many people with recent African ancestry. One notable one, or one of the first, was Victor Richards. In the early 2000s and the late 90s, Victor Richards was rumored to be this person who was paid not to compete because he was too competitive, because he would ruin the plans of the IFBB Weider Group or something like that. That may not have been true. He may have been a little bit lazy and maybe didn't like to compete or like the legend that he had. But in either case, you can see pictures of him online and hopefully I'll include some here. He was a really shocking creature. He was more muscular in the off-season, I think, than anybody has ever seen anyone before, or at least before that point. Now, African Americans and people with African descent that have, through the slave trade that ended up in America and other countries, sometimes have less of a percentage of West African ancestry. In America, I think the average is something around 20%. So while we have a lot of African Americans, and there may be advantages also genetically in intermixing between groups that haven't ad-mixed so much in the past, when we're talking about West African ancestry and direct West African ancestry, it's only really recently entered in high levels in the IFBB. This Olympia, we had four West Africans who also share some things in common, which are interesting. Place among the top two, in we had Patrick Johnson, who's 39 years old, according to my best estimate, and originally from Sierra Leone via Denmark. He's a Danish citizen. Then in ninth, we had William Bonak, or Bonak, who was originally from Ghana, but is a Dutch citizen. Then in eighth, we had Andrew Jack, who is, I think, 30. Oh, I should mention, William Bonak is turning 40. Then we have Andrew Jack, who was, I believe, 38, the second youngest of the group, who placed eighth. And then we had Samson Dowda, who is also Nigerian like Andrew Jack, who I believe is turning 36 this year, who placed sixth. So some very high placings from people who haven't placed so highly before in this Mr. Olympia, all of them above the age of 36, between 36 and 40, except for, of course, William Bonak, who placed many times in high positions. But now we have four people in the top 12. Will we have more? Is this the end of that? Or is this a beginning? First of all, you have to realize that these four gentlemen had some advantages. Nigeria, which is the source of Samson Dowda, who also is British, I believe, and Andrew Jack, who lives abroad, but I don't know what his nationality is. Nigeria is one of the richest and most well-developed, sophisticated nations in Africa in general, and especially in West Africa. So these two gentlemen already had an advantage in some way. There's also, now while William Bonak is from Ghana and Patrick Johnson is from Sierra Leone, both of these countries are less well-developed, but both of them were living for a very long time in Europe and are European citizens. So these people had some advantages potentially. You can think of the people who don't have advantages in Africa for comparison. For example, William Bonak told me in an interview that I did on my channel that in Africa it was common for him growing up in Ghana to see men training with concrete weights. Because, of course, the act of going to the gym itself is difficult because you need access to a gym and to pay for a gym and also to have enough protein in your diet and so on, but especially the gym element. I mean, take the example, for example, of swimming in America and hockey also. Hockey and swimming are some of the only sports not dominated by people with African ancestry in North America. And people often comment on maybe people with African ancestry disliking the cold or disliking water. This is not the case. There's a much more reasonable explanation, which is that people of African descent in North America frequently live in impoverished communities and much less frequently have access to a lap pool or a skating rink to practice with or the equipment to buy to practice in hockey. And if they did, they would probably dominate those sports also. Still notice even with these advantages, the two Nigerians and the two Europeans of African descent that now place in the top 12, all are in their later ages, except Bonak maybe started a little bit earlier, but they were all mostly in their 30s. We know how growth hormone has much more profound effects earlier in life. Basically, there are more cells that can divide the younger you are. So we've seen a lot of crazy transformations, what we call mutations among younger athletes taking growth hormone like Dave Palumbo and Nick Walker, for example, but much less of these dramatic transformations with people starting PEDs later in life, like Greg Doucette and others. Even Kai Green, who looked fantastic afterwards. We can only imagine what would have happened if he started earlier. So all these guys are still a bit older. So if bodybuilding was more popular around the world, such that it was more popular in Africa also, Sub-Saharan Africa, or if Sub-Saharan Africa was less impoverished and there was more access to gyms, or Sub-Saharan Africans were particularly interested in bodybuilding, I think that this number would climb dramatically. To understand why Sub-Saharan Africans are so gifted in athletics, which, by the way, you'd want to know how is their myostat and how is their IGF-1, which, by the way, their IGF-1 levels are around average. They have differences in IGF binding proteins. But there are so many different characteristics that may make them better athletes. But the question is, why are they better athletes? And why are all these better athletes, particularly from Sub-Saharan Africa? Well, to know the reason behind that, you have to know about a people called the Bontus. The Bontus describe a linguistic family of about 400 languages that originate in West Africa. Before I get started, I want to mention that the Saharan desert used to be a jungle. It used to be called, they call it the Green Sahara, or the Human African Period, something like that. During the Green Sahara, the Sub-Saharan Africans got separated from North Saharan Africans. And around the end of the Green Sahara, which ended, the Green Sahara was around 14,000 years ago to around 5,500 years ago. Around 5,500 years ago, the approximate estimate is 500 years after that, very close to after that, the Bontu-speaking peoples spread from West Africa, somewhat middle or central northern, southwards and to the east. And as they spread, they replaced other people. They dominated everything they came across. So much so, Bontu phenotype of what you think a Sub-Saharan African looks like is probably what you imagine when you think of a Sub-Saharan African. There are other peoples though. The other African groups can be broadly, genetically also, divided according to their region and language families. So, for example, North Africans, because of the ending of the Green Sahara, the arid desert that separated the North and the South, admixed very little with the other groups. And they also have a very unique history, which we won't get into here. But they did admix quite a bit with the Afro-Asiatic-speaking peoples, like the Ethiopians, because of proximity. The Afro-Asiatic-speaking peoples also intermixed a little bit with the, sometimes called the Nubian peoples, or the Nilo-Saharan people. The Nilo-Saharan people are most densely concentrated in South Sudan, if you've seen the South Sudan people. They tend to be very tall and quite dark-skinned, but have very different features than Bontus, are much less stocky and muscular by definition. Almost, you know, the phenotype is like that. And by the way, this population is closer to Adam. So, Adam being the haplogroup A, and them being the closest to Adam. B contains A and B, but there's a lot of interesting B in the Nubian peoples, these tall Nilo-Saharan people. On the other hand, in Sub-Saharan Africa, in very small pockets now, you find the people that they used to call pygmies, the Khoisan. The Khoisan look also dramatically different, being much shorter, having different textured hair than Bantu people, being lighter-skinned on average. And the Khoisan people, interestingly, were decimated by the Bantus in their expansion. In fact, the majority of the ancestry that we find now from Khoisan are from the women that either were raped or married into Bantu men's families. There are still Khoisan that exist in small pockets, but it's believed that a lot of people were sort of removed from the map of Africa with the expansion of the Bantus. So, what we've just learned is that around 5,000 years ago or so, a people emerged from West Africa that were fighting in a primitive style, right? They didn't have guns and these kind of things. So, physical prowess and athleticism was important. And they physically moved around and conquered all other Sub-Saharan Africans, essentially, that they encountered, and almost always won. So, they're genetically maybe somehow superior or culturally superior, who knows? But they defeated everybody else, and to the point where when we imagine a black guy or a Sub-Saharan African, we're imagining a Bantu-looking phenotype. So, that's one thing. But why is domination in Africa genetically so important or so relevant? It's because Africa has the highest amount of genetic diversity. You see, when humans did the out-of-Africa migration, which is thought to be around 65,000 years ago or so, there's several of them. When that happened, the further away people got from Africa, the more bottlenecks and breeding they had, which means the more founder effects they had due to natural disasters and so on, which means the more genetic drift they had. You can Google genetic drift to learn more about it, but it's basically when odd phenotypes develop due to founder effects, and over time through mating the phenotype and genes get very far from an original group, like in Iceland, for example. So, there are these founder effects. The further you go from Africa, the more they are. Also, to be clear, when I'm saying there's more genetic diversity in Africa, I mean as a continent compared to other continents. So, it's more than the diversity in all of Asia, in Europe, in the Americas, and so on. But nothing is more diverse in the rich genetic architecture and varied as the African population. So, you have, and there's other reasons potentially why, but there's this interesting idea of this domination of one group over several groups, generally this group having the most genetic diversity. Now, not everything is bright and rosy for the African athlete. There are some health issues that come with adaptations to their former environment in sub-Saharan Africa that may cause pathologic circumstances nowadays. For example, you've probably heard of sickle cell anemia being originally a consequence of adaptation to defend against malaria. You've also probably heard me mention the APOL1 gene. The APOL1 gene is the main reason that African Americans are much more likely to suffer from end-stage renal disease or chronic kidney disease than Caucasians. It's mainly that one gene, the APOL1 gene, and maybe several genotypes at that gene. However, the APOL1 gene mutation that arose among sub-Saharan Africans seems to have arose to protect them from sleeping sickness, from the pathogen that causes sleeping sickness. So, even the kidney dysfunction was at one point protective potentially. Also, the diabetes and the increased risk potentially of peripheral artery disease, which, for example, Flex Wheeler has, which is less common among Caucasians, may have been protective mechanisms to deal with their environments, adaptations. And I'm not really sure exactly how the diabetes risk among African Americans, which, by the way, is genetically unique. African or people of African descent have different reasons for becoming diabetic genetically than Caucasians, which I'm just calling people of European descent, I mean. But it may also play a role in their peripheral artery disease. There are other, by the way, health defects among African Americans, in particular, for example, that may be due to lifestyle or due to economic differences. And it's always been a question as to whether the environment or genetics played more of a role in heart disease, for example, among African Americans. It seems like coronary artery disease is not very genetically determined among them. But now with the advent of genome-wide association studies, we can really determine these things for sure. So it's not all bright and rosy for people of African descent, especially in bodybuilding. They are going to be more at risk of kidney disease on average than people who aren't black. So here's my non-bodybuilder analysis of what I'm seeing in terms of how bodybuilding judges maybe look at it. The advantages that people of African descent seem to have is the narrowest hips of all. Small joints also generally, it seems. Not like some Eastern Europeans and some Caucasians or people of European descent tend to have wider joints, I've noticed. They also, and the other thing is their muscle, the way it looks. It's so much rounder. And I don't know why it is. It could be, realize how complex this is. There are so many genes that affect power and muscular development and endurance in exercise. There's so many ways it can be done that it's better to just describe the impact overall, to be honest. Like even imagine the number of muscle fibers that there are, the distribution of the fibers, the length of the muscle bellies, the attachment points of the fibers, how perpendicular or parallel they are. There's so many complexities that we don't really understand it. But it seems to be the case that people of African descent, particularly West African descent, tend to have this unusually rounded three-dimensional type looking muscle, which also they tend to keep easier at a lower body fat. I know there are a lot of people with African descent with diabetes or obesity issues, but there are also a lot of them that keep a very low body fat very naturally while having higher muscle level, muscularity, which I think is such an important thing in bodybuilding. The better you are to keep low body fat, the easier it is to just eat and grow, as opposed to eating, getting fat, and then taking time off and so on. Remember, and the reason for that, of course, is because calories and protein change gene transcription in the body, which is why people like Chad Nichols will have people do cardio in the off-season just to eat more, to get more of that signal. People of African descent also seem to have more of an ability to get more maximal size out of their muscles. The muscles seem to be more full more easily, and they seem to be stronger on average, which is very, and more athletic in general. By the way, about the joint issue, consider my friend Scott Mendelson's wrists and compare them to any of the African bodybuilders you can think of. His wrists almost go into his hand. You know what I mean? And there's a lot of arm wrestlers that are like that sort of genetically, Russian arm wrestlers that maybe you guys don't know of, but that look like when they flex and do a bicep pose, they look like they don't have muscle because the joint is so big. It's such a difference. Now, they also have cons, though, on the bodybuilding stage. First of all, the Africans, people of African descent, don't ever seem to be the widest naturally or with the most pointed look to their shoulders. It seems like for some reason Middle Eastern people have this a lot, and some big white guys are the widest of all. That's one thing I notice. Another consideration is a lot of them have shorter muscle bellies. This doesn't seem to be always the case, but a lot of people with West African ancestry seem to have shorter calves, but also sometimes a higher peak on their biceps, maybe because it is shorter. They certainly don't usually have that very full bicep, tricep kind of arm that, for example, Derek is showing right now, Derek Lunsford at the Olympia, even though I know his arms aren't a strong point, but do you know what I mean by the full arm? And finally, one of the other weaknesses that many people know about, and it seems to be a lot of bodybuilding coaches, including Boston Lloyd used to say, the darker their skin, the more likely this could be an issue. It's famous with Akeem Williams, which is getting them to be dry on stage. This could be another adaptation to their environment in sub-Saharan Africa. So this may be a real one. While there are these slight drawbacks, to conclude, bodybuilding is really a competition of physique presentation, muscularity, low body fat, and in almost all of these things, I believe the gene pool in West Africa is so much more competitive than the rest of the world, and that if bodybuilding became popular or more accessible to West Africans, I think that it would be hard to get a non-West African into the top ten. That's what I really think would happen. Like think of Andrew Jacked. Andrew Jacked maybe had the resources, was abroad, and so on, and maybe he is in the top 0.1% of the sub-Saharan African gene pool. But there are probably some others also. And if there were enough others, there could just be no non-West Africans in the top ten. Tell me what you think in the comment section below. Thank you for your patience in me returning to videos. I'm happy to talk to you guys again, and I've missed you. We'll see you in the second half.