My mom has become resistant to my help and is now difficult to manage. She has n't been able to manage her basic daily needs and helps me, but she thinks she does n't have any problems and doesn't need help. She gets agitated easily and angry when I try to tell her. I'm frustrated and I don't know what to do. And Mom, Mom, why aren't you dressed yet? We're going to be late for your doctor's appointment. Are you seriously planning on wearing that? It's 80 degrees outside. Wear these instead. We don't have time to get dressed. What's wrong with you? Leave me alone. I can do it. Let me try to help you. Leave me, Mom, I can help you. I don't need you. Go away. Oh, Mom, why are you doing this to me? Agitation and anxiety can manifest as difficulty staying still. The person may act irritable, scared, nervous, worried, or may resist help from others. Often, the behaviors are triggered by feeling a loss of control, by misinterpreting certain situations or actions as a threat, even when they feel unsatisfied with certain needs, when they feel unable to communicate clearly, or feel frustrated with tasks or interactions with family and caregivers. Changes in a regular routine can also cause agitation and anxiety. People with dementia have a limited view of their own abilities or capabilities due to their illness. For this reason, it is difficult for them to understand their limitations regarding what they can and cannot do. They may not realize they need help since they do n't consider themselves to have problems. This can lead to agitation when someone tries to help them. How you approach a person with dementia makes all the difference. If you are angry, impatient, or frustrated, or if you rush someone or yourself and seem irritable, they can sense your mood and react with apprehension, resistance, anxiety, and agitation. Agitation can escalate to inappropriate behaviors such as hitting or biting. It is very important to remember that people with dementia react and respond depending on how you approach the person in their care. How you speak to them is key. Good morning, Mom. How are you feeling? I'm fine. What would you like to do today? You look nice in a green or blue dress. What color would you like to try today? I don't need your help. I can do it myself. Leave me alone. I'm sorry I did this to you.  If you feel this way, you're doing great, and I'm here to help if you need me. I know you can do this very well on your own. I love you very much, and I just want to be here to help you when you need me. I can stay with you, and we can do this together. Today we're going to see your doctor, then we'll go get ice cream. Does that sound good? Okay, that sounds good. Here are some tips on how to respond to agitation and anxiety or [Music]: Give them enough time to complete tasks and don't rush them. Use a soft tone of voice, but don't be condescending. Try to keep your body language positive and use calming gestures and a gentle touch when necessary. Don't demand that they do anything or give direct orders. Instead, offer reassurance. Speak in calming tones and phrases. Let the person know you are there to help. Find out about your loved one's routines and use them to schedule the day. For example, if your loved one gets up late, schedule a doctor's appointment for the afternoon. Modify the environment to reduce frustration or confusion. For example, simplify the closet to make it easier for your loved one to see inside. Have fewer clothing options.  Choose and put on easy-to-wear clothes