and and my father has been living with me for two years. He started wandering around the house, trying to leave through the front door, saying, "I want to go home. Why is this happening? What can I do to stop it?" Stop, Dad. You can't go out. I want to go home. This is your house. I'm not going home. This is your house. Stop. Suddenly and unprovoked wandering or going for a walk can occur as dementia progresses. It can be caused, for example, by someone reliving a memory from the past, not recognizing where they are, or by a feeling of distress. People with dementia suffer from having less ability to communicate or explain where they are going, or because they feel an urge to go somewhere. Wandering can also be caused by seeing items in the environment that signal them to leave, such as the front door, bags, or coats. If someone is wandering, calmly and reassuringly ask them where they are going or what they need, and try to distract them with a new activity. Dad, where are you going? I want to go to  My house, you 're home, I don't want to go home, the children need me, this is your house, look, here's a picture of our family, there I am and there's Tom, but where are the children? I'm here, Dad, I'm your daughter, James Lipton, your son. The video, just five minutes from here, we're going to call you to say hello, that sounds good. Okay, let's go. Wandering can still happen even if you are the most diligent and careful person caring for your loved one. Use the following tips to help reduce the chances of wandering: Use a calming tone of voice and ask your loved one where they are going or who they are looking for. Make sure they are in your home by placing familiar things around them and then immediately distracting them with a pleasant activity so they forget the urge to wander. Hide the front door by painting it the same color as the walls or covering it with a poster or mural (door murals can be purchased online). Cover the door lock with a cloth. Try placing a black rug in front of the door; some patients avoid crossing the rug. Putting signs on doors can...  Discourage your loved one from going outside, such as with a stop sign, do not enter, or do not leave. Make sure your loved one is getting enough exercise. The need to wander may be the result of unused energy. Ask if they have any needs. They may be wandering because they feel physically immobile or stressed. Be specific; ask if they want something to eat or drink, or if they need to use the bathroom. Do not leave coats, hats, or keys in plain sight or near the door, as this may cause the urge to go outside.