Mr. Brawn has moderate dementia and continues to live in his apartment. His only daughter lives nearby and works full-time. He can afford a private caregiver who stays with him when his daughter can't help. He hasn't done well in adult day programs due to his sexually inappropriate behavior. She's on her fourth caregiver since they stop working when they can no longer control his behavior. This is a serious problem. Okay, honey, it's time for bed. Let me help you so we can change your pajamas. Do you want to take my clothes off and lie with me? Or don't be silly, honey. Let's take your shirt off. Let's take your shirt off, Mr. Brawn. I'm trying to do my job. Come on, you know what you want. I'm going to call her. Just human point here. I can't handle this. I'm leaving. What does one do if the person they are caring for behaves in a sexually inappropriate manner? Sexual desire doesn't simply disappear because someone has dementia. Interestingly, the sex drive can be more frequent in someone who spends a lot of time alone or bored. People with dementia can often also be  They become more impulsive and lose their sense of right and wrong. Sometimes they say or do things they would n't normally have said or done before developing dementia. So, if someone feels sexually aroused, they may act without considering the consequences, as they are unable to censor their behavior. Sexual desire can arise on its own or be triggered simply by being physically close to another person, by providing help with personal hygiene activities, or by hearing something another person says without intending to provoke this desire. Certain situations, such as bathing, changing diapers, dressing, or bending over someone, can trigger sexually inappropriate behavior. If a loved one with dementia acts inappropriately toward you, try to distract them to change the subject. If that does n't work, let that person know in a calm but firm voice that you feel uncomfortable and that the behavior is inappropriate. Try to change the environment and behavior between you and the person. For example, try wearing more formal clothing. Observe the way you speak to the person and be aware of your body position relative to your loved one's body. Mr. Brawn, it's time for bed. Let me help you so we can change your pajamas. You want to take my clothes off and get me into bed with you, Mr. Brawn? Come on, let's get you changed. Let's take your clothes off, Mr. Brawn. I enjoyed your visit with your family today. I see you brought some new pictures of your big boys. Come on, you know what you want. It's a little chilly tonight. I have your warm pajamas for you. Just put your hand here. Let go of my hand, sir. Let go of my hand, sir. Thank you. Let's brush your teeth, and then we'll come back and get you dressed for bed. What does one do if the person in their care behaves in a sexually inappropriate manner or Without getting upset and in a natural way, try to redirect the inappropriate behavior by changing the subject or through distraction. Address the person by their more formal name, for example, Mr. or Mrs. This way you will avoid using more intimate names like honey or love. If the sexually inappropriate behavior continues, firmly tell the person to stop what they are doing, as  If the inappropriate behavior includes masturbation, it is important to redirect the person to their room to give them privacy. Do not embarrass the person. Maintain a safe distance if you feel threatened in any way. If the inappropriate behavior is directed toward a person of the opposite sex, you may, as necessary, hire a person of the same sex as a preventative measure. Try to wear less revealing or tight clothing. Wear something formal, such as medical uniforms, that indicates you are a professional. Keep in mind that physical proximity can trigger these behaviors, and you should adjust your body position as needed.