[Music] I recently moved in with my mom, but I'm still working full-time. I've hired a caregiver who can stay with her while I'm at work, but my mom has been calling me constantly on my cell phone, telling me she's sad because she hasn't seen me for a while and asking when I'm coming home. I don't know what to do. Where are you? When are you coming home, Mom? I'm at work. I just told you 15 minutes ago. I saw you this morning. I get home at 5. Today I'm at work. I have to go. Where's my daughter? Let's watch TV. Your daughter will be home soon. You're coming home. I miss you, Mom. I'm at work. I just told you 15 minutes ago. I saw you this morning. I get home at 5. Today I'm at work. I have to go. Where's my daughter? This is my house. You have to leave before my daughter gets home. Go away. People with dementia may experience separation anxiety, feeling unsafe and anxious without someone familiar around. For example, maybe not  They may not remember what they were told, where they went, or when they will return. They may feel confused and scared. A natural response to this type of anxiety and forgetfulness may be to wonder where the person is, when they will return, or even try to call them. Because people with dementia are forgetful, they often forget why they called before or ask the same questions. They may even repeat the same question within a 5- minute period. When a loved one has separation anxiety, it can be helpful to distract them by keeping them occupied with other tasks. For example, instead of feeling obligated to answer the phone every time your loved one calls, take the initiative to call them at a set time to say hello and make sure they are okay. You can also ask the person caring for your loved one to call you only if there is a real emergency so you can intervene appropriately. Where Stalin, she left a long time ago. She should be home by now. I am her caregiver. Her daughter wrote this note for you. It says, "Mom, I love you. I am going to work and will be home." It is 10:00 AM. Soon it will be 5:00.  And Jane will be home. Well, Mom, this is Jane. I just wanted to let you know I'm at work. There are a few things I want you to try to do before I get back home. But first, her people will take her to that fun place you like to go shopping or... If you're having trouble with an anxious family member who feels the need to call you several times during the day, here are some tips that may be helpful. If the people caring for your loved one focus on giving them personal attention and interacting with them regularly during the day, your loved one is less likely to feel anxious. It's also important that the people in charge of caring for your loved one don't get distracted by texting or talking on the phone while they're working because they'll stop providing attention, care, and affection to your loved one. It can also be helpful to explore your loved one's feelings during periods of agitation and identify if there's anything that can be modified or changed. For example, maybe they would like to eat or drink something or have something on hand to cuddle, like a stuffed animal or a pillow that is soft and comforting. Consider participating in adult care programs that take...  Places during the day or formal activities at senior centers: If your loved one is having conflicts with their caregiver, this person can try to give them some space to calm down and, if necessary, can call you or another family member on the phone to help bring calm and direct their attention to something more productive. The caregiver should never leave your loved one alone until you are home. You can record a video message to reassure your loved one or perhaps write a note that your loved one can see or read while you are not home. Leave comforting messages like, "I love you very much and I want to be with you, but I am at work and will be home soon."