[Music] I hired a caregiver to stay with my mom while I'm at work. My mom gets mean and aggressive towards the caregiver when she tries to get her ready in the morning. My mom yells at her to leave and may even try to slap her. It's a daily struggle and the caregiver is about to leave. I ca n't be with my mom every minute and I do n't know what to do. [Music] It's time to wake up. Let's go to the bathroom to clean up. Let's get out of bed. I want to stay in bed. I don't want to get ready. Come on, not again. Please don't upset me. Your bed is wet. You need to wash up. It's nine in the morning. It's time for your breakfast and your medication. I don't feel like it. Go away and leave me alone. Calm down and relax. Don't touch me. How dare you say what needs to be done? I don't need your help. I'm just doing my job. Let's get ready for the day. I don't need your help. Get out of my house and leave me alone. People with dementia can become aggressive for many reasons. This can be an expression of pain, fear, frustration, depression, and even anger. People with dementia can  Not understanding what they are being asked to do and feeling frustrated. They may not really understand why they have to do something like take a pill or take a bath. Aggression is usually not personal; it is not directed at the person being aggressive, although it certainly feels that way. Reacting to aggression with anger, yelling, or aggression only escalates the situation and makes it worse. First, try to de- escalate the situation by behaving calmly. Identify yourself if necessary; your loved one may not recognize you in the moment. Talk about the emotions that may be underlying the aggression; they may be feeling fear, pain, or frustration. Use distractions and different stimuli. Provide a sense of security and try to be flexible if someone is uncooperative and angry. Good morning, this is Jane, your caregiver. How about we go for a walk after breakfast with your dog, Xúquer? I like my bed. I want to stay here. Can you bring my breakfast here in bed? Of course, I can do that, but I see your bed is wet. I'll make a new bed so you can rest comfortably. In the meantime, would you like to have breakfast at the dining room table? I do n't want you to bring...  Food here. How about here? I want to make sure the bed is clean so you can rest comfortably. Okay, that's fine. Here are some tips on how to respond to aggressive language and behavior. Keep your language simple: one instruction or one question at a time. Don't be bossy and don't yell. On the contrary, use a calming tone of voice without being condescending. Offer reassurance. Let the person know you are there for help. Try to maintain positive body language, using calming gestures and gently touching the person if necessary. Allow enough time for the interaction. Give your loved one space and try again later. If you cannot redirect the person, it is important that you also stay safe. Turn around slowly. If the other person's behavior poses a threat to you, remove or block off any weapons such as guns and knives. In extreme cases, call 911 if physical aggression cannot be stopped and if your loved one poses a danger to themselves or others.