My mom sleeps all day and doesn't let us sleep at night. In the morning we tell her to get up and do something, but all she wants to do is sleep. When it's time to sleep, she's awake and doesn't let us sleep all night. How are we supposed to rest? Go to sleep, Mom. Everyone else is sleeping. What are you doing up? I need to get ready for work. I don't want to be late. What are you talking about, Mom? It's two in the morning. You have n't worked in 20 years. Please go to sleep. I have to get up for work in a few hours. You don't know what you're talking about. You're a child. Go back to sleep and I'll wake you up when it's time to go to school. Go to your room and go to sleep. Stop bothering me. I'm going back to sleep. I need to get ready for work. I'm going back to sleep. Sleep disturbances are a common problem in dementia. Some patients may confuse day with night, while others may sleep excessively in the morning and stay awake at night. They may even wake up in the middle of the night confused and disoriented.  It represents a safety problem such as falls, wandering at night, and other behaviors that can be dangerous for some patients. Sleep disturbances are caused or worsened by excessive daytime sleep, lack of daytime activities, or insufficient exposure to sunlight. The effects of medications, caffeine, alcohol, and pain can also disrupt sleep cycles or keep patients awake. In any case, if your loved one is awake at night, remain calm and patient, keeping in mind that how you respond to the situation affects your loved one's behavior. What are you doing, Mom? Do you need a little help? I need to get ready for work. I don't want to be late. Let's look at the clock. Actually, it's 2 a.m., and everyone else is still asleep. It's not time to go to work yet. But wait, what are you doing? You should be sleeping and at that school in a few hours. You're right. How about we get a glass of warm milk, one for you and one for me, and then we'll both go to sleep? That sounds very nice, but we have to get back to sleep soon. I agree. Let's go to the kitchen...  Find that milk. Can you help me heat it up? Now we're going to provide some tips to help minimize sleep disturbances and increase the chances of getting restful sleep. Maintain a regular schedule for meals as well as bedtime and wake-up time. Seek exposure to sunlight in the morning, but eliminate computer light or bright lights 90 minutes before bedtime. Try to exercise during the day several times a week, but avoid vigorous physical activity a few hours before bedtime. Limit naps to only one a day, if any, and no longer than 30 minutes. Keep the person occupied during the day. Go to an adult center, for example, or try spending time with a friend or relative. This will help people with dementia stay awake and stimulated during the day. Avoid alcohol, caffeine, and nicotine, which can interfere with falling asleep and staying asleep. Avoid over-the-counter sleep-inducing medications that say " PM." Keeping pain under proper control is important for sleep. Also, provide appropriate lighting.  At night, keep familiar objects like photos in the room to reduce disorientation in case the person wakes up during the night. If the person wakes up, do your best to prevent them from remaining in bed while awake. It's important to use the bed only for sleeping. For example, encourage your loved one to move to a chair or listen to relaxing music while keeping the light dim and the room cool.