and my dad used to be very active and now he just sits in his chair for long periods of time, repeatedly tapping his hands. It's so irritating. Stop that tapping. It's irritating. Please stop. Dad, can you stop doing that? Just watch TV quietly, please. Repetitive behaviors occur in some people with dementia. They do this because they are unable to remember recent events or actions. They may also fixate on and repeat words or gestures to calm themselves. A repetitive behavior can also be considered an attempt to communicate a need that has not yet been met, energy that has not been spent, or some physical discomfort. As with other problematic behaviors, try to identify the root causes in order to reduce them effectively and better manage their occurrence. Dad, you've been sitting here all day. Why don't you get up and we'll find something to drink or eat? Dad, come keep me company while I work. Have a seat here. There are plenty of magazines for you to work on, and I'll put on some music while we work. Okay. Once you have identified the root causes of a Repetitive behavior: You can then begin to manage its occurrence. Remember that not all repetitive behaviors are bad, especially if they are not a source of disruption or put your loved one at risk. Here are some tips on how to manage repetitive behaviors: Look for what might be causing the behavior. Have their basic needs been met? Make sure your loved one is not hungry, thirsty, in pain, or needs to use the bathroom. Repetitive behaviors can be an indirect attempt to communicate their needs or feelings. Don't take aggressive steps to stop the behavior, especially if it is harmless. Do your best to ignore it, but be sure to ignore only the behavior and not your loved one. Gently place a hand on your loved one's shoulder, arm, or hand to help them focus on you and away from the repetitive behavior. Provide reassurance and try to include your loved one as much as possible in your daily routine. They may simply want to feel busy and included in the rhythm of life. ah