My mother never wants to do anything anymore. She used to be so outgoing and social. Now all she wants to do is lie down and do nothing all day. I try to encourage her to do something, but she just refuses. It's so frustrating. Mom, you've been in bed all day. You do n't want to get up and do anything. I'm not tired. Come on, Mom, you need to get up or you'll be awake all night. And go ahead, I'm fine here. Come on, Mom, do it for me. Please get up. Just leave me here. I'm fine. Okay, I give up. Do whatever you want. Depression and apathy occur in many people with dementia. Apathy is different from depression. With apathy, a person may experience a lack of motivation, effort, or energy to perform everyday tasks. They no longer have interest in talking to others or participating in activities and show a lack of reaction to people or things happening around them. People with depression may be sad or tearful, irritable, restless, and have feelings of low self-worth. People with depression may also have trouble sleeping, loss of energy, and changes in appetite. Mom, your friend is coming to visit us today. Let's have you take a bath so it will be ready when she arrives. I'm very tired. She really wants to see you. I ca n't say no. She'll stay for a little while. Let's get you up. Okay, cheers! It's so nice to see you. Thank you for coming. Let's work on this puzzle. I'll start with the first two pieces. Here, Mom, where does this piece go? If the apathy or depression your loved one is experiencing is significant or a sudden change from their regular habits, talk to their healthcare provider to see if there is another medical cause for their behavior that needs to be evaluated immediately, or if medication such as an antidepressant should be considered to help improve their mood. Here are some tips on how to manage apathy and depression. Maintain a regular daily schedule that includes plenty of physical activity during the day and restful sleep at night. Involve them in activities such as household chores that make them feel useful, or other activities like visiting a friend. Help them initiate certain activities, as it can be common to lack the motivation to start activities on their own. Pay attention to your loved one's moods throughout the day; they may be more cooperative and willing to do things like take a bath at a certain time of day or with a particular person. Use incentives to gain and maintain cooperation, such as going to a favorite restaurant after a doctor's appointment.