i y ah My father's, look, my father's behavior tends to get worse when the sun starts to go down. He seems exhausted and restless. What can I do to help him through this time of day? And Where did I put it, Dad? Where are my checks going? I can't find my checkbook. You don't use checks anymore, remember? I take care of paying all your bills. Now sit down and watch TV. I just saw it, I know. To start a show you like, Dad, dusking or dusk syndrome is a common behavior in people with dementia. This typically occurs in the late afternoon or early evening and is characterized by confusion, anxiety, aggression, agitation, or ignoring instructions. It can also lead to wandering or leaving the house. When dementia progresses, it damages areas in the brain that regulate the internal clock. This can disrupt the sleep-wake cycle and may appear as increased daytime naps. It causes difficulty staying asleep at night. Reduced light at night can cause dusking, especially in someone who is very tired.  Anxious or has repressed energy on a boring day Dad, what are you doing? Where is it? You know it's dark in here. Why don't we light this place up so we can see better? I need my checkbook. The checks we ordered haven't arrived yet. Why don't we sit down and look at that photo album? Nightfall syndrome is not a disease in itself but rather a group of symptoms that occur at a specific time of day. The exact cause of nightfall behavior is unknown, but there are ways to help your loved one if they show symptoms related to nightfall. Change the environment by making rooms well-lit and free of shadows. Close curtains and blinds and adjust the light when necessary. This will help your loved one understand and better prevent confusion, fear, and agitation. Create a calm environment free from noise or interruptions. Be patient and try to distract your loved one with a relaxing and enjoyable activity. Try to provide your loved one with enough activity during the day, but not so much that they become excessively fatigued. Limit daytime naps to just a couple of hours.