Ah How are you? In question, my grandmother asks the same questions 50 times a day, like what time is it and what are we going to do? I feel so frustrated because even after I answer the question, she'll ask the same thing again a minute later. It's driving me crazy. What time is the party? At six o'clock, and now it's almost five. What time is the party? Weren't you listening to me? I answered that two minutes ago. The party is at six, so stop bothering me. I need to finish wrapping the present. Repetitive questions are a very common behavior in people with dementia. Many families realize that they themselves don't have a solution and become very frustrated with this behavior. Repetitive questions are often triggered by anxiety or caused by memory loss. The best strategy for dealing with repetitive questions is to reduce the factors related to the questions and instead focus on disposing of anxiety and uncertainty. As the disease progresses, people with dementia lose the ability to remember what they just said or did. Sometimes, too.  In their very inability to express a need or emotion, this change in behavior is caused by What time is the party? Let's find out together. Let's look at the schedule this afternoon. Four o'clock was nap time. We're done with that. Five o'clock is when we'll get dressed, and then at six o'clock is James's birthday party. How about you help me sign his birthday card? What do you think? Okay. People with dementia are sometimes unable to express their needs. In these cases, it can be helpful to look beyond the questions to see if the person needs any clarification, encouragement, or attention. Here are some tips on how to modify repetitive questions and alleviate anxiety and frustrations related to the questions. Try using a tool like a whiteboard to help keep track of their daily schedule. Make sure this whiteboard is in a place where it is often seen, such as in the kitchen or living room. Use block capitals and neat handwriting so that it is easy to read. It may take time for your loved one to review the whiteboard, but it can have a considerable effect on their anxiety level. Avoid mentioning an event in the  A future appointment means it's time to prepare for it. Be patient; if your loved one senses you getting upset, they might pick up on that emotion and become even more anxious or agitated. Be well-prepared; if you need to be somewhere, be ready ahead of time so you can focus your attention on helping your loved one. Avoid visual cues that might trigger questions, such as a birthday present or bags, and sometimes near the door. Don't rush your loved one for the appointment; allow them plenty of time to prepare for any scheduled activities.