Welcome to Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier, and joining me again today for episode two of our series, A Doctor, a Best Friend. In a stage four cancer diagnosis is Julie Celiba Clower. In our last episode, we heard about Julie's cancer diagnosis, her symptoms, assembling her care team, and her ongoing treatments. Um, today we're going to jump right into support systems. And we talked a little bit about friends being your support systems and leveraging their strengths and outsort outsourcing certain tasks. But I'd love to get into a little bit about support systems. I also want to talk to you about um how you tell the story of your of your of having cancer um and why that's really a secret to me to as I've watched you endure and and go through everything that you're not just surviving but you're thriving and you're living your life. And so I want to talk about the best way for patients, families, and friends to give and um receive support that they need. So this is episode two, moving beyond survival living with metastatic cancer. Mhm. >> Um, we talked about being an advocate for yourself, right? Even being in in an exam room, stopping doctors when, let's say, they're not being as attentive or they're dismissing you or, um, feeling rushed. Um, uh, I want to talk a little bit how you've been an advocate for yourself and how that's looked like in practice. So, um, maybe we could even just talk about how you actually ended up choosing the right doctor for you. >> Right. So I went on a, you know, interview tour for oncologists. And I knew the oncologist kind of becomes your core person. So you have a bunch of people on your care team, but the oncologist, it always kind of comes back to the oncologist, the medical oncologist in cancer care. So I knew it was going to be a long term or hoping it was going to be a long term because that mess I was surviving um doctor. And when I went I went to, you know, these different oncologists who all were really really smart, really really good. I mean, I couldn't have I couldn't have made a bad choice in terms of experience and skill and and and perspective. Um, but what I was really looking for is somebody that connected like decision-m and communication style for me. And what what my who ended up being being my encologist during that appointment, he said to me is, "You're going to go to these different oncologists and we're all probably going to tell you the same thing." Because at the time, the treatment was very clear. The first treatment was very clear for my disease. And he said, 'We all going to tell you the same thing. Well, you know, he said, "But there's an art to medicine." Which again was the first time I'd ever even thought about that, right? Because I think of it as such like a scientific black and white, you know, medical thing. And he said, "Let me ask you, have you ever had a margarita?" And I said, "Yes, I have." And he said, "Have you ever had two margaritas?" I said, "Yes." And he said, "They all have the same ingredients, but did they taste the same?" And I said, "No." And he said, "Because it's different who's mixing it, how you know, it it's different the bar you're in, everything, you know, it can it can change it can change how that tastes." And so it's so they all the oncologists have the same tools, but how they apply them can be different. and thinking about somebody who was um forward-looking cuz it's it's very like thinking about the treatment right now but I was thinking about okay so if this this works what's next you know and I I'm kind of always thinking about the next thing so having a having oncologist that would go there with me and having somebody that would think kind of broader treatment strategy with me and you know find you know understanding like what how do you learn as as an oncologist and also know the fact that he knew I was going to different oncologists and so he he was very open to that and so I I knew that in the course of my disease I probably would want to see other doctors. So knowing that he saw it not as a threat was really important. And so he was the last of the ones I met with. And just just connection-wise, I knew he was my guy, you know, and and it's a vibe. And and I think too um something that you bring in terms of my my kind of care as a support person, not necessarily as my primary care doctor, is humor. I mean, we laugh about a lot of things related to this disease and colon colorectal cancer like >> it's a there's some things you have to laugh about. There's a lot of potty humor. >> It's deeply unfunny. >> Yeah. And but I think, you know, finding the absurdity in certain moments I think is important. and he had that levity that I really wanted cuz he's obviously a very serious doctor but having that levity >> and I and I thought I thought when I met with everybody is this somebody that I'd want to have a conversation with if I was in a tougher spot. >> Yes. >> And the vibe >> came through. But and it's also how how because you've talked about right I mean there's a there is there are sets of tools right the art of applying them over time and then also how you talk about how you're going to use the tools and I think for you and I mean acknowledging that we've talked about this right that you're these are fingerprints right so there's no recipe >> but then also this constant communication and having a dialogue right finding someone you can have a dialogue with I would say that applies to >> you know whether you're there for a routine physical with a physician to having a chronic illness, but the dialogue. >> Yes. >> Having someone willing to have a dialogue with you. >> Indeed. And understanding too that that um that all all doctors and even the discipline the specialties are different, right? So I'm sure that doctors understand this but as patients you don't think about like you know somebody goes into surgery or someone goes into radiology because they have a certain kind of interest and it fits with their their their personality and approach to things and so you end up getting kind of these sub subsp specialties that have specialty you know kind of communication styles too. So, I thought it was funny. My my liver surgeon, who I love and adore at the time, and I first met with him, and he was like an absent- minded professor. I, you know, I'm going in talking about this major surgery, and he it was kind of, you know, he he was like not making eye contact, and I was having trouble asking him questions. And I came back to my encologist, and I said, I mean, I I I he really knows what he's talking about, but it was really hard for me to talk to him. And he said to me, you're not going to him because he's a good communicator. You're going to him because he's a good surgeon. And at the moment I went, "Oh my gosh, he's right." Like when you're in surgery, you're under like you're you're not having a conversation. So having a good, you know, conversant um surgeon isn't as important as an as a medical oncologist or a PCP or, you know, primary care doctor or um or obstitrician or somebody that you're having to have a lot of dialogue about different things. So, I ended up I I told you about this and I met with him multiple times before I actually ended up having my surgery and I always felt like he was just like tough to talk to, right? And I like to connect to people and my dad always is telling jokes and he wasn't totally getting my dad's jokes and you know, so so um I had told you this and and my sister this and you guys came the day of my surgery and so you're in the preop. We're in the >> Wait, tell everyone about the shirt that you were wearing. >> Uh what >> on your liver surgery? >> I I have had two and I don't remember whether Oh, chop liver. >> Yes. >> Yes. So, I was wearing a chop liver shirt. Yes. I have a picture of you and I with me with my chopped liver shirt, I think. Um, and so you guys were there. We were in the preop. I'd never, you know, like it was this big scary surgery. >> Yeah. It was your first Well, second. Yeah. >> And I had told you all I think the surgeon's really qualified and really good, but I, you know, he he's not the best communicator. He walks in, he's all chatty and laughing and everything. And you two are looking at each other going, "He seems to be communicating fine." you know, and and then after that and I've since had another surgery with him and he also um even when I had lung surgery, eight months later I had lung surgery and he put me on his round so he actually my liver surgeons coming through and meeting with me every day just to check in and he was the most compassionate wonderful we you know kind of easy to talk to person and what I realized is he didn't like being in the clinic he's a surgeon so when we were in preop that was his space so putting him in the operating space. It was like that was his comfort zone and which is great because that's what I wanted him to be comfortable is in the in the so I think also just understanding that like again doctors are humans and so understanding the context and understanding them as human beings I think can be really helpful and >> it's helpful for you hopefully because I mean in my mind I'm like gosh I wish you had the insight to be like hey I don't do as well when I'm in clinic as I do in the O this why I'm talking like this but no you know very few people have that insight including myself but as usual you're incredibly generous and understanding. However, I will say that then your compassion and your humanizing of him helped you as well. Also, I've noticed you've done this with um a few of your physicians and and care team members is um not altering but just amending your expectations, right, of of them or of certain encounters of like, well, you won't be disappointed, right, if you don't have this expectation going in. This is what this conversation is about. Yes. And knowing Yeah. that that every doctor isn't there to answer all your questions. My my dad actually early on in in my care. He got in his head he wanted me to have a liver transplant. >> And at the time they weren't doing liver transplants on colorectal cancer patients and but he wanted me to have a liver transplant. And my liver doctor, my liver surgeon actually is a transplantist, right? So he so we had somebody that is knowledgeable in this area and we talked to him about it and he said you know not it's not you know we can't do that for her case. Every time we went to the hospital my dad would tell anybody like okay so we I want to talk about liver transplant and it literally was like I mean I feel like the valet he probably had that conversation at the at the hospital because he was so he was so focused on it and he had in his head this is what he wanted for me and he felt like that was the path to cure. So, we were in speaking with an interventional radiologist and you know he it was the doctor and then his his nurse practitioner who I call the handler because usually doctors have a handler that's there to help trying to you know kind of navigate things with you which is great and my dad is just on this interventional radiologist talking to him about liver transplant you know and he's saying you know that's a doc that's a question for the doctor that does that you know and he was being really kind but my dad just wouldn't so I turned to the nurse practitioner I was like I am so sorry he cannot get this liver transplant thing out of his head and she goes, "It's it's okay. I understand. He's speaking dad." And I said, "Oh my god, that's so true." You know, like he he was being a dad, right? And that's that's what he was being. And I feel like as patients, that's we do, too. We're focused on us and what we need as a patient, which is very important. But you have to think about what is the best way to get what you need, right? And asking a doctor that has nothing to do with liver transplants about a liver transplant isn't going to get you that answer. So it just will get you frustration being told over and over, no, this is I can't I can't answer this question kind of thing. Um, so getting to the right answer is important. Getting to the right doctors for what you need is important, but understanding who who are the people that can give you that information. And I've been very um I love something about my oncologist which is he never speaks for other other disciplines. And I think that's really important because a lot of times people go to their medical oncologist and they'll say you're not surgical but they're not a surgeon and they don't necessarily know. I mean they've seen a lot of cases but they don't necessarily know. So getting that answer from a surgeon or whatever the specialty is I'm using this example because I know it is really important and it doesn't mean you have to necessarily meet directly with the surgeon. There's multi-disiplinary tumor boards it's called where all the different doctors come together and you can say can you talk about this and get the surgical opinion or you can ask you can ask your your oncologist I mean you know you also can meet with them but sometimes that's a you know there's limiting factors from an accessibility standpoint from you know either insurance coverage or whatnot um but you can say I'd really like to hear what the surgeon's opinion is on this and the doc you know another doctor can have that convers ation because they connect and they collaborate all the time. So, >> and it speaks to too these tumor boards which are these multid-disiplinary discussions that >> lots of times these answers aren't clear-cut. >> Yeah. >> Right. And you really do get, you know, great minds together and have these discussions. >> Yes. >> Um, you know, you have you do have an amazing care team and, you know, sometimes we've had it to write to add add one, lose one, you know, um, as you've gotten increasingly complex and interesting. Um I have no problem by the way everyone deferring >> deferring um when Julie needs to see experts. Um but I'm curious too um uh about the support systems in the community, right? So meaning outside the hospital, outside the clinics um and could you talk about maybe some that you have found especially helpful? >> Yeah, so I think it's very important to talk to other patients who have a similar disease as you. May not be exactly the same because we're all different, but as close as you can to your disease. So, I found that very early on um in a community called Colon Town, which is from the name, you can tell that I like it cuz I the sense of humor that comes with having a disease. Um >> sounds like Right. It's like made it of Legos. >> Yeah, totally. And it's and it's an amazing community of patients and caregivers who have all had the lived experience. And it also has a bunch of different subgroups, neighborhoods as we call them, that are for different pieces of the disease. So like when I had liver mets which is medit tumors in my liver um the liver lovers lane that was like my primary place I went was liver lovers lane because those people were dealing with a similar experience. Then when the disease went to my you know lungs >> and my bone well there's legos land for bone meds and it's treated entirely different. It's the same disease. It's colon cancer. It's in my but it's but the treatment and the modalities and also the speed at which the tumor grows and all that. So having people that have had that lived experience is really powerful. And then also things that aren't even necessarily cancer related. There's a PTA which for parents who you know and so in there we talk about like how to talk to your kids about the disease. Um so finding people that you can connect on your disease either specifically about the disease or specifically about living with the disease in your life and other things that you care about in your life um is I think extremely valuable. I mean, I'm guessing too because you do have a wonderful, wonderful group of friends. Your herd, as you call them. >> Yes. >> I'm one of them. But um >> like herd as in like elephant herd, not like herd like hearing. >> Oh, yeah. Sorry. Um you know, a matriarchal herd. Um >> that that's a different sort of support, right, than you get from your friends. >> Yes. Right. >> Yes. And and my friends and my family have been amazing. And everybody, you know, people have different roles. My dad's my driver. My you know, Audriana's my researcher. you're, you know, my poop looker. Um, but everybody has a different like different place in that. Um, and it's super super powerful and very very helpful. Um, but it's different than somebody who's experienced it. And so, you know, like sometimes I'll say like, "Oh my god, I'm so tired cuz the chemo was just crushing me." And then people will say like, "Oh yeah, I'm tired, too." You know, and you're like, "Yeah, I get it. I get it. Parenting is hard." like all these things, but it's a diff it's just different. And so having somebody who can understand what that means and kind of just acknowledge it in that way is really helpful. >> Colin Town, it's a virtual online community. >> It's a virtual online community. And it's Yeah. >> I just Well, I just want everyone to know that not only were you mayor of Colin Town, are you sure? Nope. On the cabinet, never mayor. >> Oh, I'm sorry. Cabinet. Julie was also like our student body president. Um uh but I'm curious too. I mean, um so support, right? like the and and and sharing these these lived in experience. Um does support from these groups and these um you know these rooms, right? And um does it has it also translated into tangible benefits where there's ideas or treatments um symptom relief? >> Absolutely. because it's you know if you think of if you think of a community that has a similar disease um any doctor right is kind of only seen their own practice and what they've seen in their practice and everybody's disease is so different they they're not going to have seen everything you know under the sun and you know hopefully they can apply something they've seen or research it or whatever but in colon town you can you can put something out there that that you've experienced and you have a bunch of other people that are like oh wait I I had that happen too and you know recently I got um from my from my treatment. I developed type 1 diabetes and you know I can reach out to people that have type 1 diabetes but usually you get that when you're a kid and it's not because of treatment you know and I could go into immunoasis which is our imunotherapy group and ask and there was somebody else who said yes my you know a caregiver who said yes my wife she you know she's had this happen and it's just helpful to be able to find people that have the same >> piece. They also also you're able to find out about new trials. You know, we have a whole trials community and that's really valuable too because clinical trials we could have a whole other whole other session on clinical trials but people think well if there's a trial for me my doctor will tell me and even you know my oncologist who's a major researcher he has a lot of clinical trials that he's running. He doesn't know all the trials. I mean, in colon cancer, there's 5,000 trials right now for colon cancer. And obviously, not all of those are, you know, the same, you know, and then they're all very different. And so, being in a place where you can find out about those, it's a very good shortcut to get to get to disease. And also know that if somebody says, you know, what we hear all the time is people are told they're chemo for life and they're not they're told that they can't see a surgeon and then they see a liver surgeon and they can get a a curative uh treatment. >> I mean clinical trials I I as a physician myself could not be more overwhelmed than when you say the word clinical trials. And so I know it's an entire, you know, different conversation, but even the fact as you're saying like doctors don't even know, right? oncologists even know all the clinical trials that are out there and you don't have to you know break it down for everyone but is um I guess is there besides joining I guess these online support communities are there other questions that you would advise other patients to even just say to their physician like are there clinical trials just even asking that question >> um yes I think asking that question and knowing that clinical trials are not a last resort there's certain clinical trials you can only do early on in your treatment and then if you don't do them then they're not an option later and so I think opening that dialogue early if you have cancer is very and no matter your stage too and it doesn't mean the answer will be there is something and there also it might not be something you want to do you might not want to do clinical trials right which is fine but knowing that there's an alternative I feel like it's always it's always easier to go with it go with an option if you know that there's another option that you don't want you know and so so I think that you know it it's that would definitely be something to ask I think asking about your disease biomarkers and what and which is you know different different attributes to the to the disease that make the treatment different. So are there is there anything that now or later >> um could affect my treatment because there might be something that right now isn't something but in the future it could be and then you have time to potentially you know understand it. I think too when you have a long-term relationship like an oncology relationship um you you see your oncologist a lot right so I you know I I've seen my oncologist for over seven years every >> two to three weeks and I think he's not been there twice in the whole time right >> and so each appointment is short and you can't get everything answered right you can't you can't put everything into one appointment so I kind of think of it as like a conversation where we're like dosing it out So, I might have a list of questions to think about like, okay, if I have progression and this treatment that I'm on stops working, what are we going to do next? And instead of waiting till that conversation to try and have that conversation where you're trying to jam a lot of learning and understanding, I kind of like pepper it in. So, I'll ask him, I'll say, "Wait, what do you think about this trial?" Or, you know, because I've learned it in Col Town. Or, what do you think about um, you know, whatever. Or if I if I was to get progression, what do you think we would do? you know, and just kind of have some of those hypothetical conversations. And it's actually very hard sometimes to get >> um doctors to think about the hypothetical cuz they're treating, you know, they're looking at what they're treating and it's very kind of hard to go there. But I think if you can go there, then it helps like me at least kind of direct my understanding so that then when I'm getting all this information and people are throwing a lot of things at me and I'm learning a lot about different options, I can kind of filter them out a lot easier because I kind of generally know my path. I might not know the exact path, but I at least generally know it. Um, so I think using those appointments where you don't have something acute and significant to talk about is the exact place to put the I mean there's things that I'm like I you know I have this question that I've had for 2 years and it's actually not extremely important because I've put it off but I have some time why don't I just ask him and pick his brain right now because we're you know sitting and he's asking me about you know my symptoms. >> Um it's amazing. I mean, it's a it's it's such good advice, but it's also this ongoing dialogue that you've really committed to >> and they're learning about how you think about things, too, which is very important because then when it comes time to make a decision, >> you know, that they have a sense of how you >> right or we're circling back to you. Remember remember when we started talking about, you know, this and now we are here. >> Yeah. >> Um I wanted to transition a little bit to a topic that um resonates deeply with me. Um, as you know, I am a doctor, but in real life, >> I'm to use your um, you know, expression, I'm just a woman sitting across the table from my best friend, wondering um, how I can be most supportive and, you know, say the right things to you over time, make make you more comfortable, take things off your plate, and be there for you in all the right ways. And you know, I'm sure this is very obvious to you, but I have to be obvious to I have to be um honest with myself and say I know that I've always hid behind my job of being your doctor, right? It's been much much easier, you know, than you know, honestly, than probably being your best friend. I love hiding behind being a doctor. So, you're so generous to not have commented on it before. Um but it's the truth. >> I don't know what you're talking about. Um but um I want to know um uh what have friends and acquaintances done for you know even in the smallest acts that um really have meant the most you know that has really sort of meant showing up for you and again I mean I know it's been seven years so it's it's there's different parts of the journey and I know we talked about um playing to people's strengths and leveraging people's you know skills like Audriana but um what's what's been particularly meaningful for you? Um, I think I think everybody shows up in different ways and I know that the the intent is that they want to be there for me and so finding what that way is and like like going with it. I mean, there are very few people that I can talk about potential death with who don't get uncomfortable or try to, you know, kind of say, well, that's not going to happen. and we're not going to, you know, and the reality is like it is a real place, you know, in my in my head. And so I can do that with people that have the disease, but you're somebody I can really do that with where where I can and I don't know if it is because you're the doctor in you that you you know kind of face death in a in a more um consistent way than a lot of our other friends, but I can say something to you and you don't take it as she's being negative. she thinks she's dying, you know, she's doing, you know, and I think that that's really important because all of those feelings like I'm I'm not giving up when I talk about those things, but I understand why it makes people uncomfortable, but to have somebody you can do that with is really helpful, you know, because I know I'm not dying tomorrow and I know, but I still have these thoughts and it's still important for me to kind of talk about. I mean, I texted you recently. I texted you and my sister, I want this poem read at my funeral. And you guys were like, okay, whatever. But to have somebody you can do that with, I think is a really big valuable thing when you have a terminal diagnosis. For sure. >> Um, and so finding that and I think >> you also told me you were going to give me um your phone. You said if I give you my phone um at my funeral, what will you do with it? Remember that? >> I don't. What did I? >> And I said, I'm going to text everyone you know and say, I can't believe you wore that. >> Yeah. >> But it took me like two days to figure out what I was going to say. I was like, >> but uh but you know what, you're right. I will say I am I am really comfortable talking about it. I mean, it's a it's a it's a longer conversation, but yeah, I I do I don't I I think it's part of a life conversation if that makes sense. I think, you know, talking about >> dying dying quote well dying comfortably, you know, is Yeah. I mean, it's all part of the planning, which you and I like, you know, both to do, but it's also, I think, a part of a living conversation. But okay, good. I am glad I'm glad that you and also I can send you endless memes and poop pictures and like I can't do that with everybody. So, but I do think and I'm not saying like everybody needs to be able to have that conversation to be a friend to somebody but to understand that there's like lots of different things that people that have a diagnosis need just like anything in life anybody that's going through any kind of trial. Um you know you earlier you had um had uh Dr. Richard's her name that talking yeah talking about um matresence when you go into when you go into motherhood um that your life changes and there really is a correlary here that when you when you get that diagnosis like you are learning to navigate the light life in a totally different way and that means your relationships are going to change too so being a friend and a support to somebody with a with a diagnosis I think understanding that there'll be probably a change to your friendship not maybe like in a very like overt way but and embracing that because that's the hardest thing is is feeling like you've lost friends when really it's you haven't lost the friend you've the friendship might have changed and morphed and you know I think this diagnosis has brought you and I back closer together you know we went through a phase where we were there for each other but in a very distant way and now we're like tighter but very different relationship that we had when we were teenagers versus you know in our 20s and you know mult multiple decades since now that we're >> so gonna say that. So I think that's that's important and I think too you know my sister's an occupational therapist. >> Um so if anybody's treated here at UCLA get the best occupational therapist in the world. My sister >> um so she um something that she taught me too is is energy management, right? Because having disease and having the side effects and the symptoms and everything from the disease plus um the all the other things that come the financial toxicity, the you know the the time toxicity which is like you know side effects that are like affecting time and your your your money all of those things plus pain. pain is a side effect that's very exhausting right and so there was something where you know in terms of carrying things and I said well I can carry you know the groceries I you know I I physically can do that and she said but it's about energy management so let someone else do those things because physically you need that energy to do other things so I think about that and think about like you know I first of all it's very hard to ask for help but when you think about it in terms of if I let somebody do this for me, >> then I'm going to have time and energy to play with my daughter or do something with her. That's a gift that person wants to give me. They want to help me in a way that I, you know, they like friends and family and everybody, they want to help. They just don't know how. So, if you can give somebody the opportunity to help you, >> but if you think about it in terms of like that's getting me to be able to spend my time the way I want to spend, and that's the gift that person's giving me, it's really it's really easy to say, "Yes, carry my groceries. do this and intentional too. Do you feel like you also then >> make those energy choices emotionally? >> Yes, for sure. For sure. And I think I think I haven't been a good friend since my diagnosis because mentally it's so taxing and it's so emotional and so hard that I'm not like I miss birthdays. I don't write the thank you notes. I don't do the things that I used to do. And that was really hard for me for a while. And I'm like I hate not being that friend. But the reality is again that friendship has changed and you have that history that that you know you hope that people hang on to and you just have to give yourself grace and say you know what like this is really hard what what you know you're you're doing and you're not being >> like unkind. You're just not necessarily being the kind of support that you once were. Now you'll just have to be a different kind of support and friend. I mean, you're probably sensitive to that change, but I really can speak from everybody's heart and the entire herd of your friends to say that you are like the best friend, the best at being a friend. I mean, I've, you know, I think tangibly when I think about just sort of ways where I'm like, like my skill set is not making cute presents. Like, let's just be honest. Like, just like my daughters are like, "You're not a hair mom." Like, I'm just like not good at it. But then I'm like, "I'm letting myself off so easily. Like, maybe I should be better." I'm like, "Think about the times you've been in the hospital." I'm like, "Well, if I was Julie, I would put together the most amazing like care kit." But of course, like I'm not you, you know what I mean? And I'm like, "Oh my god, send me a meme. Please send me a picture of your poop so I can be useful." But um I I I I know that when you are diagnosed, and I remember this over the years, too. You know, people will often reach out and people do this all the time when you're going through anyone is going through something, you know, challenging, whether it's illness or a loss, people say, you know, um what can I do? Let me know how I can help. Right? And I I'm sure I do that all the time. But it sounds like what you're saying and what I think I've noticed among friends and family is that it's often more helpful to make a specific offer of help instead of saying what do you need because that's already asking something of you to just sort of even formulate an answer to that. I don't know if you have any thoughts on that. >> Yeah. No, that's true. And I think also not tying it to um the disease per se, you know. So, I think that just thinking of something you could do that could help that person. Just understanding that that person is, you know, experiencing a lot and doing something, but not necessarily always making it about like, you know, you're in bed after surgery. What can I do? You know what I mean? Like it it it's just being a friend like you are to all your friends or all your people in your life, but just thinking about >> um so it doesn't always have to be specific. Yeah. It doesn't have to always be through the cancer lens. And also that's another thing too is I think keeping people with a diagnosis in your life because it is very um life shattering and changing and all of that stuff and um for instance I don't drink anymore since my diagnosis and not that I was a heavy drinker before but I you know don't drink anymore. And I was talking to not a good friend but an acquaintance and she was talking about her birthday party and she was you know going out for wine night with with friends and she said but you don't drink anymore. So basically she didn't invite me cuz I don't drink. And I was like, that kind of sucks because I don't I I I still can come and still be part of it. Um or people will say like, I don't want to bother you because you have so much going on, but I want to be part of life, you know. So, it's not a bother. And I will tell you if it's not something I can handle at the time or I don't, you know, I don't I don't want to talk about it or I won't don't want to do it. But I think keeping the invites coming and I think that's true for anybody like if you're going, you know, if you've gone through a divorce or you've gone through a major life change, thinking about that friend that your your relationship might change, but still embrace them in your in your regular everyday because they care about you. You know, of how you want to respond to that, >> right? I don't need to talk about all the heavy things in your life. I just want to talk about your life, right? You know, when you come to the come to the the the wine drinking party and you're like, "Let me tell you about my last liver surgery." >> Yeah. Um I this does remind me and a few years ago you've said this and um you shared that you were just really committed to making memories, right? So even in the face of a potentially terminal diagnosis, you were like, "Yeah, but I'm committed to making memories." I'm like, "Say it to me again. Keep telling it to me. Tell me tell me more." >> Committing to making memories. >> Yeah. You're like, "I'm I'm making memories every day." >> Yeah. I think, you know, I think, you know, cancer obviously I wouldn't say like I'm so glad I got cancer because I'm definitely not don't feel that way, but I do I do have a thank you cancer list for all the things that that that have happened to me that wouldn't have happened if I didn't have cancer. Right? So, and whenever I'm feeling really frustrated with it, I go back to the list and say like, let me look at the list. Let me come up with something else to add to the list. Right? And there always is something there's always something that I'm appreciative for for cancer and it kind of disarms it as like an enemy a little bit. Um, but one of those is that it's making it it helps me like focus on the things that matter and getting rid of the little stuff and not, you know, don't sweat the small stuff is absolutely true. And you have to just say like I'm and also not being as much of a per perfectionist as I was, you know, like like, okay, so I'm not able to pick her up and dance with her, but we can still have a dance party and, you know, whatever. And just kind of adjusting to say what is how do I make the most of whatever I'm capable of doing at the time. at one point um from radiation in my arm because I have a tumor in my humorris which is not humorous at all by the way um >> not funny >> and I so I I literally lost 85% of function in my left arm for two years as you know you you you saw me through those years and so my goal my occupational therapist asked me like what is your goal with your ar hand and I was like to braid my daughter's hair like because that's just like something that's such big part of motherhood for me um and what I realized during that time that I couldn't braid her hair is what it gave me is the chance to like make other memories and focus on other things I could do that I might not have you know like teaching her how to do her hair as an example that you know and and showing her how to do a ponytail and those kinds of things that that I would have wanted to keep that for myself but instead it created this new memory that I you know that I that I got to have with her. So, and I think too, planning, um, I have a friend who's a colon cancer patient from from Colon Town who is a comedian and she I just saw her set recently. She's very funny and she had in it putting putting a date on your calendar, like a far-off date. Put like pick something in the future and put it on your calendar and put it in there. Um because I think for a long time too I was scared to plan >> and scared to plan ahead and you're kind of living in these three-month increments because that's your scans and so you you know you don't want to like book something and also I'm a commitment person so I'm like I want to be able to do it if I say I'm going to do it >> and I just had to let that go and say look plan it and if you can't do it >> right assume assume you'll make it. >> Assume you'll make it and if you can't it's okay to say I can't do it. It's not because I'm like intentionally flaking. It's cuz I physically or had, you know, I've had like I was supposed to meet my girlfriends on a trip on a girls trip one time and I ended up having surgery the week before. I didn't know that when we planned it and of course nobody was like, I can't believe you didn't come. You know, they facetimed me from the from the trip in the hospital room. I it it's it's an exceptional it's an exceptional perspective but I really think it's also this quotidian or daily perspective which is that you and this is why it struck me so much when you said it and I think about it every day in my own life which is that look we can either think of it as we're declining and deteriorating you know over our lives or no like it's it's the focus on today whatever two months three months but you're like no I am making memories this is my life >> yeah right >> and that's I think why >> this is what I can do and I think too you shift a lot of times we I call it chasing Ned which is um no evidence of disease and ne is Ned and so I think of him as a person Ned who's a elusive character in my life but people when they're diagnosed are really chasing Ned because they want to get past it past the chapter right and I understand that completely and of course I've been there I was there early on but I feel like it's been so much better when I hit the point where I said look I may never reach Ned And I don't want to spend energy on trying to get to Ned. I want to spend energy on wherever I am and whatever I'm doing. And if Ned never happens, if I could live like this and continue on like this with with the with the cancer in the car and never kick to the curb, it's okay because I can I can do this. But if you focus on like an end and you're like, you know, I need to get to cure, >> then you waste all the time in the in the process. And again, some people's diseases are that it's more it's not as elusive. In my case, it was like very unlikely I was going to reach it. Um, then you waste all this time really focusing on that being the end game versus there being definitions of success in much different ways. You know, when I was in when I did my my >> um I was on a clinical trial, I was in really bad shape. >> I wanted to go on one clinical trial. I went to meet with that investigator. He said, "Your numbers are shaky and I won't have an opening for 6 weeks and you're not going to make it that long with with what where your numbers need to be to, you know, my platelets and everything were were kind of tanking." And he said, "So, go on this other trial." So, I went on my phase, you know, my my second choice trial, and I just wanted a little break from chemo. We knew it wasn't doing very well, you know, with in the in in the trial. My, you know, oncologist and I knew like it wasn't going to be the slam dunk. So, I went on it and I just wanted three months of just not not putting, you know, chemo in my body consistently and letting those things recover so that maybe I could do something else treatment wise in the future. And it turned out that I ended up having stable disease. I had I had, you know, 12 tumors in my lungs. They, you know, eight of them disappeared. I had four left. I went from not being able to have surgery to being able to have surgery. I had a much better quality of life. It was fantastic when you look at the results from the trial because I didn't it didn't like the way that they measured trials and on it was technically stable disease. So it says there was 0% responders to the trial which is true in terms of like the the technical terms of it but for me it was a roaring success. So I'm sitting there on this trial and I'm watching it. I went to the I went to ASCO GI which is a big oncology conference for GI um which is gastrointestinal cancers. I'm watching her present this failed trial because it didn't meet the end point and I'm sitting there still on it saying but it saved my life, you know. So, so having the definition of success for you that that works for your disease I think is super important because obviously trials need to measure what they need to measure and they need to look at things holistically across the board. But if you go on a trial, you go on a treatment, have have your definition of what you want to happen from it and it might not match what actually you know the the data says because the data is looking at something different than what you might care about >> which really speaks to as well you know how do we define what is a successful day right or in in and quality of life that it isn't just numbers or it's not statistics and it's also the energy management right that your sister Amy was talking about right because you're like I'm going to put my I'm putting my energy into the day, right? Or putting something counting on 3 months from now and not just on the no evidence of disease, right? Right. >> Um >> and it sounds like though that you have found some peace in that. >> Yeah. >> Right. And then in your everyday Yeah. totally. And it lets you like live in the meantime and under and just adjusting things. You know, when I was when I was in my 20s and I would go on vacation, I would literally like leave at 5:01 cuz that was the minute I could leave work and I would, you know, Friday and I would go and I'd take a red eye and get back Monday morning at 6:00 a.m. and, you know, so and then people would go on vacation and they would leave on Saturday. I'm like, you're wasting so much time. How, you know, like why are you not using that for vacation? And I realized like these were, you know, people that were parents with young kids and like you need that energy. I mean, you you need that that downtime. You can't do it the same way. And so it's exactly the same thing. It's just a little bit more extreme in terms of how it affects you. But we just have to adjust to whatever we physically can and you know can do physically, mentally, emotionally, >> and then just do that big, you know, however big you can do it, do it big. >> And it's such a moving target, too. Um I mean we t I mean I'm so grateful for this conversation. We so we we were talking about boundaries or just sort of I guess even the perspective about how to preserve your energy. Um, is there any like miscon misconceptions that kind of people have brought to you that you wish you could just clear up about metastic cancer or living with cancer? >> Um, I think two that I can think of. One is this idea that there's an end because people will say like, "How long are you going to be on treatment?" I'm like, "Forever." And they're like, "Oh." And then they'll say, "Well, then it must be an easy treatment cuz I, you know, had breast cancer and I couldn't have done that treatment for longer." And I was like, "No, no, no. It's the same. I know it wasn't supposed to be this long, but we just there's no other option. we just got to keep going. So that and understanding you know there's not necessarily an end for everybody. >> Um that you know that in terms of in terms of treatment um so that's one and then two is how you look does not equate to how you feel. And so you know people like and I and I like the fact like right now you can see I have a lot of hair. I've gone through phases. We've we could do a whole journey of Julie's hair. do a montage >> montage and when I've had hair challenges or you know things that are physically out there I feel like there's more sympathy and also I kind of hated it because I go into the world and feel like I look like I have cancer you know whereas now I go in the world and don't have that which there's a plus side to that but then you don't necessarily get the sympathy that you're you know like you're acknowledgement that you're going through everything so so kind of that whole thing that you have no idea what other people are going through, I think is true for this and everything else. So, when you see somebody in the grocery store, like give everybody grace, you know, if they're if they're being if they're being grumpy or whatever, cuz you have no idea what's happening on the inside. >> No idea. I think about that all the time, actually. Um, okay. Is there anything that you want providers to know like what we could do better? I mean we've talked a lot about you have so beautifully humanized us as providers but anything I think around this part of communication you and I have talked about for example ideally having you know teaching med students right about you know communication um but what what would you want to what would you what would you want them to know? Um, I think being honest with them and yourself, right? But but being honest with the patient about what you know in a way that still instills confidence, you know, so it's not like well I have no idea but started >> but providing that kind of confidence but acknowledgment that it's not it's not um the end all be all, you know, because I think that that's where people kind of get into trouble is where they act as if they're all knowing and you're like but you don't know if this is going to work. nothing, you know, like no no anything's going to we don't know, right? Because everybody everybody's different. So that's >> that would be one. And I think >> um doing that outreach to other providers and telling patients what's like what's actually you're doing, right? So so somebody might like not tell. We we did a we did a we did a research um study within colon town and then we presented it at ESCOGI about biomarker reports and in colon cancer biomarkers are different things that make your your disease very specific to you would be the the layman's terms how to say it. Um and there's only certain ones that are actionable meaning the rest of them they're just mutations that are out there and there's no treatment specifically they'll change for that. So a lot of people are getting those results, getting those tests and never getting the results because the because the oncologist is thinking, well, there's nothing actionable about it. They don't need to know. But the absence of information is scarier. So even if there's nothing, you know, even if there's nothing that's going to affect treatment, that is action. That that's an action is telling a patient that, right? >> Having the conversation, >> having the conversation and saying, "We got it back. There's nothing that we know of now that's relevant in there." And that's the end of the conversation. But that just gives people confidence because I think what doctors don't I think understand is that there's kind of this um this need to kind of uh understand understanding in your conversations with them if you can trust them. And sometimes it makes it seem like you're not a good doctor, but really it has nothing to do with your skill as a doctor. It has to do with your skill as a communicator. And so and so that I think is is is kind of an important thing to notice. The absence of information can be as painful >> painful and harmful. Exactly. It just gives all this room to >> think interpret >> interpret. Yes. Um, this is something that and I have talked to you a little bit about this, but I want to talk about it here because it's about language and I think I'm extra sensitive to to to language, but um I want to know what you think about it because it's it's more important what you think obviously here, which is that I've struggle when people use um like war wartime analogies to describe you know cancer you know and or if someone says like you know they lost their battle with cancer and again I mean I both my parents you know did pass away from cancer But I I struggle with that description. But I'm going to get off how I feel about it and ask you when people say use those words of, you know, I'm fighting or battling. Am I being oversensitive? What do you actually feel about it? >> You're not being oversensitive because a lot of patients hate that. I don't care. I I feel like Yeah. I don't know because there's not a better word for it, you know? It's like they'll say like your journey and I'm like it's not a it's I'm not on a path to, you know, it's it's it's just a little more aggressive and painful than that. I mean a battle is a little bit more realistic to me, >> right? It has the drama for sure. Yes. >> Yeah. But there are patients that that struggle with that. I think the challenge is it's there it's not a one-sizefits-all. You know, I was writing I was writing a um abstract for ASCOGI, which is basically like to to present at the at the conference. And I and I wrote in there colorectal cancer patients >> and I guess they want it to be patients with colarctal cancer or with cancer because because you aren't your disease, right? So you're and yes, I feel like I'm not my disease, but I'm sitting there going, it's kind of funny. It's kind of ironic to me that that you know and I'm sure that that's offensive to some people and they're like you know they've heard that from a patient somewhere and so they've carried it on and I appreciate the fact that they're you know kind of carrying that on but like that never ever crossed my mind and I'm writing this with three other patients um and none of us have an issue with it and so I think that it's important to be sensitive to language but also not just assume it applies universally you know um >> I think I think what I focus on is that it um sometimes I feel like implies that patients have control over how much they can fight or not fight. I totally agree and I think losing the battle I don't like that when I read like a you know that like they lost their battle and it's like you didn't lose the battle or I I don't like it personally when they say um I failed this treatment and it's like no you didn't fail the treatment failed you is what happened there matter there >> and so I do think words matter when it when it's like a thing of >> like you didn't try hard enough >> yeah like it's a blame it when it's like patient blaming or something um >> but >> right what do like she's been dealing coping. >> I know she's been managing her disease. I mean, I don't know. There's no good words for it. So, >> I mean, this is where as much as I do love language and I like talking about it there there isn't enough language, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. There's and there's also and it it goes back to every person's different. Their risk tolerance is different. Their like what affects them is different. And so like having a population of patients and saying well patients you know it's not there's just like with any group you can't summarily have something that works for everybody which is why I I I do have sensitivity for patients I mean for doctors because trying to manage that and understand that about every patient is that's a lot you know >> but I mean I just want to say it's it's a real privilege though for us to care for patients. It certainly is a privilege to care for you. Um, okay. Asking for a friend. Just a quick few. Um, okay. My college roommate was just diagnosed with colon cancer. I think about her all the time. I'm afraid of saying or doing the wrong thing. So, I haven't reached out. What can I say or do now to make it right? Right. So, is it is it too late to say hi and reach out? >> It's never too late to say hi. It's And also, and I would say just know that as a patient who's been I feel the same way when other people, you know what I mean? So I so I feel like it's it's it's not something that's like, oh well, I've been through this so much that I know exactly what to say. I have no idea what to say in those situations, but I think saying something's better than saying nothing. Saying I don't know >> what to say is a great thing to say because you don't know what to say. It's honest and it's just reaching out. And >> how's your battle going? >> Yeah. Yeah. I think um not offering unsolicited advice >> Oh, okay. is an important thing because >> what have people said, >> you know, just somebody had breast cancer and they cured it with whatever and I'm like, okay, totally different disease, totally different, you know, and it's hard to kind of manage >> manage that. Um, and I think not not um releasing them from from um from needing to take action. So if you reach out, I love it when somebody says, "I just want you to know I'm thinking about you." You don't need to call me back, you know, because it, you know, like that's where you go, okay, and I I I would want to call everybody back, but sometimes you're just not in the place to do it. And I think just management. >> Yeah. Releasing people from like an expectation of what you get in return. Like, you know, no, it's if it's for them, it's for them. And just >> just acknowledge it. be there and kind of go to the mode that works for you. You know, like if you don't really want to talk to them, it's okay. Send a text. That's why we have text. If you feel like you just want to hear their voice, say it and say, "I just got to hear your voice on the voicemail. It made me so happy." You know, whatever. But I feel like you don't have to say something substantive. I think just say something perfect. Um, okay. We have a from the rooftops again. Always makes me think of Walt Whitman. um arties cuz everything you've said has already echoed so so much beyond your circle of friends. I mean, the fact that you're mentioning colon town and um I remember you telling me too cuz I was like gosh I want to like join just to like talk to everybody. You're like nope not you're not a member. Um you don't get to be in this club. Um and also that you go to you literally these like national scientific GI conferences and um can you talk just really what your role is there cuz >> at the conferences I go with colon town to learn about the latest research and then I I kind of lead a team that then reports back to the community of what's happening >> but then also have had the privilege to be able to have some um treatment kind of and and patient perspective um uh posters that I've been able to present. >> Have you been presented? Has you have a patient been presented at a conference? >> Been able to present posters. Yeah. Yeah. >> Amazing. Um >> well, and there's some things that doctors learn about through >> Yes. colon like that, you know, there was something, you know, that that, you know, recently in terms of, you know, again, the margarita analogy where there's an ingredient where where some people, you know, do something different in the care and other doctors don't even know that that's an option. And so we as a patient community can raise that so that doctors then know, oh, I could do that. I didn't even know cuz it's not something that's like necessarily something that's like written out in terms of guidelines, you know? I mean, that's the best part of science. >> Yeah. Um, anything else that you want to shout from the rooftops though about you yourself, being a parent, being a patient, all the above? >> I'm very glad we've just talked for almost two hours and I like there's not one word about energy management. >> No, there's not one word. Usually I don't go five minutes without you saying a word that I have to look up after we get off the phone. So, I'm very impressed that the that your vocabulary didn't didn't outwit me today. Um but I think I mean I don't know I think as a patient and as a provider and as everything is that um it is something that's being brought into your experience as a human and to find your people >> and be that human. >> Yeah. >> Basically and don't be the disease. >> You've taught me so much about um giving grace to not just you and my patients and myself but also other people. Um, and I know we could talk for hours. I will let you get back to your stunning, miraculous, gorgeous daughter. >> I'll tell you I'll tell you who I get really angry at when I want to like yell at somebody >> is the automatic voice people. So when like it'll say something, I'm like, "No, I don't want that." You know, I like let it out because it's not a real person. >> You know, you're supposed to turn, you know, you're supposed to turn into Liam Niss and just keep saying agent representative in his voice. That's what I do. >> I know. But if you want to yell at somebody and you feel cuz they cuz they actually answer you and but there's not they're not, you know, they're not a real person, it's a good it's a good good one to yell at. >> Okay. Um I really um I can't thank you enough for joining me today. Um I mean again for your time, your wisdom, your generosity. I think honestly sharing your story with our listeners. I mean again I know it does take a lot of energy not just to like be here and sit here but also like share who you are, right? Cuz it's not just you as your patient sharing who you are. And um again for our listeners, we'll have the glossery of terms and and and links to um data and resources. But um uh you know, I I love the title of the series that um our writer Susie came up with, which is a doctor, her best friend, and stage 4 colon cancer. But I was really like, no, it's her, you know, a best friend, right? And her doctor. I mean, I really think about this just being your story and I have so um it's just been a real gift to be part of it and a real honor not just to take care of you cuz I do that on such a small level, but I think you do need to know how much you take care of me. Um and um thanks for sharing yourself with me all these years. You're really a gift among gifts and I love you. Thanks for being here. >> Oh, I love you so much. >> Okay, we get to turn it off now.