Welcome to Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. Today, we're doing something different, and joining me to kick off a two-part series is Julie Celiva Clower, a woman unilaterally described by everyone lucky enough to know her as extraordinary. She's an accomplished marketing executive, devoted mom, and full disclosure, we have been best friends since we were 12. Uh Julie's been living with stage 4 colon cancer for 7 years now. And today she has generously agreed to join me today and share her story in candid detail to help us better understand this disease, its far-reaching impact on every aspect of her life and the lives of those around her. This is episode 1, a life interrupted early onset colon cancer. Julie's story. Jules, thanks for being here. >> Um thank you. >> I mean let's just start off with us. Do you remember when we when we first met? Oh yes indeed with with our frized out hair before before good hair products >> yourself. Everyone knows I had the most frizzy hair. What do you remember? >> I remember being on the little bus that went to the valley because we went to school in the city and my was so excited to go home and say I met a friend mom and she lives nearby. And so that's that how it started. Uh it did start that way. I I do remember the val we were on the valley bus, the San Frernando Valley bus. But what I also remember is being in our seventh grade elective, dance elective and you you were one of the people who came to seventh grade with like lots of other friends and I didn't know anybody and I was sitting alone in like my leotard during like seventh grade dance and you came up to me and introduced yourself and um I always remember that because you were my first friend. >> Well, that that's cuz I knew you were going to be the best dancer in the class which is true. >> Yeah, >> that is true. Um, but you know, I I we can talk forever about obviously, you know, I for everyone I grew up in your house. Your dad taught me to water ski. That's generous. I mean, I went water skiing once and your dad drove the boat, but he was so patient. Um, >> my parents call you their favorite daughter. >> Yeah. I I I've lived with you guys after college. Your mom's like my other best friend. Um, we played Ouija Gboard a lot in your bathroom. >> Um, >> I would not with my mom. That was when we were in junior high. >> No, that was Yeah. Well, you don't know what your mom and I do now. Um, but I did want to talk more about today anyways just about your cancer story, you know, which is also just your personal story and um, early onset colon cancer. >> So, I thought maybe we could start um, and just for context for everyone to take us back to March 2018. Um, could you tell us a little bit about where you were in life and work at that time? >> Yes. So, I just had a baby, my first baby. Then I was, you know, so excited to be a new mom. She was 7 months old. Um I was consulting doing marketing consulting at the time. I I just kind of had finished up a contract for um the week, you know, and I that day there was a day where I was having some rectal bleeding and the first thing I did was call you to say, "What do I do?" I was at dinner with a friend and I, you know, I'm outside drostanolone. I remember it so clearly talking to you saying, "What do I do? I you know, this was this was actually on a Thursday. You said you need to go in and you know, see a primary care doctor." Because you were in Los Angeles. I was in Chicago at the time and so I didn't have a primary care doctor at the time because um I had moved to Chicago and then I had my OB and she was really my doctor that I went to for everything. So I thought um so I found a doctor made an appointment went in on Friday um and he you know said I don't you're a little anemic you know you've had this bleeding so I want you to do a colonoscopy um but don't worry it's not cancer or anything I think you might have like IBS or something like that and so I went down the path of searching who should do a colonoscopy because I'm a complete researcher and nut and I'm like well I you want to make sure I have the best person for me to do a colonoscopy Um, and it was about a fiveweek wait to get a colonoscopy. And then that weekend, so this was on a Friday, um, I finished up the consulting project I was doing. And then that weekend I started having horrible cramping. And of course, I was like speed dial with you the whole time. And, um, then went to the ER on Monday morning and was in the ER, you know, wondering what it was. It really felt like I was having contractions, like baby contractions. It was that kind of that kind of that kind of pain. And they did a CAT scan and about an couple hours later, so I'm in the ER and a couple hours later they said the doctor came in. He was very kind, but I had no idea who he was. And he said, "You have colon cancer and you have lesions in your liver." And I was like, first of all, of course, like so confused. So no idea what he was talking about. I had no history, no nothing that you know, no family history, nothing that would point to that. I was relatively healthy person, you know, just having had a baby and uh I I I don't even know exactly when and how I told people because it was such such a blur. I do know that I Googled even though I knew not to Google. I did Google where is my liver because I had no idea when they said I had lesions on my liver. I was like I don't even know where that is. Um because I as you did it with me summer school uh biology because I was so not a biology person. That was all I did in high school. Um, and so then they said, "You need to have surgery and you're not leaving the hospital before you do." And then it became this kind of tumult of of, "Oh my god, what am I going to do?" And I was panicked about my daughter because she was with the the um the nanny. We had a nanny share. She was with the nanny. And I was like, "My husband and I are both here. Like, who's going to take my daughter, you know, after after after the nanny's done?" So, you know, luckily I had friends I had a friend come um to be with her, but that was that was my diagnosis. >> That's I mean that's like a big it's a big old nutshell. Um I if if it's okay cuz I just want to talk a little bit about the symptoms you were having and if we go back I mean because I want to tell you a little bit about what I remember because I think it's it's important to kind of um the symptoms and paying attention to symptoms because when you first called me you said yeah I'm having some you know rectal bleeding. I mean, so I would first just say you when I when you told me that cuz I do remember where I was. I was in a parking structure. Um, I asked you kind of what we call like the are the red flag questions. I was like, "Oh, you know, what does that mean?" Like, "Is there blood like coated on the top of your stool? Is it mixed in?" And I know this is like one of our sort of ongoing pet peeve conversations about blood in the stool because lots of times when um you read about colon cancer or colarctal cancer it will say you know one of the um big alarm symptoms or red flag symptoms is blood in the stool and so I remember asking you that. >> Do you remember me asking you that? >> Yes totally do. like why is she talking to me through such a lot of detail about >> such detail but it was important and I just wanted to say too is because what you told me and I think this is important because I think a lot of people women especially do is we also were talking ourselves out both of us kind of I was like well what else is going on and you're like well I'm also postpartum I just had a baby I had hemorrhoids you know while I was pregnant so that was the first one we were like oh okay well maybe there's just a hemorrhoid bleeding I mean we were talking this out and then I said to you are you losing losing weight and you said I am but I also just had a baby and I'm breastfeeding right >> so those were like kind of the two big questions do you remember that >> totally absolutely absolutely and when I was in the doctor um they repeated the same questions which which you know because because you're very very good at your job and um and so they're asking me questions and they're asking me like um have you been unusually tired lately and I said yes and they said since when I was like since I had a baby and then they asked me if I'd lost weight and I thought I was one of those people that breastfed and lost the weight just came off and you know so all the things that I was experiencing the bleeding which I thought was from the hemorrhoids and all of that >> I thought was related to >> of course >> and it could have been still I don't even know actually what were symptoms of colon cancer and what were symptoms of being a new mom um >> how old were you at this time >> I was 43 at the time >> exactly so who's going to instantly go to oh you know you have colon cancer again we're trained as physicians to be like you know there's a whole spectrum of of kind of diagnosis but >> you know we have this um phrase in medicine when you hear hoof beatats you know think horses not zebras right for a reason so you're like well what's most common but I remember us talking about that and being like how do we discern and differentiate just just in this introductory part of like us talking about these symptoms >> well interestingly the the symptom that I got that that weekend which was the the the extreme cramping turned out it was from something called an inception which probably was related to the cancer but it wasn't actually directly from my tumor or it's not a typical uh cancer symptoms. So, that kind of threw things the other way, too, cuz I remember talking to you and you, you know, saying, "Okay, you need to you need to go into the ER." Um, so, >> cuz it escalated way too quickly. >> Yeah. >> Um, but yes, I mean, so you're like navigating new motherhood, you're breastfeeding, you're losing weight. I guess I want to ask you though, I mean, when you when you did see blood in your stool, I mean, clearly it triggered something in you, right, that you called me. >> Yes. Yeah. Cuz it cuz it changed. The blood changed. you know, it wasn't the same as when I had hemorrhoids. It was a lot more of it. It was darker. >> Um, it just wasn't the same as what I had experienced. So, even though, you know, we both kind of like, well, could be could it be that, but I also, you know, it it it was more than what I had been used to. And this is I mean a point I want to make for our listeners too which is to say even if you see dark red stool right and when you go to go to the the restroom next or have a bowel movement. What I want to point out to everyone is that any new symptom and especially if it changes just just let us know and come on in. Yeah. >> Right. I mean I love telling people they have hemorrhoids. Right. I do. >> It's a hemorrhoid which is just a swollen vein right in your in your rectum or anus. It's it does um it does sound like it you felt a change, right? And it was a little bit alarming. >> And the other thing too that they say is if you find an unusual stool. Yeah. >> And I honestly I still seven years later I don't know what an unusual stool is because you don't talk to that, you know, when you're learning how to go to the bathroom and stuff, you don't necessarily describe what your regular stool is like because it's just what you're what you've had and what you're used to. So, you know, understanding what is a regular stool, I think, is really important, too. >> It is. And what your own normal is, like the range of your normal, so you know, if something is different, >> right? >> You can tell that Julie and I talk about stool a lot. >> Yes. You should see our you see our text change. It's like, how the kids Okay, here's a picture of poop and you know, do you want to go this week? Yeah. >> Um >> Um and and I'm honored by them. Um uh um so do you remember I mean so I I mean I we'll we'll get to the emergency room but >> um >> I want to go to one of the points that you made that you didn't have a primary care doctor which as you know since you're a fan of the pod that um you know um and actually remember Katie Kirk was on here too and she commented she >> she actually reflected I felt badly about this that she felt bad because she hadn't made her husband had a primary care doc and first of all I was like why are you feel responsible for that. But I think all of us, right, need to keep on encouraging people to have that primary care doctor >> in their pocket. And I know you were just mentioning to me what you like about primary care docs, but you know, I wanted you lots of times we do want to start with that primary care doctor, right? I mean, my goodness, if it wasn't colon cancer, start with the generalist, right, >> to evaluate this new symptom, >> right? And you know, thinking about the OB, I think a lot of people in their, you know, childbearing years, they're OB, you know, they do their wellness exam, they're like, what else do I really need? I you know I I I had that but the reality is I mean I just didn't really get sick at all. So I didn't really have a reason to have a have another doctor but the reality is you do need another doctor because if things like this come up um it's really important. And I also think like in their specialty you know my OB was amazing. She's actually was married to a GI doc. So her husband is a GI doc. So you know not that not that necessarily you naturally learn the other discipline because you're living with the person. I also want to point out Julie is an honorary doctor by this point which is like when she's not going to spell out any of the acronyms. So GI is gastrointestinal. You're like so lingoed out now. >> Yeah, I'm very lingo out. Um so but when you're when you're doing you know ultrasound after ultround, they're really only looking at the uterus or you know the the the the parts that matter for for them. They're not looking at the whole system. Meanwhile, I had these tumors that you know were right next door that um that weren't necessarily looked at. Right. Right. And you said too, you know, you're like, I I I I never get sick, right? You know, all these other reasons to feeling tired, even anemic, you know, have some some some blood in your stool, but um uh you also said you didn't have a a family history, and I just want to bring that up, or maybe you could share like why that's relevant or not relevant to colon cancer diagnosis. >> Um because I think there there, you know, there's known there's known um uh what are they called? >> Risk factors. >> Risk factors. Thank you. um you know being you know overweight or obese, having a family history, you know those kinds of things. And at the time I think had I had somebody in my family that had it, I would have been clued into it. But I also think that when I went to the doctor, you know, it just never came up as like something that I might have. And especially my age because people don't think of people that are younger having >> right colon cancers like you said, you kind of look you look for the horse, not the not the zebra. Unfortunately, um, the zebras are coming in herds now because the the incidence is so high. Okay. So, making sure that all of those all of those primary care doctors, so kind of traditional primary care doctors, but obes medicine because a lot of people are using ER medicine for things, you know, that that they know the new risk factors, if you will, or the un the un >> sure risk factors that could lead lead to a cancer diagnosis, both colon cancer and, you know, other cancers as well. Um, and you mentioned and and we'll put, you know, these these links in the show notes and and we'll have, you know, experts on in the future, although you're obviously an expert, Julie, but it is true. I mean, the what we're seeing now is that early onset gastrointestinal cancers are rising globally with colorectile cancer um leading that trend and the largest increases that we're seeing are in patients 30 to 50. I really want to say that when you were diagnosed like I didn't know that then >> you know so I mean that's been something in the last 5 years that's you know definitely been you know noted remarked upon being increasingly studied people are figuring out the reason why but >> I mean it was very unusual to me too even though I was you know very worried when you when you called me it wasn't where I went first necessarily >> right >> um and and I think that a little bit of a challenge it's good that the the guidelines for colonoscopy have gone from 50 to 45 which is fantastic but I think that that makes it seem like 45 is kind of the age you should start to worry and the reality is you know I wasn't 45 yet and and I know a lot of people that um have been diagnosed that weren't at that age yet either. I mean, you know, even teenagers are getting diagnosed with colon cancer. >> And I do want to say, even though, of course, I will always put in a plug for h having a primary care doctor, there was nothing obviously that you could have done or done differently, you know, in terms of in terms of your diagnosis. It's just to say that there's, you know, and we'll talk about having a care team. that was part of your journey was even just finding the primary care doc. >> Um, I know exactly where I was when you went to the emergency room, you know, and um I mean, I was so worried cuz you were in so much pain. So, it's like on top of just getting a diagnosis, you're also just in so much pain. But, um I do remember you calling me and your and um I mean you you just shared with us, you know, the doctor saying that to you. You called me. I was in my my office at work and um uh you said it doesn't look good. That's how you told me. And then your mom called me. I don't know if you knew that. >> I'm I'm not surprised. I didn't know that, but I'm not surprised. >> Your mom called me and she just said um I can't breathe. And I've I mean, honestly, I've never felt more helpless in my life. Um but I think um right your mind as you said went instantly to oh my god the logistics of like your sweet new baby Lyanna and of course because you're so amazing you have an amazing circle of you know friends who also I remember like also had small children at the time. >> Right. >> Yes. Yes. So I called I I I was at the hospital. I called my friend that that lived in Chicago and you know had kids and I called her and said I have cancer. I'm not getting out of the hospital. Can you go get Lyanna? Right. So, and so she's like, "Sure." And I amazing to have a friend who just, you know, can drop everything and her husband, amazing, can take care of her kids so she can come take care of mine. And at the time, I remember thinking like, "This is my one of my closest friends, Michelle. This is Michelle." And but Lyanna doesn't know her. So, my baby that's been only with people, you know, and I'm worried saying, "My poor baby's going to have this random stranger, you know." And then I I just we had gotten nanny cam for the nanny sheriff. So I was in the hospital looking watching Lyanna on the nanny cam and my friend's there and she's singing her um Christmas and I'm a mess because I'm sitting there thinking I'm not going to see her first birthday like this is you know like I was scared and my friend started singing Christmas carols to her and I was like what? And I and through the voice of the big camera she didn't even know there was a camera. I was like what are you doing? She's like I can't think of any baby songs. It shows you and her kids are not that much older and you go it it remind it it shows you like so many things of parenthood and everything just you're so in it at the moment and then you just kind of move move past it you know and it's it's kind of similar to cancer in some ways too. I know you you were you were remarking about our one of our episodes that we just did released Matresence, right? >> And you were saying that there's a correlary. >> Yeah, totally. I mean, I think there's a term cancer essence where you literally, you know, after that diagnosis, every single person that's been diagnosed with cancer can tell you probably to the minute what their diagnosis was, you know, the the day, the hour, you know, that they found out that they found out those words you have cancer cuz it is a lifechanging moment. And you know there's a quote that says like you have all of these problems until you have a health problem and then that's the only problem that matters and um the the that day you know your entire world shifts and kind of like motherhood when she was describing matressence um it affects everything. It doesn't just affect you physically it affects your relationships. It affects how you come into the world what you're able to handle everything. Um there's a lot of grief because you're grieving things that you >> like instantly >> um >> or just over time. >> Well, I think at first it's anticipatory grief because like I said, I didn't think I was going to make it to my daughter's first birthday. >> So that's where your mind went instantly. >> You're instantly. So my my mind, you know, and then I would just cry like I would just see her and cry and you know and then but then pretty soon after I was in the hospital they said I was going to have to have surgery. I was gonna have to stop breastfeeding. And that was a painful thing for me because, you know, as a mom, like that was a that was part of our, you know, and that was part of our part of our experience. And to to have to do it abruptly, that I think is the first thing that I grieved from, you know, kind of truly like grieving a loss that came from the disease. and you know and then it kind of progressed from there that um that it just it just every you know you just it's it's a it's a it's a strange it's a it's that um what do they call it? They call it ambiguous grief and it's you know you didn't you didn't lose a like a person that's physical that you know there's a very clear message but there's a lot of grief that comes with a diagnosis. So I mean even when you're sitting there and they say stage four now you're an expert and we're it's very confusing even as a and again I'm a primary care physician not an oncologist but just even the stages alone I mean there's stage stage 1 2 3 4 and then there's 2B 3A so and we don't need to go into those we'll we'll put some links in but they just came to you and said stage four what did you understand that to mean I mean how would you explain that >> you know I don't even know in the hospital if they told me stage four they just said you have lesions on your liver it's spread it your liver is covered >> it's not good. So that's what I told you. Good medical term I heard was it's not good, you know, what I told you. Um so I then so I ended up having surgery a couple days later and then I um proceeded to go to multiple oncologists in Chicago and Los Angeles because I wasn't sure. >> I I was I knew this was going to be a long haul and I didn't have family even though I had a wonderful group of friends in Chicago and my family was here. So I went to oncologist in Chicago, oncologist in LA. I figured when I'm interviewing somebody for a job, I interview at least a few people and this is going to be a long-term relationship. So, I'm not just going to go with whoever they tell me. >> But it's amazing you had that presence of mind truly. >> Yeah. Well, I also had five or six weeks that I had to recover from surgery and I couldn't do anything. So I think kind of my you know just anxiety my coping was like do as do whatever you can and that was an amazing experience and I know that it's not accessible for everybody to go see you know multiple doctors like that but I learned they all were fantastic I learned something from each of them that I honestly still have in my head seven and a half years later. >> This was as you were this as I'm searching for my oncologist the primary the doctor who's the your primary cancer doctor. Yes, my primary cancer doctor, my medical oncologist. I >> basically went through an interview interview season while I was waiting to start. Um, and I learned something from each of them. And I think it's because it's such a foreign language. I mean, I didn't really know anybody that had I mean, my grandmother had cancer when I was like a little kid and I didn't really, you know, I hadn't been close to the cancer experience before and it is an entirely different world of language. And so I think like you're describing with the stages and everything, you kind of learn little bits and you kind of put together the story as you go and unfortunately you're at a place where you're having to make decisions, big decisions very quickly. So I think for me I feel like you know my next step was to go into chemo and then the plan was to get to surgery. So my for my liver and that you know those choices when when basically it's like do liver surgery or you die. Those are very easy decisions because for me because it's like okay well I don't want to die so I'm gonna go door A. The problem I think is more when it there's a lot more ambiguity and nuance and confusion. I mean, now as I've gotten later in my journey, that's happened to me where there's not as clear of answers. And I think earlier stages of cancer are can, depending on the cancer and depending on the treatments available, can be harder for that reason because there's there's um a lot more ambiguity and a lot more tougher decisions because it's not just 100%, you know, it's not clear like that. So, after I after I was diagnosed, I had a friend who was diagnosed with early stage breast cancer. She called me to help her, you know, talk through her her her choices. And I was like, this is so hard. I have it easy, you know, because because the extremes are a lot easier to deal with. And unfortunately in cancer, there's very few extremes. It's very much and and I think any any disease, honestly, there's very few diseases where things are super clear. And so, kind of living in that gray space is really hard. And I think also understanding that um there's an art to medicine and as a patient you just are like oh well medicine's you know medicine is a scientific pursuit. It's very you know black and white there's data to support things but the data is statistics right so you say hey this this treatment is 30% chance of working and this treatment has 30% chance of working and my oncologist I had I had a point where it was that and he said but we don't know what 30% you are. we don't know if you're and we don't know if you're in either of these 30%. So, it's good to know the data, but there's a lot of nuance and knowing your medical care team and knowing yourself and what you're willing to do. Um, one time you and I were talking and I had one of those choices. Maybe it was the 30% 30%. And you're like, "Okay, we'll do a tree." And, you know, kind of you you brought both like >> a whole decision tree, >> a whole decision tree. >> And so, we did a you know, decision tree and we're like, "If this happens, x this happens." So it was so helpful because you were bringing it both with you as a like your logic and then also as a as a as a clinician were able to bring that you know kind of kind of uh structure to my thinking process and I said but then what if this happens you're like that's a whole other trunk like you know that's a whole other path and so >> but it's so overwhelming I mean how have you how have you >> I guess tried to cope with that overwhelmingness or even just the uncertainty >> I think So, I think a lot of it plays to you as a person. So, when I was um when I was working, one of my um awesome bosses who was a long-term mentor of mine, she said to me one day, she said, "You find comfort in chaos." Like, and I was like, "Or clarity and chaos, sorry, you find clarity in chaos." And I was like, "Hm, that's interesting." And I realized that I'm a very gray area person. I'm not a black and white in general. And so, for me, it's easier for me to live in the gray, I think, than >> authentic people. It just works. it like so I don't know if I didn't have that naturally if I would be able to handle it. Um, but you kind of learn as you go. Like I used to always look at the my um my uh scan reports immediately. You know, I'd look at them. I'd send them to you. I', you know, to to look at them and to read what they said. And then there was a few things in there that, you know, I don't know, radiology reports, who the person that reads the reads reads the scans, it's a whole other language in itself. And it's very kind of conservative, I would say, in their language. So everything is, you know, um, attention on follow-up and things and you're like, "What? That sounds so scary." Um, so there was things in there that I didn't necessarily understand. And you as a medical professional, you you're looking at it. You're not an oncologist. That's I think the important thing, too, to know that that not all doctors have the same knowledge. Right. you know way more about colon cancer than I ever >> but you would you were able to help me kind of kind of think through kind of like scenarios and whatnot but really until I got to my oncologist and there was a few times where I really like over the weekend would be like spiraling cuz I thought I was dying and I'd come in and he'd be like oh yeah no that's nothing and I'm like what interpret that's like the art it's the interpretation it's context it's why AI won't come for our jobs because it really is and it's so it's so dynamic Right. And so now I don't I don't look at the scans before. I know you don't. >> I wait till I go in to see him because there's no value I'm going to get. And so I think what I've done to kind of cope and handle that, you know, is figuring out what can I control? And like that level of stress that I didn't need, I can control that by not looking at the scan reports. And then when I go into my oncologist, we're, you know, we're we're able to talk about it and I'm able to get the information I need at the time. so I could get rid of that stress that I didn't need. >> It is really overwhelming though. There's a lot of information there all are choices and we've talked a little bit about um on this pod especially about shared decision-m right which is partnering right doctors care teams with patients but sometimes it's really hard I mean if you really just don't know anything about right like the molecular genetics of a cancer tumor I personally would feel really overwhelmed about making a decision. So on one hand, we don't want to be super paternalistic, right, and just have people be like, "You need to do this." And then the other hand, the other extreme of like, "How can I make a decision on my own?" It really feels like, and actually I know this to be true, that you've partnered with your docs, you know, one of them being the medical oncologist. Um, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about, you know, what that care team is. When we say care team, right, so there's a medical oncologist, but tell us about your care team and, >> I guess, how you talk about all of this with them over time. >> Yes. So my medical oncologist is a huge part of my care team and his nurse practitioner is also a big part of my care team. And the two of them work very closely together, but they play different roles in terms of when I'm having, you know, a side effect or something that I need treated. >> I usually will talk to her sometimes over him where I need like strategy on my treatment, I talk to him. And not that that's the case with every medical oncologist. It's just I know my I know my team and what they are good at and how they kind of think and approach. >> You play to their strengths. >> I play to their strengths and I think you know so they they're they're core to my cancer care team but you are core to my team. I call you my um PCP bff, my primary care physician, best friend forever. Um or we call you Dr. Patunia in my house because you're Patunia is our nickname for you. So when I'm asking a doctor question I'll say >> I'm like edit that out. >> I need to talk to Dr. Patunia. Um but uh and and it's interesting because I have a lot of friends who have cancer who don't have a primary care doctor anymore because their oncologist has become their primary person cuz pretty much most things are related. But what I realized is like when I had co like I called you because that has nothing to do with my cancer necessarily and you make sure that anything you tell me to do related to that that if you think there's going to be an interaction or an issue to talk to my oncologist. So, you know, understanding what people's scope and lanes are and having them play that role as best as possible. I have now I have five different subsp specialties of surgeons on my care team. I actually just bumped into one when I was giving my my infusion for um for for through my medical oncologist. I bumped into my lung surgeon in the hallway. I'm like still don't need you again. Um so I have you know but there are specialties of surgeons. So you think like, oh well, I have a surgeon. But the reality is there's specific surgeons. As my thoracic surgeon said to me, which is the lungs, I was asking him a question. He goes, that's the other side of the diaphragm because it was something related to my liver. So, you know, I needed to talk to my liver surgeon about it. Again, my biology is not so not so smart at the time. So, I didn't know that. But I think even, you know, even knowing that just having a surgeon isn't really >> right. It's not not like an all-encompassing thing. I mean, there are general surgeons. there's there's surgical oncologists who can do a variety of things, but then there's specialists who really know their specialty really well, but knowing that and knowing what to ask them and kind of what what role do they play in your care. >> Um, and they can go beyond their specialty. You can say, I just want your overall medical opinion about this and just because of who they are and how they how they think about medicine and the body and all of that stuff, but just understanding that and knowing that that's some skill, a skill that some people have and some people don't necessarily. you don't need them to. Um, I also have radiation oncologists. Um, I now I'm meeting with an interventional radiologist. Um, and a pain doctor who we love. Um, and you know, I a lot of pain things um, my oncologist can help treat, you can help treat, but sometimes there's been things that are just kind of again beyond. And so to have a pain specialist who specializes in oncology has been extremely helpful. and she is, you know, my lifeline at those moments that I need her. Um, >> I mean, it's a relief to me to be able to defer. I mean, I 100% have the humility to acknowledge, but I don't have expertise in and it but it sound I know this to be true that everyone in your care team, all of these different providers, nurse practitioners, physicians, therapists, I feel like we're all pretty good about deferring to that expert. Yes. Yes. But I also want to point out that I can't pretend that hasn't placed a huge burden on you, you know, and you are an incredibly capable person. You're an advocate for others yourself, but you really organize, you're really the glue between all these appointments and issues. And yes, I know we have electronic medical records, but I mean, I was wondering if you could share even just some tips because even when you were choosing your oncologist, I mean, correct me if I'm wrong, cuz I was in some of those u meetings where we went and sat in the waiting room. I sat in the exam room, right, with your parents. One of us was appointed to take notes. I hope it wasn't me. >> No, we have to talk about that because because having somebody go to take notes is very valuable or asking the oncologist if you can record it or, you know, or whoever the specialist is. But if you have somebody in there taking notes, make sure it's somebody who's mentally in the place to take notes. So I went to, you know, all these oncology appointments and my >> when you were choosing >> when I was choosing and my husband, my mom, my um dad, and then you came to some of them, right, were were at the appointments. All four of you played the role of notekeeper. And I can tell you that only one of you, which was you, actually wrote anything down afterwards. I said, "Okay, where are the notes?" and they would be like one word and >> my dad had like doodles >> like but it's because they also are processing it right so it's very important and people will say like take somebody with you to take notes but if you have somebody really close to you and not that you're not close to me but you're more you know my my medically savvy best friend as as um as uh Dr. Han said on one of your um >> Dr. Mariah our PCP >> she said about PCPs and that's true I mean you happen to also be my best friend but I think how you treat your patients is the same where you're you can be that kind of role but I think understanding as a patient that the people closest to you are also going through it and it is very hard for them as well. So it can be helpful to have somebody that maybe is one step removed playing some of these roles for you, >> right? Like that objective notetaker. I always tell people also write, you know, we've said this before too and preparing for different appointments, but writing down your questions before your questions after. I mean again, I mean the thunderous receiving of getting this diagnosis in the first place. I mean how are you how are you even possibly supposed to think clearly? And then you go through these appointments where everyone is using words that no one has ever heard of and it's so complex. They make sense. You know, our our best docs are still, you know, of course, I mean, we're we're using very um nuanced, you know, very scientific language. >> Yes. >> So, yes, having someone to take those notes, organize them for you, summarize them for you. >> Yes. And and people think, you know, people say all the time, what can I do for you? Whatever. I'll just give an example. I have AI have a friend who lives in New York, you know, Andreana, who's amazing. She she researched in the finance field. So, she really like researches companies, like all of that stuff. Nothing to do with science, nothing to do with cancer. She lives in New York >> and she plays the role of organizing research on clinical trials for me. So when I'd have a clinical trial that I'd find something on I was interested in, I'd just forward it to her, you know, tag her on it and then she could organize it for me. And so it like if you think broadly about your support network and people and their skills, they there's there's a lot you can leverage, right, in that even if you don't have a kind of person with you at every appointment kind of thing. So to be thinking about that in terms of um what is it that you need and what is it that you can outsource if you will that was something that I I I could do but outsourcing it to her a gave her a way to to help me from afar because she as a good friend wanted to be a help from afar. So giving her something to do but also let me >> get one thing off my plate related to cancer. Another thing that somebody like suggested which I do is Mondays are my infusion day and now I currently have infusions every 3 weeks. Um and so I try to make everything I can medically happen on Monday. So dealing with insurance, dealing with bills, going to the dentist, whatever it is, Monday is my day. Part of that is because I don't schedule other things really on Monday because I, you know, kind of I I know that every three weeks I'm not going to be able to, you know, I'm going to have to go to the infusion center and be out, but also it kind of gives one day to cancer and then the rest of the time is for me and one one day to medicine. Now granted, it doesn't always work out cuz sometimes doctors, you know, clinic schedules and stuff don't match up, >> but in trying to do that, it helps kind of compartmentalize it as much as I can. So it's not like taking over your entire identity, >> right? And at times, you know, if there's something major like a surgery that needs to be scheduled and all that stuff, you know, you get off track sometimes and I describe it kind of like cancer, you know, any any long-term disease you have as um you're in a car and cancer's in the car with you. The question is where in the car is the cancer? So is it, you know, in the back seat where it's you know it's there but you you know you don't have to pay attention to it. Is it is it singing in the back seat like like my daughter does sometimes and there's no point, but you definitely have to pay attention to it. Or is it like in the front seat trying to take the steering wheel, >> right? >> Or can you put it in the trunk, you know, or you know, some some people can kick it out of the car. I haven't had the luck to be able to kick it out the car yet, but it's always in my car. And so just thinking about it as that, you kind of go, okay, it's here. It's going to be here, but let me just be mindful of where it is in the car so that I give it its attention. you know, if it's being quiet in the back seat, I don't have to give it attention. If it's yelling out to me in the back seat, then I need to kind of give some attention. And kind of having that kind of thinking of it as a passenger with you and attending to it, but not overattending to it because one of the things that for one of the first oncologists I met with when I was doing my interview tour, he said, "Don't become a professional patient." And you know, I took that to heart. Now granted I'm doing a lot of volunteer work related to it. So I am kind of become but in terms of my own care. He said you know you could do everything you could get you know your diet and your everything can be wrapped up in this disease and don't let it because you know if there's something that's that's good and important for you to do we'll make sure you do it. But the reality is there's there's no silver bullet and there's nothing that you know there's no like secret out there that's being kept from us in terms of um in terms of addressing the disease. So you have to lean into the best choices and the best treatments you can but not not make it overcome your your whole life. >> Do you think you were able to take that to heart and to practice right away or did it take you some time? >> Took me some time. So it definitely took me some time because you know because I also I we decided when meeting with oncologists I found my perfect match here in LA. So we moved to LA. So you know that so it did disrupt my life in a lot more ways than um >> than even just the diagnosis and also getting used to chemo the first time and all of those things. Um, and I think if you if you have a disease that can be treated like in a short spurt where you go, okay, you're going to have three months of chemo and then you're done or whatever it is, then I think you can potentially kind of get more consumed by it. Um, but when you know it's going to be a long haul that you just can't, it's not sustainable. Um, I was thinking about um, right? I mean, you you're you've you're evolving, you know, the the entire time and growing. Um just thinking about those um first weeks after diagnosis. I mean is there anything that there's something that you wish that you would have known at that time or someone would have done or said differently? >> I think I I think a few things that I've learned that I feel like might might have been helpful although if somebody told me at the time I probably wouldn't have listened to them is um everything isn't urgent. And so, you know, you sit there and you're like, "This cancer is inside of me." Like, we have to do something right away. And yeah, you can't just let it go for months. And, you know, depending on the aggressive I had pretty aggressive cancer, so it's not, you know, couldn't it's not like I could go months, but a couple weeks here, it's okay. Like, you can take breaks from chemo if you need to. If you have a important vacation or something that you want to do, like you it's not um everything isn't as urgent. And I think that is a rub when you're first diagnosed. It's really hard because you call like a doctor's office and you know you make an appointment and they're like yeah we'll see you in 3 months and you're like no but I'm dying today and you want to have a plan right? You want to have a plan and so getting to that plan and once you have the plan it's a lot easier but getting to that plan is tough but I would just say that that it may not seem as urgent and concerning to everybody else because like they've the medical care team has been through this and they know like it's okay if you wait 3 weeks for this surgery but you don't know that. So asking those questions I think is really important is like >> and I would say to my colleagues though I mean it's it's explaining that as well that is not urgent. I mean, from where you're sitting now and your expertise, you can say that. But >> when you first get that diagnosis, also I just want to say too, tell me if you agree with me, is that >> being told you have stage 4 cancer, you know, it's in your liver, >> there are so many other steps even just to right subtyping what kind of cancer it is, what its genetics are, what its tumor markers are, all those things take time and then also inform >> what the treatment plan is going to be. >> So, I mean it's that's what's I guess just I'm asking you, but I mean it just seems even harder. Well, it's harder. And also, that's something that I wish I would have known earlier, I think, is that cancer is like it's like every everybody's fingerprint. It's it's different in everybody because a every kind of cancer is different. >> Um, within that, within colorectal cancer, colon cancer, rectal cancer, totally treated differently, totally different thing in colon cancer, stage three cancer versus stage four cancer, different different um MSS high. These are all terms that you learn, but they all are different. And then you get down to and that cancer in is is in you as an individual and your biology is like no other. And so so all of those things together make it very specific. >> Is that comforting or distressing or neither? >> Um I mean I think it's comforting because then when you look at the statistics you can say >> those statistics don't really apply to me, right? Yeah. So, you know, like when I was first diagnosed, the number, you know, the numbers were really grim in terms of a 5-year survival. But then one of the brilliant doctors I met with, oncologists I met right away said, "But your statistics are zero or 100." Like in any treatment like it's going to work or it isn't on you. So, it doesn't matter really in the kind, you know, it now all of that is important because you want to go with something that is proven to work with as many people in your general situation as possible. So, I get that, but you also have to understand that it's like, you know, it's unique to you. So, making sure that you're um for me, it was very important to have an oncologist who um use the research, use the science, but applied it to me as an individual very specifically. And that is a very tough thing to do. It's it's totally an art. And so finding somebody that you trust that can do that for you. Um because there are those gray areas and having somebody who can say well this >> this doesn't make sense you know like I I got a scan one time and like I said having your onc my oncologist there to read it is so important but he got the scan report and he's going this is not my patient like so he called the radiologist and said can you look at it again because clinically like if you knew this patient you would say this is not what's happening and they you know and they went back and looked at it. So having somebody who really understands you and that was you know something that was really powerful in the episode you had on um primary care providers is is all of this information has been built up over time about my case but also about me as a person and how I make decisions and you know you and I have talked about this like communication styles all those things are really different and I think um >> I think it's hard for patients to think of their medical provider as a human being who all you know who also is trying to navigate all that with you. So, you think about their schedule, right? Um I just want to point out how generous you are even thinking about um physicians and their busy schedules and having to shift gears from patient to patient. >> So, I'd rather just make a really emphasize what you're saying is as a patient, >> you do have agency. That's really important. And and we've I've even talked about with colleagues like you know sometimes we're taken a back but we do have the humility I think good doctors do which is to say oh my gosh I am speaking too fast and you know what yes you know slow me down. So absolutely you as a patient have agency and as much as possible I mean again like I don't want to put the burden on the patient you know you're going through all this let alone having to tell someone right to slow down or spend more time with you. But I I just want to also just emphasize the point and you are very methodical as we know in in making your choices about your care team, but you can always get second opinions. You can break up with your doctor, choose different ones. I just wanted to make that point if that has come up with you. >> Yes. And I think, you know, I do I do I do get second opinions as I learned in the beginning. You you learn a lot from different per different perspectives and because it isn't black and white. There's not a you know, most cases, right? There's there's very few times when it's like this is the only path that we could possibly do that doctors only know what they've treated, what their experience is. So finding somebody with with the specialty and experience and what you and what you have, but also understanding how do they learn about things they don't know about, right? Because I think that's a good question to ask a doctor, you know, an oncologist or any doctor, but I tell new patients, ask them if this if there's something, you know, that you don't you've never treated before, how would you find out what to do? And they might say, "I talk to colleagues. I research it here." Whatever. And all of those are fantastic answers. The answer that's like looking at you blankly like, "What do you mean I wouldn't know something?" That's when I think you have a problem and you say, "You know what? Is this really the person?" Because I my my oncologist is worldrenowned and one of the most amazing specifically colorectal cancer specialists in the world. And he knows he doesn't know everything. he'll say, "Oh, I'm going to reach out to my, you know, colleague about this." And so, I think it's important to know that like that doctors are very knowledgeable. They know a lot of things. You want them to be confident, but you have to know that they don't know everything. And if they don't know that they don't know everything, >> then it's a good time to see a second opinion, you know? >> Well, I mean, I think you're only going to trust >> a physician, right? Anyone, a person, right? A friend, if they acknowledge they don't know everything. That is such a great question to say what do you do when you don't know anything. It also acknowledges that this is an incredibly evolving dynamic nuanced field. But really, I mean, I think what you're saying could go for really any chronic condition as well, right? >> And just again your own, you know, agency. >> But I think too in terms of in terms of understanding doctors as humans is >> if if we're looking for shared decision-making, which I think is so important. I think the issue has been it's always been like paternalistic and so therefore like the doctor knows best, listen to the doctor, the doctor knows best. And so for doctors to understand, you know, kind of not to operate that way, but also for patients to understand not to operate that way. Treat your doctor with the respect that their experience deserves, for sure. Like I respect and admire all of my doctors, but I also understand that like it's shared. So that means my voice is as important not only in the decision-m but in the conversation in the flow and like you know I need you to do this or for me is there a way we can do this or is there somebody else on your team I could talk to when you know and that that goes for everything from scheduling you know a lot of times there's scheduling issues and the doctor doesn't even know that that's happening because they're not aware of it. So you know having those conversations so that they know is I think very valuable. Um, I just wanted to ask you a couple things. Um, you know, just going back to when you were diagnosed, um, and sharing the news. I mean, I think I don't know, we talked about, you know, just being in the emergency room and, you know, not even really remembering like, you know, calling your parents or, you know, or me, but you know, you've mentioned your beautiful daughter, Lyanna. She's how old now? She's eight. She's eight, right? So, she's so little, but I'm curious, you know, in terms of sharing the news with her, >> did you, you know, tell her, sit her down and tell her? How has that kind of conversation evolved as she's grown, as you've grown? >> You know, I feel, again, very lucky being diagnosed with stage four is sometimes better than earlier stages. And same thing, being diagnosed when she was so little because she had no um perception of what cancer was. And at that time, she was 7 months old, right? And even when she was a little ba little kid, she didn't learn from the outside it was something scary. >> So basically I could control how she learned about cancer and what that meant. And I think that that was um a gift in a lot of ways cuz I didn't have to worry about, you know, people looking at her going, "Oh, you have cancer." You know, kind of thing before she Yeah. Before she um, you know, kind of learned about it from me. So she knows I have cancer. she, you know, knows when I'm going to the doctor. I try again to do it on Mondays while she's at school. So, a lot of times she doesn't realize all the appointments I go to. And actually, it's funny. I said, I introduced her one day to my oncologist after like six years. There was an opportunity. And I was like, I'm so excited for you to meet my my doctor. And she goes, "Dr. Patunia's here." And I was like, "Name my other doctor that I see all the time." And she, you know, in her mind, she has one doctor, right? And she doesn't get that I have 12 of them that I see on a regular basis. Um, but it it kind of helps to kind of think about it from her perspective that it's kind of just something mom has and it's part of my, you know, part of my life. Um, when I when she was younger, you know, you you have all these thoughts though like will I live long enough for her to remember me, right? So that was like a you know milestone and will like all of these things and I still think about you know like like my potential death because I do you know it's a terminal disease and I this likely will be the thing that kills me. The question is when um and I've you know had it active disease for seven years and you know you you get to a point where that's not that's not survivable at some point and so I do think about those things and so planning that with her and I just had actually a gift that horrible horrible gift um that a very close loved one passed away um young and uh it was horrible but when you know we went to the hospice to house to visit him and she you know She came with us and I was like said to him, you're giving me this gift of being able to be the one that I can like understand how she is learning about deaths and kind of an unexpected death. Um, and it's not about me. So, actually, I'm g, you know what I mean? I'm getting this, you know, so taking in different things from life and be able bringing it into my parenting of her of being a parent with cancer. There's also amazing organizations that can help with this. So, you know, there's a great organization called Brightpot Network that focuses on parents who have young kids, basically eight and under. And so, through those support groups where you, you know, you you talk to other PA parents who are going through the same thing and understanding what they're doing and how they're doing it is, I think, really, really helpful cuz as she grows, you know, it changes, >> right? She's changing, right? >> Changing. Well, and I remember one time when I I don't know why, maybe it was after surgery or maybe it was after chemo, but you came over for dinner and she was probably two at the time and you swooped her up and at the time I couldn't lift her so it must have been after surgery so I couldn't lift her and you swooped her up and you guys are dancing, right? Giggling, dancing. She's laughing, having so much fun and I was balling and I was like I was like why is this why is this so emotional? And you know there's a lot packed into that, right? one was I wasn't the one that could be lifting her up, but also so appreciative that somebody that that has that part of my spirit and that part of my experience of having spent years doing silly things together that that I knew that that would live on with her and she was creating that bond and then also that she was creating that connection to something so meaningful to me even though it wasn't me and having a surrogate for something that I I wanted I wanted to be the mom doing that but to be able to have somebody else that could kind of do that with her I think was really powerful. So it was kind of like a grief, anger, joy all wrapped up into that into that into that moment. >> You quoted beaches at that time where you're sitting over the edge. >> Um I mean like you're saying I mean there's all these right there's like these like living griefs, you know, and and and um and transitions and joys altogether. It made me think of too though when you're saying even just the grief of stopping breastfeeding. I mean, if you could for a moment too. I mean, you were working, right? You're consulting and you have this very big career in marketing and I mean, I always joke. I mean, I'm just like always following in your footsteps. I'm always like laughing about how accomplished you are and always asking you to help me with all this stuff. But, um, you also stopped working. >> Yeah, I worked for probably the first year and a half part-time. I was because I was consulting so I could like ch pick and choose what I did. Um, but yeah, after after a while it just got to be too much. Um, just mainly because of like the accountability to a certain date and being able to do something on a certain date was really hard. >> Was it hard to share this with with colleagues like the workplace? I mean, you probably >> No, I you know, for me it was not because I'm and also I'm not >> I'm just very much an open book kind of person. I think it's very that's very different for every person in their circumstance, you know. Um, we're going to have a part two, but I just wanted to wrap up this um, particular episode with our asking for a friend segment. As you know, we talked about, but usually usually you're asking for money. It's like asking an hour. It's like asking for our friends. I know they're all listening. Um, you know, people are always saying, you know, check for blood in your stool. So, we talked about that and I just, I just talked about what that actually looks like. When people um, seek medical attention, but I just didn't know if you had any sort of kind of other words to of advice about um, just checking for blood in your stool. And maybe it's not checking but noticing. >> Yeah. I I think I think blood in the stool is one thing but I think it's even more so unusual bowel movement. And what does that mean? Right. Because I do think I mean blood in your stool like >> you know like if if if it's enough blood it's it's pretty obvious that it's blood. >> Um but I think understanding that you know somebody told me and I don't know if this is true. knew medically speaking can tell me if it's true that that their GI doctor said that if you go to the bathroom and you have to wipe more than a couple times it probably is an unusual bowel movement blood. Yeah. Or >> no just in general because it's not coming out clean. It doesn't mean like if that happens to you once that's like a problem but if that's persistent like >> that means that the consistency of your stool but I guess maybe not. >> But we're going to have a GI doctor on and we're good ask her that. um because they have little even diagrams like really fabulous details illustrations of all the way that your stools can look. So um okay let's >> and also the frequency too like the frequency if you are somebody who typically goes once a day and then all of a sudden you're going three times a day >> the change though >> the change is really >> okay and also the other thing too is constipation I always thought constipation was like difficulty being able to go right and sometimes I can go multiple days without going now from treatment and what I've learned is that that also is constipation it doesn't mean you're straining on the toilet it means that you have it right you you're you could be feeling fine but if you're not going regularly that is a that is constipation. So I think understanding those things about your >> your own body >> your own body you know probably for any disease but in colorectal cancer understanding that related to um and not also >> assuming it's colon cancer but understanding too like >> those are things to to talk to your doctor about and a lot of people are are um are ignored. they go to their doctor and then not ignore, but it's like it does again they're dismissed because it's not. And so if you feel like something's wrong, really again have that agency to have those conversations and >> yeah see if you can get to the bottom of what it is, >> right? I mean I apologize in advance for anyone who ever has felt or feels dismissed, right? But that is where the personal advocacy is really helpful and and again that is also sometimes where you know sometimes the strength in numbers and having a friend with you or a family member makes a difference, right? to like advocate for you, especially when you're feeling vulnerable or you don't feel good, you know? I mean, it's asking a lot of people to advocate, especially when you don't feel good. So, um, bring that friend. Um, okay, this is, you know, obviously one of my favorites, but, um, asking for a friend. My brother refuses to get a colonoscopy. Um, how can I kick him in the butt, pun intended, to get one done? Um, so I think the, you know, the quote that I always say is, you think a colonoscopy is bad, try having colon cancer. So I think if you know somebody who's who's been through this disease, it is clear that having a colonoscopy is not bad, right? And I think that that there's some actually to me a colonoscopy like it's it's like a colon cleanse that people spend millions of dollars to you know have regularly and also a wonderful nap. But so but you know the prep is the part that I think people really you know challenge but also if if you're regular and you're you know you don't really have issues it's not that bad you know and afterwards people say it wasn't as bad it wasn't pleasant but it wasn't as bad as I thought. Um, but I think that the that the bigger issue is people that are scared to find out. >> That's right. >> Right. So, it's like I don't want to do a colonoscopy because not because of the prep and all that stuff I can whatever get get past, but I don't want to know if something's wrong. And I think the big challenge there and it's the same with scans when you have disease and all that stuff. It's it's not whether you know it or not doesn't mean make it true. It is true. The question is do you know it and can do something about it? And if you can catch it early, it is much better outcomes than than if it progresses and gets to the point where you have you have symptoms. >> And outcomes is fancy for quality of life, living longer. >> Yeah. >> You know, >> well, the cure rate for stage three cancer is very high, right? >> Um the cure rate for stage four cancer not that high. So >> um and I do I say to all my patients who who you know who haven't gotten it, friends who haven't gotten it, you know, I I mention you. I say, "Look, my best friend has, you know, stage four colon cancer, so you can just go get a colonoscopy, right?" >> Yes. And there, you know, there's progress, and I'm excited for you to meet with a GI doctor because there's progress on a lot more screening tools that that will make it, you know, kind of make it more accessible. So, if somebody's really resistant to having a colonoscopy, >> you know, there are, you know, stool tool stool tests and things that may not be as accurate, but it's a lot more accurate than nothing than, you know, not doing a test. The best test is the test you do. Exactly. You know, right? >> Yes. So, um Yes. So, go get your colonoscopy. >> Yes. And I'll come to your his door. >> Your brother was my Yes. You actually know where to where hopes both of um Okay. We have um we have our new little um segment called From the Rooftops. Oh. >> So, if there's one message that you could shout from the rooftops or whatever, stay say in a very quiet soothing tone. Um what would it be? What do you want everyone to know so far about what we've talked about? Okay. Um, I think that you as a person are still you as a person and you're bringing that to cancer. So, cancer or any, you know, life-changing terminal diagnosis, even though it might affect your life entirely, um, you have it, it does not have you. and you're not doing it alone because even if you have something super rare, there's people that have been through similar and ask questions. So, you know, treat your treat your primary care doctor like the best friend um that the primary care doctor, Dr. Han said in the last episode or in an earlier episode. Um because having that understanding of each other, you as their patient, them as your doctor, will help prevent a lot of these things from happening >> and help along the way. Yeah. Um, okay. We're going to wrap up this episode for now. There's so much more to cover. Um, to our listeners, join us for episode two, moving beyond survival and living with metastatic cancer. And also for our listeners, um, do see our show notes. Um, there's going to be links to a lot of the information that Julie mentioned, UCLA health information about colurectal cancer. We'll even have a brief glossery of terms. Um, and you know, relevant support and resources for patients and caregivers. So, Jules, thanks for joining this episode and I'll see you back in a second.