So, welcome to our webinar on kidney transplantation. My name is Anjay Rastogi, and this webinar is being presented on behalf of the UCLA CORE Kidney Program, and today I'm very honored to have two of my colleagues over here. The first is Mr. Mark Coronel and Mr. Brian Gilliam. Today, we'll be going over Mark's journey as a kidney patient. Brian is a living kidney donor, and Brian, when did the transplant happen? -August 2017. -August 2017. And I know your beautiful wife Roxy is in the audience too, and we would definitely like to get more of what you went through and and your wife in our next webinar, but you'll be talking more about our kidney fair that's coming up and also the CORE Kidney Program. But before that, I want to look at Mark. And Mark, I just have some data points on you. Being a physician, we like to go over some data points. So, your birthday is July 22, 1985, correct? And the reason why I mentioned that is, when you were 26 years old, on your birthday, July 22, 2011, you were diagnosed with kidney disease and something that we call FSGS, focal segmental, and you made a lot of life changes, fought the disease, and, by the way mark, by profession, is a boxer. So now, in 2011, he's given the diagnosis of kidney disease, and now he's fighting for his life, and we'll go to that journey, how you went through the hearing, the diagnosis, and also how you fought it. And then you progress to what we call end-stage kidney disease, and on August 27, 2018, you started dialysis. -Mm-hmm. -And December 10, 2019, which is about a year and a half after that, you got a kidney transplant, a living kidney donation, from your sister's friend. -Correct. -So, this is a nutshell what Mark went through, but Mark, let's go back to 2011, when you got the news and somebody told you that you have kidney problems. So, what was your reaction to that? When I was diagnosed, it was a shocker because I thought I was going into a clinic where they stated you're very healthy, you can go. -So, you didn't have any symptoms? I did not, I did not. So I mean, I still had full energy, but my kidneys were declining, and they do that based on creatinine levels, so, what happened was my creatinine starting to elevate, and they were saying, "Well, you might have signs of renal failure. We want to do a biopsy." We did a biopsy several days later, and it was confirmed. I was diagnosed with FSGS. And I started to be more aware of my body, and what I didn't realize prior to that, was I've started to urinate foam, and it's called proteinuria, and proteinuria, when you do urinate out, it looks like beer on tap, so when they pour out the beer, it's very, very foamy, and you're just like, maybe it's just my protein shakes that I take--I'm also a personal trainer-- so I was intaking protein shakes, and I was urinating out thinking it was normal, but this biopsy stated otherwise. -So Mark, I do want to stress on a couple of points you said. Number one, you said you were asymptomatic, you had no symptoms. Now, if you go to our previous webinars, and they're all posted on UCLA Health and also on YouTube, I cover chronic kidney disease, and one of the biggest problems we have with chronic kidney disease is asymptomatic, and the only way you'll find out is like you did. You probably went for your routine physical, and they said, "Wait a second, your lab tests look abnormal," and they did more. So I think that's actually very important to keep in mind, that the way to diagnose kidney disease is through a simple blood test and urine tests. And the other thing that you mentioned about this foaminess of urine, and that you were spilling a lot of protein--so, foaminess and frothiness could be for a lot of reasons, but one of them is you're spilling a lot of protein. This also is in our webinar on chronic kidney disease that we did probably 6 or 8 months ago. A third thing that I want to bring up is, I have a question for you. So, you know, you're a boxer, in bodybuilding--how much protein were you taking? -I would take in 2 scoops, maybe 120 grams of protein. 120 grams of protein--that's a lot of protein. And that could also have contributed to worsening of kidney function. So when we look at substances that can cause kidney damage-- a very high protein diet. And provided that you already probably have this disease called FSGS, focal segmental, then you add protein on top of it, it contributed to that. So, actually, that's some very good points. So what did you do next? Now you're given the diagnosis, which came as a shocker, obviously-- you're healthy, you're a boxer, are very active--and now you've been told that, look, you have kidney problems. -So for the first couple months, I have to digest everything. It's just something you get emotionally overwhelmed with, so I had to go through, you know, depression, anxiety, I bargained, I mean--I kept going to the doctors like, "Are you sure this is really going on with me?" and that's very normal for a patient, but I knew that, and I started to meet with a nephrologist, and they said, "Either you get a kidney transplant, or you're gonna get on dialysis. Those are your options at this point." I said, "Okay, but what is my timeline for that?" "It can be five years, we just don't know how aggressive this FSGS can be, you know, they can come in--I mean we found the diagnosis now, or you know, it can come in 10 years from now, we just don't know," so my lucky number was 8, and through the process of those 8 years, I still needed to do and keep my mind occupied and not feel sorry for myself, so I started--I kept personal training, I kept doing what a normal person would do with this on the back of my head. I'm fighting this, I'm fighting this with everything I got, but I still got to keep moving forward. That was just my mentality, is that there was nothing at this point that can stop me. I'm going through such a traumatic time in my life, but it took 8 years. I think after the first 6 months, I started to understand my body a little bit more because I started to do--and what's great about these nephrologists is that they keep up with your blood levels, you know, monthly, and that's--as a patient, you should be your own advocate to do that, and to go into the clinic and really check your blood levels, because then you'll be able to see, is your creatinine levels going up? How much protein are you --it's spending out? And the nephrologists--they'll be able to tell you what they can monitor as far as your blood pressure medications or all the medications that they put me on, so that I was able to prolong it, as apposed to saying, "Okay, you're diagnosed today," and in 6 months, if I didn't take care of myself, I would have probably been on dialysis then, you know. -So I think you mentioned some very key points that, once again, we stress on. So it took a bit of time because it's like, you know, you got a big punch, right, and you're trying to recover from that because you are healthy--you think you're healthy-- -I thought I was. -And you're asymptomatic, and you've been told that, and it's interesting the first thing that comes up is dialysis and transplant, but you went a step beyond that, and that's something that I always say, but when you get diagnosed kidney disease, there different stages, and some disease will still progress, generally diseases that you don't have any control over. But you said that, "How much can I delay it if it does?" and sometimes you can stop the progression, but what you did was actually the right thing, that instead of saying that, "Well, let's get ready for dialysis and transplant," you wanted to delay it, and you made lifestyle changes, and probably the biggest one was that you started, you know, still focused on your health by working out and working, actually--you kept a job--so I think those--and you also made some changes in your diet. So here's the thing. What I didn't realize is high blood pressure is one of the biggest leading causes of kidney failure, so I wanted to make sure that my blood pressure was a 120 over 80 consistently, you know, so that was a big factor for me. I wanted to make sure that if I did work out, that my bed pressure was still stabilized at 120 over 80. It would go up a little bit when I'd be nervous, but other than that, it was always stable. Now, working out a lot, and what I started to realize about blood work was that your lactic acid builds up because the kidney can't generate anything else, so that was one thing that I had to turn down a little bit, but try to to do like yoga and other avenues of working out, not just constantly weight lifting and punching things all the time, but actually trying to work my body where it doesn't develop so much lactic acid and I get that soreness, make sense? So those are the lifestyle changes I did. I was always active, I mean, since I was preteen to now, to my 30s, you know, fighting--I was fighting, I was fighting, you know, it's fighting competitively, and now I'm fighting for my life, you know. The only transition and difference is that I wasn't fighting an opponent, I was finding myself, you know, so when I look at the mirror, I was trying to knock that person out, you know, and that was a big factor for me, you know, is that you are your own enemy, and you can't let it beat you, and if it does, you get right back up. -Amazing. And also, the one more thing that you mentioned was that you made sure that you followed up with your doctors on a regular basis. You didn't miss your appointments even though you were "asymptomatic" till the end--at the end you probably got some symptoms, but you didn't miss any appointments, and that's very important. You listened to what was being told to you, you followed up, went to your appointments, watched your diet--you did all the right things, and that was probably going back in 2011, 2018, you know, the 7 years that you had is probably because all that you did, you know, and you didn't give up, you know, you've fought it. That's very important. So now, let's talk a bit about the transplant. So--or even before that, dialysis--let's talk about dialysis. So now you've done everything, you progress to a point that your doctors are saying, "Look, you need to be on dialysis right now," so what was your reaction to that, and what did you do when you were told that you should now get on hemodialysis or any kind of dialysis? -6 months prior to my actual date of dialysis, my doctor says, "Look, you're gonna need that donor as soon as possible, or you're gonna get on dialysis. It's all a matter of time at this point. Your levels are way too high. We've done what we could. Now it's up to you. Do you want to go do a fistula, PD? But for now we're gonna do a catheter." So that's what they did first, because I was trying to avoid the fistula because it takes 3 months to actually heal, right. So me and my fiance, we're going to an event, and I said "I don't feel good, I have to go back home," and this is how it all started, is that when I came back home, I vomited twice, and then I fell down. And at that point, I didn't realize that the toxins in my body had completely taken over, right, so the symptoms at that point, where I threw up, I passed out, and she wanted to take me to the hospital, but the doctor had constantly told me 6 months prior to that very date that "You're gonna get on dialysis soon," so I knew that if I went to the doctor, I was going to get on dialysis no matter what, so sure enough, 2 days later it was--I got in on a Friday--that Monday, he came in and said, "We have to put you on a catheter, and you're gonna start 2 weeks after that." So that's how it all happened, you know, and even to that very end, I was trying to fight how I was. They kept giving me saline, you know, because I was so dehydrated at that point, and when they gave me 7 bottles of saline, okay, 7 of those big containers, I was like, "Look, Doc, I can move," you know, I was trying to avoid the situation because I was fearful of the unknown, of dialysis. Everything on Google, everything that I read about it, it was just different, you know. My experience was different on dialysis. -I think that's actually a very good point, and I think you said some very key points. Number one, that--so in our language, in the medical language, because that--you became uremic, so you're having nausea, vomiting, you almost passed out--so those are what we call uremic symptoms, and that obviously is an indication to start a patient on dialysis, if they have chronic disease, and you started with the catheter, and Fisher does take some time, but looks like you did have, and I will talk about your whole journey with the kidney transplantation, but once again, if there's something with them called pre-emptive transplant, you know, they've made a fair advancement in kidney transplantation, as well, but if you have a potential living donor even before, you sometimes can get on transplant before and bypass dialysis completely. But for that, I think it takes some time--you have to have a living donor, and so--but I think you got on analysis, and you did the best you could, and then now you're saying that, you know, and we always say for majority of patients, kidney transplant is the best option, you know, and on dialysis--home dialysis--that's what we push. So if you look at different stages of kidney disease, you know, when somebody comes with early stages like you probably did--and you did the right approach, I don't wanna talk about dialysis/transplant, I want to delay it, right--but when you come to a point that you know dialysis is eminent, then you start looking for living donors, and I know today we won't be talking about how you went about looking for living donors--that's gonna be a different webinar that we'll do--but I do want to talk--and by the way, tomorrow's Valentine's Day, it also happens to be National Organ Donation Day, so if you haven't signed up to be an organ donor, this is probably a good time to do that--so now, let's talk about your transplant journey. And so how did you approach, you know, living kidney donation, disease donation, getting on the transplant list? -One of the options that the nephrologists do give you is to get assigned to the transplant team because in the state of California, me being an O-positive, there's an 8 to 10 year wait for a deceased donor. So that means that I would have to be on dialysis for 8 to 10 years, and I would just have to wait for that deceased individual, and that would have to be a match, so they would have to also do the marker with that. I don't know if you know. I needed to find a way to let my story be known. There was just--I had nothing else to lose at that point. When you're on dialysis, you really have--you know, you're fighting for your life at that point, so it's either I raise awareness and have someone in the world listen to my story, be inspired, and donate, or, you know, I'm just gonna be on dialysis for 8 years, you know, so that was my thing with the transplant, and it's a full process-- -You were young. Yeah, very young, that's number one. But number two is both donor and recipient, to go through the transplant evaluation, it's such a long--it's a process, you know, they do, and they're really good with with transplantation because they want to make sure that the person donating is really, really healthy because they don't want to make one situation, and now make two situations worse than what it is with that one individual, so the blood work, you know, I remember the first time they told me. It went from getting 2 blood tubes to 18, and I'm like, "What's going on here?" you know? "Oh, we have to make sure they do this full blood panel to make sure--I mean, they check everything-- I mean they check everything--cholesterol, you know, anything that comes up, as a recipient. So, I wasn't used to getting 18 tubes done, you know, it was only 2 to check my creatinine levels, just going to my nephrologist, to going into a transplant center where it was 18 tubes, you know, and-- -And that's quite significant, but kidney patients tend to be anemic, because their deficiency of a hormone called erythropoietin and iron deficiency as well. Now you're getting 18 tubes being drawn. That's a bit scary. --Right. So, I was also anemic on dialysis, you know, because I don't know the full backstory to the anemia, but I started to get anemic to being on dialysis for such a time, you know, so yeah. -So that was--you're a recipient, so the first step is when you go to a kidney transplant, that your doctor refers you to the transfer program, they call you, they evaluated the recipient, and once they get listed for deceased donation, then the living donors can come in. So how did you go about looking for living donors? -It was very hard at first for me. It was hard for me, it was hard for my family, it was just hard for us to--how do we ask an individual to help me out, you know? And my donor--now, bless her heart-- she went in to do the evaluation. They denied her because she was anemic, and then we came to UCLA, and it was amazing. We were ready to go. Yeah, so... -But you went to a lot of donors though, right? I did. I did go through a lot of donors. That's all through social media, social media, we got on the news, we got on every platform to raise awareness for what I was going through. -You went on Fox News. -I was on Fox 11, yeah. And we'll put this on YouTube, we'll put all those links so people can watch it. But you told me there was 32 donors that came forward, and a good number of them actually were declined, and I think we want to make sure--and we have done these living donor meetings as well, in which we have--look, we have one sitting right over here, Mr. Gilliam--but this living donor process--and UCLA is a very big program that supports for living donations--it's very intense,and our whole hope is that we identified donors were healthy, and it is any concern that they are unhealthy--medical reasons, psychosocial reasons, maybe it's permanent, maybe it's something controllable--at that time, we will say, "Look, take a step back. Either you fix this problem--if you can--you know, they might be a bit overweight, they might not be, blood pressure might be a bit high, sugars might be a bit, or they might have a condition that will, you know--they can't be donors at all, and they should be taking care of themselves. And this is something that we want to make sure. So UCLA is a donor-centric--a living donor program. Dr. Danovich, Dr. Grich--you know, we have a very big transplant program. We want to make sure that the donors are healthy, and that's why quite a few get declined for their own good. So your donors--actually, quite a few of them--were declined, and some of them could be declined with that, you know, just for that time point. Some of them can be declined for forever, so it depends. And this also sometimes is an eye-opener because we have found patients that didn't know that they were unhealthy, and then they come for that, so I think the living donor--and I know we'll be going over that in a lot more detail, but you know, as we are going through Marc's journey, I think this is so fascinating, in my opinion, that how you approached kidney disease, you know, this-- when I give these talks, it's, well, your story is a perfect story. You are young, healthy, and you're given this. It could be a chapter from my book, how you fought that and you're here now, and then you're giving back, so you're it, and I know you're very active on social media. Marc is now actually our ambassador for the CORE Kidney Program along with Brian, and we are going to get more involved in getting outreach, but Brian, you know, hearing Marc's story, and you're coming from the other end, your dad was on dialysis care, and you are a living donor, and you have been very, very--and when was your...? 2017, in August. -August. So about 2.5 years. And how do you feel now? I feel great. Everything for me has been fabulous. You know, there's a lot of misconceptions, I think, that, you know, things are gonna change in your life after donation, you know, like people said, "Oh, you're gonna be tired. You're gonna have this. You're gonna have that. How do you feel?" I'm constantly bombarded by that stuff, but really, nothing's changed for me, you know? I'm like, you know, my healthy lifestyle is basically the thing you have to live, but you know, energy-wise, everything else-wise, there were no complications, nothing. Nothing really changed in my life, so there's a big misconception a lot of times that all this change is going to happen to you if you go through and do this, and it's not. It's been actually good. It's actually been fabulous for me, so it's kind of weird to say that, but it happens, you know. I get to help my dad, but then, you know, nothing changed for me, you know? But Brian, you also have given so much back, you know, and we have been working for over 2 years now, and you're just an incredible person. I mean, you know, you have to say angels, but it's not just the kidney that you gave. You got so much involved with the CORE Kidney Program, and you're obviously one of the first ambassadors for the program. So, let's talk about the Kidney Fair. So, you've been involved with that with your family, supporting it at all levels, so--and we have a Kidney Fair coming up. Yeah, we do. On May 17th, we have it coming up this year. Big thing, my family supported--my family supported me before, after, you know, during, after, you know. My family supported me through the Kidney Fair, helped us with all our stuff we had going on. With the Kidney Fair we have coming up, it's May 17th, and, well, Philip Palmer will be there from ABC News, from BBC TV, he'll be there speaking, and it's just a great event to come out to. Come out, ask questions, all those questions, and just, it's a great event. And the purpose of the Kidney Fair is to give hope, you know, and this is hope. This is hope, you know, that you fight, and that's how we started the Kidney Fair, is that, like what Marc did, that you were given a diagnosis, you didn't accept that, said, "I'm gonna fight it," and you fought it, and then you're here, and you're giving back, so that really, you know, in that sentence is what the Kidney Fair stands for. Now, Marc, you came to the Kidney Fair last year. That was May 5th, Cinco de Mayo, and that was before your transplant. So what did you think about from a patient's perspective? I know Brian is involved, and now you'll be involved in the program itself, but as a visitor, as a person who actually was on dialysis--I think, at that time, right-- looking for a kidney transplant, what do you think about the Fair? I was always curious about what these fairs did, and what was really amazing was the community that you guys have built around supporting each other, for people who have kidney disease. There were specific booths that knew exactly what I was going through, through my whole process. There was a person who talked about PD, there was a person who talked about phosphorus binder pills, which was pretty intense, because I knew about it, but I didn't know the details of what phosphorus binders did for my body. Now, it was really great that you guys did offer that because it was really a lineup of what I'd be going through through my whole process, which is really, really great, I think, for people who don't have that community. This is the community to go to because you guys are informative, you guys are saying, "Look, we're picking you up," you know, and that's what I felt, that sense of empowerment, of "I'm not the only one going through this," you know, to meet donors. I remember I walked in, and -You interviewed him! -Yeah, I did! Brian gave me a magazine, and he said, "Look, I'm a donor," and I was just so fascinated because I had never met a donor prior to that, so I was like "Do you mind--" -They're very special. Right, right, they are. So I was like, "Would you like to get on camera with me? I'd love to ask you some questions," and it went from there. And now I'm sitting next to him! Amazing! Yeah. -I'm sitting next to you! -Yeah! Right, right! It's pretty awesome. It's a great team. -It is, it is. And I'm very, very thankful that I was able to come here and meet with you guys again because now I'm on the other side of the tracks, you know? -Now you're part of a team. -Right, I'm part of the team, correct. So it was really amazing, you have all of that, and then you had other vendors there that were also informative, so yeah, it was really an amazing experience, and we did the walk down the beach. That was pretty amazing. I was like, "Yes, I get to workout, I get to show what I can do," you know? So that was pretty awesome. -Yeah. And Marc, this year, you're gonna have your own booth at the fair, and you obviously will be speaking and so will be Brian, but you'll also be going over--talk more about this core exercise that you're talking about. So the CORE Kidney Program is a UCLA program, but you want to do now the core of a human being. Yes. So, I had three hours to think on dialysis. I thought a lot, so what I was doing when I was in there was meditating, and I was stretching a lot while I was there, so I would have--my catheter would go in and out with the blood, and I would just stretch while I was on my chair. So that's something that I want to emphasize a lot more. Now, this year is, "How do we live a healthy lifestyle on dialysis?" either pre, during, and post, because one of the things that the doctor told me was to work out, but I didn't know how to, and when I would Google something, it wouldn't fit me, so now that I'm actually a post-transplant patient that went through all 3 stages, I know exactly how to work the human body, you know, and that's something that I'm gonna be able to bring to the CORE Program, is developing stretch programs, you know, developing meditation methods while we're sitting down, and just getting a healthy lifestyle. -So let me just--a few things, you know, you're dropping these nuggets, you know, and there's so many, so I'm trying to collect them, but you said stretching, you know, as opposed to exercise, right? And I think that's very important for patients with kidney disease because they have a lot of acid-base--you mentioned about acid, lactic acid building up, electrolyte problems--so they have lot of cramps. And one of the things that I think, which is very important for patients on dialysis or even pre-dialysis, is to stretch, you know, that's as opposed to actually doing some heavy weight lifting. They should be doing, you know, they should be exercising, but I think that's very, very important. You also mention meditation, so that's very different from the core. This is above the core. And I always say meditation and mindfulness are so important because we think about your core exercises--you talk about stretching--but what do we do for our mind? What do we do for our brain? I think that's so--and I am very big--and when I said my team, and you're part of the team, and so is Brian, the CORE Kidney Program--very, very big on other meditation and mindfulness, and I think that's so important. And a final point from this that I wanna make is, you know, you have different stages of kidney disease, you went through all of them, actually, you know, diagnosis, stage 3, 4, 5, dialysis, transplant-- And when I talk to my patients, and when they're getting close to dialysis, I always tell them, it's not just the fact that you're ending up on dialysis, it's also how you end up on dialysis. So you took care of yourself, you know, you ate well, you took your phosphorous, you still remember those pills from the fair, you went to the fair to get more information you were looking at, and that is so important because it's not that you end up on dialysis, it's how you end up on dialysis says what's your condition. Now, I always say in the majority of my patients, dialysis is a bridge to transplant, right? In your case, that is actually very true. So you have to stay healthy to get the transplant as well, and I think, once again, that's something that I can't, you know, overemphasize. You have lived it, but if you have kidney disease, do what you can to slow down progression, all that Marc did. If I could write a book on this, this is the way I would write it. What you did, Marc, that you fought it, you actually changed your lifestyle, you were proactive, you went to look for it--and we'll have a separate discussion--so those are, I think, from my perspective as a kidney doctor, those are things that I would love my patients to do. -Here's the thing too, is that we get our blood drawn monthly or even weekly, and those levels will tell you what to work on, you know? My phosphorous was high, so don't eat a banana this week, or cut out bananas, you're eating too much, your potassium, your magnesium, you're anemic, your hemoglobin--so those are the things, like the hemoglobin, we can't control, but the other things like phosphorus, you know, the potassium and stuff like that, those are all habits, you know, those are all eating habits that we do to ourselves, and if we can cut it or just in moderation, they say, our levels would be good, and be open to kidney transplant, you know? -So, going back to the point, so the frequency of labs depends upon your stage, you know, stage 3, it's less frequent, sometimes even twice a year. In stage 4, it gets more frequent, then you get on dialysis, then it can become quite frequent, then transplant, initial part is quite frequent, and then you get--and I think what what Marc is saying is that it's not just the labs, you--and dialysis, most of time, they give you a copy of the labs. The question is, "What do you do with the labs?" You know, do you just look at them and throw them away? You look at them, see my potassium is high, then throw them away? But you look at your potassium and say, "You know what? My potassium is high. I need to do something." And that's what you did. So you were in active engagement rather than a passive person, you looked at the labs and made changes, and I think that's--once again, I always say you are your best advocate. Nobody else could be your advocate because nobody knows your body as as well as you do, and most of time, hyperphosphatemia, hyperkalemia, which is high potassium, high phosphorus--they're silent diseases. Hypertension--you talk about blood pressure, it's a silent disease, it doesn't cause any symptoms till the very end, and I think that's why you had to be proactive. What is my blood pressure? What is my phosphorus? What's my potassium? How can I get a kidney transplant? Those are all things, so that's amazing, you know, Marc? I mean, I would say, you know, your story is what I would like all my patients to be, and thank you so much. Now you're an ambassador for CORE Kidney Program. Marc will be at the fair, very active, and actually, we'll be discussing his exercises, and I do want to mention, exercise--and not just for kidney patients, but the Kidney Fair is for everybody, I mean this is for public, and you will be doing your booth and showing them how to stay an active life, you know, even if your kidneys are completely normal. So thank you very much, Marc, Brian. I just want to end it with a few comments from you, if you have, you know. The CORE Kidney Program, you also built a Circle of CORE, you know, around the CORE Kidney Program. -Yeah, that's a big reason why I got involved, to give back, and you know, being in the Circle of CORE with a group of people we have, and just the whole organization is just so rewarding, you know. You guys came to UCLA, you got to save my dad's life, you got to help me, you know. -You have saved so many lives, Brian. And the kidney might have just gone to your dad, but I think your message is-- Just being involved, being an ambassador with UCLA and the Circle of CORE, and everything we're doing is just so rewarding, and I just--I wish I could give all my time to it, but I have a regular job, so I have to do that, but that's how much I want-- -Once we have a kidney center at UCLA, then we'll be all working there full-time. -I'll be in, definitely, yes, very for that. -Very good, very good. So, Brian and Marc, thank you very, very much, you know, and we'll be doing another webinar on kidney transplantation and social media, vaping in social media-- we'll put all the links on the YouTube video. Brian, thank you very much, and I know your beautiful wife is in the audience, Roxy, she drove with you. Say hi to your dad, and we'll see everybody on May 17th, Santa Monica Beach, and visit our CORE Kidney website as well. So, thank you very much. Signing off for now, and we'll see you soon. Thank you.