Hello everyone and welcome to this webinar about achalasia and what you need to know. My name is Ali Cedarat and I'm a gastroenterologist at UCLA. Don't forget that you can ask questions via social media at Twitter and Facebook. So we're going to uh talk about a few things here. What is aia? Define it. How do you diagnose it? How is it treated? And what's new in the management? And this is something that we're very excited about and and my particular area of expertise in achalasia is a procedure called POME. And uh I'll tell you more about that. So what is achalasia? It's uh defined as incomplete relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter in a response to a swallow and an absence of normal paristalsis or normal muscle activity of the body of the esophagus. And that results in food not being able to get from the mouth into the stomach because the esophagus doesn't do what it's supposed to. The esophagus is normally a conduit for food to get from the mouth to the esophagus and it does that in a very coordinated way and then when it's disturbed can have severe symptoms. It's important to realize that to diagnose achillesia you have to exclude other obstructing lesions such as tumors or scar tissue. A little bit of backgrounds is relatively rare. One in two patients out of 100,000 will have it. The cause is unknown. It's uh a result of inflammation and degeneration of nerves in the esophageal wall. But what causes that injury isn't entirely clear. It may be an immune response to a previously exposed virus. Zuster has been implicated so-called shingles virus, measles, herpes simplex. Um these have been hypothesized but nothing is is certain for primary aalasia. There are secondary causes of achalasia that are much less common but but are important in other parts of the world such as South America. Uh secondary cause is shagus disease which is called by the parasite uh tripenosoma cruzi transmitted by the kissing bug which is depicted here. Um that's rare in this country but common in in the develop developing world. Uh another reason for achalia are secondary that are secondary causes are paraneoplastic syndromes and what that means is a tumor such as a lung cancer can secrete antibodies and mimic the pattern of achalasia. Other secondary causes pseudoacalasia is is a tumor of the esophagus or the stomach causing findings that are similar to echalasia. So a lot of the testing in a patient that we suspect has achalia is looking to exclude some of these other diagnoses. Males and females are are uh affected equally affects all ages as young as toddlers and the oldest patient that I've seen was 94. Um, there's no cure, meaning that we can't make the motility or the muscle go back to normal, but we can do a lot to fix the symptoms and and get you back to a very close to normal quality of life. So, how do you know if you have aia? The chief symptom is dysphasia, meaning I can't swallow. Uh, it's often progressive, meaning it gets worse over a period of time. It's often to both liquids and solids, and it can be very disturbing. food gets stuck in the in the midchest and upper throat, the location may be variable and may not indicate where the actual level of obstruction is. Uh but that tends to be the chief symptom. And all these other symptoms are really kind of a result of undigested food not exiting the esophagus to enter the stomach. So you can have regurgitation of liquid mus mucus or undigested food, weight loss because nutrients aren't getting where they're supposed to go. So there can be pain in the chest, pressure, fullness, there can be aspiration or choking uh sensations especially when food comes up at night um and can enter the lungs that can be very disturbing and can even cause pneumonia that can be serious. Heartburn is possible um it's usually atypical and chiefly doesn't respond to normal antacids. It's often initially sometimes difficult to distinguish akalasia in the early stage just based on symptoms alone from normal acid reflux which is far more common. Um the heartburn that people get in achalasia though is not due to acid. It's usually due to fermentation of food in the esophagus. Um it's very important that specific testing is needed to diagnose aia even in the presence of all these symptoms. So how do you know if you have reflux which is much more common versus achalasia? The bottom line is that you need to be tested. You can't tell just from uh talking or or examining you. Um but some alarm symptoms in patients that have reflux warrant further investigation. The main one is that most patients that have reflux, difficulty swallowing is usually not a dominant symptom and if it is that should be investigated. It may not mean that there's aia present. Uh there may be something else present but that needs to be investigated. Weight loss is an important alarm symptom or red flag regurgitation as we talked about the presence of anemia or bleeding is important and of course if there's a family history of cancer or other gastrointestinal disorders uh that needs to be investigated. So, how do I how do I figure out if you have aia? There's a couple of tests. The the first three there are the main ones. An upper endoscopy where a camera is inserted into the mouth and into the upper digestive tract to examine uh the esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine. That's that's an important test to uh to look for causes of difficulty swallowing. An esophag is a type of X-ray where you swallow some dye and a radiologist takes pictures as the dye moves down the digestive tract and there's specific patterns that are present in a normal esophagus versus a calasia versus other disorders of the esophagus. Monometry, especially uh the recent advent of high resolution monometry, and we'll go over what that is, is a way to measure the pressure in the esophagus during a swallow. And those patterns are very specific to the diagnosis of achalasia and sensitive to picking up that diagnosis, especially when combined with these other tests. And that's important that uh achalasia is a syndrome that's diagnosed in combination with your history, your physical exam, and and a variety of tests. There's no one single test that says you have a collia with with certainty. In some patients, other testing is necessary to exclude other disorders. CT scans for example to uh to look for a tumor that may mimic a collalia, especially in older patients or patients who smoke. Uh pH testing is sometimes required when there's difficulty distinguishing motility disorders of the esophagus versus reflux um and and overlapping type some syndromes. So I'm going to show you here uh what a normal endoscopy of the esophagus looks like. This is just a quick short video that we'll play. Um and this is basically just the endoscope going down. You can see the esophagus is relatively straight. There's minimal to no fluid and the esophagus opens very easily without spasm into the stomach. So just keep that uh image in mind. And you'll see what an aalasia patient's esophagus looks like in a second. This is a normal esophag. the patient swallowed a column of of dye, often barerium, uh or other types of dye, and x-rays are taken, and it's a straight tube relatively all the way down and contrast passes easily into the stomach. Um, this is normal. An abnormal esophagus. This is a patient of mine that has a pretty typical of a more dilated. The contrast tends to stay in the esophagus and doesn't really enter except in a delayed way into the stomach. and it comes down to a pinch. And this is the [\h__\h] area of the lower esophageal sphincter that's preventing uh food and and liquids to go down. And this so-called point is called a bird's beak, which is somewhat typical of echolasia. This is a more severe patient of mine who, you know, has progressed over a little bit of time. You can see not only is the esophagus very dilated, but contrast is is kind of filling around all this um shaggy stuff which is food that has been retained despite this patient fasting. The esophagus in addition to becoming dilated is now tortuous. It's become what we call decompensated and and generally once you get to these stages the symptoms are more severe. This is a patient who doesn't have achalasia but has esophageal spasm. And you can see these areas where there the contrast is being squeezed. These are simultaneous non propulsive meaning that they don't move the contrast down but they just spasm in a way that can be very painful and cause difficulties swallowing. So this is not aia but it's a different dismotility disorder of the esophagus uh that uh this happens to be jackhammer esophagus is what we call it. So there's different types of aalia. They're categorized based on the manometric pattern. And it's important for us to know what type you have uh because your treatment may be slightly different and we primarily figure out what type of aia that you have based on monometry. So this is a normal highresolution monometry. Color is pressure. Low pressure is blue. So for example here in the stomach there's not too much uh pressure. um high pressure is in the reds and purples. This band going across is the upper esophageal sphincter in the neck. And the way that this kind of graph works is that this is distance and this is time. So if we're starting here, a swallow happens. The this opening is the upper esophageal sphincter. And then with time, the esophagus is transporting the bolus down into the lower esophageal sphincter and into the stomach. And importantly with the swallow, the lower esophageal sphincter pressure relaxes. So you can see here the pressure has relaxed and it goes back to normal. But in between when the swallowing has happened the lower esophageal sphincter opens. This is in contra distinction to a patient with aia. He's made a swallow. The the upper esophageal sphincter which is under voluntary control has opened but nothing happened in the esophagus. There's zero pressure. Um this is a paristoic classic aolasia. The lower esophageal sphincter also has stayed closed. that didn't open at all. So, this patient probably has pretty severe symptoms. This is what's called type 2 a calasia. There's also a closed esophagus in response to a swallow, but there's some pressure. This is called pressurization. Um, it's important for us to know because this has some prognostic implications. Patients with type 2 a tend to do better with with whatever um treatment they get. Um, but this has a little bit of pressure, so there's still some squeeze left in the esophagus. These patients tend to have symptoms, but they're probably on the more uh mild side of the spectrum, though they can also be severe. This is type three aasia, a swallow. Again, the lower esophageal sphincter again didn't open. But what's important here is that there's very high amplitude nonpropulsory spasm of the body of the esophagus. So you can see here that these numbers are very very high. So type three achalia is also called [\h__\h] achillesia. And often patients with type three achalia have chest pain. Uh type three achalia is important because the spasm goes very high. Uh it was previously harder to treat with surgery until poem uh came along and made it a little bit more effective to treat these patients. So what's the treatment for aalia? So this is just kind of a history for your interest. Aalasia was was di was described 4 500 years ago by Sir Thomas Willis who's pictured up there. he called a cardio spasm. And he treated these patients by taking a whale bone that he fashioned into a stiff dilating rod and basically hopefully gently passed that into the uh patient's gullet and stretched the muscle open. And that was pretty much what happened for 300 years until Dr. Ernest Heler uh showed us how to do a myottomy, which is a surgical way to cut the muscle to relieve the spasm. Um and then over you know the 20th century some some progress has been made modifying the surgery making things laparoscopic adding what's called a fundiplication which is an anti-relux procedure uh to the myottomy um a little bit later the balloon dilation was introduced um in the 21st century poem was introduced so for about six years Dr. Inway, professor inway from uh Japan taught us how to do uh poem in humans and and he was the first to do that in humans. Uh so medical management uh is usually not all that effective. Uh medications work about half the time but generally they have intolerable side effects and so their use is limited by those side effects and you have to kind of keep taking those medications. So what are those medications? They're generally medications whose side effect is relaxation of smooth muscle and we use those occasionally but not very often. Botox uh bachelinam toxin is a a protein that basically paralyzes muscle. We we probably are all very familiar with its cosmetic use. It's also used in other parts of the body and uh it's it was injected or it is injected into the lower esophageal sphincter to allow it to relax. And it's effective, it's safe, it's very easy and quick to do an outpatient type of procedure. But the problem is that it's temporary and so you have to be a little bit careful in who you uh select to have Botox in general. It's not a very good effect long-term effective option for an otherwise healthy person that can tolerate um a different modality which we'll go over. So Botox is useful in patients that are too ill to undergo other procedures or if the diagnosis is in doubt. Sometimes we'll inject Botox as what's called a therapeutic trial to see if your symptoms get better with paralysis of the muscle and that may indicate to us that for example cutting the muscle with the surgery may be effective. Uh what's important is that repeated injections lose their efficacy. So after maybe two or three injections they may not work as well or at all. The injections are temporary generally weeks to months is is what's typical and then the symptoms come back to where they were. And important for us as as physicians who treat echalasia is you have Botox too many times the scar tissue can make more definitive therapy such as surgery or poem uh a little more difficult and a little less safe. So um if if Botox has been offered to you um you should kind of maybe ask uh why something else hasn't been offered and and u um uh seek care uh in a place that we can we can take care of you more definitively. Uh pneumatic dilation has been around for for a few years. It's the standard of care in a lot of parts of the world and a lot of parts of this country still. Uh and it's a good option, a balloon, and it's a special balloon. It's a large diameter uh stiff balloon. Uh and it's important to know if you're getting a pneumatic dilation versus what I call a regular dilation or a gentle dilation. Most gastroenterologists are very comfortable doing a through the scope small caliber dilation. We do it all the time for narrowings uh in the GI tract. Pneumatic dilation is a little bit special because it's a larger stiffer balloon. Uh it has a little bit of special training required to do it properly and it has a little bit higher risk. So if if you were told that you're getting a dilation for your for a should know which kind it is. Pneumatic dilation is effective and it can be durable. Other types of dilation are generally uh ineffective or very temporarily effective. What's nice about it is is that it's easy to do. It's an outpatient um uh procedure. It's quick. What's the disadvantage is that you may need several dilations to achieve relief of your symptoms and then you may need over your life several dilations to maintain that efficacy. So for that reason, it's fallen a little bit out of a favor. Uh in addition, there's about a 4% risk of damaging the esophagus that may require emergency surgery. And so that often scares both patients and physicians away. Okay, though I have to say that in our experience that rate is probably a lot lower than that. Um, so here's just a quick cartoon. You know, the balloons pass through, it's inflated, it stretches that muscle and it doesn't quite break the muscle. It seems to just stretch it out of the way, which is which is why for the most part, most patients over their life may have recurrent symptoms requiring repeated dilation. Uh, this is a helerottomy. This is the standard in in in most parts of this country and increasingly around the world. It's usually done laparoscopically with about four or five incisions that are tiny in the abdomen. Um and uh this is just a schematic where uh the muscle layer here is cut. This is the stomach. This is the esophagus. This is the diaphragm. And that muscle that [\h__\h] is cut for a few centimeters on the stomach side, a few centimeters on the esophageal side and including the lower esophageal sphincter. And in this case a posterior or two pay wrap has been done. And that's uh basically to reinforce the cut muscle and it serves as an anti-relux procedure. This is important if you if you like you can kind of think of aia and reflux as the opposite. You know in reflux the uh lower esophageal sphincter relaxes inappropriately and allows acid to go into the esophagus and achillesia it's too tight and doesn't let food go down. So if you treat achillesia there's some real risk of replacing that with reflux. To deal with that, surgeons perform a wrap where part of the upper part of the stomach is wrapped around the esophagus to reinforce it uh to allow acid to stay down. It's not 100% effective, but it's pretty clear that the risk of reflux is less uh if you do a helerytomy with a fundation. Now, it may not be appropriate for all patients to have one on a case- by case basis, but probably most uh complications are generally low. Uh 1 to 5% is the coded leak. Our surgeons are excellent at this and and uh they're probably on the lower side of that spectrum. It generally requires a few days in the hospital for pain control, recovery of bowel function, advancement of diet, etc. Uh but it's a very good option for for a lot of patients. The disadvantage of of of this operation chiefly in terms of technically is that when the when the surgeon comes from the abdomen, he can't go very high in the esophagus. Um so for patients that have a lot of spasm in the esophagus as diagnosed by their monometry even if he goes as high as he can there may be portions here that are uncut and symptoms may persist. Um an important thing about this diagram is that uh in terms of the reflux when the surgeon goes in to do this myottomy he has to undo a lot of the normal connections uh that protect against reflux. So, a lot of the body's an anti-relux barrier is not just the sphincter, but it's the connections of the stomach and the lower esophagus to the surrounding structures. So, when the surgeon goes in dissects all this out, uh he has to basically um fix it a little bit or put it back together to prevent reflux. And so, this is in distinction to to poem, which we'll talk about uh shortly. So um a last resort sometimes for some patients a very very small minority of patients who have severe dilated tortuous so-called endstage stage 4 uh or late stage sigmoid esophagus these are different terms um requires surgical remover of the entire esophagus uh and hooking up the um stomach kind of higher up in the chest. It's obviously a major operation. Um it's usually only considered for someone who has failed other interventions. So meaning a myottomy has been attempted but was uh ineffective. Um that's a major operation. We try to obviously avoid it. The good news is at UCLA we have fantastic thoracic surgeons and they have very good outcomes. So uh if you're one of those patients that require that you'll be in good hands, but we want to try to capture you before you get to that stage. So what's new in Akalasia? This is what kind of my my specialty is uh is poem peroral endoscopic myotomy. Peroral means it goes uh through the mouth. Endoscopic means it's with an endoscope standard endoscope that we use uh every day and myottomy means cutting the muscle. So it's basically a way to make a really great surgery which is the helerytomy a little bit better uh and a little bit maybe less invasive. So it's a less invasive means of achieving uh the uh same thing with the surgery. So, it's incisionless, it's less invasive. In my experience, I think there's less recovery, uh, and people kind of get back on their feet and out of the hospital quicker. It's very effective, greater than 90% in most studies. And the risk of complications is is very low. Um, and it's so it's been remarkably safe. It's been around for about six years, and it's been widely adopted throughout the world. Thousands and thousands of patients have had poem throughout the world including the United States and it's had an excellent uh safety and efficacy record. So we're very very excited about that and we're excited to be able to offer it to our patients here at UCLA. Um so who can have a poem? Basically poem is designed for achalasia and so anyone that has achalasia of the different types especially type three uh is is appropriate. Um there's expanded indications if you like for for patients that have non-acalasia [\h__\h] disorders of the esophagus and uh those patients sometimes are a little bit more difficult to to manage. So people with esophageal spasm nutcracker um jackhammer those uh patients may be potentially candidates for poem. Poem is doable after uh previous surgery. So if you had a helerottomy years ago but you have recurrent symptoms which happens in a small minority of patients we can still do a poem. uh it can be done or at least attempted with very severe achillesia and sigmoid esophagus. The efficacy is probably a little bit lower but it's still pretty encouraging and uh and something to consider uh especially before esophagetomy and it's been performed uh in extremes of age. It's been described as young as toddlers one or two years old. Um my oldest patient was uh 92 I want to say 93. Um, so, uh, age is not necessarily a reason not to not to do it. Um, but there are some reasons when you can't. So, if there's severe lung or liver disease, that's an important, uh, kind of stop, uh, button. Um, if there's problems with clotting of the blood, whether that's from a primary disorder of the blood or from medications that can't be held or discontinued, blood thinners, etc., um, then then we we may not be able to do a poem. Importantly, if there's severe scarring in the esophagus and that may be from radiation from a prior tumor in the chest or it may be from removing a a tumor endoscopically like a polip or a little mass in the esophagus or or ablating or burning something in the esophagus such as Barrett's esophagus that may make a poem not feasible because of the scar tissue. So, how do we uh prepare you for a poem? Well, you come and you see me in the office and and I and I tell you all about it. Um and uh we first decide if you're an appropriate candidate for all the reasons that I kind of mentioned and then we have to make sure that it's safe for you to undergo anesthesia. So a lot of what we do is a pre-operative anesthesia assessment to make sure that um we can safely anesthetize you in terms of your heart and lung health etc. Um if you're on blood thinners those need to be managed. Aspirin is probably okay. uh other blood thinners uh probably need to be stopped uh if if uh if possible and we'd have to work closely with your internist, cardiologist, neurologist, uh hematologist, whoever u is managing. Prior to the poem, um it's very important to have the esophagus cleared out. And uh so for 72 hours, you you'll need to be on a liquid diet. And that seems like a lot uh but uh you'll be surprised what your esophagus may have despite liquids for 3 days. Sometimes we'll give about a week of an antifungal. It's called nestatin to uh to to basically kill any fungus that may be there. A lot of patients with aalasia get colonized with yeast. So it's like a thrush or a candida infection of the uh of the esophagus. And then obviously nothing to eat or drink prior uh uh to the uh procedure at midnight. Uh it's under general anesthesia. You're paralyzed to keep you nice and still and safe. You're given IV antibiotics for infection prevention. You're given IV steroids to help with swelling. um you're given um potentially an arterial line which is like an introvenous line but goes in the artery to monitor blood pressure. We don't do that in everyone but the anesthesiologist may do that to help uh manage you while you're asleep. And we take precautions against aspiration. One of the main risks of um anesthesia in patients with achilles is that when you fall asleep the food that you think is is not in your esophagus but is and has been there for a few days may come up and go in your lungs. So we take some precautions and we've done very well with that so far. So this is a poem. This is just kind of a cartoon. This is the endoscope. This is the esophagus into the stomach. And the endoscope is tunnneled in the wall of the esophagus uh all the way down to the stomach and then the muscle is cut. This takes advantage of the layers of the esophagus. Uh there's a mucosal layer that touches the food. Uh that's superficial. The deep layer is the muscle layer. That's what we're trying to get to. And in between is sub mucosa. And the submucosal separation or delamination as we call it is what we depend on to safely do this procedure. And so what's separating us from the muscle is this mucosal flap. And that's what the tunnel as we call it is made of. On one side is mucosa and the other side is muscle. And we're basically tunneling very carefully through the sub mucosa. So here's just a quick video of a poem just uh so you can see how it's done. So this is a patient with aia very [\h__\h] It takes a little bit of pressure to push through. Uh this is the initial injection or the entry site into the um esophagus. So we inject a fluid to separate the mucosa from the muscle and allow us to safely cut which is what you're going to see here. So roughly 1 in or so, a couple centimeters incision is made with an electrocottery knife um down into the esophagus to allow an entry point into the wall. And that's what we're doing here. That blue dye that you'll see faintly, we use that so that we can distinguish the layers visually a little bit better. It's a it's just an inert benign dye um that's injected uh with the saline that we use to irrigate. And then these little gauzy wispy fibers, these are submucosal fibers and we're kind of trimming and cutting those so we can enter the tunnel. And this is now the the tunnel starting to be entered. Here is now the muscle. This is the sub mucosa. And if you can imagine threedimensionally, this area will be the mucosa. So now we're injecting some fluid to expand that layer uh so that we can safely tunnel through it. And you can start to see now these circular muscle fibers running across these white ones. And you can see where the die helps you visually distinguish where the muscle is and the sub mucosa is. And so this allows you to safely do the procedure. So we're using electric cotterery to very carefully cut fiber by fiber uh the sub mucosa to give you an idea of size. This uh shaft of this knife this thickness is about half a millimeter. So this is very very fine stuff. Everything is very magnified here. Um the uh part of the dissection here involves identification of of blood vessels. These blood vessels can bleed and so we need to isolate them very carefully like we're doing here. and uh and cauterize them prophylactically so they don't bleed. So we have instruments to do that. This is a coagulation forceps and we very gently uh capture the vessel and cauterize it so we can safely proceed without bleeding. Severe bleeding happens uh in a very small minority 1 or 2% or less and uh is usually manageable um endoscopically if we need to. So now the tunnel is complete. This is the mucosa. This is the muscle. The sub mucosa has been dissected away. This is the lower esophageal sphincter and it's gone a few centimeters into the stomach. And so now we're ready to cut the muscle. So this is the muscle layer being cut. This is the circular muscle running this way. So the esophagus is kind of like this. Okay. So there's an inner circular layer. There's an outer longitudinal layer. For the length of the esophagus, we focus on the circular layer. Once we get to the lower esophageal sphincter, we cut a full thickness myotomy or all the layers of the muscle. So now you can see here this is the u longitudinal muscles here on the other side of this are the thoracic and and structures heart and lungs things like this. Here's the lower esophageal sphincter uh going down and getting cut. Oops. Looks like we paused by accident. Oh, there kind of choppy. So now the muscle is cut completely and you'll see uh on this side is mucosa. This is all of the muscle cut completely all the way down to the stomach. And uh once we come to the end, we just basically close that entry site. So now you can see a little bit more clearly the muscle is divided or cut all the way down. And now this the spasm uh will be relaxed. And this length of muscle that's cut is variable. It can be uh as long or as short as we want it depending on what your monometry tells us is necessary. So that's the entry site. We can go down now into the esophagus. And you can compare now how open this is compared to what it used to be. This is nice open. It used to be nice and [\h__\h] like that. Now after the myottomy, it's open. So you can imagine before food couldn't go down and now it can. And then we uh close our opening with uh clips uh to basically uh uh similar to suturing um close that incision. And that's the last step. And uh our our closure is pretty robust and prevents leakage. And that's what it looks like when it's closed. And these clips fall off uh usually within uh a week or two. You won't probably even notice them. They just kind of pass into the digestive tract. And so that's it. So after the poem, you get admitted to the hospital overnight. It's an observation outpatient type of setting. Uh we just basically have a boring night of watching TV and us making sure that you don't have any complications. Nothing to eat or drink and uh we give you pain medicine if you need it, nausea medicine. Um whether you think you need it or not, it's important not to throw up uh during that first day. The pain medicine remarkably very few people need a lot or any narcotics. Some people have zero pain which is which is pretty pretty remarkable. Even antibiotics uh and then that next morning we repeat the esophag. You swallow the diet chiefly to look for a leak. If no leak is present, you're fed. And if you do well, you don't have any pain when you eat, you go home. You're discharged on a a side soft diet. And that's important. So, you may think you can eat a lot more after your poem. But it's important to only eat a soft diet for two weeks. Soft means anything you can swallow without chewing too much. Uh antibodies for a couple days. And then we assume that you're going to get reflux whether you do or not. And I'll tell you about reflux after poem in a second, but we send you home on an antacid. After 2 weeks, you can advance your diet and then I see you in the office in a couple months. And then we do our postpone testing uh endoscopy etc as necessary um uh there. So in terms of outcomes it's it's very very uh promising and and encouraging. People are very excited about poem more than 90% of patients do fantastic with resolution or near complete resolution of their symptoms and their lives are completely changed. They can eat what they want to. They gain weight uh and and and generally very happy. It seems to be comparable to helery myotomy and maybe for some types of achillesia better potentially for type three. Uh and there's ongoing comparative trials looking at poem versus other other um other uh modalities. The main side effect is acid reflux and anywhere from 15 to 40% of patients can have acid reflux and uh we'll talk about that. Um so we briefly mentioned that other non-accalasia disorders of the esophagus may be treated with poem. The efficacy is probably a little bit less but it's still much better than what we previously had to offer. So you may or may not be a candidate but definitely something to ask your doctor about. Uh adverse events serious adverse events are very rare 1 or 2% or less. Minor stuff that we can manage uh is also relatively rare on the order of 10 to 15%. Uh in general the uh prognosis of achalasia is um progressive meaning that it will get worse if you don't do anything and it can get difficult to manage. Um about 10% or so of patients can progress despite treatment or they can recur and require additional treatment. In general the recurrent treatment after a myottomy whether that's poem or heler is treatable and importantly if you've had previously a heler you can have a poem. Um there is evidence that in patients that have achalasia there's a higher than normal risk of esophageal cancer and that tends to scare people understandably a lot. We don't understand that 100%. Um there's no evidence that screening necessarily uh picks up those patients. So we don't know for example if you should have a yearly endoscopy after your age has been diagnosed or after it's been treated. uh that uh remains to be seen but most people would probably say that at some point you should have your doctor at least see you in the office and and discuss screening uh for cancer. Um so achillesia is rare but important motility disorder of the esophagus. It can lead to significant symptoms. Specific testing is needed for us to know if you have agia and to and to type it uh see if you have type one, two or three or another [\h__\h] disorder. There's no cure. Uh but there's a lot of uh good options and and especially a new option for most patients. A myottomy is probably the best option. Whether that's a helerottomy by a surgeon or a poem by a gastronenterologist is a is often a personal choice. Uh but there are some some instances where a poem may be superior and there are definitely some instances where Heler may be superior. Uh so poem is exciting. It's new. It's it's less invasive and it's something that we're very excited to offer at UCLA. Um, we've been doing this for the last year and we've had some really good outcomes and very happy people. Acid reflux is the main side effect of my myottomy and I tell patients that sometimes you're going to trade one disorder for another one, but a disorder that's more easy to treat. So reflux is generally a lot easier to manage than aia is. For poem, we touched on this a couple of times. No one knows exactly um if poem or helery myottomy is better at preventing uh or or better in terms of a side effect of a collision. So no one knows for sure if heler or poem has more um more uh more reflux I should say. Uh for the most part we think it's about the same. Um those are some some important details that you can uh talk to your doctor about or if you have any questions on on Twitter or Facebook you can let me know. I can go in some more detail. Um, but the good news is that even if you do have reflux, it's manageable with medications. It's important that about half of patients that have reflux posttomy won't have symptoms. That's why we send you home on a on an antacid after your poem. Uh, and that's why we test for acid a few months after your poem to identify you for asymptomatic or silent reflux and decide if he should be treated even if you don't have heartburn. Um, it's very important to emphasize that a multi-disiplinary approach is key. So we're very lucky at at UCLA to have a lot of smart people around us uh much smarter than me who who can uh help us manage very difficult patients. So surgeons that are really good at their jobs, gastronenterologists that are really good at their jobs, radiologists, physiologists, all these kind of people come together and we have a weekly uh or bi-weekly um esophageal conference where we go over endoscopy, images, monometry uh for individual patients and try to come up with a group consensus about the best management options. And that's pretty much it. Uh I'll remind you to submit your questions to uh uh Facebook and Twitter and be happy to answer them. and thanks very much for tuning in and joining and I look forward to uh to seeing you. So here's some questions. So the first one here is reflux more common after Heler. Okay, that's a good question. So we'll go into a little more detail. So the the rate of um reflux after a helerytomy uh without a fundlication without an anti-relux procedure is up to 30 40%. When a surgeon adds that fundlication which is probably pretty standard for most patients that risk is reduced uh to maybe 10% or less. Um however the problem is how do you define reflux and a lot of those older studies where those numbers came from reflux was described primarily by symptoms and we know that half of patients uh don't have symptoms. So those numbers may be underestimating. If you go by a little bit more stricter definition there may be higher numbers and the same applies to poem. The risk of poem the risk of reflux after poem is probably on the order of 15 to 40% uh depending on how you measure it. And the real answer is that it probably depends. So probably people that have a h highal hernia which is when the stomach is into the chest and obese patients uh those patients probably have a higher risk of reflux. Those patients may be more appropriate for a heler myottomy than a poem because then the h highal hernia can also be fixed at the same time. Alternately uh a poem can be done and if reflux is a problem uh a hyal hernia repairer can always be done afterwards uh as a backup option if for example antacids don't work. So the the true answer is is somewhat unknown which causes more reflux. We think they're probably about the same in some patients um poem may cause more reflux than others but uh certainly a heler doesn't guarantee against reflux either. So, I think it's a little bit of a personal choice in a case- by case basis. Um, which kind of brings us to the next question. How should I choose between a heler and a poem? Um, for standard type one or type two aasia, it's it's mostly a personal choice. The main advantages are that it seems to be less invasive, quicker recovery, back to kind of normal life, out of the hospital uh a couple days sooner. So generally a 23-hour or less observation stay in the hospital versus maybe one or two or three days. In my experience, patients with poem have less pain requiring narcotics in the hospital and afterwards than patients that have a helerottomy. And that's a consideration that's important uh for a healthy person that wants to get on with their life. Um but that's also a personal choice. That's the main medical issue. It's incisionless. Some people are, you know, don't want surgery, you know, and scars and things like this. I don't think a cosmetic issue should uh make your decision for you. Um and I would consider poem an endoscopic surgery. So it's it's has you know rare but major side effects just like surgery. Um but the less invasiveness is appealing to a lot of people. Um poem is probably better for patients that have [\h__\h] disorders of the body of the esophagus. So type three echalasia jackhammer esophagus these types probably helerottomy uh seems to do less well because the surgeon just can't get up into the esophagus as well. Um uh so I think it's it's a little bit of a personal case by case type of a um a decision and we often make those decisions at that multi-disiplinary conference uh here at UCLA. Uh what's my risk of cancer? So the the risk of cancer with achalasia is has been described in a couple of u population-based series that risk can be up to 15 or more fold compared to the normal population or a lifetime risk of about 3% has been quoted. Um however we don't know what to do with that number. So we don't understand the physiology of it. Um we think it may be related to stasis. It may be related to something primary uh that has to do with aia. Uh what hasn't been clear though is that what what should we do to prevent it? Um is it something that we should screen all patients with a collision? Meaning that at some arbitrary interval every year, every two years, every 5 years, do an endoscopy uh to look for early cancers that can be treatable. No one really knows. My practice is probably to offer that to patients, have a frank discussion like we're having now and say if you would like, I'm happy to take a look uh in a year or two. Um it probably doesn't need to be yearly. probably doesn't need to be even every two years um at least not long term but maybe every three to five years. It seems like that risk um you know can persist even after treatment. So even if you had a poem or a heler there may still be a slightly elevated risk compared to the normal population. Uh it's important though when we're talking about this cancer in terms of aia that we're talking about patients who truly have primary achalasia and then develop cancer later. um a minority of patients at diagnosis have cancer. Those are more the pseudo echalasia or secondary achillesia patients and a lot of the testing that we do is to try to make sure uh with you know endoscopy endoscopic ultrasound CT scans everything that we need to do to as best we can decide that it's unlikely that you have cancer as the cause of the symptoms. Um last question here is will my insurance cover palm? Uh that's a good question. And it's difficult to answer and the answer is mostly yes. It's a newer procedure. So a lot of insurance companies uh haven't uh quite uh figured out how to put that in their algorithm of payment. Um so we have a pre-authorization process. Our office works very closely with you and your insurance company to get approval uh so that you don't have to worry too much about it. If there's a problem, I advocate on your behalf, make phone calls, write a letter, whatever I have to do to help. Sometimes in that situation, we are still unsuccessful. Um, in that situation, the options are basically to appeal independent review uh either through the state of California or through your insurance company uh to pay out of pocket or to look for an alternative treatment and that could include a helmyottomy. Um, so that's it. I guess we'll stop there. Uh, look forward to uh uh hearing from you. If you have any additional questions, feel free to contact us at our UCLA website or on social media. And um, looking forward to hearing from you. Thanks very much.