Thank you for joining us today at our UCLA MD chats. Today's topic is called addiction in the elderly. And what we're going to talk about today are a few some of the signs and symptoms of addiction, what to do about it if you recognize it in yourself or in someone important to you. and more importantly to talk about some of the myths about addiction and to distill what's actually happening out there in today's world. So, as we're following along, please ask questions on Twitter using hashtagasha MD chat. Again, my name is Dr. Timothy Fong. I'm a professor of psychiatry at UCLA. I run our UCLA addiction psychiatry fellowship as well as a UCLA addiction medicine clinic. So what that means is I spend my time doing research and providing solutions for all addictive disorders. And we start off with very simply what is addiction? Addiction is a brain disease. It is no different than say diabetes or heart disease or cancer. It's a disease that comes with biological, psychological, and social risk factors that causes. It's preventable. It's treatable. It changes biology. And if untreated, it can last a lifetime. The key here that addiction is not a moral failing. It's not because somebody isn't ready to get serious about life. It's not because somebody's greedy or lacks good judgment. Addiction is a brain disease. Very simply, how do I define addiction is characterized by continuing use or engagement in a behavior despite harmful consequences. So what that means, it doesn't mean just drugs or alcohol. It can behavior. It can be behaviors like shopping, gambling, internet use, work, exercise. Here's a slide that shows what we know about signs of addiction as a brain disease. And you can see here first, these are signs of a healthy heart. And when you eat too much fatty food and you don't exercise, eventually your heart breaks down to the part where it becomes a disease heart. Red is good, blue is bad. here on this scan. Same thing happens in the brains of men and women with addiction. They're born with healthy brains and through years of using drugs, alcohol, or not sleeping or having high amounts of stress that can cause brain damage can actually cause a brain to not function in ways that are normal. So that when they then have things like denial or lack of awareness or they can't stop, it's not because they don't want to. It's because their brains have stopped functioning. like to start off very simply. Why do people take drugs in the first place? Really for two reasons. Number one, to feel good, to have sensations that they enjoy, feelings of reward, feelings of getting high. That's a normal part of us in the human condition. Why do we go to movies? Why do we read books? Why do we spend time with family? To feel good. But there's another part where people use drugs to feel better. To take away stress, anxiety, insomnia, and depression. So those are the real reason people d take drugs in the first place. In other words, all the patients we work with addiction, they don't say, "I use drugs because I wanted to ruin my life. I use drugs because I was angry at my parents." No, they use drugs to feel good or to feel better. Today we're talking predominantly about addiction in the elderly. And by that I mean men and women over the age of 55. I recognize that I'm almost 55, so it seems kind of weird to be talking about the elderly, but we highlight that because that's really one area in our field we don't get a lot of calls from and in part because of the shame and the stigma of coming in for help. But addiction is a developmental disease. It starts early on in life. So if you reach the age of 18, chances are if you don't develop an addiction, you're probably not going to develop one later on in life. but more seriously in the elderly, that doesn't mean you can't develop. And in fact, when we see men and women with addiction in uh over the age of 55, their disease oftentimes is much more serious, much more profound, and much more in some ways catastrophic because of their older. This is a list of the commonly seen drugs of abuse that we see out there in America and beyond that are commonly abused. Alcohol, cocaine, amphetamines, stimulants, marijuana, opiates. There's a lot of information out there about the opiate epidemic in America and a lot of stuff we want to talk about. It goes well beyond the scope of our 20 minutes here today to talk about these drugs of abuse. But I want to give you a few highlights of some of the things that we're seeing in the clinics and things that you might think about in your own personal life. So first, what do we know about addiction in the elderly? How does this happen? How do people go through their adult lives and then develop an actual disease of addiction after the age of 55? Well, we know that after 55, stressful life situations happen. Loss of partners, retirement, not having anything to do, physical illnesses, and when you create stress, that's when you create a risk factor for people to overuse drugs and alcohol. We know that boredom and loneliness are profound risk factors for addiction. Again, using drugs or alcohol to escape life's pain. We know that addiction can occur unintentionally. Oftentimes we'll hear stories of men and women started on drugs of abuse in part to help treat their pain or treat their anxiety and then their body develops adaptations to those prescription pills then triggering this disease of addiction. We also know that prescription drug misuse is often overlooked in the elderly population. In other words, opiates, tranquilizers, sleeping pills that are continuing to give to patients just to try and get people to relax and sleep better. But often times the signs of addiction aren't always there. In other words, in the younger population, you may see different signs of addiction than you do in the elderly population. Taking a quick tour of the um substance of abuse out there that are currently misused. And to give you some ideas of what's actually happening in America in 2016, we know that with alcohol, roughly 13% of Americans meet quote criteria for alcohol use disorder, otherwise known as alcoholism. That means 13 out of a hundred people walking around the streets of Los Angeles or the streets of America struggle with control over their drinking. And oftentimes we can start with some very basic questions starting with not are you an alcoholic or do you think you have a problem with alcohol but how often do you have a drink? How many drinks did you have on the days that you did drink? And we know that if for a male, if they drink more than five drinks in a single occasion, that's an episode of heavy drinking. That does not make them an alcoholic. But it raises concern and we should start asking more questions about alcohol and how it relates. So my first question to uh those of you in the audience who are listening, if you've ever had a single occasion where you've had more than five drinks in a single occasion, if you're a man or more than four if you're a female, that's a period of risky drinking. I encourage you to start thinking about what's the reason I'm drinking that much? What do I get out of it? What's my relationship with alcohol? When we turn to prescription pills, we're talking predominantly opiates as well as what we call tranquilizers. Two very different classes of prescription pills. What I want to focus on here first are what we call sedative hypnotics. Tranquilizers, otherwise known as things like benzoazipines. You might have heard of these through names like Xanax, Valium, Adavan, Clonopin. And these are amazing medications for sleep. They're very effective for controlling anxiety and stress. And because they work instantaneously. You take a medication from the family of medicines like bzzoazipine, you will be more relaxed in the next 15 to 20 minutes. You will be able to fall asleep much easier than without it. So as a result they've become very popular and prescribed for the last 50 60 years. But one of the downsides unfortunately of prescription sedative hypnotics can be memory impairment, amnesia, confusion and over sedation where the next morning you can't wake up accidents. This is particularly important in the elderly population. We're not saying for elderly never to have medications like tranquilizers. We're saying though that there are potential side effects that can be deadly. It's important for these side effects, if they're happening to you or to your loved one, to bring them up to your physician who is prescribing them. You can't pick a paper up in America without every single day a story out there about the opioid epidemic. 2016, we have well over almost 40,000 Americans dying every year from opioid overdose. That's more Americans that are dying than from motor vehicle crashes every year. That is the first time in our nation's history that we're seeing that. So opioids of course are amazing medications that quote relieve suffering both pain physically as well as pain emotionally. Almost all opiates are derived either from the opium poppy grown naturally or they're synthetically created by chemicals that resemble the opium poppy. And we see a wide variety of opiates available out there for people to consume from the illegal forms of black tar heroin or uh injectable uh other fentinels and things like that to prescription medications that are prescribed by doctors. The first thing I want to highlight again prescription pills and heroin are two different kinds of opiates that both are potentially abused. Far and away what we know is the vast majority of people who are prescribed prescription opiates are done so in a safe and reliable fashion. It is not the norm for people to take pills and develop addiction. It's just one of the possible consequences. So one of the things I see a lot in elderly population is two things. One, a hesitancy to take any of these pills. Doc, I don't want to become addicted. Doc, I'd rather have anything else other than opiates to treat my pain. Well, unfortunately, we know that pain is one of the biggest trigger and reasons people develop addiction, but strongly encourage people out there to become informed and educated about prescription pills for pain and to realize that addiction doesn't happen overnight. It can take several weeks to several months to develop this disease. And your physician, whoever is prescribing it, well, now in 2016, it is standard of care to have a long talk about the potential side effects. Heroin of course and the illegal substance that's available out there that's been associated with uh cost of addiction, trauma, death and things like that. Marijuana and here in California in 2016, we of course lead America in the sheer number of marijuana dispensaries that are available. We've had medical marijuana available in our states for a long time. As an example of that, over the last 20 years, we have a very interesting story of how we've had marijuana in California going from a medical marijuana uh law back in 1996 up to potential recreational legalization. We anticipate this November 2016 that there will be a ballot initiative to legalize marijuana on recreational use just like the way Colorado has done so far. This slide basically shows that over the last 20 years, California has begun to develop policies to craft medical marijuana such that it should be allowable for the general public to consume. The way I think about medical marijuana is that this is an area where the vast majority of physicians are not trained in to say this will help you or this will hurt you. We don't know what dose. We don't know what strains are available. But it's an area of great potential. We know that marijuana and the active ingredient in marijuana, the THC is an incredibly powerful molecule that can help with depression, anxiety, and pain and loss of appetite. Same time, we know that marijuana is also a very powerful and addicting drug of abuse. So, I highlight that because particularly in the elderly, what we're seeing now is that these are an elderly generation has grown up around marijuana that in some ways have celebrated it back in their youth in high school and college. But the marijuana that's found and purchased on the street is much more potent than it was 40 to 50 years ago. Our hope is that we'll be able to bring through science using medical marijuana to relieve more pain and suffering and not to just bury it underground and pretend that it doesn't exist because it does exist. I would encourage any one of you who are using medical marijuana and if you're finding benefits from it to share