Welcome to our webinar on Alport Syndrome. I would like to welcome you on behalf of UCLA Health and also the UCLA CORE Kidney Program. My name is Anjay Rastogi, and we'll be discussing the UCLA Alport Program. But before that, I just want to go over the UCLA CORE Kidney Program. This is our contact information. If you have any questions, you can call us at (310) 954-2692. That's our email address and also our website. So, please do visit our website. There's a lot of very good information on kidney disease and also other conditions that affect the kidneys, including ADPKD and also the outreach that we do. Now, the agenda for today. So, what is Alport's Syndrome? What you should know and why, and what you can do if you have the diagnosis of Alport Syndrome. So, we'll be going over in a lot more detail. So first of all, what causes Alport Syndrome? So, Alport Syndrome is caused by a mutation in a gene, and this is a gene that codes for collagen fibers. We'll be going over that in a bit more detail, but--so, Alport Syndrome affects mostly kidneys, but there are other organs that can be affected as well, and that includes your eyes and your ears. And the common thread in this is the type IV collagen, which is the mutation that happens in Alport Syndrome. It's also a progressive disease, so it progresses over time, and unfortunately, at this time we only have what we call symptomatic management. We don't have any any cure for Alport, but there's a lot of research going on at UCLA and in the US in general, and the mutation is, as I mentioned, is for type IV collagen. So, collagen provides structural support and integrity to to various tissues, and when we don't have this, things become leaky and unstructured, and the three big ones are these fibers, A5, A3, and A4. So, collagen exists as a heterodimer. So there are these 3 chains that actually intertwine, and we call them alpha 5, alpha 4, and alpha 3, and mutations in these proteins is what causes Alport Syndrome. And this is some more information, if you want to get it. And how is Alport Syndrome--and I will abbreviate that to AS-- what is the mode of inheritance? So, that depends upon what gene is affected. So, the most common is what we call the X-linked. So the mutation is on the X chromosome, and this is for the alpha 5 chain. This is by far the most common and also the most aggressive type. The other mode of inheritance is autosomal recessive, and then we have also have autosomal dominant, and these two, what we call AR and AD, are for alpha 3 and alpha 4 chains. So, depending upon--and they account for roughly about 15-20% of Alport Syndrome-- now, going to X-linked, just to go over our chromosomes, the X and Y chromosomes are called the sex chromosome. So females have two X chromosomes, males have one X and one Y chromosome. For X-linked diseases, and Alport is an example--the other example that I went over my previous webinars was Fabry Disease, that's also an excellent disease-- so the mutation for X-linked is in the X chromosome, and as you can see, females have two X chromosomes, and males have one X chromosome. So if you have a mutation on an X chromosome, unfortunately males don't have a second chromosomal backup. So, they are much more symptomatic than females. So females can have one normal chromosome, and that that will help them a bit, so their symptoms will be milder, but they can still have the the disease and the manifestations that males will suffer from. So, just to recap-- up to 80% of Alport Syndrome is because of mutation in the X chromosome, and this is the alpha 5 chain of the type IV collagen, and most of these patients will require dialysis because they'll have ESRD, end stage renal disease, in the teens and 30s, and females also will be affected, but in general, it's milder than males. The other one is autosomal recessive. So this accounts for about 15% of all the cases of Alport Syndrome, and in this, the patients will end up with ESRD by the age of 20, so it's even a bit more aggressive than the X-linked, and the final one is what we called the autosomal dominant. So in this, it accounts for--and these numbers are rough, but I think the key thing to remember over here is that there is a difference depending upon where the mutation is, whether it's on the X chromosome or the autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, but by far the most common is the X-linked mutation-- now, before we get into the pathology and pathophysiology of Alport Syndrome, I just want to go over some basic anatomy of kidneys. So if you have seen my previous webinars, I've gone over this structure called nephron, so--and that's where the term nephrologist comes from, the kidney specialists are called nephrologist--nephron is the structural and functional unit of the kidneys. Each kidney is made of about a million of these nephrons, and just to go over the parts, these are the blood vessels. Kidneys, as you know, are probably one the most vascular organs in our body. About 25% of what your heart pumps goes to the kidneys, and rightly so, because the function of kidneys is to purify your blood. So these are your blood vessels. The red one is the arteriole. The purple one is the venous side, and when you get into the nephron, this cup shaped structure over here is called the glomerulus, and this is where the ultrafiltration happens. So kidneys act as a sieve that filters blood, keeping the macromolecules and good substances in the blood and getting rid of of the waste products, which eventually come out as urine, and Alport Syndrome actually affects the glomerulus, and we'll be going over that in a bit more detail in the next few slides, and these are some of the function the kidneys do-- acid-base, electrolytes-- I would strongly recommend to see some of the previous webinars that are UCLA Health to go over what kidneys do and what goes goes wrong when the kidneys don't work properly. Now, we'll be focusing on this portion. This is your glomerulus, and this is the filter. This is a cuphead structure. And this is what we call the filtration barrier. This is where the filtration happens, and this portion, this purple thing that you see over here, is the basement membrane. This is actually a structural part or the filtration barrier, and this is where the mutations happen. So, when you have a mutation over here in this portion, the membrane becomes defective, just the filter becomes defective, and It becomes more "leaky," so substances that should normally be retained within blood start leaking into the urine, and one of the first thing that leaks into urine is blood. So you will see red blood cells in the urine, and that's what we call hematuria. So, hematuria is another name for blood in the urine, and there are two kinds of hematuria. One is what we call gross hematuria, that you're peeing blood, and the other one is called microscopic hematuria. So microscopic hematuria means that you can't see blood, your urine is not red, but if you look under the microscope, you'll see red blood cells. So in Alport Syndrome, most of the patients have what we call microscopic hematuria, so they won't see blood in the urine. But if you look in the microscope, they'll see red blood cells. So the defect in Alport Syndrome lies in the basement membrane, the type for collagen, and this is how the disease progresses. So first, you have hematuria, that is blood, and over time, this hematuria will progress to proteinuria. So this filter is getting even more and more leaky, so it's not just that red blood cells are coming out; protein starts spilling as well. And this is one of the important prognostic markers, so we follow protein very closely in our patients, and not just Alport Syndrome, but any patient kidney disease, so the first is blood. Then we have protein. Then fibrosis happens. So the kidney tissue is now replaced by fibrous tissue, and this now tends to become more what we call end-stage, or it's-- we can't recover this tissue once it's damaged, and then finally, if nothing is done, this disease progresses to ESRD, that we call end stage renal disease, which is the same as end stage kidney disease. Renal is a different word. And the other thing that's mentioned over here is inflammation. So, Alport Syndrome. So there is a mutation, and the thought is that a lot of the downstream effects that we see is because of inflammation and eventual fibrosis that we see in these patients, and these are some of the targets, so when we--the studies that are being done in clinical trials, they're really looking at inflammation as a potential target to slow down the progression of Alport Syndrome. Now, how common and prevalent is Alport Syndrome? So the first point is that it is the second most common inherited cause of kidney disease, the first one being ADPKD, and if you look at the number of patients in the US, they're anywhere between--the estimate is about 30,000-60,000 patients with Alport Syndrome exists. About 1 in 50,000 newborns are affected, and about 3% of children with CKD have Alport, and about 0.2% adults, so it's a disease that does manifest, and a lot of these kids don't survive beyond a certain time. So in adults, it's the prevalence, and our hope is that we can, number one--slow down the progression, and hopefully at some point find a cure for Alport Syndrome as well. Also important, keep in mind the females can be symptomatic, and they can have an entire spectrum, from being "towards normal" to have disease as severe as we have in males. Now, the real manifestations, or what we call kidney manifestations. Over here, you can see blood. So this is gross hematuria. But most of the times, you won't see this urine sample to be red. You also see protein in the urine and that's something, like I mentioned, we monitor very closely. Every time the patient comes in, we check for the protein in the urine, and sometimes you'll hear a term called albuminuria. So, albumin is a special kind of protein and is a much more sensitive marker for damage to the glomerulus. The other things that we will see as kidney disease advances is swelling and also hypertension. So these are some of the common, but what's important, keep in mind, is that kidney disease and Alport Syndrome are actually quite asymptomatic to the very end, unless you have hearing loss, which happens a bit later, and eye symptoms. You can have Alport Syndrome and not even know that, and the key clue to having Alport syndrome is either you have a family history, you have family members who have kidney disease or Alport, then if you are at risk you should get tested-- but otherwise, if you don't have a family member, don't know if you have a family member who has Alport Syndrome but you have blood in the urine, then you should be seen by a nephrologist to make sure that you don't have Alport or any other reason for having blood in the urine. Like I said, the other common manifestations that we see with Alport Syndrome are in the eyes-- those are called the ocular defects--and then also in the ears, and Alport Syndrome patients sometimes have hearing loss, and this is what we call the nerve damage. So, there's sensorineural hearing loss that happens in our patients with Alport Syndrome. So how do we diagnose Alport Syndrome? So what would would raise suspicion for having it? So one is the classical symptomatology, so you have blood in the urine or peeing blood but used to have some eye defect as well, you're spilling some protein, you're having some hearing loss. So this will clue in that you might have something called Alport Syndrome. Family history-- if you have a family history of Alport Syndrome or a family history of kidney disease, then Alport Syndrome should be in the differential diagnosis. Then lab tests--if lab has a showing blood in the urine or the decrease in kidney function, like GFR is getting lower, then that also should clue in if you have Alport syndrome. And then finally, if we have found patients who might be at risk for Alport Syndrome, then how do we confirm the diagnosis? And the best way to do is gene testing. This is widely available, and if you have any questions about that, please feel free to reach out to our CORE kidney program at UCLA. We also do biopsies, and the two organs that we do biopsies--one is the kidneys and the others are skin. So that can also help us and confirm the diagnosis of Alport Syndrome, and finally, once we have the diagnosis of Alport Syndrome, we want to make sure that we send them to the eye doctors and the ear doctors as well to see if there's any damage over there as well. But the key thing, just like with any form of kidney disease, is early diagnosis and management, and I think that is very critical to have good outcomes in our patients. Now, when we talk about early diagnosis, this is a slide that I've shown previously. This is the five stages of chronic kidney disease, meaning the disease is chronic, and we define chronicity as having more than three months of any evidence of kidney damage, and the way we divide CKD stages is based on a kidney function, GFR. So, GFR is a lab value that we calculate from creatinine. If your GFR is above 90 but you have other evidence of kidney damage, you'll fall in stage 1, and then as you can see, as the GFR drops, your CKD stage advances, and finally, stage 5 is what we call CKD stage 5 or ESRD, and in this stage, you will need some help and support, either through the dialysis or hopefully through transplantation. So, that was the the manifestations of Alport Syndrome, how do we diagnose Alport Syndrome, people who are at risk, the inheritance, the mutations-- but now, how do we manage? And as far as for management, right now, it is very limited. We treat the CKD, so--and if, you know, when a patient with chronic kidney disease, depending upon the stage, any treatment for CKD, we should apply for Alport CKD as well. Specific treatments, we definitely like to give them ACE inhibitors or ARBs. By the way, there is a seminar or actually a YouTube event that we're doing this Sunday on hypertension, and we'll be going over this class of medications a fair bit. But if you have Alport Syndrome and you're not on this class or drug called ACE inhibitors or ARBs, then you should talk to your healthcare provider if there's a reason, and sometimes there is a reason that we cannot give these medications. Now, optimal care of a CKD patient. So here, the first thing is early diagnosis. That is very important. Keep in mind, CKD tends to be a silent disease. So a lot of times it doesn't manifest at the very end. So, lab testing is very important. So that's the single most important thing--must diagnose, and then we--the key is to delay the progression of CKD, and these are the different ways we do that. We put them on these drugs called ACE inhibitors or ARBs, blood pressure control. If you're diabetic, your blood sugar should be controlled, and protein-- adequate protein in your diet. So, high protein diet tends to be or could be potentially nephrotoxic or kidney damaging, so we want to make sure that you--and too little protein can also have its own issues, so an adequate protein in your diet is very important. We also want to prevent complications that can happen with CKD. This includes anemia, malnutrition, bone disease, and acidosis--buildup of acid in your body. Treat any comorbid conditions--that includes cardiovascular conditions, vascular disease, and if the patient's diabetic on top of having Alport, and then if everything you have done, and still diseases progress to CKD stage 5 or ESRD, then the modality education becomes critical, and modality education is selection of the right modality--home dialysis or transplantation--and if you're going for transplantation, then living donors. So that's something that you need to have an open discussion with, with your nephrology team. Now, this is what was pulled from nephrology dialysis and transplantation, and they're looking at the disease severity and progression. As you can see, over here is the different mutations. The one at the bottom is autosomal dominant, then we have X-linked for females and then then X-linked for males, and the disease severity progresses this way. Asymptomatic, then you have hematuria--that is, blood in the urine-- then you start spilling protein, and then finally, you end up with renal failure. So this is a normal progression that we see, and then once you have end-stage renal disease, then the modality portion comes in. Now, the potential benefits of treatment. As you can see, the maximum benefit is when you diagnose the disease early. So once again, the key focus is on early diagnosis and treatment and management. Now, if--once your kidney function is below 15%, your nephrologist and kidney team will be talking about different options. Home dialysis is definitely a good option, but the best one in the majority of cases is still transplantation, and the key points to keep in mind with kidney transplantation in a patient with Alport Syndrome Is that the graft survival in Alport Syndrome is similar to any of the diagnoses, but what's important is that there is a disease called anti-GBM. So, GBM stands for glomerular basement membrane. That's the membrane I was talking to you about with this problem with the collagen fibers. Some of these patients--a small number of transplanted Alport Syndrome patients develop this anti-GBM terminal fighters. It's rare but extremely traumatic, so that--once again, when you go for transplantation, your transplant team will be discussing this as well. And the other point that I want to mention is about living donors. So if you have Alport Syndrome, it's always good to have a family tree and find out patients who are at risk for having having Alport and getting them tested, and also, what's important to keep in mind is that if you have a living donor and it's a family member, make sure that they don't have Alport Syndrome themselves, and the classical setting is when a female wants to be a donor, it's a mom giving it to her son, and they have one abnormal X chromosome, so they might have some blood in the urine, some other protein-- so those patients are also at risk of progressing to ESRD, so it's very important to screen the potential donors properly. If you have Alport Syndrome--and the same thing applies for other inherited causes, including ADPKD and Fabry's Disease. So, UCLA Alport Program is a comprehensive program. We have a nephrologist, we have a geneticist that we work very closely with, we have a pediatrician that will take care of all the kids, the eye doctors, the ear doctors, the transplant team, the dialysis team, and all the other supportive services. So it's a very comprehensive program, and if you want to be seen in our Alport Program at UCLA, please contact the CORE Kidney Program. We did provide contact information. Also, even though there is no specific treatment for Alport at this point, there is a lot of interests, and there's a lot of active studies and trials going on, and if you're interested in participating in any of these trials, please contact us at this phone number and this email address, and my office will get back to you quite quickly. And with that, I would like to end my presentation. Thank you so much for attending this webinar. This is the contact information for the UCLA CORE Kidney Program. And I think we have a few questions, which I will try to answer, provided I have enough time. Thank you very much. So the first question is "How common is Alport Disease?" So, Alport Disease still falls in the category of of rare diseases, and in the one slide that I showed, it's rare, but it's the second most common cause or inherited cause of kidney disease. So for our kidney patients, it's not that rare. So the most common cause of inherited cause of kidney failure is ADPKD, which is autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Alport is right behind it. And the number of patients, what we think in rough estimate, is about 30,000-60,000 patients in the US have Alport Syndrome. But the important thing, I think, with this, is that even though it's a rare disease, it's familial. So it runs in families. So if there's one family member, multiple members are at risk, and it's very important to to screen them because, like I said, the key point over here is early diagnosis and management of Alport Syndrome. So, screening of family members, very important. The next question is also very interesting. "Are symptoms in the eye and ear necessary for diagnosing Alport Syndrome?" And the short answer is no. Now, this is an important question, because even among some other kidney specialists, they think of Alport Syndrome only when patients have blood in the urine or the kidney function is declining and they have eye or ear problems. Now, patients can have ear problems, but quite a bit of them don't have obvious eye and ear problems, so it's not necessary for diagnosing Alport Syndrome. So, with that, I think our time is up. I just want to thank everybody for participating in this webinar. If there's any questions, feel free to reach out to us. There are other webinars that we have posted, as well. It's on chronic kidney disease, on transplantation, on dialysis, as well. So, please look at them as well. And if you have any questions, please email us at at our COREKidney@mednet.UCLA.edu email address. Thank you very much.