Thank you for joining us. This is Dr. Oji Axoy. I'm one of the international cardiology attendings at University of California, Los Angeles campus. Today I will talk about aortic stenosis and its treatment as it's uh progressing over the years. And there has been much change in this field in the past couple of years in case uh you have been following. and um new things have been happening almost daily uh on a daily basis. So I wanted to give an update on uh what's new, what's coming up as a outcomes and treatment options actually improve on a almost on a daily basis. So we'll talk about this today and um if you have any questions this is kind of open to the web. So uh please feel free to uh put in any questions on the hashtag UCLA MD chat uh and we'll get to them at the end of the talk. Okay. So um I have no relevant financial uh uh relationship to any of the companies. So uh there's nothing to talk about there. So basically on this presentation we'll talk about what aotic stenosis is, what causes the problem, what are the symptoms to look out for and what are uh what the prognosis is in if you treat it or don't treat it really and what the medical options are really. So you can uh do medications uh what happens with that. you can do open heart surgery and uh we'll talk about some of that and also we'll talk about this final uh kind of last piece of this which is the trans catheter aotic valve replacement is a procedure that's been developed in the past one or two decades almost actually uh and it's really revolutionized the way we approach this disease okay so just kind of give you a background summary uh this is the heart and this is kind of a cartoon schematic and this is the real thing basically what happens heart is really you can consider it as a bag of muscle what happens is the used up oxygen. Used up blood comes uh from the uh body back into the heart into the right side of the heart and goes into the lungs where you get rid of the carbon dioxide get the fresh oxygen and the fresh blood now comes in through the atrium comes in through this mital valve through here and goes into the muscular chamber which is called the left ventricle of the heart. Now through the aortic valve which is here it goes out and it gets distributed to the rest of the body. So the problem that we have here uh that we're going to talk about is the aortic stenosis. So if we go back the aotic valve is situated here and that's really the connection that connects the heart the left ventricle the muscular part of the heart to the rest of the body. And aortic stenosis is what it is is that normally this valve has three leaflets and these leaflets one two three here they need to be thin pliable and really it should be opening and closing in a nice fashion with every heartbeat. What happens in aotic stenosis and stenosis just really means narrowing is that you get over time you get accumulation of what you're seeing here which is this calcium nodules thickening of these leaflets and really you get an impedance to flow and these leaflets will not open and close properly and as a result of that the heart is going to have a tough time the blood is going to have a tough time getting out of the heart and as a result people get symptoms which we'll get to. So this is a uh these are some images uh that we had at UCLA from some of our patients. This is a still frame of the uh echoc cardiogram. This is a movie that you're seeing the valve here that the all three leaflets are opening and closing properly. It's a nice opening and the blood ejects out of the heart as expected and gets distributed to the rest of the body. What you get in aortic stenosis and this is again another uh movie here. The aortic valve is situated here. You can see that it doesn't really move much. It doesn't really open as properly. And you can see the same thing here. You can see a lot of thickening here. You see a lot of calcific nodules that we see here. And you can see that the opening really is almost a pinhole here. So as a result, the blood is not going to be able to get out of the heart and it can back up into your uh left atrium through this mital valve and then it can back up into your lungs. As a result, you get short of breath. You can get chest pains and you can get dizziness and lightheadedness. And this is what really aortic stenosis is. How often do we see it? Well, it's estimated that it's prevalent in almost up to 7% of the entire population uh in patients who are over the age of 65. It's more likely to affect men than women and 80% of the adults with symptomatic aortic stenosis are in fact male. So, this is actually a relatively common uh problem to have in in in the elderly population. And what causes the aortic stenosis? Well, the most common thing is age related really. We think although it's not a passive process, not just it's just age related, it's just that it's not just a wear and tear phenomenon, it's inflammation that then begets more inflammation as a as a result you get thickening scar type of tissue formation almost and then you get calcification of these leaflets and that then really cause rustiness so to speak of this valve this outside door opening to the outside world and the door does doesn't open and close properly and that's what aortic stenosis is. Other thing things sometimes that we see that are less common are infection. Sometimes we see roheatic fever. So this is a disease infection that people get as a really in earlier ages and over 20 30 years time. Then you can get valular disease associated with that. You can get stenosis as well as leakage back from the valve as well. And now some people are actually born with congenital anomalies which we're not going to get into too much but if somebody is born with a bus what's called a bicuspit aortic valve meaning they have two leaflets of the valve as opposed to three then we sometimes see that patients at the age of 40s and 50s can get into aortic stenosis type problems and why does it occur? So we kind of touched on this. Age related calcific is the most common cause and as prevalence steadily increases with age and it's really associated with inflammation of the valve that leads to progressive calcification. Initially it's along these flexion lines here and then at the bases and then leads to immobilization of one or more of the aortic cusps leading to a left ventricular outflow obstruction. That just means that the blood cannot get out of the heart as properly to the rest of the body and then it causes symptoms. And then what are the symptoms and those are would be three really cardinal things that we think about really are anga. So that would be a sensation of aching and burning, discomfort, fullness, pain, really squeezing pressure in the chest. That's the chest pain that we usually talk about with heart attacks. So this can give you similar type of uh chest pain to a heart attack. You can get dizziness. So that's the syncopy part. That just means that you're having dizziness and lightheadedness and it can sometimes lead to syncopy. So really brief episodes of loss of consciousness even. And the follow up to that is all shortness of breath. So when you exercise, when you're walking even maybe a flight of stairs or when you're even just walking on flat ground, uh maybe even block maybe even a couple of steps, you can get short of breath. So you get you start feeling winded and that could be from aotic stenosis. Again, that's because the blood cannot get out of the heart and can back up into the lungs. As a result, you can get fluid in the lungs and then that will give you the shortness of breath. Other things that we see commonly are again dizziness we talked about rapid irregular heartbeat is a common uh thing that we see and also palpitation is another again sign of rapid irregular heartbeat that we can see as well. So what are the risk factors that we have found over the years and with research is increasing age. It's the male gender. We've touched on these. Other risk factors are hypertension. So high blood pressure. Smoking is a risk factor. Some elevated cholesterol is a risk factor and lipoprotein A which is another uh cholesterol type protein that's seen in the blood is also a risk factor as well. So then we talked about what aotic stenosis is and how what causes it. So what are the some treatment options? Well, number one thing that we would always think about is medications. Do we have any medication to prevent this? And even when you have it, can you take a medicine that will keep from getting worse? So, unfortunately, uh multiple medications have been tried in this matter. And uh even though cholesterol, so statins have been tried in the beginning. There was one study that showed some benefit to it. However, uh subsequent studies didn't really show that this is slowing the progression of aotic stenosis. So, that's kind of didn't work out. So then ACE inhibitors uh these are some blood pressure medications that looked at that the thought process so they can suppress maybe the inflammation of the valve and that didn't really pan out to be the case although we don't really have large uh studies to really uh answer that question and bisphosphinets is something that we've been a part of and studied this and it also has not panned out to be of any use really in prevention of this disease even though I have to say there's a lot of open field to study this uh uh there's a lot of open room in this and a lot of research ongoing going to see if we can prevent the progression of AS and hopefully in the next several years and decades something will come up really but there are really ongoing studies in UCLA we are part of many of these studies as well and hopefully we'll have some more good news down the line but so far we cannot really have any recommendations to uh say that one medication will be actually useful. How do you diagnose this uh disease? Well, it starts with the office visit really uh with a stethoscope. So somebody listens to your heart and they hear a loud murmur and that usually triggers an echo cardiogram which is what you're seeing here. So you get a jelly on the chest and you get an ultrasound with that probe and we can visualize the valves of the heart and the heart itself and then a lot of times we can actually confidently say that this is what you have. So aortic stenosis is most commonly diagnosed this way and uh again we talked about the murmur. It's a audible systolic heart murmur that you can uh hear on the exam and there's this you can maybe there's soft absent second heart sound that goes along with the valve not closing with a loud sound. So it's not a crisp sound that you hear and other things that you find on exam are delayed corateed upstrokes that just means that the heart blood is not getting out of the heart as rapidly. So then you have a delayed upstroke in the corateed up in the neck. So these are some things that we look for but in general if you want to look at the entire spectrum of how you diagnose aortic nosis again it starts out with the oscultation. A chest X-ray can be of some use. Electrocardiogram can show thickening of the heart muscle. uh this is the echo cardiogram and ultimately you can get a cardiac caization which remains the gold standard although echoc cardiogram is really the most common modality of testing that's used for testing uh finding out if you have severe aortic stenosis and how do we grade aortic stenosis well there's some guidelines unfortunately this is a fairly common disease so we have fairly well definfined guidelines and how to uh how to kind of classify these uh disease presentations so uh on an echo cardiogram for For the most part, what we look at is jit velocity. So how fast the blood is flowing across that valve. So if it's more than 4 meters per second, what the mean gradient across that valve is more than 40 mm of mercury. If your valve area is less than 1 cm squared, that's also consistent with severe aorticosis. And also valve area index that just kind of normalizes the valve area to body size really. and it's less than 6 then we say that you have aotic scenosis and that the classification actually makes a huge difference because if somebody's classified as having a severe aortic nosis then really we think about how we should treat the patient next and why do we need to treat the patient next? Well, this this is a graph that was published in 1960s in fact and this is uh what's showing us the kind of natural course of aotic stenosis if you don't really do any treatment uh which we'll get to in a second but basically this was published in 1960s because at that point there were no surgical options and this people were monitored closely and even after monitoring closely unfortunately people this is kind of life expectancy you get onset of severe symptoms and you unfortunately you don't make it past couple of years. So if you're coming in with predominant symptom of anga that would be chest pain your expected life uh survival is about five years. If you have passing out spells is up to three years and if you have heart failure and that would be swelling in the legs, shortness of breath, cannot do the things that you want to do then that your expected survival is about two years only. So you're really flipping a coin on your life at 50% at two years if you have shortness of breath and aortic stenosis without treatment. And this is a graph that's actually a very sobering uh kind of a graph. It's uh in patients who have inoperable uh aortic stenosis meaning they're not really candidates for surgery. If they don't get the surgery and this is what the expected outcome is only 3% of the patients will be alive at 5 years. So that means 97% mortality at five years in patients who are not getting surgery. And compare that with the cancers really you have breast cancer 20% you have colorectal 12 you have prostate 30% ovarian cancer 28% fiveyear survivals I mean this is pretty dramatic the good thing about it is that we have treatment options that are beyond surgery at this point as well so this doesn't need to be 3% anymore uh graph that was looked at this is again many years ago that is that the survival is worse in the elderly so they looked at patients who are over under the age of 80 and then they looked to see what their survival was and they found out that you're really also flipping a coin at one year 50% survival at one year if you're on the elderly side and control group is kind of same age patient population with no aotic stenosis. So this is a serious problem to have and thankfully that is something that we can fix. And what is the fix? Well, the original studies were done with the surgical uh uh approach. And if you look at this this kind of complicated graph, but if you have symptoms and you don't get surgery, this is your expected survival over the years. If you have symptoms and you get surgery, then this is your um this is your expected survival up here. And it's pretty dramatic increase in survival. You can just imagine how many years you're adding to a patient's life by doing the surgery. So, it's it's pretty impressive outcome surgery. And surgery is great in this sense. So what are the recommendations? So according to the American Hearts Association and American College of Cardiology guidelines for valvular heart disease, aortic valve replacement is indicated in virtually all symptomatic patients who have severe aortic stenosis and that's class one recommendation level of evidence A. What that means is very highly recommend in the CL the evidence that we have is excellent for this. So it's highly recommended that if you have aotic stenosis and symptoms that you should really get this fixed. And how is the surgery done? Well, surgery is for the most part it's done through median stronottomy which is here. The sternum is the bone in the center there. It's the surgeon really kind of opens that up and then there are some other approaches. It can be minim minimally invasive robotic surgery that can be done this way as well. But ultimately what you're getting is either this valve or that valve. So this is a mechanical valve that you're seeing. So if you get the mechanical valve, you're going to end up on couadin the rest of your life. That's a blood thinner which is associated with some bleeding complications down the line. So we usually reserve this type of valve for young patients. And this is a boprothetic valve meaning this is made out of either cow or p tissue and this is sutured in place and uh once it's in its expected lifetime uh how long it's going to last is about 14 15 years in this day and age in the most modern setting. So what does it look like in real life? This is actually one of my patients that I sent for surgery and this is what it looked like in the operating room. Here's the valve that's really you can see the thickening of that. It's really destroyed and it wasn't really doing much. Unfortunately, this patient was in really bad shape at that time. They cut out the old pieces out. Again, this is open our surgery. And they put a new valve in. You can see the nice kind of appearing uh crisp appearing thin leafless and that's going to open and close with every heartbeat. So then he's had the surgery and he's doing great right now. and we kind of joke about how everything went through and he's doing great and he's back to running his you know running his going back to work and running really almost on a daily basis. So he's doing great. So surgery is a great option. Problem is not all patients with aotic stenosis are able to get surgery. And why is that? Well, because surgery is a not the most benign procedure to have. So it can have um people can have tough time recovering. Again, we're talking about PE patients who are on the kind of more elderly side who have this problem. So, they're not necessarily the best candidates for open heart surgery and which is very understandable. So, people have looked at this and in the literature if you look back almost up to 40% of aotic stenosis patients do not really get recommended surgery because of their overall situation, their overall condition. So, uh because of this, 40% of the patients are not really treated with the uh with this potential life-saving procedure. And we're back to that graph that we saw that you have while you have two years left in your life. It's kind of we're left in that situation. That's how it was up until a couple of years ago actually. Again, this is this was also studied in Europe and they looked at the same thing and they found that 33% of all elderly patients severe as were denied surgery by their doctors because they were just not candidates. Well, why why is that? because uh many elderly patients will also refuse surgery because they perceive themselves to be too old for open heart surgery. But having said that, age is not really a contra indication. So if you look at the guidelines, if you have uh more than a few years of expected life expectancy, then you know surgery may be something that will add more years to your life and so you can spend more time with the loved ones. So this is something that we we can actually recommend to some of our patients. So, we actually did a tavern patient recently, which I'll get to and he was actually 96 years old and he's still kicking having a good time. We actually were kind of he was we were pacing each other the other day and he was actually going faster than I was. So, age is a number really. It's actually true. Some 90year-olds are at look like they're 60 and they function like they're 60 and unfortunately there are some 60-y olds that are they look a little bit older. So, the age is not a issue. It's really the condition of the patient that we look at really for the most part. So just because uh somebody's on the older side, we don't think that we should just kind of leave them alone. I think in this day and age, especially when we have a lot of treatment options. So I label this talk as futurist here. And what does that mean? So trans catheter aortic viral replacement has risen as a promising alternative to surgery in those 30 40% of the patients that are not being offered surgery. And we're really getting very good outcomes. And now even better, we're now using newer generation valves which are safer, procedure is easier, people are going home quicker, and outcomes are actually better. And I'll get to that next. So what's Tavern? So for patients who are at either high risk or too sick for open heart surgery, this is an alternative. I'll show some video videos of this thing. So basically you're putting the valve in a position where uh instead of cutting out the old valve with open heart surgery, you're putting a new valve over the old valve. And this was put first published in France actually by Dr. Kirby in 2002. And ever since then it's really taken off to be uh to be one of the most revolutionary treatments in cardiology and really in medicine in general. So these are the in the US there are two valves that are currently approved. This is a sapion 3. This is a balloon expandable valve. So it's basically a metal cage. Inside of it, there's a valve. And this is the Evolute R. This is from another uh company. This is a nitenol frame. So it's kind of self-expanding frame that opens up and then the valve starts function. This is made out of uh cow tissue. This is made out of pig tissue ultimately sutured inside. And over the years things have improved. So these are um the first generation, first ever valplaced. It's on the left side here 2002. Now we're 2013. This was the newest generation. And this is now what we're using now. This was approved only a couple of months ago. The one of the good things about is that we used to use from groin access this video catheter 24 French is how we measure these things. Now we're almost half of that size now. So a lot of more patients can be able to can get these uh valves done through their groin actually as opposed to only used to be almost 50/50 a couple of years ago. Now, we're doing maybe 90% from the femoral groin approach and maybe 10% from side of the chest, which I'll get to. And ultimately, this is how it's done. You're going to have the Y catheter come around. Here's the valve. We inflate the balloon, which I'll show you again. And then the valve sits in place, and the valve opens and closes. And now you have almost like a new door really, so to speak, that's leaving letting the blood go out of the heart. So, this is how the procedure is done. This will go through uh kind of how we uh think about and what we do. So this is the valve that's really you can see thickened and calcified and there's all these thickenings over it. So it's not really opening closing properly. So uh if the procedure is done from the groin approach which is um we put a uh which is what's shown here. We put a wire up and the wire goes around. And then we cross this valve go into the heart. And after that wire is situated in a safe fashion, we go up with a balloon. And then we're going to make some space with that balloon for the heart. To be able to keep everything stable, we pace the heart to be faster to almost create a stand still for maybe about 5 seconds. So now we have more room in the valve. So, we can now put on put in our uh crimped valve at this point. And that valve, so this is just the sheath going in. And that valve has a balloon inside of it. And it's the metal cages around it, which is this one over here. It goes up and over. So, here we're kind of assembling the device in the uh in the aorta. And then once it's all assembled, it will go up and over. And it will get situated in a perfect position. As you will see when we spend a lot of time deliberately to uh really put it at the right place because you don't want the valve moving up or down and go anywhere anywhere that you don't want it to go. And then we paste the heart and we inflate the balloon. And you're seeing here the balloon is down and the valve is now opening and closing. And then once we're done, we check for how what the outcome is like uh with the using the echo cardiogram and see we look for there's any leakage around the valve or from inside the valve and everything looks okay. There's no damage done anywhere else which is rare anyway. We double triple check everything and then uh you can see the valve opening and closing and we're happy and we take out all our equipment and we're done. So this is essentially how it's done. This is as kind of some cases that we had done in the past. Here's a wire that we had talked about before and this is that sheath cath going up. The next one is this is the actually real case where here there's a lot of uh traffic really but this is one of the catheterss that we monitor the pressure with. This is a pacer wire that we uh use to pace to create maybe 5 seconds of stand still. This is a camera from looking within and that we don't use that anymore actually which I'll get to later. And this is a pigtail catheter that we inject contrast with. And this is the actual valve. As we paste the heart, you will see the we're looking for the best position. We like the position. We inflate the balloon. Everything is looking good. We take that other catheter out and you inflate the balloon all the way. And then the balloon comes down. And this is the entire procedure really. Now the patient has a new valve essentially in place and that aortic stenosis is fixed. So this is what the procedure is all about at the end of the day. But what is the data for this? So why are we doing all this and why are we all excited about this? Well, so this was a study that was published. This is called the partner study that really uh is the initial study that changed how we think about things. So what they did is they they looked at almost a thou over a thousand patients. This is the inoperable side meaning the patients are really had no options. They are not candidates uh at all whatsoever. So then there was a comparison between this taver valve and medical management and then the the taver the medical management side actually uh more frequently got balloon valve plasties meaning they just put the balloon up and down and didn't put a valve in and then those were compared. So medical management and the uh taver valve and the other on the other arm of the study the high-risisk patients so patients were able to get surgery but they were just high risk. So they compared the taver valve versus the high-risisk patients uh surgical valves and see they looked at the outcomes. So this is what it looked like at the end day. So this is out to two years and then if you look at the survival this is all cause mortality in about at about one year in patients who were treated with standard therapy that would be medical management just medications alone you have 50% mortality and if you have the tar val you have 30% mortality. So basically you're adding uh uh 20% of survival uh to those patients. On this one at 2 years you have 25% difference in between the two arms. So basically you're increasing the chance of somebody's survival you know by almost 25% if you do the tab surgery. So is actually pretty pretty dramatic difference actually. And when it was compared to this is the same study when it was compared at three years to open AR surgery versus this tab valve you can see that the curves essentially overlap down the line. There's no statistically significant difference. So in high-risisk patient population the open heart surgery versus taver was essentially had the same outcome in terms of longevity of life and this is now true out to many years. Here's the other study. So those first two studies that I discussed was with the uh balloon expandable valve. So this is now the core valve that evolute R kind of prodigy of this evolute R that I showed you in the beginning that night self-expanding frame and when they compared surgery with the val uh trans catheterss with taver valve and they actually in fact did find that there was a uh survival benefit to doing the taver valve as opposed to the surgery and that was about 5% at one year and it was statistically significant. So that was actually interesting. Now the one thing that we have is that not everybody has enough uh or big enough iliac blood vessels. So blood vessels in the groin area. So in some patients unfortunately we cannot go from the groin. This is becoming less of an issue with the newer generation valves meaning that as I showed you before the catheterss that we using are getting smaller and smaller. So now we can really go on the groin much of the time. But in those patients who really have essentially no access from the groin that one option is to go from the side of the chest. This is again you're not going on heart pump surgery heart pump really but you're going through the tip of the heart and actually you end up getting uh the valve situated that way and then you end up getting a small incision at the side of the chest. So and then this is a similar procedure at the end of the day that you're getting the same valve. It's just that you have if you have no blood vessels that are good enough to go up from the groin. This is the other alternative that we can use. There's a couple other alternatives that we have, but this is really the most predominant one. The as far as the how often we need to do this, well, this used to be almost 50 50% of the cases several years ago that we had to go from tip of the heart. Now, we're down to maybe about 10%. We're using 90% from the groin with the adv advent of these new new techniques and new sheets and new generation valves. So, what is new? Well, initial data that I just showed you with the sapion valve or that's the balloon expandable or the core valve which is the self expanding uh valve was with the first generation valves. They already essentially match surgery. There are new valves now. This is newer generation valves. These valves are better. You get better procedures. You get quicker procedures and actually safer procedures and easier procedures and outcomes are actually better too because there's some design improvements to these valves. So here's that balloon expandable valve uh that we talked about initially and I showed you the videos of actually. So this is the sapion 3 valve now and they looked at the high-risk cohort and they looked at the intermediate risk cohort now and they compared uh these valves transferral and transapical approaches to each other. So basically what they looked at was uh average age of the patients in this study was 82. So really uh again like we said the age is not really the issue and there are a lot of 90 year olds in the study as well and uh majority were male as you can see this is the average SDS score this is something that we follow and see what the risk of surgery is so expected surgical risk of survi not surviving surgery at 30 days is about 8% 8.6% 6% and they were able to look at about uh almost 600 patients and this is what they found that mortality at 30 days was in fact 1.6%. Just if I go back with surgery it would be expected that their risk was 8.6%. But with this taver valve it's 1.6% of that cardiovascular death was 1%. So essentially from the heart you're getting 1% mortality which is as compared to that 8% 8.6% mark. It's actually pretty remarkable improvement. What is the risk of stroke? Well, this is kind of this kind of deserves its own special presentation, but basically in the first generation valves, the risk of stroke was higher on the taver valves as compared to open heart surgery. But as the newer generation valves valves came along, so now all stroke risk is down to 1.4%. It used to be almost 6% 7% in the beginning, which I'll show you a graph of. Now it's down to 1.4%. disabling stroke is less than 1%. So this is actually a very remarkable improvement on new generation uh valves as well. This is another breakdown of the strokes. Again, disabling stroke rate rates is8%. So it's a very very small risk actually. If you look at the newer generation valves, here's what we're looking at. So this is the first ever study. This is at 30 days mortality. It's it was 6.3% with the first study. Now we're down to this is only 3 four years mind you of improvement in new generation val we're down to 1.6% from 6.3% in terms of all cause mortality at 30 days so dramatic improvement. What about strokes? Like I mentioned the risk of stroke with first generation well was about 7% in the 30 days uh outcomes. Now we're down to 1.4%. Of that again the one the disabling stroke was 0.8%. So again very dramatic improvement and that's due to new generation valve that's due to smaller catheterss that we using and we actually learning to select out patients better actually as well for the risk of stroke. If you look at other clinical events, you can have vascular complication that usually means bleeding. That's about 5% annual rupture. That's kind of structural damage to the heart. It's really small. So any other risk is fairly small. The one thing that comes up is the new requiring a new permanent pacemaker. That's actually about 13%. So this is actually a real risk that we usually sometimes think about especially in someone who has old and existing conduction disease. So this valve may make it worse. And the reason for that is that where we're placing the valve is just next to the wiring in the heart. So when we're putting this valve in, it can actually uh compress on the wiring in the heart and it can actually cause uh the conduction system of the heart to get worse and it can lead to a pacemaker. What about the paraviral leak? This is something that we follow very closely. That just means that the valve was uh there's some leakage of blood back into the heart from around the valve. And with this valve, it's actually that severe leak was non-existent. Mother leak was 2.5% and uh my leak was present in 30% of the patients essentially none on 60% of the patients. So it's actually pretty good. This is a lot more improved as compared to the first generation as well. So basically key takeaways 1.6% all cause mortality at one month and 0.8% disabling stroke with a pretty dramatic improvement from the first val that we had. What about the intermediate risk? So so far the patients that we talked about have been high-risisk patients. So because FDA has so far approved for us to use this valve in high-risisk patients only. It's not approved for intermediate risk patients and that's determined by really what we think your surgical risk is and that usually is more than eight then we consider that to be high risk. If your numbers are between 4.8 four and 8% in terms of survival in terms of mortality with surgery then you would be considered intermediate risk. So in this in this patient cohort uh that they studied also they looked at the intermediate risk patients as well and when they looked at the uh mortality at 30 days it's 1.1%. What was expected was 5.3%. So with this taver valve we were down 1.1%. You're really getting the mortality down by almost by 80% by doing this taver procedure. So which is kind of impressive finding in and of itself. As if you look at the stroke side uh all stroke was 2.6% 6% disabling stroke was 1%. So excellent excellent numbers uh especially as compared to the first generation uh valve that we used to have. What about the other night self-expanding frame? This was also studied that we talked about already that this study in fact did show that this tower valve is actually as far as survival is superior to the surgical valve. it came out to be and uh the surgical in terms of the study too if you look at the strokes actually you get less strokes with this tower valve as well. So this technology is also very promising. The one problem though that they had also is that they had more implants of pacemakers. So it's almost up to 20% 25% in this case after you place this valve in. So in somebody who has conduction disease problems that this valve may not be the right valve for you. if pacemakers is something that you don't really want to. But having said that, the other valve also needs pacemakers occasionally. So this is something that discussion to be had with your cardiologist and your surgeon. If you look at the kind of newer generation of this valve, 1.3% all cause mortality. That's the evolute RN follow up to the core valve that we had talked about in the beginning. And it's pretty low numbers. And if you look at the stroke, it's 3.3% stroke. So the stroke rate is a little bit higher than the other valve, the uh balloon expandable valve. But those are the both uh two options that we have. In this one, the permanent pacemaker rate is down to 13% as well. So those numbers are improved. So this is really what I wanted to talk to you about for the um overall aotic stenosis and tab part. I just want to touch on how we've done at UCLA so far. Now this is data from up to a couple of months ago. We had done 134 at that point. Uh, and of course we're up to 180 now. Actually, we're doing maybe three, four a month. Uh, three and four a week almost at this point. So, it's getting it's actually pretty busy. And this is when we had the uh Sapion 3 come in actually out this far. This is again for three-month data. Since then, we had done 17 cases from the groin and one case from the uh the tip of the heart. So, things have improved uh in that sense. So, patients have quicker recovery. And what's more important and this is we're really the only center that does this uh in the kind of near vicinity in the Los Angeles area is that initially in the beginning we used to do all cases with general anesthesia and in all cases we used to use transophage echo cardiogram that's the cardiogram you uh do from within really when you swallow this uh probe and then kind of look at the heart from within but currently how we're doing this is we're doing it the conscious sedation so this is something that we use we give fentanyl vers and then occasionally We can use some other kind of medications to kind of create sleepy state I should say but there's no general anesthesia. There's no breathing tube in most cases and this helps us because there's more comfortable for you. There's no um throat pain. There's quicker recovery. We get immediate neurologic feedback. Patients are more stable. So we're not having to deal with low blood pressures, high blood pressures, that type of thing. And then patients are going home a lot quicker. So again, like I mentioned, we're the only hospital that's really doing this in this in this setting. Uh there's no breathing tube, so less less risk of complications. So potentially less aspirations because that you don't have that brea breathing tube and more patients are being done from the leg approach. And then in the beginning before this, we instituted this moderate conscious sedation protocol. Patients used to stay in the hospital for four to five days. Now patients are staying in the hospital usually going home the next day in fact. But if there's something that we worry about, we keep them just to be safe another day. So our averages have been about one and a half to two days lately. So things have improved dramatically from the first generation to second generation, especially at UCLA as well. So what do you really go through? Well, so there's before the procedure and after the procedure. So before the procedure, like we talked about in the beginning, you get an echo cardiogram from the surface. It's fairly straightforward. Less commonly, we ask for a transophageal echoc cardiogram if there's something worrisome. This is really rare but occasionally we use the transophageic cardiogram from the mouth. You end up getting a coronary androgram. So it's possible that part of the chest pain and part of the shortness of breath could be from blockage in the blood vessel in the coronary. So we sometimes go in and we actually may end up needing a stenting of one of the blood vessels of the heart and which can be actually of tremendous help. You get an EKG. We do do a CAT scan of the heart and abdomen and pelvis. This helps us pick the right size of the valve that to put in. So there's no leakage around the valve and we don't oversize or undersize it. And this is how this really is impactful on how people feel afterwards because the wrong size valve actually may create other problems in and of itself. And we haven't had any issues with that actually with sizing. So this CAT scan is very tremendously helpful. Corateed ultrasound. These are the blood vessels that go to the brain that if there's a significant blockage there that sometimes we need to talk to our colleagues in neurology and surgery to see if there's anything that needs to be done there. Although we haven't had to do much in that sense either. Pulmonary function tests. We check the lung function studies, blood work and ultimately we want clean teeth as much as possible because you don't want this val new valve to get infected because it's a foreign body in there and you don't because if it gets infected then it's a major major problem to go through because of our diligence we haven't had any cases of infection in fact of this new valve. So uh that's a good thing. What is the process? Well, you usually admit on the day morning of the procedure. So you come into the uh uh kind of initial preparation area. So you get your IVs in, you come to the Kath lab, we kind of give you the sedation medicine, we do the procedures, procedure is done. It lasts about maybe 45 minutes to an hour in terms of us doing the procedure. Everything else kind of making you sleepy and kind of waking you up maybe another hour on uh either end. May it maybe two maybe two and a half hours sometimes at the most. And everything going well, you may end up going to a regular room after the recovery area or you may end up staying in the ICU if there's something that would like to watch more closely. And then again like we talked about you can go home next day or maybe the day after unless there's there's anything new that's uh developing that we want to follow. So basically surgery and then this is where we put this is somebody's finger. We just want to emphasize how small this hole is. You're going through this big a hole in the groin really to be able to uh put this valve up. So it's pretty dramatic improvement in terms of uh where we've come and where we're going. Who are involved with these procedures? First of all, this is one of the first cases actually. There are many patients, many people in the room, many doctors in the room. This was one of the first kind of historic picture that we had in the beginning, but uh this is a lot less now. We have a slimmer crowd. Uh but we still have uh two attendings at least in the room, usually two cardiac surgeons, two cardiac cardiologists in the room. Uh myself and my colleague that uh I'll talk about we have the echo cardiographers. We're looking at the valve all the time. And then we have anesthesia attending who is giving the sedation relaxation medicines. Then we have the cat lab nurses text and there's a device rep from company to help us out with the uh device procedure too. And that's where we are really. So currently the future is bright. In the aortic position we have these valves available to us. This is the Edward sapium valve which is this one. This is the balloon expandable one. Metronic core valve is the one that's the nightol self-expanding frame. What's even better is that there are more valves coming up and uh in the mital valve position which we touched on the mitro valve before there's new valve development so that maybe in the future that we can use these valves to replace these valves uh without surgery also in the similar fashion there's already a device called that we we have at UCLA we're doing it's called a mitroclipip to treat the uh mitro regurgitation which in patients who are not really candidates for surgery it's something that can reduce the mitro regurgitation actually will help improve the shortness of breath dramatically. That's one thing. And in the pulmonic position, that's the one uh valve that's going into the lungs. We already have we've been using actively the there's a valve called the melody valve and we also use this sapium valve in that position as well. And actually, we did several in the past few weeks. So, future is bright and things are getting less and less invasive. And we're very happy that we're able to offer these technologies here at UCLA as well. So, these are just some of our patient. This is one of the earlier patients that was done. This is the next day and this is one of our patients who actually just maybe two hours after the procedure. We're just kind of joking, chitchatting about this. And this is myself and this is my colleague Dr. Sa who's also my partner in this procedures as well. He's one of our interventional cardiologists. This is our team myself Dr. Sa Dr. Oani. We have a big team on the surgical side. We have Dr. Shiman and Kuan and Benharash. On the imaging side, Dr. be off our valve coordinator who's tremendously helpful to us is Jeie. She's really heart and soul of the program. On the anesthesia side, we have our specialist Dr. Hoan Patel and many nurse practitioners who will help transition from anywhere from pre-taver to posttaver side. And uh that with that I'll end. Again, it's my name. Any questions use my email and this is the contact office number. So that's really it. Okay, if you have any questions, uh, we're open to them. Let me, uh, now I'm going to look and see what's come through so far. So, this is a interesting question. How does the cost of tab compare with surgery? So, uh, it depends on which cost you're talking about really. Uh, to the patient, the cost doesn't change per se because the insurance uh, if the insurance covers it, if it's a high-risisk procedure, most insurancees cover this already. So to you the out of pocket cost is not going to be any different. The one thing I will say is that uh surgery in terms of surgical valves are cheaper. So surgical valve is maybe on the order of five anywhere from 5,000 somewhere in that ballpark. I believe this taver valve ends up being actually 30,000 the valve in of itself but the patient himself does or herself does not see that cost. It's something that uh that's incorporated that the insurance deals with. So it's not it's not an issue. How should I change my diet if I have aotic stenosis? So that's a very good question. Uh so if you think about it, the the reason people get in trouble with aotic stenosis is uh that the blood cannot get out of the heart. It can go back into the lungs. So it's anything that will increase your blood pressure. Anything that will increase kind of the water in the system so to speak may lead to uh may lead to more shortness of breath and symptoms of heart failure. And so eating things like salty foods, chips, uh canned soup, those types of things in fact may be detrimental and may put you in heart failure. And this is especially relevant now that we have the holidays coming up. So it's something to uh be watchful of. Next questions, are there any dangers to my pregnancy if I have aortic stenosis? So this is a very good question. In fact uh it's rare that a woman of childbearing age will have significant significant aortic stenosis. Having said that there are conditions I mean if you're born with a bicuspit valve if you're born with some other kind of congenital anomaly it's something that could be potentially dangerous but it needs to be watched. Usually in younger patients we don't really see this to be an issue because this calcific is usually what we deal with. Having said that, if somebody's born, if you're born with a uh kind of a congenital problem with the valve, it's something that you should really really follow up closely with your cardiologist because it's something that needs to be followed. What happens with pregnancy if you have a severe valve disease and we see this a lot of times with mitroenosis for instance, not aotic necessarily, but although a can be an issue, it's just that mitroenosis in the childbearing age is a little more common uh due to roheatic valve disease. uh is that what happens with pregnancy is that you get more kind of fluid circulating more blood circulating in the in the blood vessels and that in fact can lead to heart failure shortness of breath type symptoms. So it's something to be mindful of. It doesn't preclude somebody from getting pregnant but that also depends on how severe the degree of aortic stenosis is. Something that really needs to be followed closely. Okay. So those were the three questions that we had. So this now u concludes our presentation on a scenosis. If you have any questions any uh at any point, please feel free to contact us at UCLA. We're always here. We're happy to help. And these are some of the email. You can always use the personal email. You can call the office to uh further discuss on the phone as well. Thank you very much. And hope this was helpful to you. And uh good luck. Thank you.