Hi, I'm Dr. Raj Javen, a urologist and men's health specialist. And I'm Dr. Christopher Sigel, a urologist and urology cancer specialist. Benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH is a common condition in men as they age. In men with BPH, the prostate enlarges and causes problems emptying the bladder. By the time men reach their 60s, over half have some prostate enlargement. About half of those men will experience symptoms such as frequent urination, weak stream or urgency. The good news is we have many treatment options for VPH. There are medications you can take. Alpha blockers like tamsyloin relax the muscles around the prostate and bladder to improve flow. Phosphodiest 5 inhibitors such as tadalaphil relax penile arteries and the smooth muscle of the prostate and bladder neck. This can improve urinary symptoms and even erections. Five alpha reductase inhibitors like finasteride can shrink the prostate by about 20%. For some men, combination therapy works best, especially if the prostate is very large. But not everyone responds to medication and some people want to avoid long-term side effects of drugs. There are also surgical options all of which avoid incisions. The traditional approach is called trans urethral resection of the prostate or TURP. In TURP, excess tissue is removed with a special electrical tool. In photovaporization or PVP, a laser is used for this purpose, relieving the blockage. It's especially useful for patients on blood thinners. In both procedures, patients usually go home the same day with a catheter for 24 hours. A common side effect of these surgeries is dry orgasm where no fluid comes out. Two newer procedures reduce or eliminate that risk. Aquaablation uses a high-powered water jet to remove obstructive tissue within the prostate. This is robotically assisted and imageguided. This option has a greater chance of preserving ejaculation. Patients usually go home the next day. Eurolyft is an option for patients who prefer not to have tissue removed. Anchors placed within the prostate pull the obstructive tissue back and improve urinary flow. This procedure takes 15 to 30 minutes and can be done in the clinic. There's no risk for ejaculation problems. However, it's not appropriate for all men. >> Lifestyle changes can also help. Some studies suggest regular exercise may reduce the risk or severity of BPH symptoms. We have more treatment options than ever before. To determine the right treatment for you, we start with a full evaluation of your symptoms and goals. >> If BPH affects your quality of life, talk to your doctor.