Hi there. I'm Dr. Michael Yay from UCLA Health Endocrine Surgery and today I want to talk about the BFF mutation in thyroid cancer, including what it is, what it means, and how it can affect treatment and outcomes. What is the BFF mutation? When we talk about the BFF mutation in thyroid cancer, we usually mean the BFF V600E mutation. BFF is a gene that normally helps control how cells grow. But when this gene is changed or mutated, it can tell cells to grow too much and too fast. It can also make cancer cells spread into nearby tissues. In short, the BFF V600E mutation sends growth signals that cause a cell to grow out of control. There are two main types of mutations in cancer. First, somatic mutations, which are changes that are acquired but happen during a person's life, and germline mutations are ones that are present in every cell in our body and are inherited from parents. The BFF V600E mutation is a somatic mutation. That means it's only present in the cancer cells and it's not found in every cell in your body. You didn't inherit it from your parents and you can't pass it on to your children. This kind of mutation usually happens as our cells age and repair themselves. It's part of how some cancers start, but doesn't change your whole genetic makeup. Now, how common is the BFF mutation in thyroid cancer? The BFF V600E mutation is found in several different types of cancers such as skin cancer, melanoma, colurectal cancer, and even lung cancers. In thyroid cancer, about 40% of all thyroid cancers have it, and about 50% of papillary thyroid cancers have it. Please remember that papillary thyroid cancer is the most common type of thyroid cancer, making up more than 90% of new thyroid cancer diagnoses every year in the United States. A question we get all the time is, does having the BFF V600 mutation mean that I'm going to have a worse outcome? And this is where it gets interesting and complex. About 10 years ago, doctors thought that having the BFF600 E mutation meant a higher risk of the cancer coming back or being more deadly. But now we know more. Now, most people with papillary thyroid cancer do very well because these cancers are small, slow growing, and rarely life-threatening in most cases. Since half of papillary thyroid cancers harbor the BFF mutation, but 95% of these patients do great, then the mutation alone isn't the full story when it comes to outcomes, right? What does recent research show? Well, over time, we've learned that context matters. For example, older patients ages 55 and up who have the BFF V600E mutation may have a slightly higher risk of having an aggressive form of thyroid cancer than younger patients. Men who have the BFF mutation may also have a slightly worse outcome than those without it. This tells us that the BFF mutation doesn't work alone. Other genes and other factors also play a role. Today we understand that having the BFF V600 mutation in isolation all by itself is usually not a major concern, but if it occurs together with other mutations such as TUR or P-53, the combination can signal a more aggressive cancer. We sometimes call these double hits or late hit mutations. The good news here is that these combinations are rare, occurring in only 5% of thyroid cancers. Now, what if you have the BFF mutation? If your biopsy or surgery pathology report shows that you have a BFF V600E mutation, don't panic. It doesn't mean you have a dangerous or untreatable cancer. Most patients with this mutation end up living completely normal, long, healthy lives. And even in rare cases where the cancer acts more aggressively, we now have targeted therapies made to block the BFF mutation, these exciting new treatments are showing promising results for the small number of patients who need them. If you have more questions about the BFF mutation or thyroid cancer, please talk to a thyroid cancer specialist. Once again, I'm Dr. Michael Yay from UCLA Health Endocrine Surgery and thank you for watching.