Today we're talking about something that matters to all of us, breast health. And whether you're 25, 75, or somewhere in between, this conversation is for you. We're going to unpack what breast health actually means, how to understand what's normal and what's not, when to get screened, how to get screened, what breast density is all about, uh, and how your lifestyle choices might make a real difference. We're also going to bust a few myths, some that might surprise you, and talk about what your partner should and shouldn't be doing when it comes to your breast health. Joining me today is my wonderful and brilliant colleague, Dr. Carly Thompson. She's a breast surgical oncologist here at UCLA Health and has spent nearly two decades dedicated to caring for women and advancing research in breast cancer screening, diagnosis, and treatment. She brings so much compassion, clarity, and a deep commitment to every patient and family that she works with. Dr. Dr. Thompson, welcome. I am so grateful to have you here. Why don't we just start at the beginning? Um, really when we say breast health, what really are we talking about? >> I think that, you know, breast health, it encompasses kind of a a spectrum of concepts. I mean, we're we're talking about, I think, first and foremost being aware and familiar with your body and your breasts and how they look and how they feel and how they're changing over your lifetime. So, it's it's an awareness and a mindfulness of what your body is like. And then it's also an awareness of what you can do to optimize the health of that tissue over your lifetime and the things that you need to do to reduce the risk of developing problems in the tissue. So, we're talking about things like, you know, what can you do to optimize your your breast health? You can get regular exercise. you can, you know, eat right. And I think we'll probably dig into that a little bit deeper here in a moment. Um, uh, you can get regular screenings, so mammogram screenings. And, um, so I think it's just an awareness of of your body and an awareness of what you can do to optimize the health of that tissue over a lifetime. >> It's so interesting. I think what strikes me though is that it's true. It's tissue, right? But that's part of your larger body, which includes who you are. So all of these things are connected. I think you know one of the things that always occurs to me is that people I think want to silo like like all these organs but we're not just a collection of organs and groups of tissues. So breast health right it sounds like what you're um getting at is that breast health is part of overall health. >> Absolutely. Absolutely. That's 100% correct. I think that um you know there are some specifics that we can that we can get into regarding because um you know our female hormones estrogen plays such a strong role in breast health. So there are some, you know, more specific type of advice and things that we can think about, but in general, it really is about our our general health and then just um being in tune with that part of your body and and how do we best kind of monitor it because >> one in eight women do develop breast cancer over their lifetime. So this is not something and and the vast majority of those women don't have any risk like glaring risk factors for breast for breast cancer. And so it's something that all women need to be paying attention to on some level. >> And I think it's the the key point is awareness. >> Yes. And we'll talk about I think you know a common question that always comes up is you know self-examinations which when I were growing up right we're always like go into the shower and put your head over once a month >> and go in a second. Yes. Right. But it's always I mean and again as a primary care doc you know whether I have um you know people ask me this all the time. I'm like have an awareness about your body. Know what your body feels like and don't be detached from right like these are not like separate again tissue that's like over there. It's attached to you. It's part of you. and know what your breasts feel like. >> Yes. And it's and and that's what I tell women when they ask about self- exams because I do get that question a lot. And our our thinking, as you're alluding to, our thinking about self- exams has evolved over the last decade and it it definitely used I mean the public, you know, service announcements, the public messaging was, you know, set your reminder once once a month. you need to be doing this and maybe in the shower and and we really gotten away from that mostly because there's pretty good evidence now that um putting a lot of stress on women to do salsa exams um does not ultimately benefit them, >> right? But does add, I'm sure, a lot of anxiety. >> It sure does. That's exactly what the studies show. So, um so we've stopped putting pressure on women to do strict self-exams, >> but it is still of ultimate importance that you're aware of what is going on. You're aware if there's a new lump forming. You're aware if your nipples are starting to change or the skin of your breast is starting to look different or you're feeling a lump under your arm, right? All of these things are your armpits. >> In your armpit, >> right? I always like to like emphasize that your armpit that is also breast tissue or adjacent to your breast tissue. >> So the breast tissue actually goes in some women all the way up to the collar bone. >> Wow. >> Yes. >> And into the armpit. And then also in the armpit you have very important lymph nodes called the axillary lymph nodes that that really come into play when we're talking about things like breast cancer and breast disease. So so yes it's being aware of what is happening here, how it looks, how it feels. Um so so that's that you're you're spot on. That's the important part. >> Awareness sometimes sounds so revolutionary, right? But it's like caring about yourself, right? Like be aware of yourself, pay attention to yourself. >> Care about yourself. >> Yes. I mean, it brings up another word, mindful, which is also like kind of a modern day buzzword. Um, but >> I like the mindful. >> Yeah, I'm very into mindful. Um, but it is I mean, that's that's the concept. It's just it's just, you know, being in tune with what's going on with your body, >> right? >> Mhm. >> And and um I think it's always a nice reminder. And if something doesn't feel right, come come see us. >> Yes. If you have any questions, >> Yes. come see us. >> Doesn't matter how old you are. >> That's right. And that's I think what we said too. This is for everyone of all ages. This is for everyone. For better or for worse, breast cancer in young women is rare. It really is rare, but it happens. >> And so if there are ever any questions, um it's important to bring those things up to your doctor. >> Fantastic. I mean, so let's talk about screening. I think um first of all, let's just define what screening is for people. What is why do we what is screening? >> Yes. So So the whole purpose of screening is to take a whole population of people Mhm. And give them a well, I would say relatively easy test, but then you're talking about colon cancer screening and colonoscopies, and I think most people would agree that's an easy test, but some sort of test that's going to have a relatively high sensitivity, meaning that if there's something there, there's a good chance we're going to catch it. >> Great. >> And then a relatively high specificity, meaning if there isn't anything there, the test is most likely going to be negative. And so thankfully for breast cancer we have mamograms which are x-rays of the breast tissue and we can do mammograms relatively quickly. You know compress the breast this way, take some x-rays, compress the breast this way, take some x-rays and and radiologists can look and see if there are any worrisome signs. And so the whole concept of screening is to be able to take um you know a a easily applicable test, apply it to a large population of people and relatively quickly catch the early signs of cancer. I wish you were the ones that had um that you were the one that had taught me that in medical school. That was the best definition of sensitivity and speci specificity I've ever heard. >> I mean honestly even as I was explaining it, I was like I I this is right. I hope it's >> but screening I mean we're screening right we're looking for abnormalities but I just tell me if you disagree in the absence of symptoms >> this is in the absence >> screening means there's you are not having any symptoms so sometimes like you know we for example we we talked to Katie Kirk about colon cancer lots of times people are like what I don't you know my poops are fine my breasts feel fine why do I need a screening that's the whole point >> that's the whole point is to catch things early before you have symptoms because the earlier we can initiate treatment, >> right? >> For the most part, the less invasive the treatment needs to be, the less of an impact on your life and the better the long-term survival outcomes. >> I notice like my Italian is coming out in me. I'm like, before you have symptoms. Um so, um you know, we know that average risk women, although please correct me if I'm um incorrect, typically start mammograms, um at age 40. >> Yes. Um but that can shift right depending on family history, genetics or any risk factors. Um can you talk about a little bit how we how we tailor screening um based on any personal or family risk? >> Yes, great questions. Um so there has been some debate over the years which anyone who's in the field for sure but if you know you don't even have to be paying that close of attention to have heard about the the breast cancer screening the mammogram when do you start mammograms the whole debate. There are different guidelines that have set different guidelines or there are different societies, medical societies that have set different guidelines over the years. For the most part, the consensus is kind of you know narrowing down on that women should start average whis risk women should start screening most of them should start screening at the age of 40 but you can probably go up to the age of 45 and still be okay. Um, but there are definitely things that are going to influence those recommendations. So, anything that is known to put an individual at higher risk of developing breast cancer might shift those guidelines a little bit. It might decrease the age at which we recommend starting mammograms. So, for our highest risk women, we might even go all the way down to starting screening at the age of 25, okay, for our genetic mutation carriers. Um, alternatively, maybe we'll still start at 40, but in addition to doing a mammogram, we're also going to add breast ultrasounds or we're going to add a breast MRI. So, we're going to add some supplemental mammogram is the foundation, but we might supplement with some other types of imaging. Um, and so risk known and kind of the most important risk factors that we think of come down to family history and genetics. So if an individual has a strong family history of breast cancer, um then there might be a gene traveling through that family line that increases the family's risk of developing breast cancer. But even in the absence of a gene that significantly increases an individual's risk, a strong family history in and of itself means that something is going on in that family that we need to be paying attention to. So an individual with a strong family history of breast cancer that might increase or decrease the age at which we start or the frequenc frequency with which we do the mammograms and alternating maybe MRIs, ultrasounds. Um and so family history and and genetics go hand in hand. And so that's the kind of the most important risk factor. Um the other there are other risk factors that like family history that we can't control. Things like age. As a woman gets older, her risk of developing breast cancer goes up. Um her kind of the makeup of her body and her hormonal millu. You know, how much hormone exposure, estrogen exposure does does a woman have over a lifetime? When did she start having periods? Did she have any breaks in those periods to have babies? Did she breastfeed? Did when did she go through menopause if she's gone through menopause? All of these things we can't control those things, right? But we're paying attention to those things because all of that contributes to breast cancer risk. Um, and then there are the things that we can control. How much physical activity and exercise is a woman getting? Does she does she drink? Does she smoke? Um, uh, is she adding any hormones to her body in the form of hormone replacement therapy? So, so these are the things that we're looking at and we do have ways of, you know, more and less sophisticated ways of kind of taking all those factors, putting them into risk calculators and spitting out a a lifetime risk of developing breast cancer. And if that lifetime risk is high enough, we say, "Okay, that's high enough that we need to be screening you a little bit differently. We need to we need to step it up a notch because I think that's part of um the question, right? It's like if I'm just a random 38-year-old woman, right, and I go and see my primary care doc, um I mean, you know, I'm a primary care doctor as you know, and so when my patients come to see me, I mean, with the information I have, right, I'll say, "Yep, you know, at 40, we're going to start mammograms. You're you're average risk from what I know of." Um but is there something else that patients should be asking for when they go and to ascertain this risk or should they feel pretty comfortable like nope my you know my PCP said 40 you know and it's true right I mean I definitely know the basics of their family history not often their genetics right unless it's unless it's come up and we know there's a family history so um should patients feel pretty comfortable about you know subscribing I guess to these recommendations I mean I'm I'm a big fan of these societies it sounds like right you're in all these variables, paying attention to research, paying attention to statistics, right? And then saying based on everything we know, you know, this is a recommendation we're giving to general guidelines. >> Yep. I think that really um when it comes to the patient side of things, >> just again, we're going to talk about awareness, but um being aware of your family history, >> right? >> It's not something that families openly talk about often, >> but it's empowering to know. you but but you really have to know because knowing your family history, what kind of diseases run in your family, that that's the most valuable information that you can have to be proactive about your own health. So, I would just say, you know, and and >> primary care doctors >> aren't always asking about family history, you know, I I mean, I think it's something that comes up and but but it might get missed in a visit where you're talking about a bunch of other stuff. So, I think that that's just something to be aware of from the patient perspective, bringing that information to the table and just recognizing that it's important. >> I mean, I just like to emphasize as much as possible all the time, it's knowledge and knowledge about yourself and your family. I mean, I definitely see people who are hesitant to ask about family history or get genetic testing because they're worried about the results. But I think knowing that it's actionable, that the knowledge is empowering, yes, >> is very powerful and important to understand. It's really, I tell my patients this all the time that are kind of wavering about whether or not they want to get genetic testing. >> Yes. >> It's really at this moment in time and in medical care, I think it's the most powerful information that we have access to >> in terms of being proactive about our health, being preventative, undergoing screenings that we might not undergo if we didn't know. >> So, I am a huge advocate for genetic testing. I love hearing that knowledge and I think screening is an extension right of it's not genetic testing but again what you're saying is is that having knowledge right getting that knowledge obtaining that >> right in the absence of symptoms is very powerful and actually can have a huge effect on outcomes meaning how you do >> yes and and and this is kind of it's it's a nice segue into just mentioning the fact that most women with diagn diagnosed with breast cancer, the vast majority do very very well. >> It's incredibly >> cancer is treated. >> Yes. >> And then it has no long-term impact on their survival or their quality of life. >> So, I think it's just important to highlight that because there definitely is fear involved in any kind of screening test. I just on the way here, it just popped into my head. you know, my I'm very close with my extended family and I had just had a conversation with my aunt that she, you know, hasn't had a mammogram in 10 years. And and so I just, you know, poked her this morning and was like, "Hey, you know, I just want to encourage you to to get that mammogram cuz I know that it's fear based that that I know that that's why she's not done it." And and I just want to, you know, I just want to highlight the fact that even if we find something, it's going to be manageable. We're going to take care. there's a plan, we're going to be able to take care of it and you're going to be better for it in the long run. So, >> I think that plays so immensely into um uh women not getting their mammograms. And I mean, that was definitely going to be my next question, which is, you know, what do you what do you say to women who feel nervous or scared? I mean, I think there's this perhaps the fear about the results of the information and then there's people, let's just talk about this aspect, who's who are nervous about the actual exam itself. >> Yes. >> Anything you would say to them? So, so first of all, um I can speak from experience just recently got a mammogram done. Um my first mammogram and um it I was I didn't really know what it was going to be about after earning all didn't really know. >> Um and it was I mean granted this was at a UCLA facility and my breast imaging techs were they were I called them my breast imaging angels. Um, and there's more to the story there, but um, they these people know what they're doing. >> Yes, >> they know what they're doing. They know how nerve-wracking this is for women. And, um, and so, but so the mammogram itself is, you know, you you are covered up until the last moment. You're exposed in a very safe and warm environment most of the time just with one other person in the room who's doing the mammogram. And then your breast is placed onto a plate and it's compressed in this direction. And there's definitely, you know, it it's it's not comfortable. >> Um, I think it is all relative. I didn't find it to be that uncomfortable, but some women with sensitive breast tissue, it's definitely an uncomfortable and and even for some women, painful experience. But it's fast. >> Yes. Very fast. >> Compress this way. Take a picture. >> Take a breath. Yeah. >> Yeah. Take a breath. Cover yourself back up for a moment. And then, you know, breast goes into the plates again, compress this way, take a picture. It's all very fast. Um, you don't get the results right away. Um, and so that you don't have to worry about that anxiety, at least in the moment. You're just taking the test and then you can go and you can relax. Um, and so, so there's that. I think that it can be an anxietyprovoking experience, but it's it's fast and it's done by professionals who know what they're doing and and are typically very warm and >> typically so warm. I mean, I I also have only had mine done at UCLA Health. Um, what impresses me is the texts are so wonderful and they communicate the steps as well, like kind of like you're doing. And I want to encourage people who perhaps are getting their care elsewhere that you can always ask for that communication and say, can you explain to me what the steps of this procedure will be? >> Yeah, good advice really for anything. for anything you know hopefully we as the professionals remember to explain but if not please always you know request that explanation >> absolutely so there's that you know that kind of anxiety that goes along with this and then there's the anxiety of receiving the results and and I think that um you know there's nothing we can say that it's going to completely take that anxiety away but just the reassurance that the first of all the vast majority of mamograms are negative benign um and and if something is found, the vast majority of those findings are manageable and we can take care of it and and you know it's not going to be a death sentence. >> It's so important to hear that it's not a catastrophe. >> Yes. >> At all. >> And again, early detection, finding something early >> makes a big difference. >> It makes a big difference in the invasiveness of the treatments. um it makes a big difference in you know the long-term survival. So it it is it it's all kind of benefit the earlier we find things. >> That's incredible to hear. And again the cornerstone is the awareness in the first place. >> Yes. Um while we're talking about you know kind of tech you know we you're Thank you so much for taking us through um the mammogram and that's obviously the gold standard of screening right for breast cancer >> foundation. Um could you explain a little bit more? I think you know I think there's a lot of questions about what are 3D >> Mhm. >> mammogs. Um and then when you you know when is an ultrasound warranted >> and maybe breast MRI mimography is the foundation of breast cancer screening. you know, for better or worse, it's there. It's it's very rare that there's going to be a situation that a physician is going to recommend pulling the mamogram and substying it with another type of imaging. That's just the reality. Um there are things that we see on mimography that we just can't see on any other imaging test that we do. So it it for for for now and probably for the foreseeable future it is going to form the foundation of breast cancer screening. >> Okay. >> Breast ultrasounds are most commonly done to get a closer look at something that's found on a on a screening mammogram. So So it's done in kind of a focused fashion where on the mammogram we see something in the tissue here. Okay. Now we want to get a slightly different look at it. So, let's do an ultrasound, which is a totally different type of imaging technology. And so, we're going to do the ultrasound to look a little more closely at this one area. We do sometimes do breast ultrasounds for screening purposes, meaning that we ultrasound all of the breast tissue looking for problems. Um, but that's that's kind of the minority of breast ultrasounds that we do. >> Um, then the other type of breast imaging is a breast MRI. Breast MRIs are um slightly more invasive tests because you need an IV and you need to get contrast a heavy metal contrast in order to get the MRI done. It's a it's um you know the MRI machine and the whole process is just a little more involved. And so we are typically resolving reserving breast MRIs for our highest risk patients that we really need to get like a check and a double check of what's going on in their breast tissue. Um, and I did not answer your question about 3D mammogs. So, so 3D mamog traditional mamograms were 2D mammograms. Breast is compressed this way. X-ray is taken. Breast is compressed this way. X-ray is taken. you've got two views of the breast tissue and you're looking and and and um that was the whole test. Now the breast is still compressed in just two dimensions, but in each dimension there are multiple X-rays taken and what that allows us to do is kind of pile those X-rays on top of each other so that we get more of a 3D look through the breast tissue. >> So does that increase that sensitivity and specificity? It does >> of which you were experiencing. >> It does especially in women with dense breast tissue. >> My next question. >> So, yep. >> Breast density. It's very it's very confusing, you know. It's like a little bit little bit dense, very dense, extremely dense, you know. So, please. >> Okay. So, what defines >> breast density? >> Breast density >> is how the breast tissue looks on a mamogram. That's the definition. >> It's not how they feel. >> Not feel or look. Um, now often times those things do are associated tissue that feels really firm, especially in a thinner woman, that breast tissue is probably going to look very dense on a mammogram. >> Um, the kind of physiologic basis behind breast density is that the the milk production system of the breast, what I call the workerbe system of the breast, um, is called glandular tissue. glandular tissue is made up of cells that are um you can think of them as being like just a little denser in nature in nature like you can't you can't see through them as well. They've got more to them. And so on a mamog that tissue is going to show up a little more white than the other major tissue that composes the breast, which is fat. Fat is like really you can think of it as being like kind of see-through. And so on a mammogram it's more black. So you can imagine that if you have a picture an x-ray and a woman has very dense or very kind of heavily glandular breast tissue and it's looking really white on the mamogram. It's just harder to see through that tissue because we're look the things that we're looking for are often white little white specks called calcifications or or masses which are dense and and look white on a mamogram. So so that's the definition of breast density. That's how it impacts the interpretation of a mammogram. And so in women who have very dense breast density is graded. there are four grades to it. Um, in women who have the most dense breast tissue, if we're having a little troubles kind of seeing through that tissue on a mamogram, that's when we might, a radiologist might recommend getting some extra testing, maybe an ultrasound to help us kind of see through the tissue a little bit better. >> So, you might not know your um level of breast density until your first mamogram. >> Exactly. And that will then determine subsequently whether you need additional imaging >> imaging modalities meaning types of imaging at that time or just in the future >> or just in the future. And also very importantly breast density is also a a mild to moderate risk factor for breast cancer. Okay? Because the same kind of hormonal causes that cause a woman to have dense breast tissue also contributes to the formation of breast cancer cells. Now, it's not a strong risk factor. So, I don't say this to scare all of the individuals out there who have dense breast tissue, but it is a risk factor. So, it's something that's important for women to know. Yes. Which is why you might see on your mammogram reports this kind of disclaimer that you have dense breast tissue. You should talk to your doctor about it. >> Women are like, "Wait, why are they telling me that? And what am I supposed to do about it?" >> Right now, what doctor am I supposed to talk? >> What doctor? Yeah. And so, you're talking to your primary care doctor. For for some women, their OB/GYN acts as their primary care doctor and orders their mammogram. So you're you're talking to whomever ordered the mammogram for you and saying okay I saw in my report I have dense breast tissue do I need to do anything about that and then it comes back to looking at all the risk factors putting every putting together the whole picture because breast density is just one puzzle piece so it's putting together the whole puzzle and saying should we be doing something more to more in intensely screen this individual do we we do have other measures for that we can take to reduce a woman's risk of developing breast cancer. We're not usually employing those measures until a woman has a very elevated risk of of developing breast cancer. Things like medications that can be taken. >> Okay. >> Um and then even surgeries that can be done to to remove all of the breast tissue if a woman is at high enough risk. Um, and so it's just kind of putting all the puzzle pieces together to get an accurate picture of what that individual that's sitting in front of you, what their individual risk is so that we can most kind of safely and appropriately take care of that person. >> Terrific. Thank you so much. That's explanation is amazing. I mean, um, it's hard. And I know there's lots of different kinds of breast cancer. So maybe this is, you know, too general of a question, but maybe we could at least just define for our listeners um the different types maybe just even between what invasive means and non-invasive means. >> I think that's really okay. Or like local. Yeah, I think that's really important. Um so there there are different subtypes just like you know anything else. There's a spectrum of severity when it comes to breast cancer. There are multiple different types of breast cancer and and so the spectrum is going to go all the way from um what we call non-invasive breast cancer also known as incite breast cancer also known as ductal carcinoma incitu is is the form of non-invasive breast cancer which we call DCIS for short >> um that type of breast cancer is when the cells the cancer cells are still contained contained within that milk production system. So within the milk ducts of the breast, the cancer cells are present, but they're contained. So they haven't spread anywhere outside of that system. Um we call it stage zero breast cancer. And the prognosis for stage zero breast cancer, the long-term survival is essentially 100%. Because those cells because they're kind, you can kind of think of them as being trapped in the milk duct, they can't spread outside of the milk duct and therefore they can't be life-threatening. And we have effective treatments. >> And we have effective treatment which includes surgery, sometimes radiation, sometimes medications that lower hormone level or block hormone levels. >> Um, and then the spectrum from there starts to get a little more advanced to invasive breast cancer where the cancer cells have made their way out of the milk duct system and have started to invade the surrounding breast tissue. Once the cancer cell starts to invade the surrounding breast tissue, then theoretically it can leave the breast tissue entirely and go to lymph nodes around the breast tissue and even rarely metastasize to other parts of the body. So, and then within the invasive breast cancer category, you have you have we break it down even further into different subtypes of breast cancer um that may or may not be hormone being fed by hormones. um or not. So there they're you know different types but you know one thing that I wanted to take the opportunity to highlight while I was here speaking with you you know with you know while I kind of have the microphone um is that you know there are very important studies being done really across the whole spectrum of breast cancer. But um here at UCLA, we just activated a study that is looking at the optimal management and kind of personalizing the treatment of DCIS specifically. Okay? Because we know that with all types of breast cancer, it is it's not a one-sizefits-all across the whole group of women who get DCIS. There are slower growing forms of DCIS that might not hurt a woman even over a whole lifetime. Yes. And then there are more aggressive forms of DCIS. And so this study is called the Recast study and I think we're going to link the website so the women can check that out. >> Yes. And please check it out. >> Um and and so it's really just helping us learn how to personalize the treatment of DCIS because we we really believe that there are there are some women for whom we can reel things back a little bit and maybe not be so invasive and aggressive in our treatments and our approaches to them. the whole concept of personalizing medicine and again that's a an entirely other wonderful conversation about personalized medicine precision medicine but I mean first of all your patients are so lucky to have you you know and as a colleague I can say that too but I I think this still goes back to awareness like we're not just a you know our treatments you know how we think about our patients it's not just a cookbook you know no one is just this generic recipe and I understand you know from what you're saying that there's these variables that are not changeable perhaps, right? Like you can't control how old you, you know, you are getting or even perhaps the genes that are, you know, in your lineage. >> But um I would love to take a moment to talk about those risk factors or those variables that we do have control over. I mean, and I would even venture to say that choosing to have a mammogram, right, is its own >> risk factor, right? Choosing to have one or not have one in a way. I mean, I know I'm extrapolating a little bit. >> Yes. No, I I I think Yes. Yeah. I I I like where your head's at there cuz it it is right because the women not choosing not to take mammograms that is going to pose extra risk to them. Um but yeah, the things that we can control. So we've already kind of highlighted the things that we can't control. Age, family history and genetics, kind of the the chemistry that our body is born with that might contribute to the development of breast cancer. The things we can control are are mostly the lifestyle factors. >> Take care of some. Yes. >> Exercise, how much physical activity are you getting? And it, you know, and when I say this, I have this conversation with a lot of my patients. I'm not saying that you have to go from zero to like, you know, running five miles, right? But really, anything that's getting your heart rate up, >> as women approach menopause and go through menopause, things like resistance training, weightlifting, any degree of that becomes much more important. So, it's just being active >> is important and reduces your risk of developing breast cancer. Another very important piece is diet. And so, you know, the things that we kind of hone in are hone in on are um uh you know, um vegetables, fruits, healthy fats, um leafy greens, fish is a big one that's really good in terms of getting those omega-3s. But really, I want to kind of open that up to just lean sources of protein because protein is just so important for your body in general. But so lean sources of protein, we have to watch it with red meats a little bit. Red meats in moderation. >> What other examples do you like of lean proteins? >> Lean proteins. I mean really my favorite is fish. >> Okay. >> Um my husband doesn't eat fish so then we have to get a little more creative but but chicken is great. Um and um so you know that's what we can do with our diet. And it's really just it's also about watching processed foods, foods that are high in sugar. I mean, these are all things that we're kind of hearing more and more about, but I'm going to keep kind of hammering it home, but so processed foods, foods that are high in sugar, foods that are high in saturated fats, unhealthy fats. Um, so just paying attention to that is another thing you can do to benefit your overall health, but also benefit your your breast health. >> I was just going to say, I mean, for our listeners, everything that Dr. Thompson just said is also what influences what we call your cardiovascular health, your heart, your vascular system, meaning your your veins, your arteries, >> your brain health. >> Yes. >> How you sleep. >> Absolutely. >> How you go through life. So this is just again it's a reminder that again we're not just little globs of tissue. This is all influencing how we >> overall and it's sleep. >> Yes. And it's, you know, alcohol and tobacco and, you know, so for smoking, it's kind of like an an all or nothing thing. I mean, really any degree, >> just don't smoke >> of smoking is is going to hurt you in a multitude of ways. >> Um, with breast cancer risk, there is somewhat of a linear relationship between how much you drink in any given, let's say, week, um, in your risk of developing breast cancer. And so really, if you want to be the very safest, you wouldn't drink at all. Probably not totally like reasonable, practical for many women out there or many individuals out there. And so there is on that linear relationship, there is a sharper inflection point where risk really starts to go up a little more significantly at about 3 to six drinks a week. So what I tell my patients is listen, if you can keep your drinking to the weekends or if you can keep it to one glass of wine, you know, per night, you're probably you're doing better than if you're drinking two glasses of wine per night. But so alcohol, tobacco, um and those are really the big ones that that we think about in terms of lifestyle factors that we can control. >> Okay, that's fantastic. And I'm I mean really excited also to um provide the link to the recast study. I think that is just I just really want to encourage I mean our listeners to go and look at it. We really also want to you know get rid of a gap between like it doesn't you don't have to be a doctor to go and learn about the research that we're doing. >> Yeah. And and what's great about the recast study in particular I mean it's a nationwide study. Um it's being done at academic and nonacademic medical centers across the country and it's cons you know consumer patientfacing. you go to the website, you get the information that you need. You can reach out if you're interested. You can reach out to um the study sponsored through the website. So, it's easier access. You don't have to be, you know, sitting across the table from a specific doctor to hear about the study. It's available. It's available to anyone. >> I love it. And that's exactly what we want this information to be is accessible. >> Yeah, accessible. That's the perfect word. Um we I now I'm going to move on to our asking for a friend se uh section whereas this is a segment where we get to ask questions that people are sometimes too shy to ask. But never be too shy to ask. That's something we really want to emphasize. But um let's just talk about breast lumps in general. I I found a a lump in my breast. Is it cancer? >> Uh most likely no. >> Okay. And so, you know, not surprisingly, as a breast surgeon, I get this question AI've got, you know, almost on a weekly basis. I've got a friend reaching out to me like, "This is what I'm feeling." Most likely, especially if you're a younger woman, you know, under the age of 40, especially if you feel a lump in your breast, it's most likely not cancer, but still very important that you bring it up to your doctor. >> Great. That's the message. >> That's the message. Most likely not. Get it checked out. still very important to get it checked out. You know, to get a a breast lump checked out. Yes, it's imaging. It's procedures. It's it's, you know, money, time, anxiety, but it's e it's, you know, that's an easy thing to do to protect your health. So, um, most likely it's not cancer. >> And we touched on this earlier, but do self- exams still matter? Should I be should I be examining my breasts? And and and as we as we discussed earlier, you know, the whole concept of doing like the the rigorous monthly self-exam, that whole concept has gone to the wayside a little bit. What we're really kind of emphasizing now is just breast awareness, knowing what your breast tissue feels like so that you can then know if something is changing. >> Yes. or if there's something new or if you and and so I'm just going to kind of run through the things that we're looking for because we talk a lot about breast masses, breast lumps. Um but you know, something that women may not be as familiar with that we're also looking for is changes in the skin of the breast. If you all of a sudden have a new rash or new redness that suddenly appeared, especially if you have redness that suddenly appeared, you know, your doctor's thinking it's it's an infection, which it very most likely is, um, but you're taking the antibiotics and the redness isn't going away. That's a really important thing that that your doctor needs to know. So, we're we're talking about skin changes of the rest. We're talking about nipple changes. If the if the skin of the nipple starts to develop like a scaly rash or if the nipple that has oh you've always had a normal looking nipple and then your nipple all of a sudden starts to invert which is also normal by the way if you were born with inverted nipples. Yeah. Shades of normal. But if it's a new thing that's also something we would want to know. And like we talked about the breast tissue does go all the way in many women. It goes all the way up to the collar bone and it goes all the way into the armpit area. So this is you're you're paying attention to this whole area. >> That's going to be a lot a news for a lot of people. So one of my um I won't call her my favorite patients. I have a lot of favorite patients. I love all my patients. But um but she was really very special. She was actually getting physical therapy for a shoulder problem. and her physical therapist as she was, you know, manipulating the shoulder joint, you know, her fingers kind of brushed over this area and felt a an actually easily palpable mass way out by her collar bone, kind of out by her almost out by her shoulder and and it was an a relatively aggressive form of breast cancer. We had to initiate treatment immediately, but she's now years out from treatment and is doing great. And I don't anticipate that she's going to have any problems, but without that cuz that is an area all the way up by the collar bone that a mamogram may or may not capture >> or or you yourself might not capture, you know. >> So this is you're paying attention to the orthopedic area >> and the under and the underarm area. Another area that that you know women may or may not be associating with their with things that might be happening in the breast. It's an incredible story. And again, I just think it's worth emphasizing again, just know your own body so you know if something changes. >> Yes. >> Or something feels different. And also like listen to your gut. If if you feel worried or nervous or uncomfortable, just come talk to us about it. >> Please. I I really really don't want anyone I know late at night worrying about anything. >> That's right. That's right. >> Um this is a question that comes up a lot and you obviously touched on this when we were talking about imaging, but I get this question all the time. My friend gets a breast MRI, so should I be getting one, too? Yeah, I I do get that question a lot. So, um as as we covered, you know, superficially when we were talking about breast imaging modalities, breast MRI is an modality that we use for breast cancer screening. It's also more much more commonly used after a woman has been diagnosed with a breast problem that will use the breast MRI to get a closer look at what's going on in the tissue. Um, BRST MRI is just like pretty much everything that we do in medicine has its pros and cons. So, it is the one of the more um kind of thorough breast imaging tests that we have and so it it can give us a more kind of detailed granular picture of what's happening in the breast tissue. But the flip side to that coin is that there's also a relatively high risk of picking up what I call background noise. >> So it's the other stuff that's going on the breast that isn't a problem, but is sometimes hard to distinguish on a breast MRI. So breast MRIs have a a higher risk of what's called false positive findings. Meaning that we see something on an MRI, we can't really tell if it's a problem or not. So that's leading to more imaging tests, biopsies, you know, anxiety, concern, financial cost. >> Um, and so, you know, the risk of that happening is about 10 to 20% with any breast MRI. That's really high. >> That is high. >> So, we don't we're very thoughtful about who we're recommending undergo a breast MRI, especially for screening. We are for the most part reserving breast MRI studies for women at the highest risk of developing breast cancer because for those women for that population of women it's it's worth it to expose them to that higher risk of false positive findings because we just need to be really careful with those women. I mean it's still a great question to ask and then we have a great explanation and I think it's feeling reassured too by you know your care team your provider that they are assessing this risk and deciding right what the best modality >> but it's not just a willingly thing that like you know if you ask about it you get it and then you're better cared for there there are there are reasons why we do all of these things >> and the same thought process goes for breast ultrasounds and this is one that gets even trickier because breast ultrasounds are um a less uncomfortable tether an easier test to go through. They don't have quite the same risk of false positives, but there are pros and cons to each of these tests. So, we don't just like have women get every test that they can get because there are downsides and and you know, women can get into what I call the the breast imaging cycle of hell where you know, you're getting mammograms and ultrasounds. one of those tests has a decent chance of picking something up that we're either going to need to biopsy that's going to end up being nothing or that we're going to need to continue to monitor and then you're talking about every 6 months you're going in for imaging and you're feeling that anxiety. And so we just are thoughtful. We we really try to the best of our ability to reserve each of these tests for the women who are most likely to benefit from them. Right? We're not withholding MRIs. It's not necessarily the best test >> for the average risk woman. It really is not. >> Okay, terrific. I because I do think that question, it's a great question. Please ask your questions, but we have we have answers too, thoughtful answers. >> Um, is there anything if I have a partner um that my partner should be checking for or looking for? >> That's a really good question. Um, you know, I think that your partner's kind of paying attention to the same things that we want, you know, an individual paying attention to. Are they noticing any changes? Are they feeling any lumps? I one of my very first coming, you know, as an attending, um, one of my very first breast cancer patients, her her cancer was found by her husband. >> Mhm. >> And so >> that's not the first story I've heard. It's it's it's definitely something that happens. >> Um, and so they're looking for the same things. They're feeling for lumps. They're, you know, they're paying attention to how the tissue feels. They're looking at, you know, any changes that you can that you can appreciate visually. So, yeah, same stuff. Okay, that's a great great question. Um, last question for from a from a listener is does soy like tofu or soy milk does that increase the risk of breast cancer? Yeah. So, the reason soy has been under the microscope is because in your body the the the the chemical makeup of soy mimics estrogen. The majority of breast cancers are fed by estrogen. So, estrogen acts as to a degree like a fuel to the cancer cell. So there was there has historically been some concern that you know taking in any degree of soy is going to mimic estrogen and it's going to either increase a woman's risk of developing breast cancer or for women who have breast cancer it's going to be bad for their long-term outcomes. And you know there's there's um kind of varying opinions about this. There's some mixed scientific data about this, but if you put all of it together, my kind of consensus recommendation to patients is it it any moderate amount of soy is probably going to be fine. It's not enough soy to be in your body causing a problem. So if you're you're talking soy sauce or you know occasional tofu or even like if you you know if you're vegetarian and you're eating tofu relatively regularly still probably not a problem. I think where we can potentially get into higher concentrations of soy that might be a problem for women who are already at high risk of developing breast cancer or who have had breast cancer. Um is when you're talking about soy protein powders. Okay. like pro um processed forms of soy that really pack in the soy. Um that's where I get just a little more nervous and I think the safest thing to do is just to avoid that form of soy products. You're reminding me too, I mean first of all please all of you should be as lucky to have you know a physician like Dr. Thompson. But we also are changing and evolving over time. So the questions that we ask our providers please ask over time too. Right? whatever vegetarian maybe risks change. So remember dynamic evolving >> we're all so please ask you know ask us these questions but it's not just one and done. >> Yep. We we know a lot but there's always more to learn. >> Well especially too you know just in in mentioning you know we there are some genes right that we know about >> but there there's ones that we don't know about. So just because you don't have let's say the most you know known gene for breast cancer it doesn't mean that there's not another gene and I'm not saying that to scare our patients it's just to acknowledge that we are still learning >> this is a medicine is an evolving >> yes >> um I would love to know I mean and I don't worry I'll let you go soon but um I I would love to know um what drew you to breast surgery and oncology in the first place. Uh, you know, I've always been um I grew up, there were no doctors in my family. Um, but my my grandmother, my mom's mom, who was one of the most important and influential people in my life, she was a nurse and, you know, sometimes we were lucky enough to get to go to work with her. and she um uh during the last phase of her career worked in a nursing home and um and so I actually I loved going to work with her so much and just loved being around older people and in that phase of life and um and so I came into medical school thinking I wanted to be a geriatrician and then when I got into our my clinical years which are the years where you're rotating through and you're actually getting um exposure to real patient in the hospital, in doctor's offices. Um, the first time, literally the very first time I stepped into an operating room, it was an orthopedic surgery operating room. And um, I just loved it. I loved the vibe. I loved the pace. I really I clicked with the people more, just personalities. Yeah. I really >> felt that. But it didn't um I still very much felt drawn to um doing something where I could really connect with my patients and form kind of deeper bonds with them and help them through challenging phases of their lives um and and have a relationship with them. And so, you know, surgery and kind of wanting to practice that kind of medicine and then um I've always also been really passionate about caring for women and women's health. And so, it just all really intersected very nicely at breast surgery. I I think, you know, once I found the field of breast surgery, it felt it's just always been the perfect fit for me. It really has been. And so, um, I feel like I have the best job on the planet. I tell every medical student that will listen to me. I'm like, listen, I know you want to go into pathology, but let me tell you a little bit something about your death surgery. >> Yes. >> It's it's it's a a pretty amazing field because you really do get to to connect with women, really help them. >> Yes. And um and most of your patients do exceedingly well, and then you have that bond with them for a lifetime. So, um, that's that's how I ended up here, and I've never looked back. I mean, I love love love overwhelmed by your expertise and compassion. I just cannot believe how lucky we UCLA Health are to have you, but I mean, and oh my gosh, and your patience and your friends. Um, you've shared so much today. I'm I'm so grateful. I do want to leave our listeners with just a couple of takeaways. I mean, just I know it's hard to like package up everything, but um I don't know if you had to just kind of think of three takeaways for our patients, just three messages for our community. I mean, again, not even our patients, future patients, current patients, anyone who's ever been a patient or will be, but really just our our community, young women, older women. Yep. Um I think, you know, we've we've hit on a lot of we've hit on on a couple of these already, but I think um awareness is key. Mh. Awareness of your own body, awareness of how your body's made up, awareness of of your your generational history and how that impacts you. Um, and then the second point would be um, you know, anything involving breast disease, breast cancer is going to be scary. And I think that the real take-home, and this is what I say to my my newly diagnosed cancer patients at the beginning of their visit and at the end of their visit, very, very, very most likely, you're going to be fine. We're going to get this treated. And on the other side of your treatment, you're going to live your long, healthy, happy life. And this part of your journey will form the rest of the journey. And it will someday you'll look back on it as a beautiful blessing. truly. Um and then thirdly, I would just say that um you know, knowledge is power. Um and and and and it kind of goes handinhand with support systems are also power. Um and I I'm I'm speaking from experience here and I hope that someday we have a chance to kind of tell a little bit more of my story because I think it could really be helpful and educational for for women out there. But um I you know I it's become glaringly obvious to me in recent months how important it is to stay connected with your support system. Let them help you. Let them love you. Um and uh I think that it it helps anybody going through anything. >> Um those are amazing takeaways. Yes, you are. Consider this your other home. We would love to hear your story. Your stories any time. >> Yeah. anywhere. >> This has been so fun. Thank you. >> Amazing. I really I mean I can't thank you enough for being here. I just I'm truly I feel very blessed to just even experience your clarity, your compassion, your dedication. Um and I I hope that actually our listeners too. I mean I I I I hope everyone listens and they also want to be you know a provider, a doctor, you know, like you. You are the gold standard of what a physician you know and and really anyone who provides care should be like. I I do also want to encourage our um listeners to learn more. In our show notes, we are going to have links to um easy to understand um uh breast cancer risk in infographics and also some more information on the recast um study. And um I can't thank you enough for being here, Dr. Thompson. I can't wait to have you back. >> Um and I can't and thanks to our listeners um as well. Until next time. >> Thank you so much. Thank you for doing this. >> Thank you.