Hi, welcome to our UCLA health webinar. Um, I'm Sheena Kamra. I'm one of the UCLA pediatricians at a UCLA health clinic in Torrance. And today we'll be talking about childhood obesity and healthy eating. Um, so you can ask questions on Twitter using UCLAMD chat and I'll be happy to answer some of these questions at the end of the presentation. So to start, I did want to talk about what is obesity and how we as clinicians define obesity. It's very hot topic right now, but I wanted to start by talking about how we actually know if a child or someone is obese. So we define obesity using something called BMI. You may have heard of this before. It stands for body mass index and basically that is a comparison of height against weight. So we use a formula to calculate it and then we take that number and plot it on a curve. And so obesity in children is actually defined by percentiles. It's a little bit different than obesity in adults where we can use absolute numbers. So obesity is a BMI greater than 95% for age in children. And overweight is defined as a BMI from the 85th to 95th percentile. So why is it important for us to discuss obesity today? Like I mentioned before, it is a very hot topic and it is really important. In the past 30 years, obesity has tripled and today about one in three children are are obese. So this is a very important topic um with a lot of important health implications. So what are these factors that have caused obesity to rise so much in the past? So we know that there's definitely a genetic component, but a lot of the rise we are definitely attributing to environmental factors. So this is changes in the way that we all live, we all eat, um our exercise and our physically active. So one important and major component is that there's definitely decreased physical activity in everyone across the board. But when we're talking about children, um only 22% of children meet the recommendations for daily activity and only 25% of children are even in any sort of physical education program on a daily basis. So a lot has changed in our schools as well. Um additional factors in contributing to the rise of obesity just include um more screen time. So instead of being active and outdoors, um, everyone is spending more time in front of televisions, video games, and computers. Obesity is more than eight times higher in children that watch five or more hours of TV a day compared to children that watch less than two hours of TV. Um, and then while children in front of TV watching um, television shows and ads, the media is definitely targeting children. And so over 80% of ads that children are watching related to food are advertising high sugar, high fat, high sodium foods. So even this increased time in front of televisions, they're also being increasingly exposed to unhealthy food options which influences the foods that they seek out and that they ask caregivers to bring into the home. So, while we're talking about food, um, food is definitely one of the big factors that's contributing to the rise of obesity. And this is just changes in our diet over the past 30 years. So, there's definitely decreased family dinner time. Um, an increasing number of people are eating fast food. On any given day, 30 to 40% of adults and children will have a fast food meal. Um there's increasing reliance on prepackaged food which can be higher in fat, lower in nutrition, and sometimes higher in sodium. Um and then even when you're going out to eat in a restaurant, the portion size has increased. It's actually doubled in the last 20 years. And so we're having a more difficult time judging what portion size is the correct amount for us to eat. Um, so overall children are just eating more calories, much larger portions, and much fewer vegetables than they were in the past. Um, and so going back to why this is important. So we know obesity has increased significantly, but why do we care about it? And the main reason we care is because there are potential long-term consequences of obesity. And it's important to start addressing um healthy nutrition, eating, and living now. because if we don't do so now, all of these problems continue into adulthood. And so a it's actually true that 80 to 90% of adolescents that are classified as obese go on to be obese as adults. Um and so if we can address this sooner, then we can hopefully prevent some of the complications. And you've probably heard of a lot of these complications, but just to review a few of the major ones. Um, high blood pressure, that's something we routinely screen in children, but obese children are almost three times more likely to have higher blood pressure than a non-obese child. Type 2 diabetes is also increased risk. Um, there's increased risk of heart disease, high cholesterol, sleep apnea, um, gallstones, acid reflux, and this is just to name a few. And so the risk is not only increased in childhood but continues on through adulthood. Um so then the major question that we're trying to answer today is what can we do to help treat obesity and improve healthy lifestyles overall. So the National Academyy's Institute of Health actually um has published a report on accelerating progress and obesity prevention and they are advocating for a multiaceted approach to this. Um today we're going to be discussing a few of the things that each individual can do in their home. I there are many changes that need to be made on a larger community-based public health-based level. But what can you do today to help improve the health of your family and of your child? Um so one of those major changes is just increasing physical activity. So, if you're trying to treat obesity or someone that's overweight or trying to just live a healthier lifestyle, it's recommended that each individual have at least 60 minutes of moderate physical activity per day. Um, in addition to increasing physical activity, um, getting an adequate amount of sleep is also important for children. So, there studies have shown that there's definitely an increased obesity risk um, in children that receive less than nine hours of sleep. And just to give you an idea, um we typically recommend that our adolescents receive at least 9 hours of sleep and we know that they generally don't. Um but it is very important and toddlers need up to 12 hours of sleep. And so the sleep requirements that children need are actually much more than they seem to be getting. Um and then the biggest thing that we can discuss today are changes in eating and healthy nutrition. So I wanted to talk about myplate.gov. Um this is the USDA's recommendation on healthy eating and some of you may recall that previously we used to discuss a food pyramid. So since 2011 this has replaced the food pyramid and this is a recommendation of how to eat healthy on a daily basis. Um the big idea here is that if you have a plate of food you want to imagine that about half the plate should be fruit and vegetables and most of that being vegetables. A quarter of the plate can be some sort of healthy grain. A quarter of the plate can be a lean type of protein. And there can also be some lean or healthy dairy in the diet. And this can be applied to every meal of the day. Um, importantly, I want you to notice that compared to the food pyramid, which some of you may recall, there actually isn't even a category for sugary sweets or um sparingly eating high calorie foods. Um so we really are emphasizing minimizing that. So the recommendation is really to decrease sugar sweetened drinks as much as possible. So typically soda, artificially flavored drinks um in favor of encouraging water and then even fruit juice that's 100% uh the recommendation is to limit the intake of that. So that would 100% fruit juice would be preferred over other types of artificially sweetened drinks. But really not having it at all or very sparingly would be ideal. Um if you are buying sugar sweetened foods or drinks for special occasions, um it's recommended that you try to buy it right before the occasion and then put it away immediately after just to minimize the number of days that that sugar sweetened beverage or food might be consumed. Um, and then along the same lines, if you have any high calorie snacks or sugar sweetened foods in the home, trying to keep them in an area that they're not in plain sight so that children and adults can resist the temptation to eat them. So, you can either cover them in foil if they're in the fridge rather than a clear plastic wrap or place them in the back of the pantry and instead make healthier options like fruits or vegetables more visible such that your children might be tempted to eat those when they are hungry. Um, and other recommendations for eating healthy are really trying to eat meals together as a family whenever possible while seated at the table. Um, this has been shown to result in eating healthier portions rather than eating in front of a television where you might lose track of how much you've actually been eating. Um, another important thing is actually start the day with breakfast. Um, skipping avoid skipping meals. This can be very helpful not just for healthy eating overall but eating breakfast promotes um better school performance in children. And back to this um eat five or more servings of fruits and vegetables each day. And so if you follow the myplate.gov guideline for each meal, you will end up eating five or more fruits or vegetable servings per day. um some resources for where you can get tips on healthy eating and living that are great. Um there's healthychildren.org. This is actually a website by the American Academy of Pediatrics and they have some great resources. Um another great resource is let'sove.gov and this is our first lady's initiative on healthier living and eating and myplate.org as we mentioned before is also a great website. um some resources. If you are concerned about your child's weight or nutrition, I definitely encourage you to talk to your pediatrician, talk to your family doctor. Um they're a great first step in making getting any advice or making any changes that are needed. Um there's many health systems that actually offer great healthy weight management programs. And generally, these are very comprehensive programs and they're a great resource. If you aren't in the area, then ask your pediatrician. to ensure they know of some that are near you. But if you are in the area, UCLA fit for healthyweight program uh is a great and comprehensive program and you can find them at fit program.ucla.edu. Um so I did want to just address a few questions that I frequently get asked in my clinic before I go on to address your questions. Um so let's talk about these questions. My the first one is my child's pediatrician performed a lab screen on my 9-year-old and his cholesterol is normal. Doesn't that mean he is healthy even though he is overweight? Um, and I'll talk about we'll talk about that in a couple minutes. Um, are there any medications we can use to treat obesity? And my child doesn't go out to play, but we encourage exercise through video games. Is that enough? Um, so let's talk about the first question. So, in terms of laboratory screening and obesity, your doctor may perform some lab screens on your child to evaluate for possible complications of obesity. These screening tests can include um just checking the blood pressure, uh checking the blood for cholesterol, liver function, and diabetes. So, if there's a normal test result, that's great because that means that currently there aren't any abnormalities, but that doesn't mean they can't develop over time. And so, it's still extremely important to focus on your child's healthy weight and nutrition because you don't want any of these complications to arise later in time. Um and to answer the next question, uh medication use in the treatment of obesity. So this is not routinely recommended. Uh diet and lifestyle changes are the first and most important treatment. Um there's only actually one medication that's approved for children under age 16. And other medications that are available to adults are just have very limited studies in children. And we definitely don't recommend any diet pills, stimulants, or caffeine medications. If you are on a comprehensive treatment plan for your child's obesity, either with their pediatrician or through a weight management program, um if it gets to the point where medication treatment is indicated, they will bring that up with you, but it is definitely not a place that we ever recommend starting without trying any of the other diet and lifestyle changes. um extra games. So, this is a popular topic. So, you may be familiar with some of the video games that target exercise. Um so, at this time, they actually haven't been that well studied. Some studies have shown a decrease in BMI while other studies have shown no difference. Um and so, it's it's a little bit hard to say for sure, are these better or worse than other types of activity. But a lot of the studies have been finding that activity during these games may not be as high as during other active times. Um, but it's definitely higher than if they're just sitting in front of a TV or playing video games. And so while I wouldn't recommend replacing outside active time or sports with extra games, exercise video games, um if the al alternative is just sitting in front of a TV or a video game screen, then this may provide a little bit more activity. Um so if you have any questions, you can ask them on Twitter using UCLAMD chat. And we have a few questions. Great. With um all the social pressure to look picture perfect these days, how do we bring up obesity in my child without hurting her feelings? So, this is a this is a very good question and it is such a sensitive topic. Um, part of it is, I mean, this is definitely a discussion where if you have concerns, the discussion can be done in your pediatrician's office after your child has been assessed for obesity. And that would be a great place to start the discussion. In fact, um, other things are you can just ask her how she feels about herself or her body or if she's experienced any bullying because that can be very common in children with obesity. And that's something we definitely need to do a better job of addressing in general. And so I feel like if you have any concerns or apprehensions about bringing this topic in front of your child, um I would definitely recommend starting in your own pediatrician's office. They're a great resource. Um the second question, different research seem to say different things about caffeine. Is it good for our body and for obesity? Um, so yes, there has there have been a lot of conflicting studies on caffeine and um I can't say for I can't say that all the studies point to one thing or another for certain, but it's definitely not recommended in the treatment of obesity at this time for children or um for weight loss in children in general. So I would avoid overly caffeinated beverages and that sort of thing in children as well because as we already know they're not getting enough sleep and so introducing caffeine can even um cause even more harm to the small amount of sleep that they are getting. Um are mindbody approaches useful for treating obesity? Um, so I actually uh am not certain about all of the studies on mind body approaches, but I as long as they're used in conjunction with diet, a healthy diet and exercise and all of that, and there's no harm to the approach, there's definitely no harm in trying. But, um, I myself am not 100% familiar with the studies on whether they are more effective or less effective than other methods. So, that might be all of our questions for today. Um, thank you so much for joining this webinar and we hope that you're able to join one of our other webinar series in the future. Thank you again.