Hi, I'm Dr. James Woo, an endocrine surgeon at UCLA Health. Today, I want to talk about an important decision in thyroid cancer care. How we choose between surgical options and active surveillance and how neck ultrasound helps us decide. If you've been diagnosed with papillary thyroid cancer, you might be feeling overwhelmed. And that's completely normal. And one of the first big questions I get is, do I need surgery? And if so, do I need the whole thyroid removed or can I just remove part of it? But sometimes we don't need to operate right away. We might be able to just watch the cancer carefully over time with ultrasound. This approach is called active surveillance. It's an option for some people with low risk papillary thyroid cancer. Whether you're a good candidate mostly depends on what we see on your neck ultrasound. And why is ultrasound so important? It's because ultrasound gives us a close look at the thyroid nodule itself. How close it is to important areas such as the windpipe or trachea. And how close is it to the nerve that controls your voice? It also shows if there are any suspicious lymph nodes nearby. If your cancer is small, less than 1 and 1/2 cm, and if it's sitting safely inside the thyroid without pressing on important structures. And finally, if there's no suspicious lymph nodes, you might be a good candidate for active surveillance. That means we just check on things with regular ultrasounds, usually every 6 months, and you don't need to rush into surgery. Long-term studies from top medical centers show that active surveillance is very safe for the right patients. Most small thyroid cancers don't grow at all over many years. And if they do grow, we can still do surgery later with the same excellent results. But when is surgery a better choice than active surveillance? Well, if the ultrasound shows that the cancer is pressing against the trachea or it's close to the nerve to the vocal cords or breaking through the thyroid, surgery is usually the better option. These features mean the cancer has a higher chance of spreading or causing problems later. So, we prefer to treat it early. If you need surgery, how much thyroid should be removed? We'll use ultrasound to help with that decision, too. If the cancer is small, only on one side of the thyroid, and the other side looks normal, we often recommend what we call a thyroid lobectomy, removing just half of the thyroid with the cancer. Keeping half your thyroid means you may not need lifelong thyroid medication. It also lowers the risk of voice changes or low calcium after surgery. But if the ultrasound shows suspicious nodules on both sides, or if the cancer is spreading outside the thyroid, we usually recommend removing the whole thyroid. what we call a total thyroidctomy. Now, more about the lymph nodes. Ultrasound also checks for cancer in the lymph nodes. If we see any that may look abnormal, we sometimes do a needle biopsy of the lymph node to confirm if cancer is inside. If cancer has spread to the lymph node, we usually recommend removing those lymph nodes during the first surgery along with the thyroid. In short, ultrasound helps us map out the surgery. It helps us decide if we need to operate and how much surgery to do. That's why it's so important for the ultrasound to be done by someone experienced in thyroid imaging. It's also about you. Besides the imaging, your personal preference matters a lot. Some people feel more comfortable having surgery right away. Others prefer to avoid surgery if it's safe. There's no one right answer. It's more about what feels right for you. Most of the time, there are different but equally safe options for treating thyroid cancer. Your doctor should review the images carefully and talk with you about your goals and lifestyle and create the best plan for you. If you'd like to learn more or schedule a consultation, uh, visit our website or give us a call. Thanks for watching. I'm Dr. James Woo. Take care and I'll see you next time.