Three-year-old Isabelle is getting her tonsils out. They are enlarged, making her cough and sometimes making it difficult to breathe. Listen to your back. A lot of children have snoring, which is normal, but children can also have airway obstruction where they're gasping, choking, have restless sleep, wake up several times during the night. Rapunzel. It's Rapunzel. That's just what happened to Isabelle. And doctors say she needs her enlarged tonsils removed. She's been sick constantly with I mean you can tell the way she talks her throat's full um and her constant sore throats, constant uh congestion. Our tonsils are lymph nodes on each side of our mouth that when enlarged can become the size of apricots. Standard treatments use a laser or electrocottery intense heat to burn through tissue to take them out. But a new technique called collation uses a wand that emits low temperature radio waves conducted through water to gently break down the tissue that allows doctors to remove the tonsils more precisely with virtually no damage to surrounding tissue and almost no loss of blood. The result will be the same where the ton the entire tonsil will be removed. However, it's not that burn that's created from an electrocottery or a laser. I'm thrilled about it because I you know I know my husband had his tonsils out. Everybody in my family had theirs out and they all have said how, you know, horrible the first couple days are. So, I'm just really happy about the idea of her not being uncom, you know, too uncomfortable cuz that's the most scary part for me. What do you get to have after ice cream? How much ice cream? Um, vanilla, strawberry, and chocolate with nothing on top. With nothing on top. Okay. On top. Isabelle goes into surgery. I don't know if you can see, but you can see that these are her tonsils. Here's the right tonsil. Here's the left tonsil. So now I'm going to be removing the tonsil with the coblation. Using the coblation wand, Dr. Shapiro eliminates just the tissue holding Isabelle's problem tonsils in place. So here's the tonsil coming out. And you can also see that her airway is is nice and wide open now as opposed to when it was filled with that tonsil tissue. In 15 minutes, Isabelle's tonsils are gone. Hi guys. Everything's great. She's all done. Everything went great. Huge tonsils. 30 minutes after the procedure, Isabelle is feeling well enough to go home. Say thank you. Can you say thank you to Dr. Shapiro? Great. they have a much shorter period of recovery or almost no recovery at all. They may have a little bit of a sore throat for a day or two as opposed to the standard techniques where children may be miserable for up to 10 to 14 days. Isabelle had only minor discomfort the following day and the symptoms associated with her enlarged tonsils are gone. A far cry from tonslectomies of the past.