My name is Cookie. I've had cancer four times and now today I am 17 and I am completely cancer free. Yeah, I had acute lymphosetic leukemia when I was two cuz I don't remember anything. when I was two. And then I had it again when I was five. And I remember being excited to start kindergarten and then going to a doctor's visit and finding out I had cancer and I didn't know what that entailed. I had mouth sores inside my mouth down my throat. I remember I couldn't talk at night when I needed to like get up and use the restroom. So I throw a shoe at my parents for them to wake up. And then I had it one more time when I was nine. And this time it was different cuz I've maxed out on all the chemotherapy that I my body can handle. They decided to have me get a bone marrow transplant and I was in the hospital in my room for 66 days. It was difficult not seeing the daylight. But like all things you make the best of it. We played ysy for days and days and days. And then when I was 14 and finally starting to get into a normal routine, I got diagnosed with Merkel cell carcinoma, which is a very rare skin cancer only found in adult males with HIV from Australia. I don't even think there was a diagnosis at UCLA of this cancer before, let alone in a teenager. And since I had already maxed out on all of the chemotherapy, I had to get five weeks of daily radiation, I couldn't eat, could barely talk because my mouth was covered in so many sores. Looking back on it, it could have been a lot worse than it was. I could have I mean, I I could have died. I could have died so many times. But the key thing was that I was positive. I was strong. I wanted to beat it. and I did. There's always a positive side to everything. You may not think so, but there always is. That's really what helped me get through all of my treatments. Instead of thinking, "Oh, I have 12 treatments left." You're like, "Oh, wow. I only have 12 treatments left." There's always a brighter side to thinking of things. And that really will help you get through anything in life.