You know those two little bean-shaped organs you barely think about? Well, they think about you all day long. Today on Medically Speaking, we're giving the kidneys their moment in the spotlight. From cleaning your blood to balancing your body's chemistry, these unsung heroes deserve a standing ovation or at least a really great conversation. And who better to have that with than my very dear friend and colleague, Dr. Andre Ras Stoi, among many titles, professor of medicine and clinical chief of nefrology at UCLA Health. Most of all, a brilliant, compassionate nefologist who spends his days keeping kidneys and the people attached to them healthy. So, grab a glass of water and buckle up for Kidneys 101. Andre, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the show. >> Thanks for having me, Eve and Dr. Glazier. >> No, Eve, please. So, let's start at the beginning. I I mentioned that your medical specialty is nefrology. Let's just break that down for our listeners. What's nefrology? >> So nefrology is just a fancy word for a specialty in kidneys and just want to point out that it's part of medicine not surgery because a lot of people confuse us with surgeons that do the transplant. So this is a medical aspect and we take care of all aspects of kidney disease and kidney health from from prevention to transplant >> which brings me to tell us about the kidneys. >> I would love to. So um as you mentioned uh they they are a fistsized organs in the back and under the ribs and they work 24/7. Uh they act as filters and they prime job is to purify the blood and get rid of the waste products but they do a lot more than that. Um they they get rid of you know excess of water or preserve water. If you are dehydrated they will try to conserve it. acid base electrolytes. We spoke about potassium, sodium, calcium, phosphorus. Um the acid load in your body that's regions that hormonal functions the vitamin D that you ingest or get from the sunlight is not active till it goes to the kidneys. So if you have kidney disease, then you become vitamin D deficient even if you're taking vitamin D. >> There's a hormone called epoen that's produced by the kidneys and that is for for hemoglobin. And if you have kidney disease, you'll be epo deficient and will get anemic. So lot of our patients who have advanced kidney disease have anemia. Blood pressure control. Kidneys are a central organ in blood pressure control. Either they cause hypertension or hypertension causes kidney disease. But the other couple of things that we have to keep in mind is drug clearance. And >> like by drugs do you mean like antibiotics, medications? >> Medications, antibiotics, cancer medications. So one of the things I always uh point out that when we think about kidney disease we tend to think about diialysis and non-dialysis but what we need to think about is a spectrum because if you have advanced kidney disease even though you're not on diialysis it might limit some of the life-saving medications. So kidneys are very very central organs like you said and um and then there's also a few metabolism, gluconogenesis, sugar, but these are probably I would say the the main functions of the kidney. >> So truly do deserve a spotlight. I mean they're working 24/7 and like you're saying working on all these different aspects and connections to other parts of your body. So >> hormonal orans, right? Hormones. Yeah, of course. vital hormones, your blood pressure, so the fluid that's coming, you know, through your body, um, excretion, um, right, of of toxins or drugs, medications, whether those are just everyday medications, which I have some questions about. Um, so, and you mentioned kidney disease. I guess I would love to ask before we get into disease or kind of how things maybe can be challenging. Um, what are ways we can keep these little guys just um, healthy and functioning? >> Yeah, that's that's a great >> kind of preventative. you know just like how do I >> keep my kidneys healthy >> you know one of the questions that we get asked is how do I improve my kidney function and and and the reality is that you can't improve with age you lose kidney function that's just the reality so the decline whether it be like this slow or it' be like this that you can do so preserving kidney function is is a term that >> and how is function when you say kidney function how is that defined or how is that manifested like how do I know my kidneys are functioning >> yeah so so there are different tests but the the the the probably the most widely and commonly used test for for the general population is what we call the filtration rate. So the kidneys act as a filter >> and there's a term that just like we talk about hemoglobin A1c, we talk about cholesterol. >> It's also eGFR or GFR. So G is glomearilus. That's a cup-shaped filter and FR is a filtration rate. So that is the overall best indicator of kidney function. So >> you should always keep an eye that what is my GFR? >> Great. And just to remind, you know, our patients when they go in for a routine physical or an annual exam, >> remember everyone, I'm a primary care doc, I always check Oh, thanks Andre. Um that um I always check as my routine, you know, annual blood exams. Uh we check something called a complete metabolic panel. And one of those tests is the GFR, so glomeular, so hard to say, filtration rate. Um and that is showing me right how well your kidneys are filtering which for the kidneys is a reflection of how well that they are filtering right so function and filter great and then and as a patient or person in the population >> we can we interpret that you know um that that filtration rate so >> it sounds like as we age there's a natural decline in functioning or filtering but um is there something I should be looking for as just a normal normal person that says, "Hey, I'm, you know, um, I have a feeling my my kidneys are functioning, but how do I know that? Is that something in my urine?" >> Yes. Very good. So, I mean, um, there there two tests that and and we we're using the term more kidney health now. Good. I love it. >> Kidney disease just to have a positive spin on things. >> Um, and there are two tests and and you mentioned about the annual physical examination and they're two simple tests. These are widely available, inexpensive tests. Any lab can do it. Um it's a blood test that you already mentioned that which is part of the basic comprehensive metabolic panel called creatinine. And from creatinine based on equations, we derive the GFR and that's why it's called eGFR estimated based on on on the equation. So >> someone else is doing the math. >> Someone is the lab is doing the math. I'm I don't do the math either. It's complicated. So that's the first thing. It's a it's a it's a a simple test to do. And the other test that we recommend is a simple urine test. Um and and what we look for specifically in them is protein spilling. So your kidneys work as a filter and as a filter they retain the good stuff and get rid of the bad. Protein is a good stuff and if the kidney is damaged you'll start spilling protein in your urine. So the other test that we do is checking for protein in your urine. Those two tests should pick up majority of there are other tests that you know we might need but they should pick up and that should be a part of your annual physical exam. >> Okay. And that's really helpful I think for everyone to know which is that when you're going in for your physical again in the absence of symptoms right and you're just having an annual physical or your check-in with your >> um provider. Yes, this is, you know, you can absolutely request usually we just order it, you know, which is to say a urine analysis, right? >> Um, and that will detect if there's protein, right, that I can't see with my eye as a patient. Is that right? >> Right. That is actually >> So, I'm not going to like look in the toilet and be like, oh, definitely spilling protein. There's no way I can see that. >> That's not And I do want to point out one more thing. A lot of times frothiness of urine is is kind of related or they they say if you see lot of frothiness it indicates protein in the urine >> but I would say that's really way down the line like you said you cannot see the protein in the urine. >> I think that's really important because I absolutely have patients friends calling me and saying my urine looks frothy and when I Google it it tells me I have kidney disease right and otherwise I've been fine and I feel fine. So a really good reminder go see your provider and then you know you you'll have a urine analysis done that would detect whether you have this. >> But I also want to point out one more thing. So when when you say routine urine analysis or ruas >> those are sometimes don't check for protein. So you have to ask for what we call you know for in medical speaking uh UPCR urine protein creatin ratio. So, so just make sure when they go in they also say that please check for any protein spilling that I might be doing. >> Okay, good. And I will definitely advocate for that. I mean, something we really like to do on this show is, you know, give people some knowledge, right? Not make this medical knowledge so rarified. Everyone should be able to say and have some um uh, you know, enough knowledge and awareness about how their body works so they can say, "No, this is I listen to Dr. risogi and this is something that I want to get checked for to keep to have confirmation that my kidneys are healthy. >> Yes. Yes, that's absolutely correct. >> So, I love that you um that we're using kidney health, right? Not everything has to be pathologic, right? Or a disease. Um but um so with kidney health I I mean I I think we do have to sort of um ask um because I certainly have noticed and maybe I've just learned this from you is that um I've heard that kidney disease you know or issues with the kidney is sometimes referred to as a silent epidemic and I'm hoping you can talk about that. >> Absolutely. I'm glad you brought this up because that this is one of the biggest challenges we have in nephrology or kidney specialists that that's what we are. So um I just want to give you some statistics on kidney disease um in the US adult population. So one in three are at risk and we'll go over some of the risk factors who are at risk. >> One in seven have it. So that puts about 37 million adults in the US have kidney disease. So if you just look around your room and stuff you can see that how many patients but only one in 10 know it. So nine out of 10 people who have kidney disease and some of them actually have significant they're actually knocking on diialysis they don't know they have kidney disease. So this is a big challenge like all the other silent problems that we have hypertension high blood pressure same thing right you can be walking on even diabetes you can be walking around right osteoporosis or osteopenia so dis high cholesterol so these the silent diseases and they we call them silent killers because by the time they find out that they have is is probably fairly advanced and that goes back to eve what you said about the annual testing right it's a simple test that can you know, save save a lot of lot of, you know, um what I would say I wouldn't just say sadness, but a lot of challenges down the line, >> right? >> So, I mean, wow. So, I'm looking around the room and nine out of 10 people don't know they have an issue. So, you're are you telling me that they're feeling absolutely fine or are they maybe not noticing or maybe paying attention to some small symptoms that they should? >> That's that's a very good question, a point actually. That's not even a question because if your kidney function declines rapidly, what we call acute kidney injury, you will have a lot of symptoms. Your face can get bloated. You can even be peeing blood. Uh or you you're you stop stop peeing at all. >> But when you have chronic kidney disease that is which is 3 months or more, >> it is so slowly progressive that your body adjusts to it >> and it's a maladjustment. >> So it's it's not a good adjustment, but it's mal. So like you said there are things that you'll probably overlook because it's so slowly progressive and by the time the other point that I want to mention over here is about half of the patients who end up on diialysis half 30 to 50 so maybe one third to half have never seen a kidney specialist in their life. >> So what what do you attribute that to? So one is awareness, right? Um we we spoke about, you know, like not getting tested. >> Um but also not being aware of your own body and symptoms. >> Okay. So that's that's like one of our big messages about which is you don't have to go to medical school to have awareness. So I love hearing this awareness about your body. Tell us what we need to be aware of. >> So I think let's start with simple things, right? um you wake up in the morning and you see a slight swelling of your legs and you might just say that it it's not important or it's not saying uh your spouse notices or your significant other notices that you're not eating that much right you don't have have that much appetite you don't have that much energy right >> and that this is a change I'm getting >> this is a change it's a change from baseline but sometimes so and this is where the and I know we'll be hopefully talking about caregivers which I personally think is such an important but sometimes the patient doesn't notice But this is so slow and insidious. So these are symptoms. Now what we will not be talking about is just bloating up and and you know your face is swollen and your your you can't put your ring on. Those are I think is abnormal and if you don't check for it then that's a problem. But it's a really slowly progressive patients that that that I worry about. >> Mhm. And so a way to counteract that then is to have everyday awareness right about your body. Get regularly checked out right and then also >> pay attention to yourself right so even if you are saying gosh I really noticed that for the last month I'm just getting a little bit puffy right or um >> uh there's a change right in urination and it's small >> but pay attention to yourself right and go see someone. So, and and this is we're making a distinction between having your annual checkup with a primary care doc and getting just these routine tests and then just noticing yourself. >> Absolutely. And I there's one more thing I want to point out things that we see on a regular basis because we go back and try to connect the dots. >> Somebody's doing well. You know, let's say a young person active and all of a sudden they don't feel well. They feel they they would be working 20 hours but now they're sleeping 10 hours, right? there's a there's a big shift from the norm but but they don't you know it's just a symptom. Those are kind of things that you should be picked up. You h you should go to your your your primary care physicians internist family medicine doctor and get like you said comprehensive metabolic pan or just a blood work you know just and they they would do that in the and and a urine test because a lot of times these and then the other end of the spectrum is older. We had a patient recently just was doing well and then not doing well. Um he went in to the ER his creatinine was out they said his he's dehydrated but I said he's not dehydrated this is one of my my person that I knew they did a biopsy and he had when you know for medical call anka vasculitis I mean it's it's these are two spectrums so if there is any change in from the norm like you said right >> get it tested okay because you if you catch it early you you know the results will be much better >> you know and we talk about this um with a lot of our um medical conditions. So, you know, we had Katie Kurrick on and we talked about um uh colon cancer screening and the benefits of early detection. So, I'm it sounds like that's exactly what you're emphasizing >> as well, which is and I'm wondering can you do you have a you know maybe a patient story or example where early detection, you know, detecting that there is an issue or a problem in the absence of symptoms um >> really served or really, you know, affected the outcome. Yeah. >> Um of of a patient and how they did because they found something early. >> Yeah. I mean there's so many and you know and a lot of times I just get calls from my friends, my colleagues that they're saying that this is a person that can you see sooner and I still remember there there was a um a young girl um uh was not too many but she went for OBGYN checkup. >> Um and they say so she was spilling significant protein. We biopsied her and she had what we call IG and nephropathy. M um and IG nephropathy is something that that is getting a lot of attention. We have a lot of new drugs coming out, a lot of research being done. We put her on treatment. You know, earlier I mean she and now I mean it's it's it's she's under control. And the same patient if we had seen in 5 years >> would probably be on dialysis. >> Wow. Okay. So really I mean a huge a huge benefit and you know you you mentioned 37 million people >> which is a lot and a lot to get our heads around and especially when you it's very I think um especially resonant when you sort of say like in the room with you nine out of people might have something and might not know it but um are there risk factors that might predispose you know certain people >> to having um a kidney issue or kidney disease? >> Yep. You know that that's another great question because people what we call high risk. So if you look at the the causes of kidney disease in the US, let's just focus on in the US about 40 to 50% has have diabetes as a direct or indirect cause. Um and the indirect I say because it might be a contributing factor but not the sole factor but 40 to 50%. So if you're diabetic or even pre-diabetic you should be getting tested. So that also means that you should be diagnosed with diabetes because >> type one is easy because by the time you know it manifests it's such a catastrophic or sudden but type two if you don't go for your routine tests right >> you you'll never pick it up. >> So it's a great reminder too remember that like as much as I'm saying they're these they're these beans you know in your body they're they're they affect and are affected by many other organisms or you know organ systems. they're interdependent and right so >> diabetes >> I mean I think when people have so it's another reason right to just have those annual checkups because you could be having some glucose intolerance or pre-diabetes and that alerts us as doctors to then say okay we need to follow you for your sugar right sugar control make sure you don't progress to diabetes and in doing so we're also monitoring and we're making sure that you're not progressing to any form of kidney disease >> yes that's absolutely correct >> okay and The second big cause is high blood pressure. >> Now that I'm a bit you know um on the fence whether it's directly causes it or it's associated but hypertension is supposed to be the second major driver of chronic kidney. So they kakan for together it's 80% of all and I'll come back to why that number is important. The other risk factor is cardiovascular disease and and >> and what does cardiovascular disease mean? >> Heart problems. So anything that that so heart impacts kidneys and kidneys impact heart. The arrows goes both ways. So if you have heart problems, always get your kidneys tested. Being overweight puts also extra pressure on the kidneys. Smoking not a good thing, you know, for anything but also for the kidneys. Anything that's bad for your heart is bad for the kidneys. As simple as that. But the other important thing and a lot of work is being done at UCLA is about family history. If you have multiple family members or just some family members who have had kidney disease or ended up on diialysis or transplant for some testing and this is additional testing now genetics and we have at UCLA health we have nephrogenetics we have started a program that's kidney genetics and what what we're finding is one in five one in five causes of kidney disease is a single gene mutation single gene not polygen not multiple one in five. So up to 20% of pay. And if you have a genetic cause of kidney disease, then it doesn't just impact you, it impacts your family members and your future kids, your kids that you might have or grandkids. So family history is very important. Know your family history. >> Well, because once you know your family history, I think sometimes I think people feel overwhelmed by genetics cuz they're like, well, what am I supposed to do with that information? But I'm guessing then even if you know you tell me but if you know you have a genetic predisposition or you know a heightened risk factor >> tell me what you can do with that information. >> So the two things one is what we call the monogenic you know that that is a single gene and for example polycystic kidney disease it's a single gene mutation you go in and you get tested. So there is a broad panel testing now. So the future of medicine not just nefrology is three things in my opinion three big pillars. Number one is AI artificial intelligence. The second is immunology and the third is genetics. And genetics could be monogenic. >> That means a single gene and you can get tested for that. You go in, you ask your doctor saying that hey I have kidney disease. It runs in my family. Can you test me for any genetic cause? >> The other is what we call polygenic that means multiple genes and that is example type 2 diabetes. So you really can't test I mean you can but for most of them you can't test but it runs in your family. Everybody in your family from one side or the other is diabetic. There's a pretty good chance you'll be and it doesn't you know how you look or what you you are at very high risk of getting diabetic and that can lead to a lot of problems including kidney problems. >> So it can lead to a lot of problems but if you know that you have this predis predisposition and you are seeing a provider then we can all jump on that. Right. >> Thank you. Thank you. So let me put this in what you just said Eve. prevention prevention primary secondary you know whatever you want to call it >> but le let's look at and we'll talk about transplant a bit but let's look at the numbers what I gave you 40% are diabetes is a primary cause >> now you're you're an exceptional exceptional internist primary care provider you are and and and I know that and and uh and I know you're very humble and modest but that is the reality but let's think about that and and we know it takes 5 10 15 years for diabetes to lead to you know kidney disease or advanced. But if you go upstream and you take care of the diabetes like you said pre-diabetes or even diabetes you can knock off 30 to 40% patients ending up with endstage kidney disease. >> That's exactly what I wanted to ask you. But this is >> and and our approach >> unfortunately and it's changing not your approach not my approach but in general is more reactive and and a lot of time patients will need to take ownership of that too. We talk about shared decision- making. We talk about partnership. So when we talk about partnership, everybody on the table has equal responsibility >> including you as a patient, >> right? You have agency which I think is very powerful. >> No, this this is so let I mean let that sink in that if you can control your diabetes right whether it be diet, exercise, you know, medications. I'm also a pharmacologist, right? My PhD is in pharmac. We will talk about that in a bit. But >> if we can do that, we can knock off and you know what that does. >> Yeah. Tell me how that changes the numbers. >> So they at this time currently as we speak in 2025, there's close to 100,000 patients waiting for a kidney transplant. These are weight listed. These are not patients on diialysis. These are patients who actually are wait because there a lot of patients who are not on the list because they have some problems or there's some challenges but we have 100,000 the number of transplants that were done last year was 27,000. >> So 100,000. So if we knock off those diabetes as a as a driver of kidney disease, right? that opens up other patients who have things that they can't control like genetic diseases, patients who have cancer, they put were put on therapy or chemotherapy that shot down their kidneys and then they need a transplant. So I think it's our responsibility too to be proactive, you know, healthy lifestyle. >> Absolutely. and and physicians are responsible um you know patients are responsible the caregivers if they can help everybody has respons because it's towards society >> you're you're completely turning this on on its head which is fantastic because I think when we started talking >> you know it's very overwhelming to hear that 37 million right people have you know um chronic kidney disease right or that um there's this silent epidemic what I'm hearing you say is that it doesn't have to be a silent epidemic. Okay. First of all, and that >> apart from some factors, right, that are not mutable or changeable, you know, that we can't control for, right? Like we can't control our genetics. You're telling me that >> this very high percentage, what was the number? >> About 40% >> 40% of people with kidney disease, >> it doesn't have to be this way. >> Yes. >> It can be not just prevented, right, upstream, but actually treated. And if treatments are effective and again that's not just what's prescribed but how we take our prescriptions right adhere to >> um lifestyle diet um followup >> that that number goes away. >> Yep. >> And then that also then makes space for um >> interventions like transplants maybe for those patients when we don't have enough when when there is an issue of scarcity right for those patients who who need them. I mean that's incredible and I want to give the power back to yes I'm a physician but I'm also a patient gives me back power as a patient I'm not a kidney specialist so >> that is in my control >> right right a lot of the time to not get diabetes type two in the first place >> um and also if I do get diagnosed that I actually have >> control with my support team my care team you know to control it so it doesn't advance and so I don't have to live with kidney disease. >> Yeah, you Eve, you mentioned >> I don't mind to oversimplify it. >> No, no, no, no. This is absolutely right. You're right on. And you also mentioned something called a care team. >> Mhm. >> So, let's talk about the care team. So, it's a team, right? And and patients and their caregivers are part of that. But but the team is full of physicians or you know and and healthare providers, nurse practitioners, social workers, therapist, dieticians. M >> so for be best outcomes you really have to get the right care team you know and one of the things that I've seen that lot of times the visits become social visits how's your dog >> how's your trip right what I always tell my patients when you're going for the p your visit to your physician because they have slotted time we know that it's not in our control we're given 20 minutes because the next patient's there in 20 minutes so but But I always say utilize that 20 minutes. That is your time face to face with your provider. Have your questions ready. You know, go from the previous visit, you know, the what we call minutes, right? What was done? What what what's on your mind, right? Get your medic, but those 20 minutes that you spend with your your provider, you really have to. Now, having said that, it's not a social visit. I and and the reason I bring this up because a lot of patients come to me and they're talking about how my life is and that's that's not the purpose of that visit. So why is that important? Because when you go into physician, make sure your questions are being answered. If they're not being answered or they don't want to answer it, >> then I think you should look for somebody else because this is the power. >> We always say here you can break up with your physician. >> Yes. And and sometimes you should, you know, but but and it's not breaking them at a personal level. >> No, no, no. You deserve I mean I think what you're articulating is is that you deserve to have your questions answered. >> Yes. Yes. And if they are not willing to answer for whatever reason >> then you need to really ask your question is this the right um if you don't ask if my patient doesn't ask questions when they come in. I've said that that they are not probably activated a term that we use patient they're involved in their care right that they they so I like them to ask questions >> right and we as physicians need to make sure that we're giving >> space and the invitation to activate themselves too so I mean it's a partnership like you're saying so I think that's important but >> can I just ask one more thing on that for the questions you know it's sometimes you know they don't remember the questions at that time right so what I ask my patients you know my chart we have I chart on the electronic healthcare they can send a message that say hey these are some of the questions that I would like to be addressed and I like that because sometimes I need to collect information so we can give a succulate with your provider that these are bring somebody if you can to the visit so they can also take that but communicate and then act on them >> and take notes maybe even take notes yeah no I think that's I think that's um >> great advice and I think you know we'll be exploring that I think in a lot of our conversations you know with you and on the show about, you know, um just advice about how to be a patient, which, you know, again, I really want to emphasize to our listeners, there are tons of things we can do better as as providers and and remind us at all times, but you know, I think I can speak for Andre and and myself, like we we want to be partners and um >> so I think it's just helpful, right, in terms of of of of what to bring. But I I think that again, this is just incredible to hear how much is modifiable, changeable, in our control. Yes. >> And so, um, we we're talking a little bit about those kind of clinical risk factors, right? And by clinical, I mean like high blood pressure, diabetes, you know, again, and there's genetics. Um, what about, um, lifestyle? Um, and you mentioned smoking, but I guess I wanted to ask like I think a lot of people make the assumption that alcohol is a liver disease is is does alcohol impact the kidneys? uh uh you know indirectly uh it does because because the the liver will affect um it could also be dehydrating which is obviously uh not a good but but it just it just messes up the the calories and and everything else that you might be trying to do. The bottom line is if you look at the most recent data that's coming out there is no health benefits of alcohol drinking. you know even like we talk about red wine and and you know the the the chemical agent over there that might be is such high concentration that you might have to take that so what I tell my patients is to minimize that I mean think I mean if it's if you don't drink then then don't start >> uh but if you if you drink so the short answer is yes ka because at the end kidneys control lot of other you know this interplay between liver the heart the kidneys the fatty liver right I mean this all impacts you know you get high cholesterol levels high so at the end you know control and I know after covid especially the the alcohol consumption has gone up you know and on average so so >> okay so part of the larger preservation and prevention >> is is limit limit alcohol intake and if you can give it up and a lot of patients have it's it's it's would be recommended >> okay and I have to ask how much water am I supposed to be drinking every day >> yeah so um that also depends upon, you know, if you're working out, if you're, you know, sweating, if you're, you know, in in Arizona where it's very hot. So, one thing I would say, if you don't drink enough water, that's really bad for the kidneys because kidneys is one of the most vascular organ in your body. 25% of what your heart pumps goes to the kidneys. >> So, when you say vascular um >> blood flow, >> blood flow like veins and arteries. Okay. So 25% of the blood that your heart pumps, 25 goes to the kidneys because they purify the blood. It makes sense. So So the kidneys do like to be hydrated and that's why we have this this water drink. >> But but Andre, how do I know? Do I have to pee clear? Do I have to drink enough water to pee clear? >> That's for sure. That's the I do. Yes. Or is that the question? Oh, >> no. But but then you might be taking multivitamins that might make your pee. So I think it is I would say if you're not excessively sweating or losing what you know I would say about a liter and a half based on your body size. If you're Shaquille O'Neal it's very different. So general guideline though because some people are guzzling water like all day long and they're like no no no when I when I go urinate it needs to be clear but is that >> so let me talk about the guzzling of the water which is actually good because um now if you have kidney stones you know we we give them very specific that drink at least 2 liters which is about how many 64 ounces 2 to 2 and a half I say 2 and 1/2 liters depending upon kidney function too because if you have advanced kidney disease you might have to limit that but the other thing is even if you're a guzzler I'll rather have you be guzzling water than alcohol or other drinks. >> But it's the rate of guzzling too. For example, if you're drinking a gallon of water in a day, which is about 3.78 L, right? >> If you drink it too fast, and those cases have happened, >> uh your sodium can drop. >> And if your sodium drops too rapidly, it really can impact your brain swelling and stuff. So I what I strongly recommend to my patients is, you know, drink water. You know, a liter, two liters. I mean at least liter and a half average I would say. Um but but if you're drinking more than that >> so over the course of your waking hours over >> the course of waking hours that is very important because too much water too fast >> yes >> can be a problem. >> I that I have actually had patients and friends who have um guzzled too much. Um so I love hearing you were the I love hearing you use the very unscientific word guzzling >> and water by the way. water by the way because if you start drinking other drinks that have electrolytes and and and and >> what's come sugar in it right then it becomes a vated this is pure water >> we're just talking about water which brings me to a question which is you know there's a lot of different fluids out there right I mean sure there's Gatorade that has electrolytes there's you know other electrolyte you know people are you know um taking when they're dehydrated after let's say a stomach you know or a diarrhea illness um but there are things like too like multivitamin water and alkaline water. You're talking about how the kidneys are this, you know, very elaborate >> and smart I'm going to say filtration system. So, do you have any thoughts or recommendations for do I do I need to be drinking a vitamin water? >> No, you don't have to be you don't have to be my multi because I think if you have balanced diet, right? Um the the multivitamins and we're not talking about by the way vitamin C in very high doses. I'm talking about in also in a healthy patient that doesn't have diagnosed kidney. >> I mean they don't I mean like I would say it won't hurt to take a multivitamin if you don't think you have a balanced diet but these are regular these are not high doses of vitamin C that they take because the reason why I'm pointing out vitamin C because that can cause kidney problems if you take in high doses and with the infections co we see those emergency cacks and stuff. So just be careful when you're taking those because that can cause kidney problems too in mega doses. Vitamin C gets metabolic to oxalates and oxalates can shut down your kidneys. >> You got I hope everyone's enjoying these fancy words like oxalates. Um but which actually does bring me to some sort of that you sparked my medical school knowledge. Um you mentioned kidney stones which I feel like oxalate is maybe a component of one. >> It's one of the most common ones. >> So calcium oxalate y >> do you hear that everybody is um that's a common cause of kidney stones. Um, while we're talking about prevention, um, are there things that, um, we can be doing to prevent kidney stones, are all kidney stones genetic? Are they related to risk factors? >> That's a very good question. You know, my interest is genetics. So, there is rare diseases, rare, but I always say it's not rare if you have it. >> That's right. It certainly doesn't feel rare. >> So, like there's primary hyperoxillura. Once again a fancy term that the liver is producing a lot of oxalate and that will shut down your kidneys. We have a genetic cause for that. It's one of the mutations and there medications now out there for that that can prevent that from if you do it >> catch it on the timing. So there are genetic causes of kidney stones. So that's number one. But in in general um hydration is key. You know that's one of the big but also your diet. you know uh we talked about oxalate you know it's in in lot of things that that that we eat but calcium a balance and you can do a 24 unit collection and look at what what you're putting but for the kidney stones I do want to say one thing which helps us a lot if you have kidney stones get a strainer from the pharmacy and if you next time ever have a kidney stone catch that stone and submit that for metabolic but that's the best way to find out because if it's a calcium oxalate stone versus a you know any other stone that you might uric acid, the treatment might be a bit different. So, that is number one. And number two is do a 24-hour collection. Look at what you're you're urinating and then adjust your diet based on that. >> And that's something you do at your doctor, the 24-hour urine, that's something you after you've gone and gotten diagnosed with a kidney stone. >> You know, we as physicians order that. But the other thing about the kidney stones is and this is a really I won't say big but but not uncommon misconception that you go to a urologist for kidney stones and and we love our colleagues in urology. They're doing wonder but they they take care of the acute stone. >> Mhm. >> The prevention of the future stones is the nefrologist. >> Great. >> So I think it's very important if you have a kidney stone that you do see a nefologist >> or if you've had one if you had one. Okay. Yeah. So, um, I'm going to be very, very literal. So, if I woke up and I'm having >> pain, which I think is a kidney stone. Yep. >> Should I go see my primary care doc first? I mean, I I have back pain. It's coming and going in my right side. Um, it's excruciating. That's what people say. I haven't ever had one. Um, do I go to the emergency room? Go to go to my primary care doc. Do I call nefrology? um probably you know it would be you know if you have a nephrologist it's probably but but you know just getting to the appointment and I think you bring up a point about pain kidney disease in general does not cause pain okay you know now there are condition like polycystic kidney disease that kidneys are huge or you have acutely inflamed kidneys they can cause some discomfort but in general it doesn't cause the back pain now kidney stone is an exception >> so if you're having that excruciating pain in the back and radiating whatever I would go to urgent care or ER because I don't know what the primary care will be able to do in any case, right? So, get that checked out >> and that's very good advice too and um it's immediate care, urgent care or emergency room if it's that excruciating, but um get checked out. Don't stay at home in pain at all. Also, to be fair, half the time I think I have a kidney stone and I pulled a muscle. So, it's really important to go, you know, get checked out and have someone actually look at you and get diagnosed. Once you have a history or a known history of having kidney stones, to your point though, um see a nefologist, a kidney specialist. Um sure, have a strainer at home to catch them if you happen to be home and you're passing one and then put that strainer in the dishwasher. >> Um instantly where my mind goes. Um but most importantly because again once we have that information about what that composition is right of a kidney stone that is then going to affect how we treat it prevent it absolutely etc. Absolutely. So I didn't mean to totally summarize but so I can learn. >> No no but but that is important because we need to find out what but the different kinds of stones that tend to be recurrent that recur mean they keep they can keep coming back. And also if you're passing a stone and and you have passed a stone in the past, always think what did I do differently this time, right? Right. Uh it could be a diet splurge that they did. But a lot of times it's dehydration >> that they were on a long drive, they were on a long flight which is dehydrating and they land and then they have a kidney stone. >> Mhm. And again it's that awareness from that there's a change from baseline. >> Yes. Okay. Which I I think is great because that's no doctor can tell you if there's a change from baseline. you know yourself. >> That is actually that's actually right. You you are your own best advocate, >> right? Okay. I know a lot of people who would love that. Um to remind people um we talked a little bit and so I'd love to dive in a little bit to talk about transplantation. >> Um so for people who whose kidney disease progresses, tell me a little bit about kidney transplantation, like when is that warranted? What does that path look like? >> Yeah. So, so I'm I'm glad you asked that because that phase and and the way I would term it is called endstage kidney disease. That means that you have kidney disease has advanced so much that you need some replacement. Um diialysis is most of the times the the most common path >> till till we get transplanted. Um so the way I would approach any patient who has advanced kidney disease and we spoke about the term GFR right glow filtration if it falls below 30 30 right start looking at your options >> um and so we spoke about the numbers about 90,000 to 100,000 patients waiting for for a the wait time in LA where we are from is 5 to 10 years I mean it's a humongous and then we have living kidney donors So the this is where you had to be really proactive and and you need to talk to your nephologist saying that kidney specialist um that that I want to look at my options and uh most of times it's diialysis as a bridge to transplant. We still have a waiting time. But if you have a living kidney donor or somebody's interested that you can get what we call a preemptive, >> what that really means is that you bypass diialysis completely. And majority of cases, not all, but it you have to have a living kidney donor. >> Andre, can we back up for just a quick second because you were saying that when your kidney disease advances, start exploring your options. Y. >> So um I guess what do you mean by options and like what exactly is dialysis? >> Yes. Okay. Very good. So when when you when we look at options for patients with with advanced kidney disease need needing a replacement a replacement >> and what are the three replacements? Well, the first replacement and the ideal one, the best one, but the probably the most difficult one to get or challenging, I won't say difficult if you plan it properly can is transplantation. It's by far a new kidney, >> a new kidney. Um, >> the second one is diialysis and most of the time, you know, diialysis is being looked at. So Dallas and the third one let me mention that too because those are three is more supportive care like you know the the doctors decide in consultation with with the patient and their family members that at this point we'll just do conservative management because all of these other things have their own risks. Transplant is a surgery. It's a huge surgery and you'll get a lot of medications imunos. So that's why save your beans because even the transplant kidney is not your kidney right you'll be on medications and and stuff. diialysis same thing too and and at the end is what we call conservative management some people call it paliotative I like to use conservative that you talk to the family you look at their but diialysis is let's talk about that because that is important diialysis is a machine that actually purifies your blood >> so it does the job >> it does the job but but just the purification does doesn't do all the other things that kidneys are supposed to do and even the diialysis at its best provides only 10 to 15% of your kidney does. So it keeps you barely enough to to just get through, you know, survival and stuff. Now, but there are two big types of diialysis. So one is in center and I think this is really important. >> At out of center, >> in center, okay, they they go to a diialysis unit and you probably see them, you know, uh all around. It's an outpatient. You go and then say something called home diialysis. So for the people in the audience today, if they're on diialysis or they're getting close to diialysis or they have a family member or know somebody who's on and and they're not on home diialysis that they don't do the diialysis at home, ask the question why? Because home diialysis is so much better than in center diialysis. For our patients, it's it's the go-to. You know, our go-to is transplantation and preemptive if they can get that. But if they don't for whatever reason then you go through home diialysis. Now there's some reason why they couldn't do home diialysis but I would say majority of people should so 70 to 80% of the people who are on diialysis >> but if you look at the national average it's only 14%. >> Wow. So there's a real so definitely ask. So this is for patients and their family members and their support systems. Ask about home right? >> Anybody that you know >> okay great >> I mean that's very very >> helpful. So those are the um options. I guess you mentioned a living donor transplant. So um I'm wondering if you can define that and then also say, you know, is there any advice you would give to >> someone who's considering doing that? You know, I think sometimes a family member might find out, oh my gosh, I just found out, you know, my sister has um advanced kidney disease. Can I like give her my kidney right now? Yeah. >> I think it's a little bit confusing. >> Yeah. So that's that's really and and you know we we our core kidney program at UCLA health and >> we are very proactive in in helping patients navigate this very complex and sometimes confusing pathway. So there's a couple of things from the recipient side the person who has kidney disease once and that's why >> one term that all kidney patients should know is GFR that is really important. So once your GFR falls below 20, 20 or below, you can go to the transplant program and get listed. Okay? So so you can start the process. So that's that's the first step. So if your GFR is 20 or below or you're getting close to it, get a referral to a transplant. That's really important. >> Now the living kidney donors I I do and majority of are still deceased donors. So if you look at 27,000 transplants that were done on average or 28,000 close to uh 7,000 were through living donors. >> That was in Los Angeles. >> No, this is >> Oh, across the nation >> across 28,000 that's that's and then 1/4 were living donors. >> Now the living donors, I just want to do a shout out to them. They're incredible human beings. The biggest gift one human being can give to another one is a kidney. Because I I I just think and and that gift not just impacts a patient, not just their family, >> but but society and humanity. Let's think through this. >> A patient is going for diialysis. Somebody's taking them to diialysis. Somebody's dealing with the complications, their hospitalizations, whatever. Who's that? Their family members and caregivers, right? So they get this is a person who now just has to take care of diialysis because they can't do anything else and then wait time is 5 to 10 years and this person comes along and said hey I think I can give a kidney to you that one kidney donation has changed the course of multiple lives right like that and now you have given back to the society a member who can give and that's what our ambassadors in core kidney do they get a kidney transplant and then they help other people. So kidney donors is a very but having said that >> it's it's not without risks. You you know you have to do a risk assessment. It is a surgery. >> Um and and and I'll just give the example of UCLA Health because that's where I practice. We we we do a thorough eval. So a lot of the time the donors think well they all think about the recipient. Nobody's going to care about me. But it's just the opposite actually. >> The the the donor program is donor centric. We look at the donor. We we we can't really get put in the picture what the recipient is going through and we do a full evaluation and and then we there's some people who are rejected. That's not you can't donate. There's some people who just go through and then we do what healthy lifestyles and and all that means. So so it is um but it is a process that takes time >> and it goes through program. So don't you know >> it? Oh it's a very thorough program. >> Don't donate one through Instagram. Right. >> Oh yeah. That that that's that that's true. And then outside the US there are very different guidelines right so we can only mean this is highly regulated in the US which I think is absolutely essential. So I think I mean this is and then there are some some people call the nondirected donors which is a even more unique group of people >> and the non-directed donors is one donor is directed I have my friend and I want to give you to my friend right and that's I I have a spouse significant other I have a son daughter father that's what we got directed that year but there are people believe it or not there are people who come and show up saying you know what I don't know who the donor recipient is I don't here. I just want to help somebody >> and they get they and that nondirected donor can start a chain. You probably heard those chains that start and they help multiple people. >> It's incredible. >> So, so I think this this is I think we don't in my opinion we have tried to do a lot of stuff. um our first float in in in the Rose Parade which was last year. It was gift of life a tune that never fades and the gift of life was a kidney and we had all these so we need to really put them on a pedestal which they belong and say that thank you know not just for helping that patient >> or their family but society. >> Yeah. >> So it's so true. They're such such heroes. Um, and so are the caregivers, you know, as you're as you're mentioning. >> Um, you're mentioning your um, float in the Rose Parade, and we will, you know, have pictures in our in our notes for everyone to to >> um, admire. Um, I I do, you me, you keep mentioning the core program. And so for our listeners, I do want to mention that, um, Dr. Wogi is the founding director of our core kidney program at UCLA Health. And core stands for clinical excellence, outreach, research, um, and educating. Um, those are the guiding principles of the program. Could you just say a little bit more about the the program? >> Yeah, so um the the core program at UCLA Health um the the purpose overall was to make our patients their best advocates. >> Yes, I love that. >> And provide comprehensive care. So C is care and these are all things that you mentioned Eve for the core is at the end patient is at the center. That's that's what what what we um and was founded in 2016 and the whole idea was to provide the best care we can to the patients and their their caregivers and you know it has evolved over time you know it's 9 years out and I would say doing fairly well and what my patients have done which I've seen the most people they have built a circle around the core >> a protective circle so it's called the circle of core kidney foundation and this is a nonprofit organization ation and their sole purpose is to help patients and other caregivers who are going through that >> and those what we call ambassadors, >> right? >> And these ambassadors because I still remember we used to do the kidney fears at the beach and I know Eve you showed up with your three angels. I remember that and I had this we the last one we just 2019 because you know co happened and and then we didn't we stopped going to the beach but I still remember there was a patient with polycystic kidney disease who showed up from Australia to attend that and I asked him a very simple questions why did you fly from so far and you know what he said because I wanted to meet other patients who have been through this so the ambassadors we talk about caregivers but the ambassadors who are going through that or or have been through that they gave a lot of comfort. He said I spoke to a lot of doctors and healthcare providers but what I felt really good was when I spoke to another patient that I will be okay. >> Yeah. >> And those that's core that's a core program that we have. >> Yeah. It's so interesting. We um I I can't tell you how many of our colleagues in different specialties emphasize um those words um you're going to be okay, right? Or you're not alone. >> And can I say something about that too? And and I I think you bring up a very important point, Eve. You know, you can give give the same message in different words, right? Different the the way you express or communicate. And it's all about hope, right? You're never alone. I I always say that and and there is you know I mean at at the end we have to give you the medical information and and what the outcomes prognosis like we can but there are so many paths you know they it's there's always something that can be done so don't give up hope I mean it's and and our floats were about hope the core kidney is about hope giving hope to a patient and communication >> is a very big part >> and so much communication It's so much communication and and you know I have to bring up your program that you do the ask the doctors. >> I personally read those and if and I just want to tell the audience if you haven't been there and read those because it's so succinct it's scientifically accurate. It's people what can understand right I mean a lot of times you go to the internet you get a lot of garbage. >> Yeah. No I think you I mean I learn a lot from writing them with my colleague Dr. Elizabeth Co. I learned so much from listening to you. I these are all my genuine questions about these these beans and honestly Andre I listen to you and um I wanted to say one thing which is about the core kidney and this you know this gentleman that flew from Australia um you know and again we'll put a link to the core kidney it's a worldwide community right you don't have to come to UCLA to have contact you know with um uh >> other people right who are um have kidney disease or family members who support or friends. So, I think that's really important. There's this larger community. It's not just organizational specific, but when I hear you talk about hope and I'm always struck by your compassion and what a truly phenomenal physician and person you are, I I want to first of all congratulate you because I know that you were um recognized um by uh the Ununis Nazarians uh family and you received the award in 2023 um which recognizes UCLA health visionary um uh practitioners whose clinical care um uh medical research, community programs and tech innovations um are advancing humanity. I really think Andre that yes you have this incredible clinical you know expertise and you lead these programs but I do feel like you advance humanity just in being who you are and the physician you are. I'd love to ask you just before we close you know what what got you into medicine and I guess I would say what keeps you >> in medicine. >> Thank you. Thank you. And then that award for the humanity was to me but more importantly to a core kidney program to our patients our and UCLA health and I do want to say one more thing um we can't do anything without the leadership support that's just the reality you know I work in a big organization it's a huge UCLA health and um so what you said was very important and I I want the audience this is not about patients who are at UCLA this There's patients everywhere >> and I can do it, you can do it, we can do it because we have the UCLA health support and their mission is no one left behind, right? One person at a time but no one left behind. So I just want to point that out. This is any patient. We have people calling in from Ghana, we have people calling in from Philippines and we do what we can do, right? Uh you know within our medical because there's liability you there as well. But but I do want to say about humanity and why we go into medicine being healthcare providers you know um you are an amazing kind um I talk about empathy not sympathy right um and understanding patients so my when my interest in medicine started when I was very young I didn't know what medicine was but my dad and I still remember he was a general practitioner back in India this is now 70s and 80s and I would come back from school and he passed away, you know, uh, when I was quite young. But when I I would come from school, I would see this all these people lined up to see him. This is after 5:00 p.m. And these were, you know, um, they didn't have anything. These patients didn't have and and they would come in with their kids. My dad was not a pediatrician, but he they would bring in because they didn't and um, they would bring him gifts. They would bring him whatever they had. They bring in mangoes. They would bring in milk. They would bring eggs. Whatever they could and my dad would accept them and will recycle them, give it to somebody else. And then I asked my grandmother a very simple question. I said, "Why is he doing that?" You know, I mean, why can't I just not take it, right? And her response was that's my my father's mother was because it's the dignity of the patients because the patients did not want to get free treatment. >> So they would give something but they'll get something back. They said, "Oh, we have this." So, I didn't know what medicine was, but I saw what impact that had, you know, on those people who had nothing, right? And that's when I said, you know what? This is about humanity. This is about helping people. This is about, you know, we we are in this world for a short time, right? I mean, if you look at we look at dinosaurs 65 million years ago when they disappeared, we're here for so let's do something good. And I do want to point out something about the living kidney donors. One of the comments that was made by a kidney donor was you have a chance to help somebody. >> Don't give it up. Right. But but anyways, and then things happened. I ended up on in in a school uh that was Catholic at that, you know, and I didn't go to was Catholic school. I just wanted to was the best school in town. And I got to meet Mother Teresa. I got to meet people who are giving, helping people selflessly, you know. I would So that had a big impact. So now Ginda I'm in high school and I'm going to then medical school and then I came here and I do want to point out um my mentor in in um grad school um professor Luis Ignaro still the only Nobel laureate in medicine I got into his lab I don't know why I got into his lab he asked me >> but I saw his kindness his wife's kindness and empathy so you know all these things helped me evolve and and I want to tell all everybody that don't forget at why you went into medicine in the first place. Sometimes there there other things that come in place. It's about helping people, right? Because they help you. >> Mhm. >> So that's that's where Can I talk about the Brewing Beans Health Club? >> Yes, of course. That was my next question. >> Okay. Okay. I I know we >> Anything with the word beans, please. >> Um uh because I know we were running out of time. >> No, no, please. So same time 2016 I you know there a lot of undergraduates who rotate through you know my office my research office and and one day I pulled them aside I said you know what do you want to do and he said I want to go to medical school I want to go to pharmacy and I said what have you done and he said I don't know I'm here and then I said oh my god I I am responsible so that was a genesis of a of a a structured organized undergraduate club at UCLA called brewin beans and the the mission of that club is to to mentor our future leaders in healthcare and it's a thriving club and and doing very well. So wonderful people and I my hope is that 10 years from now they'll be sitting here talking to Eve and and talking about their their what they've been through. >> I mean Andre there's just so much of just like an everyday legacy that I love hearing you talk about it. And I would say you don't have to be a doctor, right, to promote, right, and champion just kindness and empathy, >> right? And you don't have to be in healthcare. I mean, you can be and we have these amazing clubs, but there's so many ways to >> contribute, I guess, and be kind, be aware. So, um, I just I >> I uh I'm so impressed by you, Andre, and I'm telling, you know, our listeners, I work with you every day, too. I think I mean actually you did you trained me when I was an intern and now you trained me >> one of my attendings. I learned so much from you every day. Um I just love what you've shared with us today. I mean and you're such a everyday gift to your patients and your and your colleagues to core to the to brewing beans to everyone's beans out there. Um I I've really it's an honor for me to have shared patience with you know all these um all these years. Um clearly, you know, kidney care, prevention, um uh kidney transplantation, um you know, training the next generations, you know, just hopefully we we won't have to spotlight. They'll just be part of our everyday conversation. Um and I'll So I'll just, you know, ask you one more question, which is if you were going to put just a message, I guess, about kidney health, you know, on a billboard, what would you what would you put? >> Just get tested. >> Get tested. Okay. >> Annual testing annual. That's the key thing. Not just one time, >> right? >> Every year, get a simple blood test and get a simple urine test. >> Okay? >> And I will say that as a primary care doc and come, you know, come to me, come to my colleagues and we'll and um we'll check you. Um >> it takes two. >> It does. It takes a whole team. It takes all of us and definitely a community. >> Um I can't thank you enough for joining us today. Um if there's anything that we forgot to ask, just let me know and join us for more conversations. I feel like there's something you're going to say. >> Yeah. Yeah, I I just want to point out one more person that was a big part of core and stuff is my manager, Christina Lopez. >> Christina is amazing. >> And um you know you know I'm here sitting talking about core and taking all the credit but it's not me. You know I'm a part of it but it's not. It's Christina it's all our patients, all our students, everybody. Eve you I mean and and you are very humble but but you have been such a great supporter of and once again things are not possible. I mean, you have a big leadership role and and I I know you're you're humble. You won't say, but you have provided so much support. We can't do all these things without people like you, Eve. So, I'm very grateful. So, thank you. >> I'm grateful to you, but this is really how we just support our patients and our communities. And even before people become patients, >> yes, they'll never become patient. >> That's right. But this is because you can do this yourself. >> Um, thank you so much. I look forward to having more conversations with you. Um we will be linking you know so much of what we talked about um and a lot of the programs especially um in our in our show bio. And in the meantime to our audience um stay curious and I'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. Thank you Andre.