 subjected to ser查查查查查查查查查查查 Welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. If you hear heart attack, a lot of us still picture the Hollywood version. Dramatic chest clutching instant collapse. But in real life, and especially for women, the warning signs aren't always so loud or obvious. They can be different, and they can also be subtle. Fatigue that feels weirdly heavy, shortness of breath you can't explain, nausea, a pressure that doesn't register as pain. Even symptoms that sound like reflux, like burping or indigestion, vague, or even just a, this isn't sitting right feeling. And here's the issue. When the story doesn't match the stereotype, people wait. They downplay it or explain it away, and that's when things get missed. So today we're talking about women's heart health. What's different, what gets missed, and what every woman should know. And we're gonna get really practical. We're gonna talk about symptom patterns that deserve a second look, how risk changes across our life stages, including perimenopause and menopause, and what prevention and screening for heart disease actually looks like. We're also gonna spotlight valvular heart disease. I am joined by my esteemed colleague, Dr. Marcella Kalfin-Press. She's an interventional cardiologist at UCLA Health, and she's co-director of the UCLA Women's Cardiovascular Health Center. Marcy, welcome, thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much, Eve. Pleasure. Will you explain to our audience kind of the, there's obviously the study of cardiology, the study of the heart and how it works. But for people who don't really know what interventional cardiology means, do you mind kind of breaking that down for us? Yeah, so I'm basically the plumber or the carpenter of the heart. So the heart has three systems. There's the pump system, then there's the circulatory system, and then there's the electrical system. And the reason that I love cardiology is because it's really so simple, so much easier than so many other specialists that I'm sure you talk to. And I think about every patient in those three systems, pump, rhythm and coronary circulation. And so I'm in the circulatory and sort of the pump aspect of the heart, not the electric. So the circulatory aspect of the heart are the, basically the heart is fed oxygen through coronary arteries where the blood gets pumped out of the heart and into these arteries. And the heart basically can't survive without its own circulatory system. And so with age and time and other risk factors, which I'm sure we'll discuss, plaque can form and then when plaque forms and if it ruptures and a clot forms, you can have a heart attack. And so you need a plumber like me to come in right away and sort of clear that blockage. And I will come in and put stents in patients that are having heart attacks. The wonderful thing about intervention, which means we intervene in the heart, we have lots of really exciting technology and tips and things that we use, not just stents now, we're doing a lot of valvular procedures. Again, we're acting more like carpenters in terms of treating different aspects of the anatomy of the heart. Whereas surgeons used to, and 15, 20 years ago, everything we do now is open heart. I would say the majority of things we do now is what we do through percutaneous or less invasive treatments. And so yeah, it's wonderful. You do these incredible techniques like going through the skin. Yeah, everything is done through the skin, everything. You alluded to this, but I want to get into it a little bit more, which is that why does women's heart health even just deserve its own conversation? So I knew we were gonna ask me this. And so I actually really started thinking, obviously I can give you the standard answer of what I've been saying for years, but as I really was thinking about this conversation, I thought the heart is actually different in a male and a female. It's smaller. So there's so many things. You can go from basically anatomy to physiology to like lifespan, right? And so men and women are just not the same. We're not just different. We don't just have different body parts. We have different systems. And we have different lives and different things happen to us throughout our life. And so if you go from the most basic anatomic difference, the heart is smaller. Heart disease in the heart, the vessels are smaller. And plaque forms differently in males and females. And we don't really know why, but men tend to have more sort of focal lesions and women can have more diffuse lesions, for example. When I say lesions, it means plaque, how plaque builds up in the heart. And focal is like one spot versus throughout. One spot versus the whole thing. And women have higher resistance in the small vessels or the micro circulation. And then there are other differences in terms of talking about size. The valves are different. The valves are smaller in women, right? So that's really is a huge, it's important factor when we talk about treatment because the things that we designed to treat like the stents and the valves have to fit a female heart, right? So that's from the basic part when we think about just anatomically, but then you think about physiologically, right? So the heart doesn't exist on its own. It's in a body and it's reacts to everything around it, right? Hormones, age, time, blood pressure, lifestyles. And so again, women tend to have different hormonal changes in life, right? So we go through pregnancy, some of us do. We all really have face menopause. So these are differences in the hormones that are present between differences in male and female hormones. And those impact the heart. There are diseases that you may see in pregnancy or in menopause that men may not, won't experience. And then finally, I would say the lifestyles. We have different lifestyles. Being if you happen to be a mother or have children, you're going to face different potential stressors. And we know that women experience a lot of stress and that itself can affect the heart. And women more commonly have diseases like stress, cardiomyopathy or broken heart syndrome that we see that women experience. We internalize a lot of that stress and our heart feels it. And I think one of the most important differences is also that we may not always present with typical symptoms of a heart attack. And though chest pain, the Hollywood heart attack, gripping your heart, pain in the heart, it's still the most common symptom in women. We're not going to say that it doesn't happen. If you're feeling pain or chest pain in your heart, that's very well possible that you're having a heart attack. We say anything that you feel from, you basically nose to belly button, could be a heart attack, right? Honestly, anything in this area if you're feeling uncomfortable in that area. But women present more commonly with atypical symptoms like you mentioned, not feeling well, burping. When you said that, I chuggled a bit because I'm like, I have seen burping. And then I've been with medical students and like, that's not a heart attack. I'm like, their symptom is burping and they're really, and they're very sick. They may not look, but they feel indigestion or a gas sensation and that's a serious, can be a serious symptom. So, we also don't look like our typical male having a heart attack, right? Middle-aged male. We can have younger women are having cardiac events. And that's actually something that's, we're realizing that in the past decade or decade and a half we've really worked to try to raise awareness. I think many different sort of organizations have seen this discrepancies and realized that there's time is now, right? We need to do something about this, raise awareness. We need to make sure women are being cared for. And so we're starting to see some improvement in terms of the trends where women, even though heart disease is still the number one cause of death, we're starting to see some improvement in that, which is wonderful. The downside is that older women may be having less likely to die of heart attacks because we're aware now of their atypical presentation or maybe other risk factors that we're addressing. But younger women are having more increased cardiac events. And so even though we think we're making impact with awareness and sort of education and addressing risk factors, there's still a lot of heart disease out there. And we're becoming more aware of these, again, these rare or less common causes of heart disease that occur in women. Yeah, I mean, I just wanna emphasize one of the points you're making, because I do think that even though you're completely immersed in this area and it's astonishing to me that the women's cardiovascular center is only 10 years old, right? I mean, right? But I do think a lot of still, people still think of heart disease as a men's issue. And as you mentioned, at least in the United States, I can't speak for elsewhere, but heart disease is the leading cause of death in women. Right? So I mean, there really is this gap between sort of perception and reality. I guess I'm wondering too, as you're saying that there's younger women presenting an atypical, meaning not these kind of typical ways, is that because we are though finally tracking and collecting more data? Is that part of it at all? Yeah, I think these diseases are, again, we're talking about things that are your standard cause of heart attack that happen in women. So for example, we mentioned microvascular disease or even during pregnancy, women can have heart attacks from small tears in the heart cause spontaneous coronary dissections, which we call the SCAD. This is kind of a relatively, we've been aware of it, but we're starting to actually collect data and registries and we're diagnosing it more often. I don't think that we necessarily knew what it was years ago, but now we give it a name, we start to classify it, we're starting to do trials and research and how to treat it. Right, and look for it. So I don't think that these are new diseases. I think we're just discovering them because we're paying attention to them. Which is great, because not only is it, then you know what to do and how to treat, but hopefully then what to prevent or scream for. And I know where I really wanna get into kind of women presenting differently. So maybe I'll just drop actually a couple of like snapshots in cause these are how people I think recognize themselves and you can kind of tell me if this resonates with you or kind of this is what you're seeing as well in terms of how people come to your clinic or in your case, especially the emergency room. Here's an example, someone who used to walk the dog without thinking, now they're pausing, now when they're kind of going up a small hill and they're not having chest pain, but they're feeling a little winded. And they're like, oh, you know, I'm just like stressed out. I'm a lot of shape, I'm getting older. What do you want us to hear in that story? So I would say listen to your body and tell your doctor these things. I don't think it's your, we expect the patient to diagnose themselves right, because you don't know. Maybe it is just that you're tired or stressed or maybe you are getting a little older, but maybe it's something else. And so I think our jobs as patients is to just describe those symptoms, not ignore them, and talk to your doctor about that. And be open-minded about what it could be, right? And not to just blame it on something else, because what we, you know, we as doctors see all of these things and we can really, by taking a history, we're like investigators. We will investigate, we'll look at every little thing, we'll ask you thousands of questions, and maybe we'll do some tests. And you may discover things that you didn't know, that you were at risk for, maybe you're doing really well and things that, and all of the answers, just exercise more, which is always a wonderful thing to hear. But I think that you, that's part of having a good relationship with your doctor. And I think that, you know, women, as you get older, I do feel like everybody, when they, right around menopause is a wonderful time, I think, to seek out a cardiologist. I really think that that's the time where women start to catch up to our male counterparts. We're sort of protected by estrogen until we hit menopause, and then suddenly, our estrogen levels drop, and then our blood pressure goes up, our cholesterol's changed, or, you know, we start having higher issues with cholesterol. We have more stress in our lives, we're maybe not exercising as much, we're getting older, and maybe we're talking about starting hormone replacement therapy, things like this. And so, that is the time to see a cardiologist, I think, as a female patient, and talk about anything you're feeling. Yeah, I think that's such good advice, and also, it's such a good reminder, like your job as a patient, you just come in and tell us how you're feeling, let us do the diagnosis, you don't have to diagnose yourself. And also, I mean, at least when I hear this story too, if it's different, you know, if you're noticing a difference in how you, just don't dismiss it. Right. Come on in, we love talking to you. You know what we really love, telling you you're okay. Yeah, and if you are feeling something that you notice isn't necessarily right, that's when you need to talk to your doctor about it. Exactly, and here's another one, a busy caregiver exhausted, because of course she is, but now the exhaustion is like extra profound, it's heavy, and then also feeling some nausea, and she just keeps on powering through. Yeah, not a good idea. Right. I think that nausea, sadly, it can be a lot of things, but it is a presenting symptom of a heart attack. And so, if you're under a lot of stress, and you're feeling not well, and you're starting to experience nausea, and that is a time where you need to talk to your doctor. Either go to the ER, call 911 if you're really, there's no other reason why you'd be, it's not like you're ahead of gastritis, you've been sick for days, and this is out of the blue, you're new for you, you don't usually get nauseous, you're under stress. And with these other symptoms too, exhaustion. With these other symptoms, then this is the time to go to the ER, call 911, call your doctor, and get some help. I'm glad you're saying that though, you're really raising the stakes on the urgency too though, like call 911. Oh yeah, don't be, I'd rather, I'd rather a patient go to the ER 10 times and be told 10 times to a home, than miss one time and not make it to the ER. You're never bothering us. And for me, being an interventionalist, I should just, I don't know, for those who you don't know, if you have a heart attack, what that is, is that the vessel basically suddenly occludes, and you form a clot by a plaque, a plaque, basically the plaque gets irritated and gets blocked up, and then you don't have oxygen to your heart, and the heart cells die. And if you wait, each minute that you wait, the chances of recovering heart function go down precipitously, and the chance that you won't survive goes up. And so, just like a stroke, yes, it's very similar. You cannot miss it, and you have to come in right away. No, it's incredibly important advice. I think while we're talking about this particular example, how does stress affect the heart? Yeah, so great question. I think stress is a very under-recognized risk factor. We talk always about obesity, smoking, diabetes, high blood pressure, family history, high cholesterol, the big seven kind of risk factors. But stress is one that I think we overlook. And one thing that our Women's Cardiovascular Center is focused on is stress reduction, because stress releases these catecholamines, and these catecholamines are basically a fight-or-flight response. Stress is, evolutionarily, we experience stress as a form to protect against, we feel like we're in danger. When we experience stress, our blood pressure goes up so that our brain gets more oxygen, our heart rate increases so that we can, if we feel threatened, we can run. The blood goes more into the muscles. We're basically, but that state is not a state we should live in. It's a state that we should use when we're in a dangerous situation. We want to be able to increase our blood pressure in danger, but that stress that's there all the time is not good for the heart. It raises blood pressure, it can cause arrhythmia, it can have abnormal heart rhythms, and it can cause direct injury to the plaque. Oftentimes, when patients come in with a heart attack, they can pinpoint, I'll always ask them, what's going on after we treat the heart and they're feeling better, and we've put the stent in, we stored flow, and then I get to know them, I'll ask them, what was going on? And it's something, it's like most times, it's something that happened, a job issue, a relationship, something, God forbid, a death of a family member, these things have real impacts in the heart, and the heart can get inflamed and stress out and cause a heart attack. The other thing that stress can do is actually cause what we talked about, broken heart syndrome, which is again, through this release of catecholamines, the heart sort of gets stunned, and instead of pumping, we talked about the three, the three asks with the heart, the pump fails, and you can actually end up in heart failure or have arrhythmia or an abnormal heart rhythm from this broken heart syndrome. And so a lot of times, it can look just like a heart attack. You can experience chest pain, you come in, it looks just like a heart attack, that you have blood work that shows that your heart's been being damaged, but then we do an angiogram or a procedure to look at the arteries and we find no blockage. And we know it's not from circulatory issue, it's from stress. The great news is that most of broken heart syndrome patients do recover heart function within a few months, but they're at risk of having a second event, and that's why we sort of treat stress very, very seriously at our women's center. In fact, we actually had a donor basically provide us with full-time access to both a life coach and a psychologist. And every time I screen for stress on my patients and then I say, you know what, is there someone, do you wanna talk to someone? I would say the majority of women jump and they're like, oh my God, yes. And it's a wonderful resource, right? Cause I don't have to keep saying, you know what? Just deep breaths and get over it. Stress is everywhere, there's actually a way to treat it. Well, I think that's what's especially, like not only validating, but then it's instructive and actionable because I would hate for people, I wanna feel validated that stress is absolutely having this physiologic meaning effect on my actual body and contributing to these symptoms. I definitely don't want people to be like, oh, you couldn't handle it or you're, I don't want anyone to have shame about their stress. Stress is a part of life. I don't think you'll find one person who hasn't experienced stress. I think it's an impossible, right, it would be impossible to handle it, right? It's absolutely not. But the nice thing about it is if once you recognize it, you can treat it just like you would treat your blood pressure or cholesterol. Or your cholesterol, there's treatment for stress. And so I think that's a really important message to get out to women. It is so important. And just to clarify, what exactly are catecholamines? So catecholamines are like, think of them as hormones that your brain sort of secretes. And basically those are the things that the messengers that ask the heart to like pump a little faster or ask your arteries to tense up a little bit to increase blood flow to your brain, for example, as we talked about. Okay, no, that's perfect. So going back to another scenario, I think people sometimes call these atypical symptoms, which I obviously don't love, and I'm sure you don't either, because then it implies that these patients are outliers when really it's a completely outdated stereotype. I mean, it sounds like women also presented this classic Hollywood symptoms as well. But as you were saying, like there are other common symptom patterns in women, right? There aren't necessarily exceptions. Yeah, so we've gone away from even using the word atypical in the new guidelines that have been sort of discussed, that women, we've recognized that we really would just, the way that we describe it now, we usually say a patient with so-and-so symptoms, likely cardiac and etiology, right? It doesn't have to be typical or atypical. We just think that this is cardiac or non-cardiac. And so those are the terms we started using, and I don't like to really use the word atypical. I may say symptoms with typical features, but if it happens to be like the chest pressure or the symptom, but you're right, like I don't really like to use the word atypical because it sort of means that, it's less likely or something, but in fact, it's just a different way of experiencing a heart attack, a different symptom. And I think if people think it's less likely, or it's less typical, then they're gonna come up with alternative explanations, which is what we don't want them to do. Exactly. You know, and speaking of stress too, I know, because you and I've talked about this, that you saw a lot of women during and after COVID. Oh yeah. And I'd love to hear kind of what you noticed about what shifted in terms of women's heart health. So we actually did a study through our emergency room with our ER colleagues at UCLA and looked at the effect of COVID pandemic on patients presenting to the ER with cardiac symptoms and heart attack symptoms. And women were less likely to come to the ER during those COVID years. And they had worse outcomes. They actually have consistently had worse outcomes, but those worse outcomes were sort of exacerbated by a pandemic. And I think that, and there are probably many potential reasons for that, but, you know, again, being caregivers or, you know, sometimes not recognizing those symptoms or even being afraid to come to the hospital during COVID, right, people didn't wanna come. They were being told not to come because they didn't wanna get COVID, right? So there was, it was a really, it sort of highlighted the differences in presentation and outcomes in women and men. And then we know, you know, we'll probably face another pandemic again, hopefully not, but I mean, the chances are possible, right? And so we need to be prepared to kind of again, you know, encourage women who have symptoms to make sure they still come if they need treatment. I would love if you could too, because we've mentioned outcomes a couple of times, you know, not, could you just share a little bit about how you define outcomes? You know, it's really how people end up doing. But I thought if you could. Yeah, so, right, so outcomes in the cardiology world really mean, you know, if you're actually having a heart attack or not, or if you survive a heart attack or not, or if you suffer the consequences of a heart attack, like develop an arrhythmia or have heart failure. So basically, the effect of having heart disease is your outcome, right? So your outcome could be that you would live if you were treated and you took care of yourself and you were on the right medication, you have a good outcome. But if you didn't come to the hospital, God forbid, and you had a bad outcome, that means that maybe you died before getting to the hospital, right, so that would be a bad outcome. And it's just important to talk about too, because I mean, so much of what we're talking about is getting the best outcome for yourself often means often, right? Trusting your own body, knowing your own body, and coming in right away. Yep. And listening to yourself. So we're gonna get really specific, I think. We mentioned some of the symptoms, but I really wanna get very, very granular with some of the symptoms that commonly just get missed or are minimized in women when they're presenting with, what ends up being a cardiac event. Go ahead, yeah. So I think one of the ones that you had opened up with, so anything feeling fatigue, feeling generally not well, not being able to even verbalize it, right? Sometimes it's like, I just don't feel right. Anything, again, from nose to navel is basically a warning sign. It could be anything, back pain, jaw pain, neck pain. The jaw pain one comes up, and I think I really like to mention that, because that's not one that a lot of people remember. I remember a patient years ago who just kept going to the dentist, and it was like not her teeth. So again, yeah, jaw pain is also, they can radiate to your jaw. The heart is innervated by the nerves that then basically backtrack to the spine, and then those nerves are sort of get confused and jumbled, and so anything, again, from nose to belly button could be your heart. And here's the thing, I think just to make it really practical for everyone, you might be having, you're like, I don't know, I have this new indigestion. Maybe it is indigestion, but it could also be your heart. So come on in, especially if it's new, and it's different. Because it's true, I think some people are like, oh, is there an elephant on my chest, right? But really, any sort of chest pressure discomfort, I imagine, you would encourage to go get checked out. Yeah, it's funny, sometimes you'll say chest pain, and people are like, it's not pain. And then I have to remember, okay, pressure. That's right, because we use the doctor words. We use the doctor words, and it gets pain, but it's actually not pain, really. It could be just a feeling. So what have been kind of words that women have said to you that has kind of raised your... You know, again, fatigue. Yeah, like profound fatigue, or you're just saying low-lying fatigue? Particularly an inability to do the things they normally do. It's not sleeping. So fatigue is a vague term. I know. And I always kind of try to really clarify what a patient means when they say fatigue. Because if you're not sleeping well, you're gonna be tired, right? That's sleepy. It's different than not having the energy to get up and go for a walk, right? Feeling short of breath. Feeling like you can't get your body to do what it was doing yesterday. And, or you're seeing a pretty rapid decline. So, you know, again, you mentioned indigestion, shoulder pain. Could be the right shoulder, not always the left shoulder. So we're talking about is your left arm, it's could be the right. I've seen it on the right. Okay, that's really important to know. Yeah, and it lasts usually at least a few minutes. Sometimes, you know, people get really worried. It's like I have a pain for a second. Like, no, no, no. When I hear a second, I'm usually very happy. Yeah, I'm very reassured by that as well. It's usually nerve-fining. Yes, exactly. So again, and it's not meant, we don't want everyone to panic about every single thing they feel in their body. So I do think it's important that you understand that these symptoms, you know, they can be pretty general, but they're usually lasts at least a few minutes. Sometimes they happen, a lot of times they happen with exertion. So when you walk, if you get that symptom, that's to me a warning sign, that you have to stop for it to go away, right? That's to me a clear concern, and I'll just, and then there's very few things it could be, honestly. If anything happens with exertion, then that's really concerning. Exertion also, I know I use that word all the time. Effort. Effort, activity. I know, I just remind me too. And it could be anything. I'm like walking up the hill. Exactly what you mean. Going for a walk, going up a flight of stairs. That takes energy, right. That takes energy. It's different from your normal. I also want to just pause, because I think we're circling this a lot, because it's just, it's more human than medical maybe, but I guess what I get worried about is that, it's not just that often women's symptoms have gotten dismissed, right, in the system, but that women often dismiss their own symptoms first. And I do get worried that it's so ingrained, right? And we've had wonderful colleagues of ours, talking about endometriosis, and where there's this big normalization of like, no, I'm just gonna like suck it up, don't complain. I'm not gonna complain. I don't want to be a burden. I mean, not to mention how inconvenient, honestly, it is to like go to the doctor, let alone the ER and sit there, you know, maybe for hours. So I think it is easier for a lot of us to say, you know, it's nothing, or I'll deal with it, right? Like later in the week. And especially at this like, oh my God, I don't want to be dramatic, which I feel like, I feel like, I feel like a misogynist just even like pretending to say that, like don't be dramatic. So I do want to kind of emphasize what I think you're reframing, which is noticing symptoms and getting them checked, you know, isn't indulgent, right? And it's like not selfish. No, no, no, it's so funny you say that, because there's actually a video and the American Heart Association has a video and we show it, we have an annual event called Let's Talk where we talk to our community about heart disease in women. And we would play this for years as the beginning of our video. And it'd be this woman who's on the phone, you know, she's mid-aged, so maybe again, maybe 40 year old, not like a 78 year old male, right? So this is a woman that doesn't look like she potentially could have heart disease. You know, she's talking about picking up her kids from school and then she's like doing something with like her, you know, she's a parent volunteer. So she's like, and she keeps, and she's sweating and she's like crushing on her chest. She's like, oh I'm fine, I'm fine. She just keeps going on and on and on and it's just getting worse and worse and worse. And she just keeps pushing through, you know, okay, I'm just gonna go pick up my kids, I'll be fine. I just need to get through, like as if going to the ER is an inconvenience, right? And so, you know, the sad truth is that, you know, because we care about our families and we're often caretakers, you know, it's like put on your own face mask first, right? Whenever you're on the plane and you hear, you know, God forbid, you know, I always hear that on the plane. It's like put on your own face. I was like, no, the reaction is to like, put your face mask on your, the oxygen mask on your child first, but really if you are not able to take care of yourself, you know, then you can't even take care of it, everyone else, whether it's your spouse or partner or whoever it is, parent or children. So I just, you know, kind of remind patients that it's not being selfish, it's actually the most giving someone a little bit of a sense of responsibility.  alfalfilisact is to actually put your health first so that your family doesn't need to, or your friends, or your close people who love you don't have to ever experience not having you. Right. And just for yourself is a good reason to. Yeah. And for yourself, obviously, yeah. But it does. It does. Even when I picture this video, it really does connect me to, like, we do really picture heart disease, right? As you said, as this men's issue, and when the symptoms don't match, we're just like, we definitely just have this disconnect of, like, oh, no, I'm just going to, like, power through. Yeah. So it's, like, really about all of us updating also this mental model. Right. Right. Is there a sentence, like, that you wish women would say to themselves, like, in the moment? Like, I feel like sometimes we all, like, need some scripting, like, kind of, in order to, like, make sure they don't talk themselves out of getting checked. Like, I'm feeling something, like, what should I say to myself? You should say, I, you should, you know, you should just say, you should tell, remind yourself that you love your heart. Wait, I love that. Yeah. Remember that you love your heart. More than anything, right? It's the, it's the most important, I would say, you know, maybe the brain. I always have that, you know, with neurologists, we always talk about that. But I would say that, you know, it is the most important life source, right? It's a precious thing and you got to care for it. You're only given one. Yeah, there's a whole metaphor of it, too. Yeah, I think, gosh, I know so many people who are so worried about not being low maintenance, too. I just want to be like, no, remember, like, this is not your normal. That's all you have to say. Yeah. Or you know your, or I love hearing you say, too, like, you know your own body, like, even like an expert, like, truly an expert clinician like yourself, to, for us all to differ and be like, yeah, but you know your own body. You know, you know yourself. And you advocate for yourself. And you have to advocate for yourself. Yeah, I think a lot of people. If something's not really being understood or maybe being, you know, it's okay. Get a second opinion if you need to. Come back to the ER if it happens again. Like you just need to keep advocating for yourself. I mean, I love that example, too, that you said, like, if you came 10 times and got checked out 10 times, so much better that you came every 10 times than staying home once. Oh, this is the one that comes up a lot. I'm not the kind of person who gets heart disease. So you know, I exercise, I eat well, I don't smoke. Yeah. No. So unfortunately, though heart disease is more frequent in patients who have risk factors, we see heart disease in very otherwise healthy individuals. And so, you know, I've seen patients that go to the gym every day and still have heart disease. So we know that there's more at play here. There's genetics. There's family history. And then there's just age, right? Like you can do everything you can to be healthy, but unless you can turn back time, we're all aging, right? And so I think aging is a big thing to remember is that heart disease is a disease of aging. It's basically aging of the vessels. And so, you know, you can take as much care of you can be as healthy as you can. That doesn't mean that you failed because you have heart disease. And it also, again, it's sort of like you might be doing everything and though we really are reluctant to say you're doing everything right because we're all just doing the best that we can, but you are probably eating right. You might be doing all of these things and you might still have a symptom. And so don't talk yourself out of it. Right. Right. And I'm just going to talk about really quickly on the other side. Please. The flip side of this is that if you have risk factors, okay, say you are obese or you're overweight, say you haven't had the healthiest lifestyle on your youth, say you do have a strong family history or you happen to have a familial hypercholesterolemia, you were born with high cholesterol, you're not doomed. Okay. So that's the other group of people that I feel like, you know, I just have, you know, it's like runs of my family and, you know, like I've been, you know, I used to smoke and, you know, I'm overweight and I'm just going to die of heart and they just get overwhelmed. And it's like, you know, studies have shown that patients who are increased risk with lifestyle intervention with just diet and exercise can reduce their cardiovascular risk back to the general population. So if you can get to a healthy weight, if you can, you know, reduce the stress in your life, if you can stop smoking, if you can treat that high cholesterol or address the risk factor, your cardiovascular risk goes down. That's so encouraging. I think that's so encouraging. I mean, why don't we actually just talk about risk factors while we're talking about them? Because I think some risk factors, right, are mutable, that's the word I like to use, meaning like we can change them, right? And then some of them, right, you might have less control over like familial, you know, hypercholestering, I mean, just high cholesterol and family. So I think that when anyone would be, I think listening to us are going to say, okay, so like tell me what I should be, you know, paying attention to. So I think, you know, for anyone listening, if someone wants a simple starting point, you know, kind of like what numbers should I know? What would you sort of say would be good things to track? Blood pressure. So that's a big one, you know. You don't know what your blood pressure is until you check it. And going to the doctor once a year is not enough. Yes. It's tracking it like you track your weight, you know, knowing what your blood pressure is. It doesn't mean you have to check it every single day and be obsessed with it, but to check it more frequently than once a year, right? Couple times a month if you're at, you know, if you've been told maybe of high blood pressure, maybe a couple times a week, know what it is, know how to check it, know your cholesterol. I just want to do my primary care plug. You can get a very good blood pressure cuff at the pharmacy, their electronics, you don't have to do anything fancy. Or Amazon or Costco. Amazon, Costco, any of them. And what's great is that you just sit comfortably for five minutes, right? We want it like as Marcy was saying, your blood pressure does go up and down, right? Depending on your situation. We're not computers. We're not computers. It's supposed to go up and down, but we want you relaxed. I'm waiting for you to school me, which I would totally appreciate. We want to relax for at least five minutes. Take your blood pressure, just jot it down. And don't worry about it. And don't worry about it. And just show it to me, your primary care. Exactly. I always tell people if there's one thing that we can treat, it's blood pressure. I love it. If you have high blood pressure, great. Let's treat it. It's nothing to hopeful. Just get stressed out about it because then people who have high blood pressure get stressed about high blood pressure and then their blood pressure goes up. That's right. They look at the constant and goes up. And then they end up in the ER with high blood pressure. And then they just take a few breaths. It comes down. Yeah. So, yes, you got this. It's treatable. Just know what it is. Write it down. Don't worry. We'll treat it. So again, know your cholesterol. Stay within a healthy weight range in terms of your BMI. I would say cholesterol now is obvious, but there are some other markers now. And again, I think you've talked about this in some of the other podcasts. That's okay. A lot of people just want to hear you, so they're not listening to anything else. I don't want to repeat what I just said. But newer markers like lipoprotein, little A is important. I think most people should know their LP, little A. Honestly, I think. The lipoprotein. The lipoprotein, little A. I think it's important. That's like a cholesterol particle. It basically binds to the LDL and it's a marker, a risk factor for developing heart disease and can run in families. So that's a new one. And then I would say know your numbers. Again, the blood pressure, cholesterol, your weight. And then have a visit with your primary care doctor that is just to talk about your heart cardiac risk. I think that when you see your primary care doctor, you're focusing maybe on a lot of different things in a short period of time. As a primary care, you see so many patients and you don't have that much time. We wish we had more time with our patients, but oftentimes our visits are shortened or we're focused on other things. Schedule a visit where you just talk about your cardiovascular risk. And if there's any high risk features, your primary care doctor can always refer you to a cardiologist. Or if you'd like, you can go directly to the cardiologist. No, I think that makes perfect sense. And then anything else risk factor-wise that are especially germane or important to women, like things that I think that the general public might not realize as part of the heart story. And I guess you mentioned what about if someone had, I guess as an example, preeclampsia during pregnancy. Is that something you want to know as a cardiologist? Absolutely. I mean, there's one other thing that we didn't talk about, which is diabetes. So women, for some reason, they have three or four times the risk of heart attack when they're diabetic. So diabetes specifically puts women at increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared to men. So that's important to know if you're diabetic and female. But yes, so we were tied, and I alluded this earlier about the lifespan is different. So hormonal changes, which can occur, and we talked already about menopause a little bit, but they actually also occur in pregnancy. And so if you've had a pregnancy that's been complicated by gestational hypertension or diabetes or preeclampsia, these patients later in life are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease and events. And so we do identify now, I'd say that that's also one of the newer things that's sort of been happening in women's heart diseases that we're starting to really focus on that history is actually quite important in our cardiac world. We're paying attention to preeclampsia because of the increased risk of hypertension, gestational diabetes again because of the increased risk of developing diabetes later, and hypertension in pregnancy, absolutely. I am thinking about our listeners who are listening to every single episode. So I do want to remind people too that I'm sure you're noticing a trend that the risk factors that we're talking about here with the heart are very similar, if not identical to the ones that we talked about during our stroke episode. Yes. Right? So when we're talking about the heart and the vessels, it's the same vessels that go up to the brain. And just like heart disease in women is very common, so is stroke in women. So I don't know if you've had somebody from the stroke world talk about women. So that's also important. So we mentioned diabetes smoking obviously as a risk factor, which I think we talked about. Have you alcohol use? Yes. So basically, there is really no healthy amount of alcohol. I mean, we used to talk about the Mediterranean diet, right? And one of the things that the Mediterranean diet is, is diet low in saturated fats, low rich in vegetables and legumes and nuts, and using olive oil instead of butter. These are sort of, that's like the Mediterranean fish and not animal fat. But wine is kind of part of the Mediterranean diet. But so you'd think that Mediterranean diet may be a glass of wine, but really there is, it can only be harmful honestly. You should really try to stay away from alcohol. And there isn't really an amount of alcohol that's ever good for your heart. And certainly drinking more than what you should, which we say seven drinks a week for women and 14 for men. And it may be less than that for men. You probably know from a primary care is it 10 or 14. I thought it was 14. Watch me show. I'm kidding. I think it was 10 to 14. So if you're drinking more than that, certainly alcohol can have directly negative effects on the heart. It can actually cause what's called an alcoholic cardiomyopathy, which actually it's directly in the pump again. We're talking about the pump. So the muscle gets weak. And it's very weak. You know, it's obviously kind of terrible. The liver can fail and all sorts of things in the body can fail. But definitely I would say there's no healthy amount to truly just try to avoid it. And then family history, any risk factors? We talked about high cholesterol. Sometimes there is a family component to that. But anything else that are risk factors for cardiac events for women? So a family history is usually a first degree family member. Probably either a female less than the age of 65 who's had a cardiac event or a male less than the age of 55. So that's a strong risk factor for you. So if you have that risk factor, it's important that you get screened early on. Again, because even though you may have every number is good, you still may have a risk factor for family history. So I would say that specifically would be what I would just alert people is that if you really have a first degree relative that's had an event at a young age, that's an alert. And when you say come in and get screened, what's entailed in screening? Screening your risk factors, making sure that you're basically meeting all healthy points, right? You're not smoking, you're at a good weight, your blood pressure is good, your cholesterol. And you may even, we may even talk about doing some of those secondary screens like a calcium score or again, we always do the LP LA. And even sometimes just a 12-litre EKG. Yes. Like in the office where we just see, you know, and that can be a clue as well. Okay, great. And then sometimes people are asked about CRP, which is cardio reactive protein. Can you talk a little bit about that? So that's a marker of inflammation. I see. So we talked about inflammation being the mechanism behind development of plaque and calcium. And so CRP is basically a marker of inflammation and it can be elevated in many different states. Right. But the high sensitivity, which is the one that we look at for cardiovascular disease, it can be an indicator that you have a slightly higher risk of developing cardiovascular ailments because you have your pro-inflammatory. Okay. Should patients ask for that to be part of their screening? Yeah, they can certainly ask. Even with me as a primary care doctor. Absolutely, absolutely, yeah. I'd love to get back into, if it's okay, return to the perimenopause and menopause, like risk shift. Because you're right. I mean, I think many, many women notice changes in their bodies in 40s and 50s, right? In addition to the night sweats, hot flashes, et cetera, but sure, the sleep disruption, the stress, weight distribution, blood pressure and cholesterol elevating as well. So cardio vascular wise, I mean, do you want to just kind of talk to me through again what's happening during these kind of like hormonal shifts as well and on the heart? So I've thought about this a lot. The reason I'm a smile a little bit. I'm like, why are you laughing? Because first of all, UCLA has a menopause program. I don't know if you've spoken to them. They did. They came on and they were amazing. And then they told me to call you. Yeah. So we see a lot of patients together. Yes. And one of the things that I think has shifted in our sort of views about menopause or our kind of approach to menopause, I won't say view, but our approach to menopause is that we're again, we're starting to look at more precision medicine. It's not, it's just like, you know, avoid hormone replacement therapy at all costs anymore. And I think that what we're recognizing is that menopause is a shift. As you mentioned, your body is changing because your estrogen levels have basically dropped and you've been, you know, had this protection up until menopause. And then after your estrogen level drops, you sort of have again those shifts, the weight distribution, the blood pressure, the cholesterol, and then, then hence the higher risk of coronary events, you know, post-menopausal. But you know, and I'm sure you may remember this because we're similar in age, but you know, back when we started, we're training, we would always quote like that huge study in women that basically showed that, you know, all hormone replacement is just bad, right? Because we, you know, they were giving it to a large group of people that were over generally older, over 65, and they were using, you know, horse estrogen, right? So they were using like equine estrogen, which we don't use anymore. So the formulations of these hormones have changed. And the patient population that basically drew alarm was an older patient population that had risk factors that today were, if we've addressed many of our patients. So back, and I'll under summarize, it was a large study looking at women that were on hormone replacement therapy, giving it to all women, thinking that, okay, we're going to treat osteoporosis and all these women, we're going to treat symptoms and they're going to feel so much better and, you know, they're all going to live longer because we're giving them hormones. They saw actually an increased risk of cardiovascular events, heart attacks and strokes. So then the pendulum swung to, we're not going to give it to anyone. Right, big black box morning. Big black box morning for everyone. I think what we're starting to understand is that, you know, estrogen still could be protective. We don't have any trials now looking at what the effects of estrogen or hormones are in a woman under 65 who has no significant risk factors, no coronary calcium is otherwise very healthy. Does hormone replacement therapy is a good thing? And we really cannot say. We just don't have any data. And we're using, again, lower formulations of estrogen given in different ways, transdermal, creams, things that, again, it's like a new world in the menopause. And again, I'm sure you learned that from that podcast. Yeah, so interesting. And so we're adapting as cardiologists to that. And so, you know, I basically, when I see a woman in menopause, I take a very detailed history and we talk about risk factors. There are certain, you know, kind of red lights where I say, I really counsel against this. And that would be over 65 or more than 10 years from menopause. Or any known history of a heart attack or stroke, these are kind of generally knows because of that study where we know that there are patient populations that clearly, if you've already had an event, you're going to be very high risk of having a secondary event. So we usually say, you know, we try to avoid hormone replacement in those patient populations. But we try to get more information in general. So we'll do calcium scores, we'll do lipoprotein-lilazone, we'll get a very detailed cardiovascular risk assessment. And generally, if your risk is very, very low for cardiovascular disease, we sort of, you know, we recognize that hormone replacement therapy can make you feel better and make, you know, the vasomotor symptoms that people have, the hot flashes, the night sweats and ability to concentrate, memory issues, these things do get better with hormones. And I don't think it's fair to just withdraw all treatment for women who are really struggling with menopause. And so I think that's a shift where we're using more precision medicine to talk about what are the risks, what are the benefits, is it right for you as opposed to a blanket, like, never give it? I mean, I think that's the way it should be, right? I mean, it's precision. I mean, obviously based on like very expert recommendations and evidence, but by precision, right, we are really just meaning, you know, personalized. Yes, it was very important, I think, during any sort of aging menopause conversation that, you know, menopause getting older isn't a disease. And when there is a drop or decline in estrogen, it is accompanied, though, by risk factors, you know, increasing in certain areas. So again, it's just this awareness, right? And especially in the cardiovascular realm that, yeah, you are at a higher risk just for just with less estrogen on board of having a hard event. And I think what I would love to see is a trial that's updated that somebody would do is looking at current state of hormone replacement therapy in low risk individuals. And how does that impact, you know, is estrogen a good thing? And some people are not. We really just don't know. Yes, yeah. More research, more research involving women. That's why we need to support research in women's cardiovascular health. You heard it here. We talked about the risk factors, and I just want to make sure that we're translating that directly into then prevention. So even though it's hopefully when people hear about risk factors, then, you know, then how do we couple that with preventative tools? Because I do think that preventative advice can get overwhelming very quickly. So core habits, health checks that matter most, in your opinion. So we say to exercise at least 30 minutes a day, at least modern intensity, aerobic exercise, stay moving, right? Just move, right? Like you don't have to necessarily go to the gym and spend, you know, hundreds of dollars a month and, you know, and have a trainer and go to orange theory. It can literally be walk your dog up a hill for 30 minutes every day and make sure you're moving. Yes. Watch what you eat. Right. So I think having a healthy diet is extremely important. And so, you know, if you need help seeing a nutritionist, get the counseling you need. Again, there are a lot of resources out there. So and avoid all the bad things, right? Don't smoke. Yeah. Don't drink. OK. And and live a balanced, healthy lifestyle, you know, seek, you know, you don't have to aim for perfection, right? But just but healthy, right? Balanced. Yes. I love it. And I also think just you mentioned some like more, you know, you don't have to join a gym, but you do need to get outside. You need to move your body. Yep. Right. OK. Valves. Oh, great. The overlooked, often, heart story. Let's shift to valvular heart disease. And you mentioned being a plumber and a carpenter. What was the third thing? An electrician. An electrician. Most common cause of heart disease, most common valve that's affected is actually the mitral valve. And that's worldwide. And still, the most common worldwide cause of heart disease is rheumatic heart disease worldwide. And, you know, rheumatic heart disease is caused by basically a bacteria called strep that people have as a child. And if it's not treated, it can lead to these systemic immunological responses that can then cause these sort of valvular changes later in life. OK. And so rheumatic heart disease worldwide is the most common. It's not as common in the United States because we've we treat heavily with antibiotics, these, you know, strep. We sort of we're more likely to treat strep. So, you know, we've seen a decline in rheumatic heart disease here in terms of the second most common cause would be age related valve disease or aortic stenosis. That's a very, very common. So what that is is when the aortic valve starts to calcify over time and then it becomes stenotic. So it just doesn't open. The third most common cause would be the tricuspid valve. So we went from the mitral valve. We went to the aortic valve and then we go to the tricuspid valve. The tricuspid valve has been sort of the ignored valve for years and years and years and years. And we've focused a lot on the mitral and the aortic valve. The aortic valve, you know, it's it's it's kind of an easy valve to treat because we just replace it. We can either replace it surgically or we can replace it through the groin with a new valve and that's called a TAVR transcutaneous aortic valve replacement. But the mitral valve over the past, you know, maybe decade or so, we've developed multiple really neat strategies to treat regurgitation of the mitral valve where we can do it through the leg and something called edge to edge repair, which is something that I love to do. And most gratifying procedure, I think that I do where patients don't need to go to open heart surgery and can have their mitral valve treated again, percutaneously. So you just literally go in through through the leg through the leg into a vessel. Yep. And then bring a catheter in the heart, feed a wire and a catheter into the heart and then develop and then basically deliver devices to the valve and treat either a regurgitant valve or a synotic valve. Can you just explain quickly what regurgitation is when the valve is leaking? I'm sorry. So basically the chambers, for example, if you live in the left ventricle, your back door is a mitral valve and your front door is a aortic valve. So if your back door is open all the time, blood instead of moving to the front door will just go through the path of least resistant and go backwards. And that's called regurgitation. Which we do not want. And one of the most common forms in women is mitral valve prolapse, which many women say they've had and they were diagnosed like 20, 30 years ago because we used to diagnose mitral valve prolapse with with basically one de-echo, which was an old, old technology and it overcalled prolapse and a lot of people. And so they were told they had a collapse of the valve. Prolapse valve is when the valve, instead of closing in the right plane, it starts to go. It basically it's like a think of mitral prolapse as a double joint. And you know how people who are like the valve is like a joint. So it's a little flexible. It's a flexible valve. Instead of closing tightly, it goes backwards and it's like it's too flexible. And so sometimes it can be one leaflet that goes backwards or it can be all leaflets. If women tend to have a higher incidence of multiple leaflet prolapse and their disease can happen actually younger and can be more aggressive. And the issue is that, and we talked about this earlier, the valve disease, valves and women are smaller. And again, they present later. They're often not diagnosed until too late. And then they're denied for surgery maybe because they're older and they have, they have smaller valves. They have a tendency to have more calcium and more complex anatomy. They're more likely to be replaced than repaired, which is not a good thing. And they have worse outcomes. So that's a field that I'm very interested in and trying to raise awareness for valve disease in women and to be seen earlier and diagnosed earlier. Again, if you have a murmur, if you have a history of rheumatic heart disease, if you're feeling short of breath, again, valve disease, symptoms, our shortness of breath, fatigue, swelling in your legs, trouble breathing at night, these are symptoms of valve heart disease. Don't just say I've had a murmur my whole life. Like let's figure out why you have a murmur. I have to say that I'm astonished, right? But what I love is that we're still learning so much more about our bodies. Yes. I really did not expect you to say that now that tricuspid, tri-meaning three is now actually have five leaflets. Can it's very, it's actually majority people may have four or five leaflets. That's incredible. But it's again, it has these, it has these implications, especially as you're saying, because then the more, and I love that innovation and technologies than pushing us to not be better clinicians, but just to actually know more about the heart, right? And it challenges us. But again, it's the awareness. So I appreciate the awareness that you're bringing because I do think that again, carpenter, plumber, electrician, that it's important to know that our hearts do all of these things. And again, any of these symptoms, right? I mean, shortness of breath. We talked about fatigue. It can be a little bit general. But again, just come get checked out. And I do agree with you because you're right. I think someone told me I had mitral valve prolapse when I was like a teenager. Who knows. But the point is, is that like, don't just, you know, keep that diagnosis and be like it's nothing or it's benign, which is, you know, medicine for it's fine. No, like it's, you're feeling something. Come on in. Yeah. And don't wait. Don't wait. Just like heart disease, valve disease can present too late and it can, and it can really cause major issues. Well, yeah. And like I'm picturing, you know, someone who's coming in who waited, who waited too long, right? And then it's more complex. It's a more complex case, meaning, you know, more complex intervention, right? Or you're not able to even get the intervention because the rest of you isn't like healthy enough to even, right? I mean, I've seen, I've, I mean, I've seen young women present with acute shortness of breath, acute meaning like sudden and come in and in cardiogenic shock, which is basically when your body's shutting down from a ruptured cord. So it can happen when you have prolapse, prolapse we talked about when the leaflets kind of come back. But what happens is that the cords, you know, the valves are attached to the heart through cords, which are shoelaces. So when your shoelace is loose, right, you get prolapse. So that cord is not tight. So instead of the leaflets coming in together, your shoelace is loose. And so it can kind of brew for years. And then the more pressure over time on that loose shoelace can cause it to snap and untie completely. And that usually presents with a sudden onset, shortness of breath. And we had, we had someone who basically drove themself from halfway across the country, you know, basically came into our ER and it was just would not have survived. It wasn't a surgical candidate because she was so sick. And this is, you know, somebody who's a young woman and who we were able to save through these, again, transcutaneous therapies that basically we went in and put some clips on the valve. She didn't need open heart surgery and she, you know, walked out three, four days later and she's still my patient years later. And so, you know, these, these technologies 10 years ago, you know, patients would just die because they would not be able to make it to surgery. And so the, the, the, the technology has just keeps evolving to kind of allow, give patients, you know, even in, you know, life-saving situations, give them options. Yeah. And if it's someone has told you that it's nothing or you're telling yourself it's nothing, um, I think you do start kind of doubting, you know, your own body, you know, you're minimizing and dismissing. Um, so I just want to say for everyone, you know, advocacy isn't, you know, a personality trait. It's really a safety scale. Yes. Um, we talked about, you know, stress on the heart, which was so helpful. Um, uh, I would love to go into asking for our friends. This is our segment where, um, our audience submits questions or maybe it's just me, um, asking for a friend. My mom had a heart attack. What prevents  n-initiv-care, should I be thinking about, and where should I start? And maybe we can just kind of specify for our audience too, when we say my mom had a heart attack, let's do both, like my mom had a heart attack when she was 80, and my mom had a heart attack under the age of 60. 65. So, I think that's a really important distinction because many people, eventually when they get older, die of a heart attack, okay? So, again, we talked about heart disease being a disease of aging, and in the end, when you die, your heart stops. So everyone eventually has some type of either, it's very common to have a cardiac event or a life, right? So, if your mom died at the age of 99 of a heart attack, that's actually a long life, average lifespan. But you kind of want to look a little bit more deeper into, like, did you have anything young when she was younger? I wouldn't focus so much on the fact that she was 99 and had a heart attack, but I would focus more on the, when she was younger, did you have any cardiac events or cardiac symptoms, right? Did anyone in the family die of an unknown cause at a young age, right? And maybe there was a cousin that also had an event at a young age, and there's unexplained, right? So, I think delving into family history, not just one relative, but really looking at the whole family and really looking at what are the ages of onset. I mean, maybe she died of 99, but her first heart attack was at 50. That's different, right? So again, I think getting a detailed family history is really important. But certainly, if your friend's mom died at a young age, right? Again, we talked about less than 65, then I think that you're talking about more intense screening, so that, again, everybody should have their number, know their numbers and be healthy, right? Blood pressure, cholesterol, we talked about, everybody should have their lipoprotein, little A check, know all that. But if you have a first degree family member that is very high risk presentation, died young, died suddenly, unknown cause, again, first degree family members, you may need more additional testing, right? Like we talked about a calcium score to really look and see if you are the same age or you're approaching the same age that your mother passed away, that we really would want to take a look and see what's going on. The calcium scores, I think, are really easy tools for us to utilize in these patients. I know these cats can take like five minutes. And remember, when in doubt, you don't have to figure this out. I'm saying this for our audience. Come in, we'll figure out what screening tests or additional screening tests that you need. But I think the detailed history is, in getting all that additional information is really, really key. Okay, quickly. I'm in my late 40s. I'm in perimenopause. I feel like my body's changed overnight. Do I need a cardiologist or can I start with my primary care doctor? Oh, you can always start with your primary care doctor. Obviously, you're a wonderful doctor and it really depends a little bit on your primary care doctor. There are some primary care doctors that really feel very comfortable treating menopause. And so it just really depends on the relationship you have with your primary care. And I don't think that there's a real right or wrong answer for this. I think that it's certainly, I would ask your primary care doctor about your cardiovascular risk and ask whether or not it would be appropriate for you to be referred. Your primary care may have an opinion about it. But I do think that you should have a low threshold to, again, either have an entire visit with your primary care doctor to talk about your heart or just get referred so that your cardiologist can spend that time and maybe have your primary care doctor spend time and other more, you know, other important things. I love this advice because I like it both as a doctor and as a patient myself. Yeah. My blood pressure is only a little high. How much does that really matter? It does matter because hypertension, again, we talked about the fact that unless you check your blood pressure, you don't know what it is. That's right. And it's silent. You may not know you have high blood pressure. You may feel fine and have high blood pressure. Sometimes people say they can feel when their blood pressure is high and I do believe that, you know, a little headache or feeling just a little off. That can be, you know, a sign that maybe your blood pressure is high. But generally it's a silent number. And even mild hypertension or pre-hypertension, right, we're talking about, you know, normal blood pressure between 130, less than 130 over 80, but even blood pressures between 120 and 130, like, are so mildly elevated and we want to track that over time. I'm not saying you need to be treated for a blood pressure 125, but it's something that you want to look at. Certainly when you're between 130 and 140, we start to kind of think the top number being between 130 and 140 and the bottom number kind of being over 90. These are numbers that we, or 80, sorry, the bottom number being over 80. We want to really talk about the long-term effects of these kind of low-grade early hypertension. We know that these patients are at increased risk of cardiovascular events later. So I would say be aggressive, Rebecca, and your blood pressure at less than 130 over 80 and knowing what it is is the first step. And then showing it to your doctors and looking at the average. Again, what we talked about, blood pressure is not a one, it's not, it doesn't sit like this. It needs to, you need to average it and you need to look at your highs and your lows and sort of look at that average number over time. Yeah. I mean, I have to say, I don't know how you feel, but I very rarely make a clinical decision. So as a doctor, I very rarely prescribe like a blood pressure medication based on one value. Like you come in after you've been like running late, parking, aggravated, and then I see your blood pressure is elevated. I do not make a decision on that. It's a terrible time to check blood pressure in the office. People have white-coat hypertension because they like their blood pressure is just being in there. They're just being in there. They're looking at you. But, you know, if it keeps happening, right, multiple visits, then maybe I do. So three or more hospital visits, you know, office visits with high blood pressure. People always say, it's only high when it's in the office. And then I always say, okay, well, show me the show me your numbers. Prove it to me. Yes. I'm still going to, you know, white-coat hypertension is just means that you're under stress and you have a very reactive blood pressure to stress. But I'm sure other things in life cause stress. Yeah. And it's not a judgment. And we want to know what your blood pressure is. Right. Exactly. And as you said, there's so many things we can do about it. Oh yeah. I love that. Okay. This is such good advice. Okay. We're going to just make this. Everything has been so usable and so practical. So I just want to kind of wrap this up with some takeaways. So if someone's listening and thinking, okay, tell me what to do with all of this. What's just one, the top takeaways for you that you want our audience to remember? Live a healthy lifestyle. I mean, it's not like obviously an easy thing to, you know, to hear, but really take a look at your lifestyle. Take it, you know, do some, do some digging, you know, try to track, you know, are you exercising? You may think you are, but, you know, do you prioritize? Do you prioritize that? Talk to your, about your heart health to your doctor. Make it a point to address the risk factors that we know we can address. Like again, obesity, diabetes, smoking, high blood pressure, family history, cholesterol. Go through those risk factors in detail with your primary care doctor. And then if you feel anything again between your nose and your belly button, it doesn't feel right. Feels unusual. Tell your doctor. Don't ignore it. No, that's perfect. That was exactly my second one, which was what's the symptom takeaway that don't talk yourself out of this message. Yeah. Right. Okay. So remember, your symptoms might not match whatever stereotype is out there, although we're really moving away from that. Well, I've heard you say a lot, which is trust, you know, this isn't my normal. Okay. And I'm just going to add one more too, which is, you know, if you're not being heard, don't stop. Don't stop advocating. Right. Advocate. Tell us, tell us. Anything else you want to add to that though? Um, I think that, um, yeah, just communicate. Yeah. Communicate with your doctor. And I mean, I think, you know, you should feel comfortable talking to your doctor about how you feel. Yes. And if you don't fire your doctor and get one, you're like, I mean, it's like a relationship. Right. You want to feel comfortable with the person who's taking care of you and you want to be able to, and you don't need to stress out about every little thing, right? There are things that you may not be, you may not have heart disease and that's going to be a wonderful thing to hear, but it's, it's not for you or us as patients to decide. Right. And we even say, even as a doctor, I'm not my own daughter. I mean, I'm a patient before I'm a doctor. So I'll trust my doctors and have that conversation with the ones that I feel comfortable with and then, you know, assess your, you know, um, have that conversation and communicate, I would say. Yeah. And it is a relationship. And I think with the communication, I mean, I do acknowledge that sometimes it is hard to communicate and advocate for yourself. And so, I mean, I certainly like to encourage my friends, my family, my patients, like, you know what, then have your friend come with you and help advocate for you. Oh yeah. And that's great too. Yes. Absolutely. A lot of wonderful friends and neighbors, like, like unbelievable, the community spirit, right? I mean, I have patients who's like neighbors bring them and I'm like, what a great neighbor. It is. And especially when you don't feel good, you know, it's hard to sort of like really talk about how you're feeling. I'm like, bring me along, put me on the phone. I can't thank you enough. First of all, I can't believe how brilliant you are and how lucky your patients are. But I really, really appreciate your time and your expertise, you know, not even just for your, you know, clinical knowledge, but just the clarity, the empowerment, you know, and the advocacy for women's heart health that you bring to this incredible topic, which I can't believe how exciting it is that it's been evolving, but it really, I think it has admittedly been underappreciated. Yeah. I think you, Eve, just because also it's heart month and you're highlighting this. Yes. And, you know, I'm just really grateful to have me here. It's just been wonderful to talk to you. I am so glad. I'm so glad. I really think that like us having these conversations, and I know they're chock full of like great information, but I do think that they encourage women to, you know, trust what they're feeling and inspire them to seek care sooner. And I really want them to hear us say that. And what you've really made very clear is that being heard, being evaluated early really does influence outcomes. So how you actually end up doing even when something goes wrong. Prevention works and partnerships between patients and clinicians. So for everyone listening, if today gave you some language for something you've been minimizing or permission to take a symptom seriously, please take that with you. And remember, as we've talked about advocating for your health is not indulgent. It's responsible. Risk isn't a moral score. And symptoms are not a referendum on how you're living. You deserve care. Thanks for listening to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. Stay curious and stay healthy and take good care. Thank you so much, Marcy. Thank you.