Today, after 10 years, we are dedicating our brand new Santa Monica UCLA campus. And it is a really exciting day for our community because we now have a beautiful place of healing. I think the patients are going to walk in and think that they have gone to an eightstar hotel. the high ceilings, the beautiful warm wood, the beautiful light, the wide hallways and the spaciousness, the 25% of the campus that is all green on the outside. It is just a it creates a total experience now. It's almost like a destination hospital. Being in Santa Monica for us is fantastic. And this really is more than a hospital. This is a whole health campus that's really extended our Westwood breath. So we have outpatient clinics here. We have research going on in Santa Monica. We have worldclass care going on in our hospital behind us. This really is a new campus for University of California, Los Angeles in Santa Monica. Orthopedic hospital was founded 100 years ago. This is our 100th anniversary. and it was founded to care for children with crippling disorders regardless of their financial circumstance. Many of our children come from poverty level families, but we have taken care of kids of heads of state, movie stars, business leaders, etc. Those children are going to have fantastic care here in a wonderful, warm and welcoming environment. We couldn't ask for more. That's what we want to have happen. We also care about advancing orthopedic care for everyone of every age worldwide through medical education and research and that's one of the main reasons we entered into this alliance with UCLA and working with the department of orthopedic surgery with UCLA is wonderful so we can provide the highest level of medical education research which will affect patients all over the world. A lot of people have worked on this for a long time. It's been a dream. I think the most important thing about this building is that it's created open space on this campus. Uh green space, trees, daylight. Um and when you go through the building, all that's visible and accessible as part of the experience, which is really important to healthcare. um reduces stress in in the patient, stress in the caregiver. You know, beyond what it looks like in terms of materials, it's also really important how it has open this campus up and brought all those good amenities into the experience. The building today that's being dedicated is on the same site where the new building back in 1953 was being dedicated that I attended when I was 11 years old. Now it's not here and this one is and it's far more beautiful. My grandfather founded the hospital along with Dr. Mortonson and I don't think in their wildest imagination they would have seen it to grow to a a campus like this. I think it's just fabulous and it's going to bring just, you know, tremendous tertiary care to the residents of the west side over here. This means a lot to the community that they now have the UCLA health system readily available to them in this community in an environment that really is what they deserve. Really, it's a celebration of thousands of people that have worked on this project from the the plumbers and the laborers and the electricians to the contractors, the architects, and all of our staff. Our staff have done a tremendous amount of work in this design and fitting up this building and getting it ready for patient care. The way this building looks on Wilshire is great. It not only gives the building a great address on an important street, but the building also gives something back to Wilshire. And when we look at a hospital, we always think of it as not just a hospital, but it's a civic building. It's something that communities are very proud of. And so, uh, in designing this, we created great outdoor spaces and courtyards, semi-public spaces that would be given back to the community in the way in a way that the original hospital of 10 years ago never did. So, that's really exciting to see that happen. Behind these walls, people will get care that's unbelievable for pediatrics, our number one rated geriatric program, rape treatment program, Steuart House, our unbelievable affiliation with orthopedic hospital, which brings state-of-the-art pediatric care in addition to adult orthopedic problems. Literally, you get all the care of UCLA when you walk into our doors.