Good morning, I'm Dr. Cynthia Funes, a postdoctoral fellow here at Jucilei, receiving specialized training in neuropsychology, the branch of psychology that focuses on understanding brain functions. I'm also specializing in geriatric psychology, which focuses on understanding the problems of older adults. Today, we're going to talk about a very important topic for our Latino community: the connection between the heart and the brain. We'll discuss why it's so important to maintain heart health, not only for overall health but also for maintaining cognitive function. If you have any questions or comments, you can ask them via Twitter using the hashtag #LucyHale, and you can also leave comments on Facebook. At the end of the talk, I'll answer your questions. First, what are cognitive functions? In some parts of Latin America, they're called monos and tibás. Cognitive functions are those functions that allow us to interact with the world.  Talking to our family allows us to move our bodies, learn to read and write, and also to store important memories. And if there's a problem, it helps us solve it. So, as you can see, these functions are very broad and also very important for our daily lives. And what is cardiovascular health? Well, cardiovascular health begins with the heart. It's a system, the cardiovascular system, that helps circulate oxygen and nutrients to various parts of our body through veins and arteries. And as we can see, there's a strong connection between the heart and the brain, since the heart sends these nutrients to our brain, and the brain is very sensitive to changes in the oxygen and blood it receives from the heart. It receives 15 percent of the oxygenated blood that the heart produces, and it also receives 25 percent of the glucose, or sugar, that the body produces to give us energy. So, here we have an artery. As you can see, the artery is like a straw through which the blood passes as the heart pumps it. So, any obstruction that occurs in this system will greatly affect the brain. And that's it.  What we're going to talk about are two ways in which the connection between the brain and the heart can be interrupted or problematic. One of them is a stroke, or cerebral infarction, and this is perhaps the most serious. There are several ways in which these cerebral infarctions occur. The most common is ischemia. Ischemia is a blockage in the flow of blood to the brain due to plaques or fatty deposits that accumulate in the arteries. Sometimes, if there is a blood clot that gets stuck in an artery, it also results in ischemia, and 87% of cerebral infarctions occur due to ischemia. Less common, but also something that severely affects the brain, is a hemorrhagic attack. This is a rupture or bleeding from an artery or vein, and this can sometimes occur when we have aneurysms, which are small sacs in a vein, or more commonly in an artery, which causes a weakness in that artery that can rupture. Other types of weaknesses can also result in a rupture in this artery.  which causes bleeding in the brain, and in these two cases, depending on where this event occurs within the brain, it can result in different symptoms. For example, you may have weakness in an arm, difficulty speaking, or difficulty with your memory. It all depends on which part of the brain was affected by the stroke. I also wanted to mention the transient ischemic attack (TIA). This is a temporary blockage that occurs in the brain and causes symptoms similar to a stroke, but these usually last less than 24 hours and don't cause much permanent damage. At the same time, they are a big sign that there is a risk of a stroke occurring in the future, so we have to pay close attention when these occur. In short, I wanted to mention what the symptoms of a stroke are because it is very important that if you see any of these symptoms, you call emergency services immediately because time is critical in these situations. First, you may notice changes in the way you speak, or perhaps you may not be able to produce language or words. You may also begin to feel weakness in an arm, face, or leg, especially if it is on the same side of the body.  If you feel dizzy or lose your balance, these are symptoms that a stroke may be occurring, and you should call 911 immediately. What we've been discussing is an abrupt and sudden change, a stroke, similar to a heart attack. But now I want to talk a little more about the second, or other, connection between the brain and the heart, which is more silent. This involves cardiovascular diseases. Here are some examples, and as you can see, these diseases affect us Latinos a lot, particularly diabetes. These diseases cause changes in the cardiovascular system, causing small amounts of damage. I like to think of these factors as being related because they often occur together. For example, if you have diabetes, it causes your blood to have more sugar and become thicker, which means the heart has to work harder to circulate that blood. This leads to high blood pressure. Also, if you have high cholesterol, plaques or fatty deposits can form in the arteries, causing atherosclerosis, which is basically the name.  When arteries begin to clog with these fats, and if these fats are also present in the heart, it has to work much harder to pump the blood, which also raises blood pressure. Let's talk a little about exactly how brain damage occurs—this silent damage I mentioned. Several small accidents, as I said, begin to accumulate throughout the brain, especially in the tiny, delicate arteries within the brain's white matter. We can think of the brain's white matter as a highway; it's made up of fibers that connect the brain, helping us send signals from one place to another. So, if we could take our brain and open it up without breaking these fibers, we could see that these fibers connect all the different parts of the brain. Accidents in the white matter begin to harm us over time. I also wanted to mention that, going back here, I want you to notice that all these diseases are modifiable; that is, you can make changes to improve them. But when they are not controlled, that's when this damage occurs, and little by little, the damage affects us. We can think of it as...  They are like potholes in the road that force us to slow down, or we start to think more slowly, and perhaps we also have more difficulty finding information in our memory and retrieving it for use. We also experience changes in our personality, sometimes due to cerebrovascular risks, and this damage can often result in depression and also increases our risk of developing dementia. And what is dementia? Dementia is, first of all, not a disease, not a part of normal aging, but it is a disease that affects older people more, and it is a profound loss of cognitive abilities. How does it affect us? It affects how we can carry out our daily tasks, resulting in a loss of independence. We need much more help. Cardiovascular problems increase our risk of something called vascular dementia, which is directly related to the damage we have if we have a stroke, or the more silent damage that occurs over time can affect us in such a way that we lose our independence. These cardiovascular risks also increase our risk of developing another type of dementia, which is...  Alzheimer's dementia: If you want to know more about dementia in gamers, you can watch another talk we also have available here in the initial section. It's called "What Does Alzheimer's Disease Have to Do with My Family?" and it's a good talk presented by Dr. Cagigas and Dr. Restrepo. The good news is that we can make lifestyle changes that greatly affect our risk of cognitive problems. For example, here's a study that was investigating ways to prevent strokes with lifestyle changes. As you can see, quitting smoking had a profound and immediate effect. In just six months of quitting, the risk of developing a stroke dropped by 50 percent. Other changes, such as dietary changes or managing diabetes and blood pressure through lifestyle changes or medication, also had profound effects on the risk of developing a stroke. So there's more; there's a lot we can do to prevent these problems, and I want to talk a little bit about some of them.  Strategies you can develop to reduce your risk and live better: First, I also wanted to mention that if you have already had a stroke or are starting to develop problems with your cognitive functions, such as memory, these strategies will also benefit you. They will help prevent more serious problems and strokes in the future. So, they can help you no matter when you start implementing these strategies. I also wanted to mention that if you have cardiovascular diseases, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and cholesterol, it is very important that you take your medications as prescribed by your doctor. If you start to experience unwanted symptoms, pick up the phone. Don't make an appointment; talk to your doctor. Don't just stop taking your medications because it is very important that you manage your risk and keep these factors under control. Just as it is important to continue taking your medications, it is also important to know that maintenance medications don't mean you will take your medication and be cured and no longer have to take it. You have to continue taking that medication to keep your levels under control. But there are other ways.  which you might be able to use to reduce your need for medication, and here I'm going to present some of them. The first is exercise. It's very important that you exercise regularly because exercise really helps blood circulation and also reduces the impact of these cardiovascular diseases on your entire system, not just your brain, but especially on your brain. You know that the brain depends a lot on oxygen, and exercise is the best way to introduce oxygen to the body. There are several benefits of exercise, right? I mentioned that it can control your blood pressure or chronic cardiovascular problems, but it can also give you strength, help you with your balance to prevent falls, and it can also help your respiratory system. You can breathe deeper, you can breathe better, it can help your immune system, which will help you not get sick as often, and it can reduce your depression and anxiety and help you control being overweight. On top of this, it can also help prevent diseases like dementia in women. Now I want to give you some tips so you can start exercising. First of all, of course, talk to your doctor before starting an exercise program. You can start increasing your physical activity in a more organic way, more like in your daily life. You don't need to start... okay, I'm going to go...  I'm going to the gym to get dressed. It wasn't about exercising for an hour every day. You can start with small changes. What I'm going to tell you is that if you have very high goals and then you can't reach them, you might feel disappointed and not want to continue, and that's not the goal. Starting a little is better. Some examples I can give you are: if you're watching television, instead of changing the channel with the remote, maybe get up and go change the channel. Or instead of telling the child, "Bring me this," you can walk and get it yourself. Or if you have to go up a tall building and you're going to take the elevator, maybe you'll take the stairs one floor and then go up to the next floor the next day. Small changes like that will start to help you and will increase. I also wanted to mention why my parents use these services a lot, community services like the senior center. My parents go to Zumba, running, and all of that is free from the senior services. So if you have that available to you, use it. If you're more solitary with your exercise, if you like to do things  More than just being alone, you can go for walks in public places like a shopping mall or a public park. The idea is to move, right? I also wanted to tell you to have fun with this. There are so many ways to exercise: you can go dancing with your partner, you can walk the dog, you can go swimming at the beach, or if you want to go gossip with your friend, it's better to go for a walk while you chat. There are many ways you can exercise; the idea is to move. The second strategy I wanted to mention is focus—focus on eating better. I want you to prioritize eating healthier foods rich in protein and fiber, like fruits and vegetables. Although it's difficult, try to reduce or eliminate meat and dairy products, since these have a lot of cholesterol and saturated fat, which contributes to those blockages I mentioned. And this doesn't have to be a big change; you can start gradually, like one night instead of eating meat, you eat more beans, or just more beans. You can eat more beans, and that will give you fiber, it will give you protein, and you will feel full, and it won't contribute to adding fat to your body. Do that once.  Try reducing your intake of sugary drinks once a week to start and see how it goes. Also, try to eat more home-cooked meals. Food made at home is much healthier than what you'll find on the street, so focusing on eating at home is always better. Another thing you can do is reduce or eliminate sugary drinks, especially those with what's called "high-fructose corn syrup." This sugar is made from corn, but it's not something the body metabolizes well; it doesn't eliminate it. Like other sugars such as cane sugar, this sugar starts to turn into fat in the liver, increasing the likelihood of developing diabetes or other cardiovascular problems. It's very difficult to remove from the liver, so be careful. Many foods contain this product, unfortunately. Check the nutrition label to make sure it's not in your food. The third strategy I wanted to mention is losing weight. It's really worth making the effort to lose weight if you're overweight because it will greatly improve your blood circulation and reduce the risk of other problems like diabetes. We can all improve.  In one of these three areas—diet, exercise, or weight—let's strive to live better and reduce our risk. And ultimately, the theme of this talk is: enjoy your life. By keeping your brain and heart healthy, you will truly be able to live longer and add more life to your years. You will feel lighter in your body, you will be able to play with your grandchildren if you want, you can do things in your life more easily, you will feel better, more energetic, and more lively. So, if you focus on something, focus on enjoying your life. Don't start, don't wait until you have problems, until you start developing symptoms to begin these strategies. We can start them at any age. Thank you very much for your attention. I think we have some questions here, and I'm going to answer them. The first is: I've had diabetes for a long time, and I have memory problems. Will I get dementia? How can I prevent it? Well, as I mentioned, diabetes is a risk factor, right? But it doesn't mean that if you have diabetes, you will necessarily develop dementia. The goal is control, right? That's how you control your diabetes. Take your medications, start doing these strategies that I mentioned. Controlling your diet, exercising, losing a little weight, and checking your blood sugar regularly to stay in control will help reduce your risk of developing many types of problems in the future, including So remember, control is the most important thing. Why? What's the difference between vascular dementia and Alzheimer's dementia? That's a good question. As I mentioned, vascular dementia is a type of dementia that occurs from the direct damage of vascular problems, like having a stroke. Sometimes we see a significant drop in cognitive function, and as I said, this improves. Sometimes, in the first two to three months, we see recovery and improvement, but after that, the remaining years are more or less permanent. So, sometimes, if the damage is profound, it can affect your ability to do everyday things, and that's what we call vascular dementia. Also, due to changes and silent damage over time, over many years, this disease can develop. The healthy side is different; it's a disease.  It's a different type of brain pathology; other plaques start to form, and the brain's neurons begin to curl up, gradually worsening and affecting more and more cells until the person becomes disabled. So, they're similar, but also a little different. As I mentioned, if you want to know more details about HAMMERS, there's another talk you can review, and you can also access the HAMMERS Alzheimer's Association website. They have several resources in Spanish that you can use to learn more. And since we're on the topic, I wanted to mention that we have a group for caregivers of gamers. If you're experiencing a lot of stress, it's difficult being a caregiver. We have a support group where we bring together many caregivers, and we meet every two weeks.  We'll be talking for weeks, and we'll give you advice on how to take care of yourselves while caring for someone with Alzheimer's. Okay, the last question is how can I improve my memory? First, by doing some of the strategies I mentioned. Exercise has a great benefit for memory. There's a part of the brain called the hippocampus; it's responsible for storing memories, one on each side, and it 's very sensitive to changes in oxygen. As I said, the best way to introduce oxygen to the body is through exercise, and we've seen studies where exercise does improve people's memory. There are also ways to keep your mind active that can help. Another thing I wanted to mention for younger people is that the number one reason they have memory problems is depression and anxiety. So maybe that's why they're having memory problems. If they start making efforts to improve their mood, that can also help them have better memory. Okay, that will be your questions for the next few months. Thank you very much for your attention. I 've really enjoyed this time. I hope it has helped you.