and I'm Dr. Linda Nelson and I'm going to be talking to you today about the connection between developmental disabilities and Alzheimer's disease. And I'm very happy to be here with you. Uh, I'm a professor at UCLA. I'm also a neurossychologist and I've been seeing people with developmental disabilities when they were children back in the 1970s and 80s. And more recently, over the past 20 years, I've been working a great deal with adults with Down syndrome, with intellectual disabilities, with autism, with cerebral pausy, and with different types of developmental disabilities. So, I'm here today to talk to you. And I know I can't see you, but I know who you are. your caregivers who are paid to come in and take care of people with developmental disabilities. Your family members, mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, your students who are studying how to work with people with developmental disabilities. Students like my undergraduates here at UCLA who are doing research on Alzheimer's disease and the connection between between Alzheimer's and developmental disabilities. You're also people in the community. You're people who are all ages working together. You're working with a very challenging population. Some of you are in your 20s, your 30s, your 40s, your 50s. Some of you are older adults in your 60s, 70s, and 80s who have children with developmental disabilities. You all know the challenges you face, especially as they depart into adulthood. Stepping into adulthood is like stepping off a crevice for people with developmental disabilities. It's a challenge for them. When we grow up and we become adults, we get a job, we raise a family, we work, but people with developmental disabilities always do not follow that path. And so I'm here to tell you about the special needs they have as adults, how Alzheimer's disease manifests in people with developmental disabilities, especially down syndrome, and also tell you about what's out there in terms of resources and treatment. Thank you. You can ask questions on Twitter using hashtag UCLA MD chat ch. Developmental disabilities take in a variety of folks. Many are relatively high functioning. They can work at jobs. They are actors. for example, in movies or sitcoms. Others are more impaired both physically and mentally and they're homebound or they go to group homes during the day where they have constant care. Some have cerebral palsy. Some have a condition called Down syndrome. Down syndrome is a condition that is called tricammy 21. This group of people with developmental disabilities has this condition because of a genetic mutation. And this genetic mutation from birth predisposes them to intellectual disabilities and most importantly early onset Alzheimer's disease. Also, people with developmental disabilities include autism and people with head injuries. for example, adults suffer head injuries later in life and become neurologically impaired. So the goals of this presentation, what I really want to cover with all of you today is first of all we're going to talk about what is normal aging in people with developmental disabilities. And then we're going to talk about what constitutes atypical aging, unusual aging patterns that you need as family members to keep an eye on. I'm going to teach you about what to look for for the signs of Alzheimer's. And when I use the word signs, I mean physical problems in the brain that are signs of Alzheimer's disease. I'm also going to teach you about the symptoms of Alzheimer's. And symptoms are different than signs. Symptoms are what you see in the person, day-to-day functioning. Memory loss, problems with communication, difficulty in interacting, emotional problems. These are the symptoms of Alzheimer's. I'm also going to help you identify 10 early warning signs that you as caregivers, professional, family can begin to identify so you will know when a person is aging atypically. I'm also going to try to give you some tips on how to improve functioning. And I have been working with older adults who come down with Alzheimer's disease as well as people with developmental disabilities. So people with Down syndrome, those folks are special. Their condition of Alzheimer's disease is different than anyone else with developmental disabilities. People with developmental disabilities who don't have Down syndrome will be patterning their life in terms of aging and Alzheimer's very similar to the general population like our grandparents or our parents like the movie that won Academy Awards Still Ellis with Julianne Moore that's a movie that tells the story of Alzheimer's and so people without Down syndrome will be aging into Alzheimer's very similar to what you see in the general population. So what is normal aging in people with developmental disabilities? Normal aging in people with developmental disabilities is called scenile dementia. Dementia makes you think, "Oh, there's something bad going on." But the truth of the matter is we all get old. We all suffer memory loss. We all have communication problems. And we all go through emotional changes. When we get into our late middle age, 50s, 60s, that's when we in the general population tend to go through some of the changes of typical aging. People start to notice that we have trouble finding the right word or they start to notice we have memory problems. Why did I go into that room? What was I going in there for? Let's see. I'm getting ready to leave the car keys. Where did I leave the car keys? What level did I park the car on? These are normal changes that occur with age. Now, what we've got is those three problems occurring normally. And they're not to call attention to, oh my gosh, this might be Alzheimer's disease, but they're to call attention to normal processes of aging. Now the prevalence the prevalence is that about 75% of late to old age adults with developmental disabilities 75% of all the people with developmental disabilities are currently in the US in the 40 to 60 year old group. That's a large percent. Many of these people reside in group homes or stay at home with their families and go to day treatment programs. Many of them live independently in apartments. Some of them live and progress into assisted living. But it is a high prevalence rate. And that's part of what I want to come across with today, that there are many people out there that we need to pay attention to. There are currently about 9,000 people with developmental disabilities in the 40 to 60 year old age group. And what's even more remarkable is that by the year 2025, that's 10 years from now, this number will likely grow to 30,000. 30,000 people in the next 10 years are going to be ages 40 to 60 and have developmental disabilities. Now, let's talk about Alzheimer's disease. First, we're going to talk about Alzheimer's disease in the population of people who have Down syndrome. So, what happens to people with Down syndrome as they age? Three things. First of all, in Alzheimer's disease, in people with Down syndrome, the onset is much earlier than in our grandparents, our parents, or people who don't have Down syndrome with developmental disabilities. The onset is in their 40s. In the rest of the population, the onset is typically in the 60s, age 60s. So the onset in people with Down syndrome is very early. How do we know this? We know this because people who die of Alzheimer's disease throughout the world who have donated their brains to science and their brains have been examined for signs of Alzheimer's disease. their brains, the people with Down syndrome show the same prevalence in the brain of signs of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 40 to 45 or 50 as people with stage 2 Alzheimer's. Let me repeat that. People with Down syndrome in their 40s going on into their 50s, it has been found that their brains mimic people with Alzheimer's disease who are full into Alzheimer's. So, we know that they're at risk. We know this is a special group of people to really take care of and to work with. And as caregivers, you're going to have people with Down syndrome, adults with Down syndrome. You're going to have people in your community. You're going to have people in your family, in your group homes, who are that that age, who are in their 40s, entering their 40s, and going into their 50s. You need to look for symptoms and signs of Alzheimer's. Besides early onset, people with Down syndrome show a very rapid course. Alzheimer's disease starts in your 60s, has three stages. Each stage lasts two to three years. The last stage can last much longer. The first stage of Alzheimer's is typically beginning memory changes, cognition, mental abilities begin to go. Second stage, things become progressively worse. Notice memory problems are very noticeable. Third stage, physical problems start to emerge. People with Down syndrome shoot through these stages much faster than the general population. I would say from stage one to probably death, Alzheimer's can linger up to 12 years for people in the general population and people with developmental disabilities without Down syndrome. But people with Down syndrome will progress through the first two stages and show very rapid decline within two to three years. And once they start showing decline, caregivers tell me it's extremely rapid. It gets progressively worse. Unfortunately, and I I'm I apologize in advance because my presentation is rather morbid. Uh but that's what Alzheimer's disease is. And I want it to be factual and I want to build your awareness and your knowledge of it. But it is a progressive disease. That's how we know it's Alzheimer's. If somebody started having memory problems and then got better and returned to baseline, that would tell me it's not Alzheimer's. But when you start to have memory problems and it's a symptom of Alzheimer's, unfortunately, it gets worse. So, people with Down syndrome and Alzheimer's do manifest that pattern, progressive decline. However, not everybody with Down syndrome gets Alzheimer's. So, I'll be talking to you about the people who don't. And the symptoms are present for some and not present for others. So, I want to talk to you about normal aging with Down syndrome too. And then ultimately of course we know with all the media press uh for example uh on the apprentice show uh that is a a show that's shown on television uh the person who won and became the apprentice was Lisa Gibbons and Lisa Gibbons throughout the whole season talked about how her charity was for Alzheimer's her mother died of Alzheimer's People like Lisa are people who educate you about Alzheimer's. She's a person to know, to follow. She has a great website. But one of the things that came out is Alzheimer's. Unfortunately, from Lisa telling us, from Still Alice, the movie, from what I'm telling you today, and from what you know, that Alzheimer's disease eventually kills you. It attacks the brain first and that's important. It changes the brain. It destroys the brain and it eventually kills you. So, we are going to be talking about things today that can help you as caregivers, work with people who are at risk for Alzheimer's, who are aging normally, give you pointers on how to help them, and then for the people that you work with who are showing symptoms of Alzheimer's, what to expect and how to best improve their quality of life. Alzheimer's disease. First, it starts with what we call the conversion stage. Conversion stage is noticing problems with your emotional functioning, not necessarily memory. Noticing problems that you're starting to get more depressed. Noticing problems that you're getting more anxious or agitated. noticing problems that you're starting to withdraw. You don't like to be with people. You don't like to be around people. You don't like to go to dances. People with developmental disabilities. I've met so many who are very athletic, who are wonderful socially. They love to dance. But during the conversion stage, many of them just don't want to engage anymore. So conversion stage is important because in if it does go into Alzheimer's disease, if it is truly a conversion stage, then that's important to consider. These are some of the symptoms to look for. Alzheimer's clinical stages are stages one, two, and three. First stage is beginning of some of the mental loss, the cognitive loss, the memory problems, trouble communicating. I can't remember the person that starred in that movie. Who was that? Can't remember it. It things are not coming to you as quickly. You're having trouble, for example, with remembering and learning new things. Gee, I think I'll take a class in cooking. And uh so you go to a cooking class and uh you learn the steps to French cooking, let's say. You come home, you've got the recipes, and you're struggling. You're having some trouble. you didn't get all the food for the recipe at the store or you're having trouble following the recipe or you didn't remember to put the oven on at the right temperature or maybe something boiled over on the stove. And the whole point of this is we all do this. We all do this in normal aging, but it's happening more frequently. It's starting to bother you. People are noticing. That's stage one. Stage two, things are getting progressively worse. This is where your memory is really beginning to be very apparent that there's a problem. Stage three is when some of the physical problems start like incontinence where you have urine leakage for example. You have trouble holding your bladder. You are starting to get more tired. You are starting to get more physical problems. You might have incorporis where you might have problems with bowel movements. You might have problems with just a general malaise. You might start to suffer problems like more aches and pains. Physically, orthopedically, you're going to have more difficulty. And finally, as they get to the to the mid to later stages of three, those are the folks who usually by the end of three or near the middle of three are in what we call skilled nursing facilities, where the staff to patient ratio is very low, where there's 24-hour monitoring, where some of the people require food tubes. So that's what happens in the late stage of Alzheimer's. Alzheimer's is an attack on the brain and much of the research that I do at UCLA deals with what I'm about to tell you about. I've been here at UCLA doing this type of research for 2000 since 2005. And what we're doing at UCLA is we're identifying the signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain. The signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain are two two signs. That's it. These two signs attack the brain and destroy it. The first sign that comes up and pops up in your brain in Alzheimer's is called amaloid plaques. The second that comes up tangles or towel. Both of these are protein substances. They attack the cells in the brain and they mutate them. which means they take the brain and take the brain cells and they alter them. The areas of the brain that they hit first are this area here behind my forehead, the frontal lobe and this area here which is deeper in the brain called the temporal lobe. Now the temporal lobe is a interesting part of our brain because it controls much of what we learn and remember what we can recall immediately our long-term memories where we went to school as a kid and what we did who was our teacher. The frontal lobe is interesting because frontal lobe controls more behavioral and emotional functioning. It controls whether or not we might get depressed. So when the brain is attacked in the frontal lobe, we might see symptoms of depression, anxiety, agitation, we might see problems that include behavior changes, poor impulse control, overeating, low energy, just want to sleep all day, weird or unusual behaviors that might start occurring. For example, uh some of my patients when they begin to show problems, they go to the bathroom and they forget to wipe themselves. They might smear feces on the walls. They might have toilet paper still in their panties or underwear. They might go into the microwave and instead of putting a dinner in like they usually did when they were younger, they put their tennis shoes in because they want to dry them off or they think it's food. I had one patient, for example, with behavior changes who thought she was getting married that day. So, she dressed all in white, got up early, prepared. These are obvious behavior changes. The more subtle ones are the ones that include depression, anxiety. Now, that doesn't mean that these emotional changes are all due to Alzheimer's. But it when it does occur and they don't go away and you try to treat it for example with anti-depressant and it doesn't help or you try to intervene and get people more involved or give them therapy and it doesn't help then we should look at it as a possibility of early Alzheimer's as a frontal lobe problem. Now I told you that plaque and tangles are signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain. The destroyers of the brain. In Down syndrome, 80% of the people aged 30 to have plaque and tangle formation that is consistent with early Alzheimer's. In people with Down syndrome aged 40 to 49, 98% of that age group has signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain consistent with Alzheimer's. Now, those are scary statistics and I want to preface this by saying we're just talking about people with developmental disabilities and down syndrome. They are at risk. Now, are these statistics accurate? Maybe what they're based on is what I told you about earlier. People who donate their brains to science and die within that age group, their brains are examined and they are consistent with Alzheimer's. People in my research studies who come in and they undergo PET FDDMP nuclear imaging, their brains at those ages are consistent with what the brains of people with Alzheimer's look like. So that's the scientific evidence for these statistics. But again the caveat is there are many people with Down syndrome also who are aging very well very normally. And these are the people that we need to talk about too and that you as caregivers need to think about when you start to see some of these symptoms that maybe they don't have Alzheimer's. And so near the end of my presentation, I'll talk about some ways to consider people with developmental disabilities who are aging normally to check out whether or not they have early signs of pathology at UCLA and one of our collaborators on our research. We've had unfortunately uh several people that I've followed over the years with Down syndrome and unfortunately some of them have passed away. and their family members have donated their brains to science here at UCLA and Dr. Vinners has examined their brains and looked at what we call brain tissue. So what you're looking at on the screen right now is brain tissue under a microscope. This is an arrow. This is an arrow. Here's an arrow. And here's an arrow. Each of those arrows is pointing to plaques and towel. So in other words, it's pointing to a dark cell that has mutated because it's been attacked by the signs of Alzheimer's. So when we say so many people have Alzheimer's and we know this because we look at their brains, we're not only looking at it through the mechanism of PET FDDMP that I just spoke about in the research I'm doing, but the research I'm doing with Dr. Harry Vers also looks at some of the folks in our studies who have passed away to see what do their brains look like. We've followed them over the years. We've watched them grow into adulthood. We've tested them over the years and then they pass away. What do their brains look like? So, what is atypical aging in people with developmental disabilities? How do we detect symptoms of early decline? I'm going to give you 10 warning signs. And these warning signs are in order of how they appear in life. So for our family members and our caregivers in the audience, what you're going to be seeing in the next 10 slides are going to be things that you should be looking for. They may or may not signal early Alzheimer's. They may be indications of atypical or typical aging. But if they occur and if they don't go away and if they keep progressing in the order that I'm telling you, then it's important to consider that the person should be seen, should be treated, should go for medical help, should go seek psychological help or psychiatric help so that professionals can begin to take a closer look at what's happening. But you're all on the front line. You live with these people, so to speak. You're there with them every day. So, you're in the best position to identify these early warning signs, behavior changes. First one, I had a a patient in Southern California who stayed at a group home and was living there for many years. had her own apartment and uh was doing very well and then all of a sudden started stealing from her roommate. She would steal CDs, she'd steal videotapes, she'd steal things, money from the from the person and it was obvious that she was stealing and people were confronting her with it. and she kept doing it and she would what she would do is she would steal and then she would throw the stuff out in the garbage can immediately after. So people were finding these items in the garbage can. So it was a behavior change. The key is a change. This person never stole before. This wasn't a problem in her history, but it was a change. Another change is for example the person that I told you about who put her tennis shoes in the microwave starting to really show some other serious decline in behavior. Social withdrawal used to go to a program where she would go to dances once a week. Parents had videotapes of her dancing and she was pretty good. I don't want to go anymore. just stopped going, stopped interacting. She had a boyfriend, didn't want anything to do with him anymore. So, these are behavior changes, emotional changes. I'd say probably the most prevalent or the most obvious emotional change that you're going to be seeing that would be a warning sign would be depression. happens to people with developmental disabilities. It happens to people with Down syndrome, adults. It happens in our general population, our grandparents, my parents. You see depression manifest very early. Now, why are they depressed? Is it because Alzheimer's is attacking the frontal lobe? Like I said, no, not in the beginning. They're depressed because they are starting to notice what's happening to them. They're starting to realize something's not right. I don't want to do these things anymore. I used to like going out. I used to like going out to Special Olympics. I used to like going to the movies with my dad, my mom, my sister. They're not going to tell you I am depressed. They're going to not want to go. I'd rather stay home. You go. They stay in their bedroom. They stay in bed a lot. They look sad. They don't care about things anymore. They don't care if they're dressed right. They don't care about going to a day program. They don't care about getting to the bus on time. They stop caring. That's called indifference. And it's an emotional response. It's actually a nonresponse. I'll never forget one time I was examining a woman with Alzheimer's and she was in her 60s. And the day I saw it, it was her birthday, and her daughter was with her, her adult daughter. And I was going through my usual drill of asking her questions. What is today's date? Uh, how old are you? And when I came to today's date, I asked the woman, my patient, I said, "When is your birthday?" And I was actually seeing her on her birthday and she didn't know. And I I said to her, "What is today's date?" She didn't know. and her daughter looked at her and said, "Mom, it's your birthday. Today's your birthday." And the daughter started crying and the mom just kind of giggled a little bit. That's indifference. Mom didn't care. Now, if you all were told, "Today's your birthday," and you didn't even know it, you'd be worried. How could I not know it's my birthday? But when a person with Alzheimer's disease reacts that way, that's indifference. So, those are the symptoms that you need to look for. Indifference is a very, very important symptom. Indifference means that they stop caring. Now, warning sign number three, trouble learning. What does that mean? Okay, we go through life and we grow into adulthood and we're always learning. Unless we're on a desert island somewhere where all we need to do is pick coconuts off the trees and maybe eat something on the ground. We're learning. When we follow a recipe, we're learning. When we drive from point A to point B, we're learning. When we go to a class, we're learning. When we're working, we're learning. We're always being taught new skills. So are people with developmental disabilities. They're learning how to ride a bus. They've learned how to ride a bus. They're learning how to cook for themselves, put something in a microwave, turn on the oven, make jello-. They're learning how to use the internet. They're learning how to do puzzles and games. They're learning how to follow directions at a sheltered workshop. They're always learning. Now, a warning sign is when it becomes much harder for them to learn something new. Gee, I've had to go through this with Sally now like 15 times. help her, cure, reminder, and she still hasn't learned how to follow this very simple recipe, can't learn. Why can't she tie her shoes anymore? Why can't she take the bus? Why can't she remember how to set the alarm? So, it's not only learning new things, but it's remembering how to do old things, routine things, and relearn those. So, as caregivers, you know, you're going to be working with them, whether it's a day program, in a classroom setting, at home, you're you're constantly instructing people with developmental disabilities, older adults. If they're really struggling and they're not following through, don't think it's because they're stubborn. Don't think it's because they're lazy, but consider that it might be just that they're having trouble learning what you're saying. Communication problems is a big one. Now, what I mean by this is, you know, think about it. People with developmental disabilities as they age into adulthood are communicating all the time. They're on the phone. They're learning how to use a cell phone. They've learned how to use a cell phone. They're communicating through emails on the computer. They're talking. They're reading. They're understanding what they hear. All of these mechanisms are communication. So, what you're going to look for is communication in a social context. Conversation. I'm holding a conversation with someone, a friend. So, I say something, "Hi, how are you?" And I wait for a response. I'm fine. How are you? I tell them, I'm doing fine. So, what'd you do today? and then the person responds and I comment on it. That's social conversation. It's called turnt taking. It's one of the biggest changes that occur as a warning sign in Alzheimer's because people lose the ability to converse in a social manner, to talk on the phone, to carry on. Now, some people with developmental disabilities always had problems with this. never really could master this. So what I want to impress on you with these 10 signs are these are changes. So a person who used to be social and used to be able to communicate now struggles trouble with judgment. I had a patient few years back who was actually in a psychiatric hospital. She had developmental disabilities. She was intellectually impaired and uh she was struggling but she was in a group setting and they put her in a psychiatric hospital because she was acting out very agitated doing all kinds of behavior that were unusual and kind of bizarre actually. So, I got called in because the woman decided to leave the psychiatric hospital and we're not quite sure how this happened, but she did. She left the hospital and then returned. And so, that was kind of a warning to us that we need to keep better track of her. this could be a problem. She knows she's supposed to be here. Uh it was an open unit, but still she was developmentally disabled and she was in a psychiatric hospital and people were watching her. So we worked with her and we talked to her about responsibility and staying in the psychiatric hospital. She's discharged. She goes back to her group home. She runs away. She just doesn't run away. She runs into the middle of the freeway and holds up traffic on one of our major interstates here in Southern California. Now, that's poor judgment. Poor judgment is being able to keep track of your money. Not as bad as running into a freeway, but several people with developmental disabilities can go to a bank, can manage their affairs, can keep track of their accounts, but they're withdrawing. more than they should. They have insufficient funds. They're having trouble keeping track of their checkbook. Trouble with judgment. They're waiting to cross the street. They've always waited till the light turned red or they saw the signal to cross. Now they're forgetting about the light and just kind of walking across the street. Judgement. This is sign five. So judgment is going to go a little bit later. But again, the example I gave you about the woman is we worked with her. We worked with her on not to leave her place, her residence, and we thought we had it under control. So when she was discharged after a period of time, we felt that she learned and had understood to stay in her residence. But number five sign means that she didn't learn that she was still acting on impulse. She was still exercising poor judgment. So again, as caregivers, we're all going to mess up once in a while. You know, we're all going to bounce a check maybe once in a while. We're all going to do a white lie once in a while. But it's when it happens over and over again and it becomes the personality of the person that you need to be aware. Stage or not stage, excuse me, warning sign six is we're getting into probably stage one at this point. Still, maybe not even stage one, pre-limers conversion stage. People with developmental disabilities their memory is getting worse. Now there are a number of people with developmental disabilities who from birth have been very impaired who are going to remain dependent on their families or on a conservator or a legal guardian for their whole life. And it's because they are not able to hold a job to produce enough money to live independently and to manage their lives. So I say that as a preface because when their memory gets worse, it's sometimes very hard to tell. It's very difficult to see those subtle signs of memory loss. It's different than people like us. If we were to get Alzheimer's and suffer memory loss, it's noticeable. Mom, you don't know when your birth date is, you don't know today's date. But sometimes when I ask a person with Down syndrome or a young adult with developmental disabilities or even an adult with developmental disabilities in middle age, they don't always know today's date. And it's not because they've got Alzheimer's. That's typical. But it again, it's a change. So I want to get the message out to caregivers that this has to be a change. It has to be a change that continues to get worse. You're noticing memory problems. For example, there's a wonderful uh resource uh a setting in Northern California called Cedars of Marin. And they have an area called the textile art center where they make incredible incredible uh um art and um woven goods. And it's just amazing how well they do. And all the people there have developmental disabilities and are intellectually impaired. They know at Cedars when a person's memory is getting worse because they've been doing the weaving for years. They've been doing the gardening for years, but now they're having trouble remembering what to do, and they can't learn how to do it again. Number seven, warning sign, not able to do the simplest of tasks. Tying a shoe, working a microwave, walking the corner to catch a bus, can't care for themselves anymore. So now we're in number eight. Not caring for yourself anymore means that you are not only dependent on someone, a caregiver, but you require more help than you ever did before. You need assistance in the bathroom. You are having trouble catching the bus, getting the right bus. You're having trouble on the assembly line at a sheltered workshop. So, you can't care for yourself. You can't produce. You can't toilet. You're having trouble grooming. You're having trouble not eating but preparing meals. That's what we mean by can't care for self. And then finally, uh unfortunately, and and again, I'll go back to the movie because it's a great movie. still Ellis and I'm sure you've heard from publications by the Alzheimer's Association and on the media this is probably about the end stage of Alzheimer's you just don't recognize people anymore so it's not a warning sign you're there you're looking at your mom you're looking at your son you don't recognize him who are you so that would come actually in later stage Alzheimer's second to third stage and then finally uh I had a young man that I worked with with developmental disabilities uh and down syndrome he progressed into it very rapidly and near the end uh lost bodily functions can't control urine can't control bladder can't control uh bowel movements loses bodily functions extremities became weak Why? Because at that point, your brain has not only been attacked by the amaloid and tow I told you about, but your brain is starting to shrink. The parts of your brain like the frontal lobe and the temporal lobe, those are parts, sections of your brain, sections that control cells, cells that control memory. They're starting to shrink. Part of your brain is literally disappearing. So that's what provokes loss of bodily functions. Okay, I want to just talk briefly about what's out there. What kind of screening instruments do you have? what tools you could have that are paper and pencil that you as caregivers could use to help you identify if someone is suffering from Alzheimer's or is going through the conversion stage and has developmental disabilities. The key is you can't tell if someone has Alzheimer's disease easily while they're alive. It's very, very hard. And the only way we can tell is when they change. They're not the same person anymore. And the only way we can tell objectively is if we write down how they're doing and then a year later retest them and see how they're doing then and then a year later retest them to see how they're doing then. We want to see if the scores over time, the results over time are getting progressively worse. So there are screens out there and at the end of this presentation I will be giving you some ways to contact me. Please do because we're developing a screen. The National Task Group on People with Developmental Disabilities in the United States is developing a screen. There are tools out there for you as caregivers that are easy to manage, short, and quick ways to detect if you're seeing any of these symptoms. Now it's important to understand that there are certain conditions physical and psychiatric that mimic Alzheimer's disease. These are some of the conditions. urinary tract infections, thyroid conditions, which many people with Down syndrome have, vitamin deficiencies, depression disorders, and anxiety disorders. Now, the key is these are all testable. You go to a doctor, you get a lab test to see if you have a UTI because your memor is suddenly gone. You're in delirium. Am I do I have Alzheimer's? No. You've got a urinary tract infection. Vitamin deficiency. You're not getting enough vitamins. Vitamin E especially is very important. Go to a doctor. Get a lab test. Get these ruled out. Depression, anxiety, what's going on there. They have to be disorders. That's why I put the word disorder there. As a psychologist, I diagnose a disorder. We all get depressed. We all go into funks. We all have problems. Mood changes. Something bad happens. Uh traffic, stress on the 405 interstate in Southern California, driving two hours, that's stressful. That gets you depressed. But when it gets bad enough to become a disorder by what we call DSM5 standard, then we know it's a disorder. So on these last two, depression and anxiety, if you're seeing symptoms, mood changes, indifference that I talked about, take the person to a psychiatrist, take them to a psychologist, just like you'd get a UTI checked out by a medical doctor. Take them in to see whether or not they're actually suffering from a disorder or is it something else? Is it treatable or is it the first symptom of Alzheimer's? Can we improve what we lose? Absolutely. Exercise and activities is brain food. It really is brain food. Exercise is proven to be brain food. cardio, walking, cardio, bicycling. What happens is when your heart beats faster, more oxygen goes to the brain. And what feeds the brain? Oxygen activities. Mental activities. Back up. I want to show you a very simple activity to improve brain function. It's called the puzzle book and it was actually put out by a newspaper in Cleveland, Ohio. So, you can get these anywhere. You can get them at stores in Southern California. We call them Big Lots. Uh you can get them at um uh arts and crafts stores. They're crossword puzzles. They're questions that ask you about historical events. Now, do you want to get this for people with developmental disabilities who are intellectually impaired and may have trouble? No. What you're going to do is you're going to get one that is probably for about age 10 to 12 year olds. Something that they'll like, have fun with, enjoy, something that they'll occupy their time with, and will challenge them mentally. What else can you do? What's another activity? I'm working with a family here in Southern California. Um, incredible family. The family is preparing recipes for their son. What they're doing is they're taking pictures of different things like a can of soup, piece of chicken, glass of water, and then the the stove, the oven. And each picture represents something different, a different part of a recipe. And they put it together in sequence. and the person follows the recipe to make chicken with soup. Now, that's a mental activity. That's requiring that person to look at the pictures, to think, to follow a sequence, to learn how to make soup, to go and control an oven or a microwave and work out an entire process. These are mental activities. Exercise. you as caregivers, many of you are in group homes, doesn't mean that you have to go out and walk with your clients. It doesn't mean that you have to take time away from the rest of the people, but while everybody's sitting around in the living room watching TV, invest in an exercise ball and have them kick it back and forth between each other. That's exercise. It doesn't What the point I'm trying to make is people with developmental disabilities have different needs. Some are more impaired cognitively than others. Adjust what they can do, but provide them with activities. A lot. You don't want to say that they're depressed when they're really bored. And they need activities, things that are easy to invest in, things that keep them occupied, things that you provide to them as a family member or a caregiver that can help them. And in the end process what we're doing is we're exercising the brain which is known to improve functioning. Now what's the treatment? Is there treatment for Alzheimer's? There is treatment but there's no cure which is a difference. The treatment is aerosept exalon razidine also nmena. These are medications probably the most common that most folks have heard about is aerosept. So again, caregivers, you're on the front line. If you start to see problems, take the person to a medical doctor. Have a dialogue. Gee, do you think uh maybe we should consider Aerosept or maybe we should consider a medication, especially caregivers of people with Down syndrome? And consider it when they're in their 30s. Antioxidant therapy, vitamin E, several studies. Dr. Ira lot at University of California Irvine has done several studies using vitamin E found remarkable effects. What this does is it improves their functioning. It shows not dramatic but negl and not negligible but significant change in their ability to remember and learn. also behavior modification, psychotropic drugs, Zoloft, Lexapro, Cerakquil. If you see a person who's looking moody in bed all the time, sad, consider taking that person to a psychiatrist and having them treated for depression. Consider behavior modification. change the environment. Start more activities going. Go out to the store and get them some videos. And especially consider because a lot of times we're dealing with folks, like we said in the beginning, in their 40 to 60 year old range with developmental disabilities. Get them things that they used to like as kids. We all like that. Some of us like to watch old cowboy movies on TV because that's what we grew up with. They also grew up with certain actors, certain sitcoms. Get the videos, get them interested in things. So, behavior modification, changing your environment, all of these are ways to treat and also to help you rule out whether or not the person is aging typically or aging atypically. So, models of care, what to expect. There's a lot of folks now throughout the country who believe very strongly that people with developmental disabilities need to age in place. What's that mean? That means that for example, I I I'll use the Cedars of Marin as a beautiful example. Many of the clients there have lived in a dormatory type environment from their 20s on into their 40s for years. They've aged in place. They haven't left. That's what we're talking about. I'm not saying that they should remain at home all their lives, but when they begin to decline in their 40s and 60s and on into the 70s, it's important to consider not moving them around a lot. not changing placements but having them age in place in place progression means the same thing modify the environment to accommodate as they age ultimately if they have Alzheimer's skilled nursing homes are what they're called skilled nursing facilities sniffs NSF that's where folks go for more intense care all of these are higher staff F ratio to person and 247 near the end there. But aging in place doesn't have to mean that. I'm going to end here by just uh acknowledging the collaborators at UCLA who I work with. Dr. Jean Dealiz is the director co-director along with Dr. Susan Bookheimimer uh who just became the co-director of the intellectual and developmental disabilities research center and that's where I work here at UCLA. Dr. George Bario is a professor here in nuclear medicine who worked with me on my studies involving PET FTDMP examining the signs of Alzheimer's in the brain. Dr. Harry Vinners examines our people involved in our studies and their brains after they pass away brain tissue. And Dr. Lyanna Apostova is a professor in the neurology department and she is working with me on future studies involving people with Alzheimer's disease and developmental disabilities. To contact me and then I'm going to pause for questions. Uh you can reach me at first of all this phone number, second my email address, third my website which is probably the best among them because the website contains a very important link DSAD connect. DSAD Connect is composed of a group of individuals in Northern and Southern California who including myself uh are motivated to provide resources and information to caregivers and families of people with developmental disabilities. We're based in Northern and Southern California, but you can reach that link by going to my website which is www.l lurosych.com. Another resource is dds.ca.gov which is a government institution for people with developmental disabilities and also the national task group aadm.org orgn for national task group. That is the most amazing group. It's headed by Matt Janicki and Seth Kell Keller, both doctors, and they are going across the country doing presentations. They have an incredible website. Please, I encourage you to visit it. Thank you. All right, we had some questions coming in. What is different about dementia in someone with a learning disability? Someone with a learning disability is usually diagnosed either in childhood or adulthood with problems reading, problem doing math, and uh if they're diagnosed in childhood, they're usually attending special education, and they're probably involved in helping remediate those areas of functioning. So a person with a learning disability is having problems with and is challenged by academic activities like reading, spelling, writing, things like that. And there is absolutely no difference between dementia in a person with a learning disability and dementia uh that occurs in people from the general population. What are the risks? I'm not sure what that means, but I'll take a guess here. What are the risks of coming down with Alzheimer's? Perhaps there are genetic risks. So, a person with Down syndrome is at genetic risk. For example, some of us also might contain or or have possess a genetic mutation and that can be actually discerned through genetic counseling. And so some of us are carriers, some of us are not. People who are carriers of this are more at risk. And this includes everyone, people with developmental disabilities and people from the general population. Otherwise, there aren't really any particular risks. Uh we're all at risk, put it that way. How do symptoms of dementia differ for people with a learning disability? And again, they do not differ. People with a learning disability are going to manifest the same symptoms of dementia in the same manner. And again, dementia is cognitive or mental impairment as people from the population. All right, I think that takes care of it. Thank you very much uh for your attention and for your questions and I am very happy to have been here today with you. Thank you.