Hi, everyone! My name is Dr. Joshua Cohen. Thank you for logging in today at home for this webinar with UCLA Medical Center. Today we're going to review the diagnosis and initial management of cervical and uterine cancer. Over the course of the next few minutes, we're going to cover these topics. At the end of the webinar, we will have time for questions. For those of you at home, you can send those questions through Twitter via the hashtag #UCLAMDChat. So, over the next few minutes, we're going to discuss the upfront management of cervical and endometrial cancer. Endometrial cancer is another term for uterine cancer. We're also going to review the genetic underpinnings and subsequent treatment strategies. January is cervical cancer awareness month. The month of January gives us a time to reflect and remember those patients who sadly passed away from cervical cancer. Unfortunately, in the US, approximately 13,000 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer every year, and sadly, 4,000 women will die from cervical cancer this year in the US alone. The reason that it's important to know that cervical cancer exists is that the vast majority of cervical cancer is preventable. We'll talk more about this in a few minutes, but we now have a vaccine to prevent these cancers, again, the vast majority from developing. First, though, I'd like to take a step back and talk about how a patient who has a gynecologic cancer should approach their treatment and medical team. First, if someone tells you that you have a gynecologic cancer, which is a cancer from the uterus, the ovaries, the tubes, or the female pelvic organs, you really want to make sure the pathologic tissue diagnosis is correct, and that may involve having that reviewed, that biopsy taken a look at at a larger medical center like UCLA, where we have expert pathologists to make the correct diagnosis. Every patient is unique, and if you hear the term cancer, I want you to do as much as possible to focus on yourself and your story in today's day and age. There are many different approaches to cancer, and hearing other people's stories is important for a source of support, but it doesn't mean that your story, your path, will be the exact same. If surgery is needed with these cancers, we discuss the best surgical approach, which we'll talk about today. We usually want to use the latest evidence, the most recent clinical data, to make the best clinical decision for you, and some of that includes clinical trials. Clinical trials involve taking the best available treatment and testing it with what we think will be the next major breakthrough in treatment for this cancer to determine if this breakthrough is real. Surgery is only one aspect of cancer care. I'm a gynecologic oncologist. I do cancer surgery like my colleagues in addition to chemotherapy and other treatments, but we all know that surgery is an important role for some patients but not necessarily all patients, and before or after surgery there are other treatment options that may come into play, including chemotherapy, radiation, and even immunotherapy. This is the anatomy that I'd like you to be familiar with. The uterus is where babies grow. The cervix is the bottom part of the uterus-- that's the part that dilates in pregnancy when women go into labor. The analogy I use is the state of California. The northern part of California is the uterus where babies grow. The southern part is called the cervix. The cervix is part of the same state but very different geographical regions. Cervical cancer can arise in this part of the uterus, which is the lower part. Uterine cancer, or endometrial cancer, will arise from the top part of the uterus, and that's separate from the ovaries, where follicles and eggs develop, and the fallopian tube. The fallopian tube, you can imagine, is the 101 freeway, or the 405. When someone makes an egg, it travels down that freeway, uses an off-ramp, and ends up in the uterus, and if things meet, it becomes a baby. We all have lymph nodes in our body. Lymph nodes are swollen when you have infection. Oftentimes, you may have heard a family friend or your grandparents say, "My glands are swollen," or you may feel something swollen here in your neck. Those are lymph nodes, and you have lymph nodes throughout your body, including in your abdomen and your pelvis. Just like infection can travel through those lymph nodes, and the immune system gets revved up to fight that infection, cancer is similar. If someone is dealing with the cancer, those lymph nodes may be involved, and as a cancer doctor, we want to know if those lymph nodes are, in fact, involved, because they have implications for your treatment recommendations and your cancer care plan. There are different ways to do surgery, and we're going to talk about some of these options. If you have a cancer that requires surgery, or a loved one that has a cancer that requires surgery, oftentimes we'll recommend a bigger incision, and that's called an exploratory laparotomy. And we do many of these surgeries, and that gives us, sometimes, the best approach to removing a cancer. We also have newer technology, and an example of this is the robotic platform, where we can use little incisions to do the same surgery without having to make a bigger incision. There are also different types of hysterectomies. Oftentimes, when we see patients, they say, "Well, I had my uterus out," or "They took everything out," but they're not exactly clear with what the doctor did. I would encourage you and empower you to advocate for yourself. Know what the doctor is recommending, know exactly what they're discussing as far as the surgery--the ovaries, the tubes, the uterus, the cervix--because you really want to have a good understanding of what you may be going through or what your loved one may be dealing with, and so when someone says that they're recommending a hysterectomy, that doesn't necessarily mean that the ovaries and tubes would be removed, or it may mean that they're doing a standard hysterectomy where they travel right next to the uterus, and--to continue with my analogy, the state of California--so in some settings, we only remove the state of California if it has cancer. In certain settings, we travel out into the Pacific Ocean and towards Nevada, and we take the those locations as well to make sure that we remove all of the cancer if the cancer extends the borders of the state of California, and that's why it's important to understand whether the doctors are recommending a radical hysterectomy--that's what includes part of Nevada and the Pacific Ocean--or if we're talking about a standard extrafascial hysterectomy. This is a more schematic view of what we just discussed, and so the ovaries are here, the uterus is here, and then the cervix is here, and depending on the type of surgery, some or all of these structures may be removed or recommended to be removed based on where a cancer originated from. The different terms you're going to hear about for surgery include an open surgery, and that means a bigger incision, and that incision could be an up-and-down, a midline vertical incision, or a low transverse incision similar to an incision for a C-section, for example. There is something called a vaginal approach, where we can actually do these surgeries through a vaginal incision, and just like babies are born, remove cancers through the vagina. There's something called conventional laparoscopy. That's where we make little incisions across the abdomen and use carbon dioxide to distend the abdomen and use a camera to then operate through those little incisions. The last approach is an approach that's become more prevalent in the last ten years, and that's a robotic laparoscopic approach, and that's where we use little incisions with a robotic platform to perform the same surgery as with a bigger incision or with conventional laparoscopy. And this is a schematic of that. So here, you see a midline incision, and this is the appropriate incision for certain cancers, and then this is an example of laparoscopy here. The abdomen is being filled with gas, and the surgeon, someone like myself or one of my colleagues, is using instruments through little incisions to dissect and remove the cancer. So, what are some reasons to have a bigger incision or a smaller incision? Depending on the size of the cancer, how big the uterus is, where the cancer is located in the pelvis, is it involving the uterus, the cervix--in Northern California, Southern California--the ovaries, the tubes, as we just discussed, and then there's data that we have for certain cancers, what the safest approach is, or whether approaches are similarly equivalent with regard to safety--and that's something that we take into consideration as cancer doctors, as well-- and then what a patient's medical issues are, if their heart's functioning well, or if they have lung issues that may play a role into the type of surgery that we recommend, and then prior surgical history--if someone's had a lot of prior surgery, the little incision surgery may not be safe to do. Why use small incisions? It may seem obvious, but really, we do want to use small incisions when we can, and that's to reduce the risk of pain, swelling, infection, bleeding, scarring, potentially. We find that patients tend to go home sooner, and they potentially can have a quicker recovery, although, even with midline incisions now, we're getting much better about helping patients recover sooner. Cervical cancer, as I mentioned, about 13,000-14,000 new cases a year in the US, and sadly, about 4,000 deaths per year. This is an example of what that cancer can look like. Again, in in the southern part of the state, or the cervix, and that cancer can spread upwards towards the uterus. The vast majority of these cancers are caused by human papilloma virus, which is an infection that 80% of the population in the US is exposed to. Most people clear that infection, and some people do not. We still don't know why some patients clear the infection and some patients don't, but we know that for the patients that have a persistent HPV infection that does not go away, they do have a higher risk of cancer, potentially, of the cervix. The most common strains are 16 and 18. There are about a hundred different HPV strains that we're aware of, and then another set of strains, 6 and 11, contribute to anogenital warts. The vast majority of HPV infection is through sexual contact, but also through saliva or secretions. Any of these things can results in a transmission of HPV, given it's so common in the US population and across the world. Now, what we do have is a vaccine, and if you can take away one thing from today's talk in honor of Cervical Cancer Awareness Month, I would say get your children vaccinated. If you're under the age of 27, get vaccinated, or talk to your doctors about getting vaccinated. We now have some data that up until age 45, this may be helpful, and we know that with this vaccine, for the right patient who has not yet been exposed to HPV, this can prevent 98% of cervical cancers. My kids are five years old. They're gonna get vaccinated around age ten. So, what are some symptoms of cervical cancer? Vaginal bleeding, pelvic pain, pain with sexual activity, abnormal vaginal discharge, and changes to bowel function and emptying your bladder. I know these sound like common symptoms, but they're really important to take note of, and if they're persistent and they're not getting better, please mention them to your OBGYN or your primary care doctor so they can help figure out if something's there that they need to to diagnose. What is cervical cancer? As we mentioned, it's caused by HPV, the vast majority of the time. The best way to prevent it is with the HPV vaccine, which we now have available. Early detection can be possible with pap smears, and so when you see your primary OBGYN or your internal medicine doctor, they'll often discuss when you're due for your next pap smear. We phased out when to do pap smears to about 3 to 5 years, most of the time 3 years or so for certain patients. Some patients still need pap smears every year, but it's important to have that dialogue with your primary care doctor or your OBGYN because, just like colon cancer can be found with colonoscopies, cervical cancer can be found with pap smears. Those pap smears are only checking, though, southern California. They're not checking for uterine cancer, which is the top part of the uterus. Certain cervical cancers are aggressive, and unfortunately, even with pap smears, some of those cancers won't be found early, but I would still encourage you to do the pap smears because the vast majority can catch something soon, and that's something that we can prevent from turning into a more advanced cancer. Risk factors for cervical cancer include HPV infection, being sexually active at a younger age, having more sexual partners, if you have a weakened immune system, if you're a transplant patient, or if you're HIV-positive, if you've smoked ciagarettes, or if you've been exposed to a chemical called DES when your mom was pregnant with you, This was more prevalent in 1970s and 60s, but these are all things to be aware of because they can increase your risk of cervical cancer. So, again, HPV vaccine is recommended. I would recommend you stop smoking if you're smoking, for many reasons, including your risk of cervical cancer. Appropriately timing your pap smear and HPV test with your OBGYN or primary care doctor, and being aware of symptoms and mentioning symptoms to your doctor if they're there. If we find cervical cancer at an early stage, stage 1, we really have a very high survival rate, and that's why it's important to find cancer early. Unfortunately, if we find cancer when it's already spread to other organs like the bladder and the rectum, the survival at 5 years is very low. It's approximately 7%. So, how do we manage cervical cancer? If we have cervical cancer and it has not yet spread to those lymph nodes that I mentioned, which are the highway of infection, the glands in your abdomen and your neck, that's an early cancer-- oftentimes we can consider doing surgery. Sometimes though, surgery doesn't make sense, and we would recommend chemotherapy and radiation. Even so, with chemotherapy and radiation, we can preserve the ovaries often, we can help with fertility preservation, and if you have the right surgery, you may be able to avoid radiation and the side effects, which include radiation cystitis, enteritis, vaginal stenosis, and the risk of bowel obstructions, which can happen with radiation. So, surgery has a role. There can be a benefit to avoiding some of these other treatments if you have the right surgery. So, how do we approach cervical cancer when we're operating? We usually want to assess the lymph nodes first. We want to understand if there's cancer that's made its way to that highway of lymph nodes. If there are cancer cells there, then oftentimes we would do chemotherapy and radiation and not do the hysterectomy. The reason that that's the case is that irrespective of the uterus coming out, northern and southern California, you still are gonna benefit from having chemotherapy and radiation, should treat the lymph nodes that have cancer cells there. The horse is out of the proverbial barn when the cancer cells have made their way to the lymph nodes, and that's why the chemotherapy and radiation is still going to be important. If the lymph nodes are negative and the cervix has a cancer that's confined to the cervix, then doing surgery with a radical hysterectomy or sometimes something called a radical trachelectomy is the best approach. A radical trachelectomy is where you just remove the cervix itself, southern California, and you leave northern California intact with all the surrounding structures. The benefit of doing that is that you have the ability to carry a pregnancy in the future, potentially. So, hysterectomy depends on the size of the cervical cancer, whether someone needs a radical hysterectomy, or if someone needs a standard hysterectomy, where you just travel along the borders of the state, and again, when feasible, if we can offer a radical trachelectomy to leave the uterus in place for younger patients, we will do that. We do have some recent data that's come out in the last year, and this is data that I want you to be aware of that says that for many patients, the safest approach is not using little incisions--I mentioned the robotic and laparoscopic approaches--at this point, based on this data from the New England Journal of Medicine, we are usually recommending an open or bigger incision to remove this type of cancer depending on certain risk factors, and I want you to be aware of this and discuss this with your cancer doctors, your gynecologic oncologist, and your medical oncologist, and they can work with you to make the best decision. Sometimes little incisions are still feasible, but I want you to be aware of this data, and this slide gives you some information on this trial with Dr. Ramirez, who's the lead author, and what we found was that patients who had little incisions had a higher risk of the cancer coming back, and as cancer doctors, we want to avoid that, and so for the vast majority of cervical cancer, depending on your history and the size of the cancer, an open incision may be the best approach. But I would still encourage you to have an open dialogue with your cancer doctor. We're gonna transition out to uterine cancer. To continue with our analogy, we're now going to talk about northern California. So, northern California is where uterine cancer or endometrial cancer originates. Cervical cancer, or southern California, is where cervical cancer originates. Again, they're part of the same state, but very different geographical regions. Sadly, in the US, 62,000 women will be diagnosed with uterine cancer this year, and 12,000 women will die from this cancer. These are some statistics that you can see. This cancer is fairly prevalent. The reason that it's prevalent, or more common, is that it can be driven by obesity. We know that in the US, we are dealing with an epidemic of obesity, and so weight loss is one way to prevent this cancer from developing. Approximately 3.1% of women will be diagnosed with uterine or endometrial cancer during their lifetime, and I do want to be clear when I say uterine or endometrial cancer--those are often used interchangeably--there are some cancers that are considered uterine cancer that are not endometrial cancer, but for all intents and purposes when you talk to your doctor, these terms are often used similarly. So, what are some symptoms of uterine cancer? Irregular bleeding, postmenopausal bleeding, abdominal bloating or pain, pelvic pain, again, changes to how you empty your bladder or have a bowel movement, increasing size of the uterus when you've gone through menopause, and abnormal vaginal discharge. All of those things can be associated with cancer, and I want you to be aware of them. Advocate for yourself. If you're having these symptoms, mention them to your doctors. So, what are some other risk factors? Older age, if you're using unopposed hormonal therapy with estrogen, if you had your first period at a younger age--10 years or younger--if you never had a baby before, or if you've gone through menopause later in life-- after age 55--if you have diabetes, if you're obese, if you have a genetic condition called Lynch Syndrome, or you've been on tamoxifen therapy for breast cancer, or if you have something called polycystic ovarian syndrome. Those are potential risk factors for endometrial cancer to be aware of. So, how do we manage patients with endometrial cancer or help them down their path to make the best decisions possible? One, I would recommend seeing a gynecologic oncologist, someone like myself, who's trained in how to treat these cancers. You want to make sure, again, that you have the right diagnosis, and having the pathology reviewed by an expert doctor who specializes in this type of cancer would be a recommended thing at the start of your journey in this cancer process. And then talk to your doctors about the type of surgery for endometrial cancer or uterine cancer. We have very good data that using little incisions is often safe, and so for the vast majority of patients, we usually try to do a minimally invasive surgery for this cancer. This is a surgically staged cancer, which means that the way we understand how to treat the cancer is by doing surgery to assess the lymph nodes and to make sure that cancer has not spread outside of the uterus. The standard of care is a hysterectomy. For patients who are not able to undergo surgery, oftentimes, that's going to involve a treatment with chemotherapy, radiation, or hormonal therapy, none of which take the place of surgery. And the types of approaches for the hysterectomy can vary. Vaginal hysterectomy, an open incision, or the minimally invasive surgery with robotic surgery or conventional laparoscopy. And then fertility preservation may be an option, meaning, depending on your age, we can often collect eggs from the ovaries if you're younger, or even spare the ovaries and not remove them during the surgery if it makes sense based on your age and where you are in your reproductive life cycle. This slide is meant to make the point that there's a difference between grade and stage. Grade is what the cancer cells look like under the microscope. We grade those as I, II, and III. Stage is where the cancer is spread in the body, and so oftentimes, when I see patients, they see a number on the pathology report, and they say, "Is this my stage?" It's not your stage if it's based on what the cells from the biopsy look like under the microscope. That's called grade. Stage is where the cancer is spread, and that's really only determined for this type of cancer with surgery. So, some considerations for endometrial or uterine cancer. There are different grades and types of endometrial cancer, where you are in your reproductive lifecycle, how big is the uterus, has the cancer left the uterus on imaging or other tests that we do, and what other medical issues do we have to deal with--obesity, if your heart's functioning appropriately--this all plays a role in the recommendations that we make for patients who have uterine cancer who decline or are not able to undergo a hysterectomy. Then our options include a hormonal therapy called progesterone, which can be delivered with oral pills or something that goes in the uterus and delivers that hormone, but it requires very close follow-up, and there's a risk that cancer can still spread over that time period. Oftentimes, I'll get an MRI of the pelvis to make sure the cancer is not invading into the myometrium, which is the muscle of the uterus. If that's the case, then that would be a contraindication to using hormones in this setting, and really, there'd be a very high risk of the cancer spreading with this management approach. Minimally invasive surgery is a good option for endometrial cancer. We can do a robotic or laparoscopic surgery. I don't recommend morcellation for this cancer. Morcellation is where you take a scalpel and cut the uterus up into little pieces if it's too big to remove with little incisions. We don't want to morcellate these cancers. I would also consider doing a sentinel lymph node dissection, which I'll show you a picture of here in a couple minutes, and then there is good data that says that minimally invasive surgery for this type of cancer is safe and the outcomes are similar, which is why we feel comfortable offering that. This is a picture of the robotic platform that we use at UCLA. Many medical centers are using robotic surgery now, and basically, the robotic arms rotate 360 degrees, and they give us the ability to do minimally invasive surgery, with the robot mimicking our arms when we operate next to the patient. Sentinel lymph nodes are a special procedure where we inject dye into the cervix. That dye can then travel to the lymph nodes right next to the uterus, and we then find those lymph nodes laparoscopically with a robotic platform or standard laparoscopy because we want to know, again, if those lymph nodes are involved with cancer. The benefit here is that we can minimize the risks of doing a full lymph node dissection. If we can only find the center lymph nodes and remove them without removing other lymph nodes, we can decrease the risk of a complication called lymphedema. This is what the picture looks like when I'm operating, or when doctors like myself are operating. You see that the lymph node is lighting up green, and this is the robotic platform, and so we're using the camera to find these sentinel lymph nodes. This technology has safety data. It is in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Guidelines. It is not FDA-approved to be used with the robotic platform, but many of us consider this a very appropriate approach given the safety data that's now available. This is an example of lymphedema, and this is why we want to avoid, if possible, doing a full lymph node dissection. Sometimes you need to do a full lymph node dissection to make sure that the cancer is not spread, but if we can do a sentinel lymph node dissection and get the same information, then that's helpful for the patient and also helpful for us too. These are some resources that I want you to be aware of. Dr. Google can be a challenging place for research, and I understand that Dr. Google is out there, but I think these are some very good websites that are validated, and if you're a patient or a loved one and you want to get some more information, I would really feel comfortable going to these websites and getting some information because they do provide some very basic and helpful resources in addition to explanations of the different cancers and what we're dealing with. At UCLA, as at many medical centers, we have a team approach. Every patient who has surgery with cancer at UCLA is presented at our multidisciplinary tumor board. It's where we have our medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, gynecologic oncologists, genetic counselors--we're all there--and all these cancer experts are talking about you to give you the best treatment decision that you can have, and I would encourage you to seek that out wherever you are, if possible. If you want to get your cancer care locally, I think that's appropriate, but make sure that you have someone who's presenting this data in a team-based setting to get the best possible recommendation for yourself, and just--I want to take a step back to, again, in honor of Cervical Cancer Awareness Month, and just talk about prevention for a minute or two, here. Really, the best way to prevent cancer is living a healthy lifestyle. There's no fad diet that we know that's curative, there's no fad medication or over-the-counter supplement, but we know that living healthy, eating right, less red meat if possible, exercise 3 to 4 times a week--these are things that we can do to reduce the risk of cancer--not smoking. And so I would encourage you to do these things. I would encourage you to follow up with your OBGYN or primary care doctor for routine health care checks. Everything in moderation. Sometimes I'll get a question about alkaline water and if that will cure cancer or prevent cancer, CBD, sugar, if we avoid sugar--the truth is none of this has been shown to be truly efficacious in high-level well-designed clinical studies, but everything in moderation. I think if you live a healthy lifestyle-- it's okay to have some dessert every now and then, but make sure you're exercising-- and you want a well-balanced diet, HPV vaccination, we know that it prevents cancer--again, our kids are gonna get vaccinated. My wife and I have made that decision. I would really encourage you, if you have children or if you're of the right age, consider getting the HPV vaccination. Listen to your body and advocate for yourself. We in the medical field are your partners. We want you to do well. If something's wrong, let us know. Communicate. Say, "Hey, Dr. Cohen, or Doctor So-and-So, I'm worried. Can you help me figure this out? This doesn't feel right," and we're gonna be there for you. With that, we're going to conclude. UCLA--I work here. We've got 5 locations for gynecologic oncology throughout the Southland area. We're always happy to talk or help if we can, and thank you very much. We're going to take some questions now from the audience. Okay, first question. "Why does new data now show that surgery for cervical cancer may be best done through a larger incision instead of smaller incisions?" What we now are figuring out is that based on this cancer being in southern California, there may be something about using the smaller incisions that leaves the risk of this cancer coming back. We haven't proven it, and the data is, again, a little bit controversial, but based on the best available data now, it seems, at least for now, the safest approach is going to be a bigger incision, depending, again, on the size of the cancer and your prior surgical history. So, I think you should have an open dialogue with your doctors. There still may be patients who benefit from using little incisions, but I think it's a discussion to have with your cancer care team. The second question: "Is there a role for genetic testing of my family if I have a history of uterine cancer or cervical cancer in my family?" Cervical cancer is not genetically linked for the vast majority of patients. Most of it is driven, again, by HPV exposure. So if there's a family history of cervical cancer, or you have a history of cervical cancer, that would not, in and of itself, be a reason to get genetic testing. If there's a strong family history of uterine cancer or colon cancer or ovarian cancer or other cancers of the GI tract, then yes, you probably should undergo genetic testing, or the person who has the cancer, if they're still alive, they should get genetic testing. And then the last question: "How often should someone get a pap smear to help prevent cervical cancer?" The range has changed, and it continues to change. I would say it really depends, again, on your prior history, if you've had prior exposure to HPV, if you've had prior abnormal pap smears. The range is anywhere from 1 to 3 years, and in some circumstances, 5 years. What I would say is you should discuss it with your OBGYN or primary care doctor, ask them what tests they're sending, are they checking for HPV, are they doing a standard pap smear, and then have a good dialogue, again, with them how often should you be getting this test done. Okay, I think that's it for the questions. At this point, I want to thank you very much for logging in today from home and for taking this time to learn about uterine and cervical cancer. Thank you very much.