states Ohio. I didn't know you were Okay, let's get you. Yeah, just you want me to turn it on before I start talking. Exactly. Wouldn't want a smoking gun situation going on. Permanent information. And So you don't look like C3PO when you put these wires up or RTD21 too. Uh turn it on. Let's test it out real quick. Testing. Testing. Yeah. Good. So whenever you're ready. Okay. Slide is right here. Red point is right here. Does it work on that screen? Yes. Yes. You're good. And is there anything else? Yeah, that would be the point with the notes. I could do that too. Yes. Okay. Yep. Water and There you go. Wonderful. Thank you. We're just going to Mother's words. Welcome everyone. Uh it's my pleasure to be able to welcome the introducer to um this combined uh pulmonary critical care and ethics uh noon lecture. Um this is I think the second uh that we have combined on and uh I think this is a tradition that is turning out to be quite worthwhile because critical care has a whole lot of uh ethical issues involved in it. Um today uh Dr. Tonwin uh one of our critical care specialists and a clinician investigator who thinks a lot about decision-making in the ICU is going to introduce our speaker. Um the connection between the two is that uh her uh main paper thus far uh in Jamma internal medicine had an editorial uh by Dr. White and I think he might shed a little bit of light on the kinds of things that we think about uh in his talk today. So with that let me introduce Dr. Tanwin. Um, so it is my great pleasure to introduce Dr. Doug White for our joint ethics and pulmonary grand rounds today. So when I became interested in health services research and critical care, I constantly came across Dr. Doug White's name in the literature on ICU ethical issues on decision-making and I knew that he was a highly influential and accomplished individual. I didn't meet him until recently and was shocked to realize he was not an old white beardedhaired man that I had imagined given his accomplished status. He's not that many years older than myself, just decades more accomplished. So, Dr. White graduated Sumakumlady from Dartmouth College in 1995 and received his MD from UCSF in 1999. He also completed residency and pulmonary critic care fellowship at UCSF. He then obtained a master's degree in epidemiology and bioatistics and a fellowship in bioeththics and joined the faculty at UCSF in 2005. In 2009, he joined the faculty at the University of Pittsburgh and now directs the University of Pittsburgh program on ethics and decision-making in critical care. He has an endowed chair um for ethics and critical care medicine. He has several ongoing NIH funded studies and has published widely. His work focuses on ethical issues that arise in intensive care units, including the allocation of scarce resources and resolving futility disputes. He also chairs the ATS task force on developing a consensate statement on inappropriate treatment in the ICU. Today, he will be discussing why is there a disconnect about prognosis between physicians and surrogates in the ICU. Please join me in warmly welcoming Dr. Dr. Doug White. Thank you for wonderful. Uh first of all, thanks so much for having me and it's great to be here as part of a combined ethics pulmonary critical care session because as Neil said there is AI think a lot of the the business of ethics consultation does um arise in the intensive care unit and the the overlap is uh I think growing day-to-day. So today I would like to talk about one fairly um discreet issue that comes up in intensive care units which is uh the well-known discrepancy between clinicians expectations about prognosis and the expectations of surrogate decision makers. Um I have no relevant conflicts of interest to disclose. My the work that I'm going to be presenting presenting here is has largely been funded by the NHLBI and the National Institute on Aging. So the the the backdrop for this uh is that if we think that patients or when they're incapacitated their surrogates should be involved in treatment decisions and I think there's a general consensus that they should be involved in some way then they need to have an adequate understanding of the likely outcomes of treatment if they're going to be truly informed participants in the decision-making process. The problem is that there are about two decades of research that suggests that this is really not the case. That quite often surrogates have inaccurate expectations about the likely outcomes of treatment generally in the direction of overly optimistic estimates. So this is just a list of the various studies in the last u 10 to 15 years that have documented um inaccurate expectations about prognosis by surrogates. The most recent being a study by Chris Cox and colleagues in critical care medicine and and just a quote from that study. Most surrogates reported high baseline expectations for one-year patient survival, functional status, and quality of life. And when they looked at the concordance between the clinicians expectations and the surrogates, they found that essentially that that degree of agreement was no better than chance. That's what a kappa of less than 0.8.08 means that it was just random essentially. And so this if we really take to heart the the notion that surrogates need to be adequately informed to be involved in treatment decision-making this is a major problem in part because we know that prognostic information clearly influences patients and surrogates in their treatment decisions near the end of life. Again I don't want to spend a lot of time going into these data. It's not the topic of today's talk, but I'll point you to a number of RCTs and observational studies indicating that patients and surrogates both uh are less inclined to opt for aggressive treatment the worse the prognosis. And Terry Frerieded's study from the New England Journal published in uh 2002, she took a group of about 300 patients and surrogates with advanced illness and uh gave them a variety of scenarios in which she varied the likelihood of adverse outcomes here on the x-axis and then on the y-axis the proportion of people willing to undergo various levels of invasiveness of treatment. And what she found not not surprisingly is that as the likelihood of an adverse outcome i.e. death or severe functional impairment worsened or increased uh the proportion of people willing to undergo the treatment declined substantially. The other big question that this should be raising in your mind is well can clinicians even prognosticate in ICUs. Is there adequate uh expertise or data to inform predictions that could be shared with patients or surrogates? And there is a relatively large literature on this question. This uh this has been reasonably well summarized by Tazuff in a a metaanalysis of 12 trials in critical care medicine. And essentially what Taz and her colleagues did was summarize studies in which they compared clinicians prognostications with various types of computerized scoring systems like the Apache scale and looked at the accuracy with something called the ROC curve. and an a a score of one on the ROC curve is uh perfect accuracy. Anything less than one is less than perfect accuracy. 0.5 is no better than chance. 0.92 is the accuracy of troponins to diagnose acute MIS for frame of reference. And what they found is that the area under the summary ROC curve was 085 for physicians predictions with good discrimination between survivors and non-survivors. It's really important to know how they elicited clinicians prognostic estimates which was number one early in the ICU stay and number two they didn't ask will this patient live or die they asked what are the chances this patient will survive the hospital discharge so using that sort of probabilistic prognostic estimate clinicians are relatively accurate in their predictions there are other data that I'm not going to show but a study by Meadow and colleagues at University of Chicago in particular that if you ask clinicians what is the I'm Sorry. Will this patient survive to hospital discharge? Yes. No. So rather than a probabilistic outcome measure, a binary that clinicians predictive accuracy is relatively poor in identifying the patient who will not survive to hospital discharge with certainty. And what this leaves us with is this interesting paradox where we can't do a great job of prognosticating for individual patients with certainty, but we're pretty accurate if we use probabilistic expressions of likelihood of survival. And so it raises the question well how would I mean is this useful information for surrogates? Do they care what we say about populations of patients? Do they what what how would they handle this uncertainty? And so one of the one of the first studies that we did looking at surrogates perspectives on this was an in-depth study that I've summarized here and I no expectation that you'd see this except the point is to to make the point that we interviewed about 180 surrogates and put to them this issue. Many times clinicians are worried about talking about prognosis because they're not certain of their estimates. How do you how would you advise clinicians in that circumstance? And we did these in-depth interviews with people, recorded and coded them using basic grounded theory analysis. And the gist of the finding, the quantitative finding was that 95% of surrogates said, "Listen, we want prognostic estimates even if you're not certain about them. We want to hear your best estimate." And oh by the way the prevailing sentiment was even if the doctors thought that there was not uncertainty we think the doctors are they can't predict with certainty the kind of things they think they can predict with certainty. What I take from this study is that surrogates are more um tolerant of uncertainty and want to hear prognostic estimates even when there is that uncertainty. So then this takes with this background, let's sort of switch gears to this the primary question that I posed in the title. Why the disconnect between clinicians and surrogates about prognosis? And what I'd like to do for the next few slides is take you through a few different potential explanations and then look at the data behind them. Um, and the first potential explanation is a very simple one. It's just that the reason that clinicians and surrogates are not on the same page about prognosis is that clinicians don't talk about it. that that would be the claim is that it's just it's a failure of disclosure. So, we set out to answer I'm sorry and then you don't have to look too far for for people thinking this is the case. Um this is an a column in Newsweek uh a journalist recounting her experience of really struggling to get clinicians to talk about the future. Um, some evidence from the medical literature comes from Nick Kristokus' work in in the oncology field documenting a fair reluctance on the part of clinicians to disclose prognostic estimates, but no work had been done in intensive care units. So we basically um over the course of uh two years we had a series of audio recorded conversations between clinicians and families in ICUs that were audio recorded and transcribed uh uh 51 conversations that we coded using a a qualitative coding framework that I developed to to look and see every single time clinicians talked about anything having to do with the future. And the question that came up is are clinicians talking about the patient's prognosis during these conversations. So the simple answer when we asked the question is there are there any prognostications in the conferences that in 98% of them the answer was yes. In the one conversation where there was no discussion of prognosis it was actually a brain dead patient. So in in truth prognostication is not relevant in those circumstances if you're uh taking seriously that brain death is a ter is a final condition and we looked to see the number of different prognostic statements and what we found is that in fact there's quite a lot of conversation about the future. So looking at it in this way it suggests well it's not it's not that they're not talking about prognosis that's probably not the explanation. I think the picture is a little more complicated because we also went and uh broke down the the kind of conversation about prognosis by the type of statement and I'm sorry if this is not projecting well. We looked to see uh we we subcoded for prognostic statements about short-term survival, long-term survival, functional outcomes uh of various types, freedom from mechanical ventilation, likelihood of ability to care for oneself at home. And what we found is that in more than a third of conferences, there was no conversation about survival, about the patient's likelihood of survival, the hospital discharge, and even less about their long-term uh uh chances for survival. So, in answer to the question of well, is this is this an issue of a failure to disclose? I think the answer is is less clear than yes or no. And sometimes it might be this might be a contributor and other times there may be something else going on. So another simple conceptual model is that clinicians are disclosing the information but surrogates cannot comprehend it at the at the literal cognitive level. They simply can't understand it for a variety of reasons. It's it's they're anxious. They're overwhelmed. It's too complex. And so we set out to look at this to answer the question of are these these various papers that claim that the issue was uh misunderstanding about prognosis by surrogates. Uh this is just a a host of various studies looking at the the topic and they're empirical studies documenting discordance about prognosis between clinicians and surrogates. And when you look at the data, um, I'll I'll I'll explain in a while why I think misunderstanding may not be the right word to explain the findings that these individuals had. Nonetheless, we set out to to test this in the intensive care environment by testing two hypotheses. First, uh, we hypothesized that surrogates and ICUs can comprehend physicians prognostications when they're embedded when those prognostications are embedded in a typical family meeting. And second, uh this is a more methodologic risk communication question. Quantitative prognostic statements will be better understood than qualitative statements. What I mean is a quantitative statement like 10% chance of survival versus a qualitative statement like very unlikely to survive. So we did an RCT 169 surrogates of of people uh of actual incapacitated critically ill patients. The individuals were actively engaged in surrogate decision-m and we asked them to come to a separate room adjacent to the ICU and view they were randomized to view one of two versions of a simulated family meeting a video done by trained actors. Okay, so that was the intervention. We went to great length to say this is not about your loved one. This is a separate thing. We're interested in your perceptions of how the clinicians are communicating. And let me just take you through a bit what the simulated family conference was. Um we were following existing best practice guidelines in the development of this in terms of the content of the the family meeting. It started by the clinician introducing himself. Um there was a it was actually a one clinician one surrogate meeting which is a little atypical. Um then explained the medical situation briefly using uh um basically an explanation of organ system dysfunction. It was a patient with ARDS vent dependent multi-organ failure from sepsis. The clinician then expressed empathy, elicited information about the patient as a person, disclosed a prognostic estimate. I'll show you in a second how. And the the the video simulation ended with the clinician and family agreeing deliberating about what's best and agreeing on a time limited trial of of therapy. And so the the the the randomization, the two versions of the simulation varied only by how the prognostic information was provided. It was basically a cut and paste. So it was the exact same actors, the exact same statements except for the prognostic statement. And in the quantitative version, it was I would would say he has about a 10% chance of surviving. Saying in another way, that means there's about a 90% chance that he's going to die. And in the qualitative version, it was I would say it's very unlikely that he will survive. Saying it another way, that means it's very likely he's going to die. So the the conference was about 7 minutes long. It's a little shorter than the average conference. And um a question that might come up is well how can you make quantitative comparisons when it's not totally clear what what it means to clinicians when they say I would say it's very unlikely that he will survive. So basically we experimented with a number of different statements and we gave these statements to to physicians at UCSF where the study was done and said if you said to a family I would say it's very unlikely he will survive etc. What would that mean to you? And what we found is that the average chance of survival that the clinician was intending to convey was 9%. So this gives us a way to compare qualitative and quantitative prognostic statements. And this is the outcome measure we used. Uh I think it's important to to look carefully at the question. We didn't ask the surrogates what do you think are the the chances the patient will survive. We asked them what do you think the doctor thinks are the chances that the patient will survive? Because if we're if we're trying to get at misunderstandings, we're not we're trying to exclude from the analysis the things that surrogates do with information once they understand and receive it. So how they appreciate it, what what other things come into their interpretation of it. So by asking what do you think the doctor thinks, we were really trying to get at their narrow understanding. And then we asked them to place a mark on a probability scale. So what we found is that there was no difference between the two groups in terms of the the proportion of in terms of the the understanding in the quantitative group 10% chance of survival and the qualitative group the mean 17 and 16%. So numbers not not clearly better than words. And if you take again if you just take a step back and look at the means here you say well this this is pretty good. Surrogates can understand this information. They got close and that's probably close enough given the uncertainty. But the other way to look at this is to look at the standard deviations right which are very big plus or - 22% and plus or - 27%. So when you look at the distribution of perceptions on the part of surrogates they were quite broad. So only only 52% of the subjects in the quantitative group in the group that that heard 10% chance of survival actually estimated the patient's prognosis to be exactly 10% chance of survival. and one in five subjects estimated a greater than 40% chance of survival. So again, I think the answer is a little more complicated than either they do or don't misunderstand. There in in a certain proportion of cases, misunderstanding does appear to be a problem even when the information is disclosed in a very clear very simple way. But about the same time we were uh doing a separate study in which we were eliciting prognostic estimates from clinicians and surrogates. And this is what's called a scatter plot. So basically on the x-axis we have the physicians estimates of survival and on the y- axis we have the families. And for the for the investigators in the room, this is why I think it's so important to actually look at your pilot data. If if it was true misunderstanding that was the issue that the surrogates just didn't get it or they the doctors never talked about it and so people were all over the map, you'd expect you'd expect a random distribution of um the scatter plot. Um perfect agreement would be right along this line, right? The doctor says 20% chance of survival, the family says 20%. And a rand a random distribution would suggest it's truly just random. There's there's no method to this. But instead, what we saw is that there was a a skew of the data to this quadrant. And this quadrant is the optimism quadrant. Right? If you haven't figured that out already, when the physician said 20% chance of survival, the family said 50 or 60 or 100. And there was it was a quite a predictable skew that we observed. So we we we looked at this and um also consulted the psych the psychological literature of risk perception and I people are laughing. I I guess this is a an NPR crowd. People know Lake Wobon and news from Lake Wigan, right? So the optimism bias is is what we speculated may be going on here, which is a cognitive bias that leads people to overestimate in relation to others their likelihood of experiencing positive outcomes and avoiding negative outcomes. And it's als it's actually called the Lake Wagon effect because of the the sort of opening line to Garrison Keeler's monologue is often or I think is always where all the women are strong, all the men are good-looking and all the children are above average. So what I didn't tell you is that we also set out to test this hypothesis. uh we had a third hypothesis and we we hypothesized that there will be discrepancies between surrogates understanding of physicians prognostications and their actual belief their own individual belief about the patient's prognosis in the direction of optimism. So to get at this we need again we need to sort of go back to some methods here. Remember that first question we asked the doctor, we asked the family, "What do you think the doctor thinks are the chances the patient will survive?" And they gave us a response to that. But we also asked them, "What do you think are the chances that the patient will survive?" And the distinction between those two is not misunderstanding. Right? It's a that quantifies a difference in belief between the physician's estimate as the surrogate heard it and what the surrogate actually believes. They write them on the same scale. They wrote them on um separate scales. So we didn't we tried to avoid an anchoring effect. And for lack of a better term, we we characterize this as difference in belief. And so what we found is in fact when you look that there is a difference in belief when you look at the surrogate's best estimate of the physician's prognostications. And this is this is aggregating both groups because there was no difference between the quantitative and the qualitative interpretation. The mean was 16%. When you ask the surrogates their personal belief about the simulated patient's prognosis, the mean was 23%. So even in an incredibly artificial situation watching a video about a patient that they've been told repeatedly is this has nothing to do with your loved one. This is a simulated experiment thinking about doctor patient communication. optimism bias is uh sort of pressing its way in. We were sufficiently surprised by this that we uh in sequence actually later in the study we took on a different approach to studying the same question. And I want to give a lot of credit to Lucas Zir who was an M. PH student at Berkeley at the time and then subsequently stuck with us during his whole internal medicine residency at UCSF. But we so we enrolled 80 surrogate decision makers from the UCSF ICUs and we we asked them we gave them on individual sheets of paper 16 different prognostic statements and asked them if the doctor said this to you what do you think that would mean and if the surrogates estimates differed from what would be the expected statement based on the the the prognosis we asked them to participate in a semi-structured interview about why. So let me just show you what I mean by that. These are the 16 different prognostic statements that we gave them and they were given in a random order but I've organized them here hierarchically according to the severity of the prognosis. On the top he will definitely survive all the way down to he will definitely not survive and with with uh you know worsening of the prognosis as you go down. What I want you to pay attention to are the three prognostic prognostic statements. He has a 90% chance of surviving. He has A-50% chance of surviving. he has a 5% chance of surviving. And so what we did is we we gave these these to the surrogates as I said in random order and asked them to place a mark on the line in terms of if the doctor said X to you, what do you what does that mean to you about the the patient's chance of surviving? And again went to great length to disabuse them of the notion that this has anything to do with their loved one. So what we found uh these are the data. Um anything does anything jump out to people? Let me tell you what each of these bars are. So that the the green is the inter is the interquartile range. So this is the the range of responses 25th to 75th percentile. The diamond is the median and the x is the mean. So basically what this shows a couple things. The first is that surrogates can in fact understand a discrete numeric prognostic statement. Right? The median interpretation of 90% chance of survival was 90% chance of survival. This is some evidence that numeric statements can adequately convey risk information. But where it got interesting is that when you look at the other numeric prognostic statements, the answers they gave were not the same as the intended uh response. So for example um look at the confidence intervals or look at the interquartile range around 50% chance of survival and then down to 5% chance of survival. The the median response for 5% chance of survival was 23% chance and the and the the sorry that's the mean and the median was 15% chance of survival. So that again this is not misunderstanding. This is this is something else. And for these individuals who displayed this this trend toward uh increasing optimism in their interpretation of the prognosis worsened, we asked them to participate in a semiructured interview. And I won't go into all the data, but what we found was was two things. First, about half of the subjects who had this trend had no idea that that they were doing it. We lined up their three statements in front of them and said, you know, take a look at these these estimates and can can you tell us um why you put the marks on the page where you did and what was, as I said, what was amazing is that about half of them looked at it and said, you know, they looked at their 5% estimate where they put 20%. And they said, I had no idea I was doing that. So it was a subconscious process. And then for those who were able to offer reasons, the kind of reasons that came up were in fact supportive of the optimism bias hypothesis. So uh you know uh one of the the strongest reasons was the this notion of performative optimism. I always hope for the best for my husband. Even with a 5% chance of survival, there's hope. I guess I understand that the patient may eventually die. I just have to hope more. The second general type of answer was was surrogates believing that doctors generally don't understand patients internal fortitude. Right? So they were making a distinction between what clinicians typically believe about their cohort of patients and what they know about their individual loved one. And lo and behold, it tends to be a more optimistic view that people hold about their loved one relative to the population. This is this is in fact the definition of the optimism bias, right? Where all the men are good-looking and the children are above average. That's that's the definition of the optimism bias. So there are obviously some limitations to these studies, right? These are hypothetical cases and and it may be that the the the true nature of the doctor patient relationship overcomes whatever we were detecting in these hypothetical simulations. So as part of a uh an RO1 we sought to determine whether this actually comes up in actual clinical practice. Um this was part of a um a multi-center mixed method study examining how clinicians disclose estimates of prognosis among 469 surrogates again in which we audio recorded conversations. But we assessed both the clinicians estimates of prognosis and the families at the same time point on day five of the ICU stay using a very similar scale. We asked what do you think are the chances the patient will survive this hospitalization to both the the clinicians first. First, we got the physician's prognostic estimate. Then, we got the surrogate's prognostic estimate using the same question. And then we asked the surrogate, "What do you think the doctor thinks are the chances the patient will survive?" And so, what this left us with is something that could look like this, where if the physician, for example, said, "I think there's a 25% chance of survival." The family guessed that the physician thought there was a 75% chance of survival. That we characterized as misunderstanding. they tr they just didn't understand what the doctor was saying. And then the difference between what the surrogate thought the doctor said and the surrogate's own prognostic estimate we characterized as a difference in belief. And so to answer that question of is is difference in belief uh an issue in actual practice. We we characterized the proportion of cases in which each contributed. So what we found is that in half of cases there was discordance of any type between the clinician and surrogate of at least 20% uh regarding the patient's prognosis. In 21% 22% of cases it was it arose from both misunderstanding the clinician's intended prognos prognosis and disbelieving it. In 26% it was purely misunderstanding as as measured and then in 4% it was disbelief alone. The surrogate said, "The doctor told me 10%, but I think it's something else." What this suggests is that it's it's not simply an issue of misunderstanding. And let me just summarize the main findings here. Um, the frequent disconnect about prognosis likely has multiple causes, some of which may be at play in some cases and and not at play in others. incomplete disclosure by clinicians, misunderstandings in the in the strict sense of misunderstanding by surrogates and optimism bias and other psychological processes causing disbelief. So just taking a a step back from the research side of this for a second, what are the clinical implications of this? Well, when I when I teach on rounds about this, I talk a lot about mental models. How do how do we conceptualize what's the issue when we're confronting a hard case in an ICU? And I think a common mental model, which is one I don't recommend, but is is is often comes up in the ICU, is the clinicians just frustrated, saying the family does not understand what's going on. They don't get it. And the response, if you're a logical, rational person, is to say the same information again, maybe in a slightly different way. I think that that mental model is not consistent with the data. And a better mental model that I would propose for clinicians when confronted with situations in which they the gist of what they're getting is the the sense that the family doesn't get it is to is to rather than make a claim to ask the question what's keeping us from being on the same page here. And there are several things that could be going on. These are the sort of four questions that I ask myself. Have I not really address the prognosis as clearly as I should? Have they misunderstood it? So, do I do I really think are they saying things that make me think that they really didn't hear what I said? Is the family emotionally overwhelmed and in denial or do they have a simply have a different very different belief system more what in the sort of social sciences we call explanatory model of illness? Do they think that what determines outcomes is something other than the traditional biomedical model of physiology deter determining outcomes? And this doesn't give you an answer on how to intervene, right? we still sort of defer to clinical judgment on okay what should I do here if if I think this is the issue or here or here but I think it at least prevents us from taking the wrong tool to the conversation from from when we should be focusing in on emotionally supporting families instead of instead of us hitting them over the head with the same prognostic information but just louder and more often. All right. So, let me switch gears a little to to talk about um an inprogress work um developing an intervention to improve surrogate decision-making in ICUs that that largely arises from these data. So, this the another aim of this RO1 that I told you about was not only to understand what's happening but to understand key stakeholders perspectives on how clinicians can more effectively disclose information about prognosis. So at at three US academic medical centers, we did in-depth interviews with 114 different participants, surrogates both during the ICU stay and six months later, ICU clinicians who'd been engaged in conversations and then national experts in decision sciences and paliative care. And the question was just as I said here, what are your perspectives about how to more effectively convey prognostic information to surrogates and ICUs? And what was really interesting about the the responses were that it's not if you're going to design an intervention, you should design an intervention that's not just about disclosing risk, that's about supporting surrogates in a much broader way. So that the the the discussion about prognosis is a subcomponent of a more um expansive intervention. And the kinds of things that people that experts, surrogates and clinicians, there was a great deal of uniformity in their responses raised were focusing on building relationships and trust early, discussing early the possibility of death. So if surrogates have time to begin to um grapple with that information, focusing on the gist of the prognosis rather than overly precise prognostic estimates, which I think is also a a good insight into how patients tend to use this information. having an intervention that facilitates true engagement of surrogates in eliciting values and talking about prognosis and decisions and options and then most importantly providing intensive emotional support to surrogates. So we took this information as well as uh a systematic review of what the existing evidence is regarding surrogates needs and ICUs and summarized it into three different categories for if you've split it of things that should be addressed in interventions to improve surrogate decision-m the problems to to address are the the overwhelm that families experience the the breakdowns in the actual getting the clinician and family to the table to to have conversations in a systematic Okay. And then once at the table that sometimes there are important omissions and discussions as we've talked about of prognosis, patient values and treatment options. So we spent um several years developing and pilot testing uh what we've called the four supports intervention which is a nurseled intervention to improve surrogate decision-m for patients with critical illness. And essentially the gist of it is if people are familiar with the patient navigator uh uh type of intervention that exists in some hospital domains, this is essentially adding a a specifically trained navigator or interventionist or concier to the ICU team to establish a relationship with the family from from ICU day one that's largely an emotional and supportive relationship to and then to provide four different types of support. emotional support, communication support, decision support, and anticipatory grief support. And what do I mean by each of these? Well, so this is the gist of the intervention. Uh on the left are the four different kinds of support. So essentially this the interventionist who goes through a fairly intensive training process. As I said, establishes a longitudinal relationship with the family and and identifies themselves as number one a member of the ICU team and number two their main contact on the ICU team. So, this checks in with the family every day and assesses not only what are your needs and concerns, but how are you doing and what can we do to help you in this critical time. Communication support, I'll say a little more about how we do this, but uh the interventionist takes the lead on scheduling and making sure family meetings are happening. Uh decision support, this is the the sort of the chunkiest and most uh intensive part of the intervention. The interventionist engages the surrogates in uh what are called values clarification exercises helping them think through what are the patients values. What's known about their value about their preferences and what are their general health rellated values and then in the family meetings nudges clinicians to address key topics prognosis the patients values and what are the reasonable available treatment options. And then finally for the for the cohort of patients who are not expected to survive um the intervention involves um essentially what's called anticipatory grief work for the surrogates which is uh a series of steps to allow the surrogates to in advance of the patient's death and during the patient's death to have a more structured um time to to begin to reach closure and to say what they feel they need to say to the patient even if the patient um cannot hear or respond. So, let me just point out two relatively novel parts of the intervention. First, the the intervention uh leverages uh principles of behavioral economics uh that involve the power of defaults. So, this essentially what this intervention does is flip the default about how family meetings occur from an ondemand schedule that the clinicians decide it's time to have a family meeting. And we know from existing data that that tends to make family meetings happen later and less frequently than may be needed. Uh to flipping it that the four supports interventionist schedules the meetings, gets the family ready for those meetings and gets the doctors to those meetings and other clinicians including the patient's outpatient uh provider um according to a pres-scheduled preset schedule that the ICU teams in advance of this trial agreed to be part of. And essentially what the the the schedule is is having family meetings within 48 hours of ICU admission and then at least every five days thereafter. Five days is a floor below which things can't go. But at obviously if things are happening more quickly and more aggressively every family meetings can happen every day and we've had cases where the patient is imminently dying and the family meetings happen sort of three times over the course of six hours as decisions are being made. The second uh sorry this is just explaining the the the background of the uh the the defaults and these are for people interested in the psychology of decisions and and how people make decisions and how to influence them. These are two great books I recommend reading. Predictably Irrational by Dan Arieli and Nudge by uh Thaylor and Sunstein. The second behavioral economic principle that we've engaged in this intervention is what's called the focusing effect. And I'll say a little more about what that is in a second. But what's what happens is that before each family conference, the four supports interventionist elicits from the family their current expectations about the patient's prognosis on on these two scales and takes these two scales and shows them to the clinicians who will be running the family meeting and says, so the family thinks there's about a um you know essentially uh an 85% chance of survival and about uh an 85% chance that the patient will be free of severe functional impairment. Does that accord roughly with what you think the prognosis is? And if the clinicians quite often look at it and say, "No, that's not at all what I think is going on," then the then the interventionist prompts or nudges them to say, you know, this may be something that we should bring up in the meeting. Is it okay if if it hasn't come up that I raise this? And so this leverages both prompting, which is has been shown to change clinician behavior, as well as a focusing effect. And this is again this is Danny Conorman thinking fast and who wrote thinking fast and slow uh he's a Nobel laureate with Amos Tverki. Um a focusing effect is the psychological tendency to place more importance on a factor that a person is prompted to consider. And so this is I think it's especially apppropo to to cite this article. Do people know this article by and uh Conoran? So this is this was a a famous decision psychology experiment where they pulled students in Michigan and I think at UCLA um about their life satisfaction using validated measures and lo and behold the answers were just the same. Life satisfaction was the same between Michigan and UCLA. But they asked them they asked these students to rate the the perceived life satisfaction that students at UCLA might have. And lo and behold you know in California might have. And lo and behold, both the UCLA students and the Michigan students assumed or reported that they they perceived the the life satisfaction would be higher um in the students at UCLA and the the only difference in the way they structured it was talking about the weather. There was a fair amount of time devoted to the weather. So it's it's a focusing effect, right? We think that the weather uh and just having just come through a Pittsburgh winter, I'm feeling like the weather does matter. Um but in terms that you know it doesn't bear out empirically that the satisfaction is the same the life satisfaction between these two groups but when they were nudged or prompted to focus on this in an implicit way it affected their responses and there have been a number of studies that show that focusing effects can change how people deliberate. We're using that to focus to to reframe decision-m in ways that we think are um consistent with existing ethical par paradigms of informed choice. You can obviously use these things and advertisers do use these things to manipulate decisions in ways that are maybe not so ethical, but we think that there's a very strong justification to nudge in this direction. And so this is a this has culminated now in a trial that's ongoing funded by the NIA. Um unfortunately the data are not out still we're still enrolling. We've actually only been enrolling for about four months, but it's it's a randomized trial in four ICUs within the UPMC health network. We're enrolling 400 surrogates of ICU patients who are at high risk of death, at least a 60% chance of inhosp mortality by Apache scores and we're randomizing them to receive either the force sports intervention that I've described or a brief educational intervention that is uh largely an attention control. They're having both the surrogates are undergoing both three and six-month follow-up. Uh and the key outcome measures that we're assessing are surrogates six-month symptoms of depression and anxiety with a host of um secondary outcome measures patients six-month survival and mort functional status health system costs. So both the hospital costs as well as the six-month health care costs and then various elements of decision quality. Um so essentially asking the question does this intervention lead to more informed decisions and more patient centered care. So, perceptions of prognosis, a validated scale of patient centerness, and then a validated metric of decisional conflict. And I, you know, I I wish that I were giving this talk two years from now when we'll have the results. Um, but this is uh where we are now with the process. And I um it's an interesting question about can we move from an empirical observation about uh prognosis through key key stakeholder engagement to a trial that um doesn't exist in this sort of traditional realm of an informed consent intervention and takes a more psychonamic and psychological approach. Uh so stay tuned. Um and I think I'll stop here if that's okay and leave a little bit of room for questions. Thank you very much. questions for Dr. Why is it important that the surrogate have the same opinion of prognosis as the decision maker? Why not let them state of optimism? Yeah. What's wrong with that? Yeah, it's a great question. Yeah. uh why why do we care about whether surrogates have an accurate understanding of the prognosis? Well, I think there are two two answers. Um the first is um this that if surrogates are well let me before you even look at this we also looked at who's more accurate when when in these data from the RO1 the NHLBI RO1 and found that clinicians are substantially more accurate in predicting hospital survival than families. Um that's the first thing is that we we hope that these decisions are informed by an accurate understanding of the patient's actual circumstance. What we found is that when surrogates are overly optimistic, it leads to substantially more healthcare utilization. Right? So longer hospital length of stay, longer ICU length of stay, longer duration of mechanical ventilation and no difference in survival. So on the one hand the decisions appear to not reflect basic requirements of informed consent and on the other hand there appear to be patient related harms that are arising from from these decisions. That's the those are the two main concerns I'd say and also conflict between the physician and the family's patient at a time of stress not probably increase their quality of life and some pull in a futility at that point and it just you know when you're not on the same page everything just goes worse. emotionally too I think right indeed right we haven't talked much today about moral distress which is another thing I think is an extremely important topic in intensive care unit it's um that that these are the cases that engender moral distress when the clinicians feel that what they're doing to patients may either not be consistent with patients values or um not likely to work a question that did any of the servants have previous medical training or IC experience Right. Why why do you think the outlow had to decide? Why do you think they were there? Yeah. Um I do not recall whether any of them had medical experience. So I'm sorry I can't tell you that. And you're for why there were some who were pessimistic. Uh this is it's a great question, right? And it it actually reflects even more complexity in the data than I presented today. That so I the way I presented it it's it made it sound like all the discordance was around optimism. But in about 5% of cases surrogates were pessimistically discordant. They were much more pessimistic than the clinic than even what the clinicians thought the prognosis was. And we interviewed those surrogates too and found that in this this is sort of a different phenotype. They these are surrogates who said for example um mom's had enough you know she doesn't have the same will to live as for essentially the average ICU patient and that just as the doctor didn't know the things that made the more optimistic surrogates feel that the patient was going to outdo the sort of mean these are surrogates who were saying the doctor doesn't know that mom's been through this for the last year and she's you know she's done she told me months ago she's ready to stop she doesn't about this. Dr. I want to go back to the previous question and about these outcomes when when there's not a concordance with the prognosis. What do we know about the bereavement outcomes? Does it have an effect? Great question. We don't we don't have those data. We will have that. One of the things that we're studying in the in the four supports trial is complicated grief. um Prickerson's inventory of comp complicated grief and as well as depression and PTSD symptoms that what we know from the the literature on complicated grief is that one of the main predictors of of complicated grief is that the death is unanticipated in in the conventional sense someone killed in a motor vehicle accident. But some of that conceivably uh and could translate into the ICU where even if a patient's in an ICU surrogates are my clinical experience and I imagine yours is sometimes they have they do not equate being in an ICU with being at high risk of dying and and when a patient does die it can be quite surprising to families sometimes i.e. an unexpected death. So to the extent that those two things are linked I think there may be a relationship between um undue optimism and and adverse outcomes in surrogates. Yeah, a couple comments on a pragmatic question. Um, so my experience has been that patients um, loved ones are always different from everyone else and they always will survive when no one else can. So that's that to me your second comment seems to be extremely common in my experience. Um, and uh um can't remember my my second comment. I guess we can move on to the question which is that um you know in I guess my second comment is that the more I do this um the less confident I am about the patient's outcome. You want to know the truth? Um because I've seen patients I'm convinced are going to die that don't and vice versa. Um so we my third question can I can I answer can I respond to that in a second? So if this is why giving pro probabilistic estimates is a much more Well, it's you're you're going to end up much more accurate because because Steve, you you probably are more accurate than you know. If you're saying, "Well, listen, in a cohort of patients as sick as this one, I bet about 80% survive." You may not know whether that patient's going to be one of the 20 or one of the 80. But if if you are asked yes, no, is this patient going to live die? That's a much harder thing to do. So, so that's actually the approach I use now. Um and so that brings me to the third thing which is in the spirit of discussion I often times leave room at the end for the patients families to bring up concerns and questions and invariably one of the things that comes up is well can you say 100% for certain that my father is going to die right of course I'm stuck because no I can't say 100% for certain that that little bit um is the hope that everyone's looking for And how how do you squirrel out of that? Because you can't say that I'm 100% convinced, but everyone then gloves on to that. Okay. So, right. So, let let me let me say let me respond in two different ways. So, I'll give you two different statements that you could respond to that by and you tell me if they feel different. I think they feel very different. On the one hand, you could say, "Yeah, you're right. I I can't ever tell with 100% certainty what's going to happen to a patient." Period. you know, that's that's the expression that I suspect that does a a number on surrogates willingness to act on the information because it's it feels unbelievably uncertain. On the other hand, you could say something like, well, you know, of course, you know, I don't have a crystal ball that's 100% ever accurate. That's just that that doesn't happen in the world. What I can tell you is that based on X data and my my clinical experience and my consultation with colleagues is that we think it is uh there's almost no chance your loved one's going to survive. That will not dissuade surrogates that the small cohort who say you have to do everything for every person, you know, until there's no chance of surviving. Th those are cases that are going that may well lead to intractable conflict. But I would argue that that that second framing will help sort of pull people to a more realistic appraisal of of the uncertainty that we swim in every day. And again, you know, getting back to the data that I showed you about surrogates willingness to tolerate uncertainty. My experiences has been has been that yes, there are these cases where people want absolute certainty, but they're more rare than common. And it's quite often it's more clinicians are uncomfortable talking about uncertainty and talking about prognosis in the face of uncertainty. Um so I have a question for you. I'm a nurse at observing clinicians with their prognosis to the concern is I mean I love your study. How do you um how do you look at this from just one physician, one clinician giving that information system in the ICU setting. We don't have one clinician. We sometimes have four and they all have different opinions on how they approach the patient about the prognosis and the diagnosis. So when you talk about the surrogate absorbing information, often it's very information from three or four different seems to be a problem. Right. So part of I agree part and I think that this is not just to make if it makes you feel better or worse, you're in it with most ICUs around the country that have some consultative or open element to it. This is right. This is the reality that when multiple subsp specialists and specialists are talking to families, families even if the messages are relatively similar may hear different things. So first of all I think it's an important issue for health systems to confront and say how are we going to respond to this potential pitfall. Second, the for supports intervention is part of the intervention is the interventionist helping families make meaning. Number one, helping families make meaning when they get disperate estimates or disperate information and number two minimizing this the frequency with which that happens by trying to do behind the scenes work with each of the clinicians involved to say, you know, here's how we're approaching things. Does this match with your expectations? If it doesn't, let's make sure we talk about it as a team before you go in there and talk to the family. So that's that's a you know again a part of the intervention. Will it help? We'll see. One last question. I was actually wondering about the interventions like the way you describe their role. I was wondering how you contrast to the role that right a lot of those things like clarification goals kind of what they often do as well. And I know they're not necessarily associated with community often like you know long-term partners. Um and then u related to that values clarification you know that slide where you had um how can we be on the same page like I felt like the first three things are things we can do something about. Did I provide enough prognostic information? Can I the last one is their values are just their whole belief. I was wondering like what advice do you have when you're dealing with that situation? It comes down to that. Yeah. You know, you can't really do anything about that. What happened? That's a that's not a low hanging fruit, but let me take your first question first. I think you should talk to Neil about your second question because and Ton because that's their wheelhouse, which I tend I tend to agree with. Actually, let me take your second question first and get it out of the way. I think those cases arise that of intractable value conflict between families and clinicians. I think those are incredibly hard cases. I think they're much rarer than we think they are. I think what me what looks a lot like intractable value conflict often arises when communication has broken down between clinicians and surrogates. So my answer is yes. Those a few of those cases will arise maybe more at the Westwood campus as I'm hearing about some of the interesting things here. Um, no. I I I I well I don't I don't I don't mean to say that in any disparaging way, but to say that there were certain times that deep value conflicts will come up, but I think quite often they can be pre that things that look like deep value conflicts are not and intensive early engagement um can prevent relatively solvable conflicts from becoming intractable. That's the first point. Second point regarding paliative care, paliative care can't get involved on day one, right? This is and nor if you look at existing workforce estimates can palative of care scale up to the kind of frequency that we're talking about. This is probably five five well 20% of ICU patients this this would patients would be eligible for this kind of intervention and we know from Hannah Winch's work and others work that pal there's just not the paliotative care workforce that can scale up to do this but it but yes it's an absolutely similar role and I would frame it as incorporating principles of paliotative care into the practice of intensive care medicine routinely you first I just moved here from Michigan actually where the weather is terrible, but I was happy there. But um and but in Michigan, we have a lot of like practice the values thing comes up a lot. There's the biggest um Muslim population outside of the Middle East is in Dearborn, Michigan. And also religious like there's a lot of like you know religious people in general like Christian and all of that and they will not let you turn off any intervention. Agreeing to that is tantamount to you knowing. Exactly. So that does actually do a blog for us if I tell you undoubtedly and then I think this is where it's really important to have a good hospital policy where the clinical ethics consultation service and the hospital leadership are willing to back up clinicians when they get to a point where they say you know what the family is asking me to do in my best judgment is outside of good medical practice and I can't in good conscience provide it so we're going to um wrap this up. For those who want to continue this conversation and have further discussion, uh Dr. White will spend another hour with us in the 200 building in room 447 for an open question and answer. I want to very much uh relish the fact that Pulmonary and get together like this and I want to thank Pulmonary for arranging this to happen and for Dr. White coming out. Thank you very much. Thank you. Oh, you were No, no. In about two years when you have all your stuff You know, I tried He's already figure out 2016. used to be hard cover. No, medicine is hard cover. Anyway, we really