Veronica suffers from a debilitating neurological or brain disorder called donia. I didn't like my family seeing me going through the rough times that I was going through. I didn't want my brother or my sisters seeing me struggle. I can't even talk. I'm sorry. Um, for Veronica, it's gotten harder. And to watch her deteriorate has been really, really difficult. Veronica's condition had been deteriorating for 7 years until she met UCLA neurosurgeon Dr. Antonio Dales. Uh Veronica was a very sad uh teenager. She was always looking down. She never smiled. Uh she was obviously in pain and obviously very annoyed with the fact that she couldn't do anything in life but stay uh in that wheelchair. They came to my office asking for a possible uh operation for her disease. Dr. Dales offers new hope to Veronica. always exercise today. He will implant a pacemaker into Veronica's brain. He tried to get it all done. Okay. Dr. Dalis's hopes for me were he wanted to fix me and make me comfortable and just be able to sit up. Dr. Dalis, can we pray with you? Yeah, sure. Once again, Lord, we just thank you for these fantastic doctors and and my hopes were to walk again. Oh, there's it's just so much. were excited, scared, and all those in between. When the brain is firing abnormally like it was in Veronica's situation, it's sending impulses of electricity to the muscles of the body in an abnormal way. So all the muscles are contracting all the time. This particular device just stops those impulses, blocks them in the right time. Great. Dr. Dalis successfully implants the electrodes and threads the wires into Veronica's brain. A second operation connects the electrodes to a compact generator. So I'm going to go slow. Tell me if you feel anything. You might feel tingling. The pacemaker is now programmed to do battle. You might not feel anything, though. I went home and I was still in a wheelchair. My mom and my dad, they had gone to the garage to go get my walker and everybody went in the garage and I was in the living room by myself and I said, "The heck with this. I'm going to get up and see if I can walk myself. I don't need a walker." My mom turned around and said, "Veronica, what are you doing?" Everyone was crying. And then we're like, "Go walk more. Go do this. Walk over here. Let's see you walk here." from the garage. I walked to the living room to the living room to the kitchen, from the kitchen, outside and I just kept doing laps around the house and I thought, "Wow, this is amazing. I can't believe this is happening." We were just blown away. And then we thought we would surprise Dr. Dales. Okay. Hey, Veronica. Hi. How are you? Uh ourselves, we got very very uh emotioned about it. Right. Yeah. Oh, good. This is wonderful, huh? It is. It's awesome. The hope that I have for Veronica, she's a teenager is the same hope I have for my own children. I have teenagers myself. There's a lot of work that goes into making a doctor. And uh the message that uh is important to be given here is that uh all the students and all the people that dream one day to be able to be a doctor that uh there is a reward in the end that is to see someone like this better, able to walk, able to have a normal life. Dr. Dales. I can't even um see I'll get emotional with this one cuz the positiveness because he did it in such a caring and loving way. He showed us love. He showed us grace. I can't even tell you UCLA has been awesome. I could never repay him or thank them enough for what they've done for my daughter. They've given her a new life. See you. Good luck for you. It is now just a painful memory. This was Veronica two years ago and this is Veronica today. Dr. Dales is just very special to me cuz for someone who can change my life that's that's it was a miracle.