Hi, my name is Eric Hamberger. I am an assistant clinical professor of pediatric pulmonology at UCLA, and I'm going to talk about e-cigarettes and lung health today. I have nothing to disclose, I have no relationships to disclose for this presentation. So, e-cigarettes are a group of devices that allow users to inhale an aerosol, usually containing nicotine and flavoring, for recreational use, and I wanted to emphasize recreational use to distinguish it from other aerosolized things like nebulizers, inhalers, which are prescribed by doctors. They go by a lot of different names, e-cigarettes, e-cigs, cigalikes, vapes, vape pens, tanks--some people just refer to them by the brand name itself, and they become very popular, especially in the past decade. In 2014, they surpassed traditional cigarette use among adolescents and young adults. The concept of noncombustible nicotine delivery has actually been around for quite a long time. The first patent can be traced back to the 1920s. In 1927, a man named Joseph Robinson filed a patent for what was sort of a prototype of an electronic cigarette, but it never--they never used the word cigarette or tobacco. I'm just going to read a short excerpt from that patent: "It produces an extremely simple vaporizer, which extended use has demonstrated to be of great effectiveness in the treatment of afflictions for which its use is intended." So it was really first intended to be a medicinal tool. Again, nowhere in the patent does it say the word tobacco. In a way, it was described something like a nebulizer, except it uses a heated coil. The patent was granted in 1931, but it was never commercialized. In 1963, a man named Herbert Gilbert also attempted to make a smokeless nontobacco cigarette, the goal being to replace burning tobacco with a heated moist flavored air. Again, that was never commercialized. One notable product from the late 1970s was something called the the Favor. Their slogan was "Do yourself a favor." It was a smokeless cigarette. It essentially was just paper soaked in nicotine containing liquid that the user would inhale without lighting or combusting anything, but they were very expensive, they didn't deliver nicotine very effectively, and as a result, they were a massive commercial failure. But the first modern e-cigarette was mass-produced in 2003 by a Chinese pharmacist named Hon Lik, who was the former deputy director of the Institute of Chinese Medicine, and the original intent, as with these other products, was a smoking cessation tool, and it's even a statement stated as such in the patent. It was the first recent innovation that was mass-produced by a company called Ruyan. It used something called a piezoelectric ultrasound emitting element, which is essentially a power source that generated electricity. It made its way to the US markets in 2005, a lot of sort of copycat devices started popping up globally, using both this technology and, later, batteries, and at this time, it was introduced to the US market. A couple of years later, in 2007, we saw a very rapid rise in sales in the United States, so a company called Plume, which was renamed to PAX Labs, was founded by two Stanford grad students in San Francisco. That company would later become the company that produced Joule, and in 2017, Joule actually spun off into a separate company--again, I mentioned that in 2015, e-cigarettes surpassed traditional cigarette use among youth for the first time, I'll talk more about that a little bit later--by 2018, e-cigarettes had actually become a multi-billion dollar industry, so it was so profitable that tobacco companies wanted in. So, Altria, the parent company of Philip Morris, actually purchased a 35% stake in the popular brand Joule in late 2018, and as you've probably heard, in 2019, there have been hundreds of cases of--really, thousands of cases of a vaping-related illness that started popping up around the United States--I'll talk more about that as well a little bit later. So, what exactly are these devices? So, this is a modern e-cigarette. They contain three basic elements. There's a mouthpiece, so an interface that's connected to a tank that contains a heating coil, so that heat aerosolizes what's called an e-liquid, and then there's a power source with a button, usually to--sometimes a button, sometimes just the active inhaling initializes the device. Inside the tank, you have what's called an e-liquid, and each e-liquid is comprised of really three main ingredients. So, there's a solvent--propylene glycol and/or vegetable glycerin, usually a combination of both--there is a usually nicotine involved, although they don't have to contain nicotine, and usually a flavoring as well. Some of the flavors that are currently available--this is from the Surgeon General's report in 2016--we have bubblegum, chocolate, cotton candy, grape, gummy bear, and a lot of states have sort of caught on to this, and jurisdictions-- Los Angeles, for example, has moved to ban the sale of flavored e-cigarettes because of the appeal to children. But these are some examples of what a lot of these cigarettes look like now. You'll notice that they're very compact, they're simple they share a lot of design elements with popular tech products. The product on the right is available from Joule, sort of like a baby macbook or iPhone or something. They have these proprietary things called pods, so this is the menthol pod, it's still available through the Joule website. The amount of nicotine in these pods is about 5% per weight at maximum, which amounts to about 59 milligrams of nicotine. By comparison, a cigarette contains about 6 to 12 milligrams, so a pod can contain as much as 2/3 to one entire pack of cigarettes, and a user can actually get through a Joule pod anywhere from a couple of days to a week, not much than less than what you would expect for a pack of cigarettes, but that number can vary widely, of course, depending on the user. So, one reason that a lot of people use e-cigarettes is to help quit smoking, and there have been sort of a handful of large randomized control trials examining the effectiveness of e-cigarettes and smoking cessation. So, this was published in 2013 in the journal The Lancet. 657 people were randomized to either nicotine e-cigarettes, nicotine patches, or placebo e-cigarettes, so e-cigarettes that don't contain nicotine. They defined abstinence as not using combustible cigarettes. What they found was a rate of 7.3% of e-cigarette users were abstinent from cigarettes compared to 5.8% from nicotine patches and about 4.1% who used e-cigarettes which didn't contain nicotine. So, from this study, they concluded that e-cigarettes were modestly effective at helping smokers, similar to nicotine patches, but another thing I liked about this study was just simply giving someone something that they thought contained nicotine--so, a placebo--could also be effective at helping people quit cigarettes even though it's very minimal. Another study that came out more recently--this is a randomized control trial that came out in early 2019 in the New England Journal of Medicine--so this was nearly 900 participants, they were assigned to either a combined smoking cessation group, such as behavioral therapy and nicotine patches, or an e-cigarette group, and the primary outcome that they looked at was, again, sustained abstinence from from combustible cigarettes for one year. They actually verified this by measuring the level of carbon monoxide in the blood to verify this. E-cigarettes do work as a modality to quit cigarettes. They do seem to work quite well if 1 in 5 cigarette users are switching to e-cigarettes versus 1 in 10. It's hard to argue that they don't work for their intended purpose. They also saw a 10% to 20% reduction in cough and phlegm production in these people compared to nicotine replacement therapy, but they did find an increase in the amount of reported mouth irritation that's been corroborated with others by other studies, and they didn't see any significant difference in the incidence of wheezing or shortness of breath. But again, I just want to point out this disclaimer that this was a study done on active smokers, so these are not never smokers. So, how much nicotine does an e-cigarette actually deliver? You can compare the amount of nicotine in a cigarrette or an ounce of liquid, but the more important measure really is the plasma-nicotine concentration. So, this is a study that was published in 2017 comparing plasma and nicotine levels at steady intervals, at 5, 10, 15, 20, etc. minutes after the initial use, and I like this study because it seemed comprehensive, although it might be a little bit outdated. It was done before Joule was really popular--it was still emerging--so that was not included in this study. Also, the 11 people that were studied were so-called experienced vapers, so they were good at it, which may or may not represent the general population. But if we look at the data--so, the amount of blood nicotine levels from cigarettes in this study was clearly the highest--that's this blue line at the top, so at 5 minutes, it peaked to a concentration of 18 nanograms per mL. In close second was a brand called Views, which is a popular and later generations considered a third-generation brand of e-cigarettes. As we go down, we see that the level of nicotine approaches about 2/3 to about 1/2 of what you would find in a traditional cigarette. But one interesting finding was that although they were--this was one so-called drag from an e-cigarette--what they found was that although they weren't achieving the same levels they were taking more puffs within the same period of time, or even though they were getting less per puff, they were driven to take more puffs to achieve a greater nicotine buzz. The other conclusion was the fact that later generation of e-cigarettes delivered nicotine more efficiently, suggesting that e-cigarettes as a whole, as an industry, are really just getting more and more efficient at delivering nicotine. A lot of it has to do with the devices itself. So, before I get into e-cigarettes and lung danger, I want to talk a little bit more about nicotine and general health detriments. These are from the most recent Surgeon General's Report. So, cigarettes contain nicotine, and nicotine is very addictive, we've known that for a very long time. Nicotine exposure, especially during adolescence, when the brain is developing, they have long lasting consequences. It can have behavioral or neurological long-term consequences. We also know that there are a lot of social and environmental factors that influence tobacco use. So, an example--if there's a family member, a friend, who smokes, you have a greater risk of smoking, yourself. We know that nicotine is very dangerous in pregnancy. It can result in preterm delivery or stillbirth, it can affect brain development for fetuses that are exposed to nicotine in-utero, it can result in a lot of behavioral disorders, ADHD, it can result in--it's been linked to type 2 diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure. So, what about the lungs? That's kind of a point of this talk. This was a very compelling study that was published in 2016, looking at the potential harm on lung tissue from e-liquids containing nicotine. I think this study embodies some of the more compelling evidence of the potential harms of nicotine in the lungs. This was published by a New York-based group in 2016. They looked specifically at e-liquids on surface cells of the airway, to both nicotine- and non nicotine-containing liquids. They looked at a variety of outcomes in both humans and mice. So, the way that they did this, mice were exposed to either a control, something called phosphate buffered saline--it's basically a saline solution--or an e-liquid containing a solvent that had either 0 or 18 milligrams per ml for 1 hour per day for 4 months straight, and that concentration, 18 milligrams per mL, is similar to what you would find in a commercial e-liquid. So when we're looking at these pictures, these are the little air sacs at the ends of the lungs that participate in gas exchange or respiration. You'll notice that these air spaces in the control group are relatively small. Similarly, in the lung tissue exposed to aerosol without nicotine, you have these very small air spaces with a lot of lung tissue, and this is generally a good thing. When you have smaller air spaces, there's a lot of room for them to expand, there's a lot of surface area for oxygen to diffuse into the blood and for carbon dioxide to diffuse out. The tissue itself is very strong and robust. It's elastic, it can easily expand and snap back into place. Now, when you compare that to the image on the right, you'll notice these very large air sacs with a lot less lung tissue. When there's a lot less lung tissue, it means that there's a lot less surface area for these lungs to participate in gas exchange, and in addition, the airways themselves are weaker. So, this is a similar finding under a microscope that you would see in something like a 20 pack, your 30 pack, your adult smoker with COPD or emphysema, where there are fewer and larger air sacs for gas exchange. They're also able to measure lung function. This is a chart. This chart on the left is essentially a measurement of the force of exhalation. If you have asthma, or if you have a child with asthma, this is a form of a study called spirometry, which we perform all the time in our clinics, and it measures the strength of flow of air during inhalation and exhalation. In this study, they were able to measure something similar in mice called the FEF 50, or the forced expiratory force at 50%, and what they saw was a significant reduction in this measurement in mice exposed to nicotine. Again, this is a finding similar to what you would see in obstructive lung diseases, like asthma or emphysema. Also, in these mice, they measured the activity of various enzymes involved in something called apoptosis, or programmed cell death. So, this is a protein called caspase, and what they found is that they were able to detect significantly higher activity levels of these enzymes in cells that were exposed to nicotine compared to cells that weren't exposed to nicotine, and the hypothesis is that this increase in these substance is associated with destruction of cells in the airway, which is why we see some of these changes under the microscope and this image on the right. They also looked at the effects of nicotine on human lung cells by measuring the movement of an important structure called the cilia. So, in all of our airways we have these very tiny microscopic finger-like projections that serve to sweep out mucus and debris and infections, and it's important that these structures move in a very coordinated and synergistic way to function properly. What they found was, when these structures were exposed to aerosols containing nicotine, the speed at which these structures did their job, the so-called beat frequency, was markedly reduced, in some cases ceasing to function almost entirely, making lungs susceptible to more infections. And this, again, has been corroborated by other studies, so I think you see where I'm going for this. It sort of dispels the notion that nicotine is addictive and nothing more, you know, an otherwise benign element in all this. We're starting to learn more and more that nicotine is a very real culprit in lung damage associated with e-cigarette use. What about the solvent? So, propylene glycol and vegetable glycerin. This was just an image that I got from Amazon of these solvents. There have been studies that suggest that in small doses, up to 28 days, they're safe when they're ingested by animals, but beyond that, they are associated with toxic byproducts with free radical productions, which can be carcinogenic. A lot of this has to do with the the so-called PG/VG ratio, so that 70/30 propylene glycol to vegetable glycerin is considered sort of the safer ratio, so a lot of independent vendors will sort of stick to that ratio. As far as the flavorants, a lot of this depends on the flavor. Many of these flavor compounds are derived, not surprisingly, from the flavor source, so for example, cinnamon is derived from cinnamon. I mentioned cinnamon because it does--it's sort of gotten a reputation as one of the worst compounds. It does contain several highly bioactive compounds. Flavors, as you may have heard, are also implicated to be the driving factor for vaping initiation in youth, and this has, again, been backed up by numerous studies. Most flavorants contain compounds that are in general maybe safe to eat but not to inhale, so some other toxic byproducts that have been detected in e-cigarettes-- diethyl phthalate, which has been detected in nearly half of e-liquids. According to a study in 2015, that's been associated with premature puberty. It's also possibly carcinogenic. This has gotten a lot of press--diacetyl (DIE-uh-see-tuhl) or diacetyl (die-AH-si-teel), however you choose to pronounce it, has been used in various e-liquids and associated with something called popcorn lung. The technical term is bronchiolitis obliterans. It's really irreversible destruction of small airways, and the only cure is a lung transplant. And then finally, formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are possible carcinogenic byproducts. These are more likely to form in devices that are higher voltage or higher heat, and the reason this is important, there are still some places where custom flavors and independent vape shops have the ability to basically commercially extract any product that they want directly from the source, and I think we're seeing a lot more of these so-called homebrew with things like cannabis oil, things that have that have been shown very recently to have very catastrophic effects when inhaled, and probably a large factor in the recent outbreak of vaping-related illnesses. There have been several studies looking at immune function. I already mentioned the effects of nicotine on ciliary function, but there have been a handful of studies looking at the effects on local immune function. So, one study showed that nasal scrapings from humans--of e-cigarette users--had large alterations in over 50 immune regulatory genes. Other studies have shown an increase in molecules associated with inflammation, so sort of creating a pro-inflammatory environment. It's also been shown to increase the expression of pro-inflammatory molecules, and in general, many teens just don't know what they're inhaling. A large portion don't even know that they contain nicotine, that they're just so called--they're just flavored water--a lot of teens have reported that, but I started this talk by presenting evidence that e-cigarettes are an effective smoking cessation tool in adults. I put this in now because I wanted to contrast this with evidence that it actually has the opposite effect in adolescents and young adults. So, over the past few years have been a slew of studies, one after the other concluding that never smokers--so those who had never even tried a cigarette-- during adolescence, if they tried e-cigarettes, they were more likely to initiate combustible cigarettes--so, traditional cigarettes--later on, and the likelihood of this happening kind of depended on the location and the actual study, but time and again, these studies are coming to the same conclusion, that vaping, that e-cigarette use itself is a significant risk factor for regular cigarette use. So, going back to the Surgeon General's Report, the data for e-cigarettes in this report go back to 2011, and I'll show you more recent data shortly, but the good news is that in the last twenty years, there has been a significant decline in just combustible tobacco use. So, you can see in 2011, 14% of middle school students had ever used tobacco. That's reduced pretty significantly, and that trend continues to decrease and eventually sort of plateau around 5% as of this year. By contrast, you'll notice that e-cigarette use--so, either e-cigarette only use or combustible and e-cigarette use-- surpassed traditional cigarette use somewhere between the data collection of 2014 and 2015, and again, similarly, that trend continues to 2019. This is national data from the Monitoring the Future database of 2017, which is a survey of over 43,000 students in the United States that looks at every manner of substance use from 8th graders through young adults. The earliest data in the study on e-cigarettes dates back to 2014. Some of the important findings--so, vaping had a higher 30-day prevalence than all tobacco products among eighth, tenth, and twelfth graders, and the 30-day prevalence among these among 12 graders is the highest. In 2017, 11% of 12th graders report recent--so, within 30-day use--which is pretty staggering. And one thing I want to note with these arrows here is that this cohort is the same as this cohort, so you can see that the jump from 8th to 10th grade from 2015 to 2017 is pretty staggering for ever use. You can also notice that from 10th to 12th grade--so this cohort is the same as this cohort--there is still an increase from 10th to 12th grade for e-cigarette use. And then this is the National Youth Tobacco Survey from the CDC reported last year. This is only getting worse. Basically, e-cigarette use is still on the rise with, as of last year, 3.5 million middle and high school students engaging in active past 30-day cigarette use, which is more than double what it was a year before that at 1.5 million. And you'll notice that past 30-day use has increased from 11% to 21%, so really, 1 in 5 are reporting past 30-day use as of 2018. They cited nicotine flavoring as the major reason for this. So, after this report came out in November of last year--so, one year ago-- the FDA proposed to address this by revisiting the flavoring policies. The proposal from the FDA's Center for Tobacco Products called for a ban in flavors in e-cigarettes except from mint and menthol, which are suggested to help adult smokers quit using combustible cigarettes. They also suggested age verification for online sales. So, a lot of local ordinances are taking this into their own hands before this starts to take effect in 2022, especially in California, but on November 6, 2019, the most recent data from the National Youth Tobacco Survey reported a jump from 21% to 27% of high school students who use e-cigarettes and 10.5% of middle schoolers who use e-cigarettes in the last 30 days. About 1/3 of them use e-cigarettes more than 20 days per month. Compare that to combustible cigarette use, which continues to decline from 2011 through 2019. You notice that it's about 5% to 6% of high schoolers are using cigarettes compared to 27.5% of high schoolers that are using electronic cigarettes, and that continues those trends continue to this day. So finally, I wanted to talk about the outbreak of vaping-related illnesses in 2019. It goes by a few different names. The CDC has dubbed it E-cigarette or Vaping-Associated Lung Injury. I think it's pronounced EVALI. That's how I'm gonna choose to pronounce it. It's been referred to also as Vaping-Associated Lung Injury (VALI), Vaping-Related Pulmonary Illness, basically any combination of those words, but basically, it describes a sudden respiratory illness that can take hours to days. It might be life-threatening, and it can mimic other causes of acute respiratory failure, so, for example, pneumonia. A vast majority of these patients report respiratory symptoms, so 95% report things like cough, shortness of breath, chest pain--but a very large number of these patients actually reported GI symptoms, and a lot of the time these GI symptoms--things like nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain--can actually precede the respiratory symptoms. Other signs and symptoms are very nonspecific, so things like body aches, fever, weight loss over the course, diminished appetite, you know-- failure to respond to antibiotic therapy, I think, is a key finding. Remember, this is not an infection, so antibiotics aren't going to fix this. But a lot of these things are very nonspecific and very difficult to detect, so I think a strong index of suspicion should be had by parents as well as providers if someone comes in with acute respiratory failure without a specific explanation in an otherwise healthy person. So, as of October 2019, there have been 1,299 cases. Just recently, on November 5th, the number of cases grew to over 2,000 cases of Vaping-Associated Lung Injury in the United States. I mean, 49 states, the District of Columbia, and the US Virgin Islands--I think the one state was Alaska that hasn't reported any vaping-related illnesses. There have been--there were 21 reported deaths a few weeks ago that has risen to 39 reported deaths, and the vast majority of these cases have occurred within the last 4 months. The median age is 24, with 80% less than the age of 35. 70% of these cases have been in males, and the median age of death is 49 years old, with a very wide range of 17 to 75. So, even though the cases are more prevalent in young adults, they tend to be more resilient than older patients, who are more susceptible, really, to death from this vaping-related illness. There has been at least one double lung transplant in response to a patient who was injured by vaping. That patient was a minor, he was 17 years old and was, in my opinion, extremely lucky to have even been considered for a lung transplant, since substance abuse and active nicotine use is taken into strong consideration when lungs are allocated for donation. So, the CDC has been actively investigating the cause of this recent outbreak. They have reported that 76% of patients reported using THC--so, a byproduct of marijuana or cannabis-containing products--but 13% still report not using THC-containing products, but a very recent report suggested that a derivative of vitamin E acetate was found in lung fluid in 100% of these cases, so they looked at the lung fluid of 29 patients, and this vitamin E acetate derivative was actually found in every single one of these samples. So, why do they--why do I bring this up? It's, you know, it's very tempting to say that this is sort of an isolated incident or this was a bad batch or something. In this case, I agree, I think it's very reasonable to make that conclusion, but a few points I want to make. One is that we don't really have any idea how long this outbreak is going to last. The numbers keep rising, every report that comes out seems to indicate that this product, this problem, is just getting worse, and we really don't know if it's gonna happen again. We don't know if there are any other culprits in this, and we still haven't detected anything else. And so they say that this is somehow proof that since commercial vaping products are not the culprit in this, they must be safe, that if it doesn't cause lung injury, then then it isn't harmful to your lungs, and the truth is we still don't know about the long-term effects of e-cigarettes, and when you compare them to cigarettes, it might be important for active adult smokers, but that comparison kind of loses its substance to healthy lungs that are naive to the effects of a foreign substance. One final point I want to make just before--just be careful when you're trying to seek information, when using the internet, when you look for information about vaping. If it starts with something like, "Debunking the myths about vaping," I would just stay away. They're not really debunking anything, they're really just trying to preserve their industry, and just be aware where you're getting the information from. I think less is more, in this case. A great starting point is the CDC website. There's information about vaping in general, the recent vaping related illness outbreak, which is updated weekly, the latest news and resources, and you really can't go wrong by starting there. Some other really great resources--PAVE, so Parents Against Vaping E-cigarette, is an advocacy group. It's sort of geared more toward parents, what to look for in their children who are vaping. And then, of course, drugfree.org is another great resource. So, that's it. I will--at this point, I'm going to open it up to some questions from the audience. Okay, so the first question I have is "Are e-cigarettes more dangerous than traditional cigarettes?" So, I sort of touched on this in my presentation. I think, you know, the short answer is we don't know. I think, logically, anything combustible is probably worse for you than electronic cigarettes, but really, I think the important point to take from this is that when you're comparing traditional cigarettes to electronic cigarettes, the only people that that's actually relevant to are active adult smokers. If you saw my data earlier on the trends of traditional cigarette use, if you're looking at youth, if you're looking at 8th, 10th, 12th graders who are using e-cigarettes, many of them--at least 94% of them--probably wouldn't have touched a cigarette to begin with, so you shouldn't really be comparing cigarettes to e-cigarettes in that population. You should be comparing a cigarette to nothing, and there's a lot of evidence that suggests that e-cigarettes are harmful in the short term and the long term, but again, we don't know the long-term effects of vaping. "Is vitamin E acetate found in all vaping liquids?" It is not. It is not a common ingredient. From what I understand, it's not included in commercial e-cigarettes. I don't think the CDC has identified the first source of this, whether it was an intentional additive, whether it was a bad batch of something, but no, it is not a common ingredient in e-liquids, although it seems to be more prevalent in liquids that contain derivatives of cannabis, so marijuana-containing e-liquids. "Is vaping healthy as long as there's no nicotine?" I think that's kind of an interesting question. You know, my stance as a pulmonologist is, I would say, similar to the question of cigarettes compared to e-cigarettes, you know, you're not comparing one thing to the other, you're comparing something to not putting something into your lungs. And I think, really, the only thing that should go into your lungs is air, really, oxygen, or if you have a medication that's prescribed by a pulmonologist or a primary care doctor, that those are generally better for you than doing something recreational that can be very harmful to your lungs. "What about the argument that everything's fine in moderation? Does that apply here?" So I do agree that everything is fine in moderation. It really depends on how you define moderation. In the case of e-cigarettes, I would define moderation as almost nothing. The reason for that is we know that e-cigarettes--most e-cigarettes contain nicotine, and once you start using nicotine, it's very, very difficult to quit, even with a small amount of use, so I would say "everything's fine in moderation" probably doesn't apply to e-cigarettes. The other argument I would make is that many of these cases of e-cigarette use-related lung injury are in patients who had never even used an e-cigarette before, so maybe not necessarily heavy users, so one time can actually be catastrophic in some cases, especially in these sort of third-party homebrew applications of electronic cigarettes. "How does one combat smoking addiction and now e-cigarette smoking addiction?" Again, there are a lot of great resources on the CDC. There are smoking cessation programs that have been very helpful; they've been demonstrated to be very helpful. Nicotine replacement therapy that's prescribed by a doctor, as long as it's used correctly, can be very effective. There are certain medications, sort of off-label use medications that can be very effective in nicotine addiction and have been shown to be very beneficial for active smokers and for people who are addicted to nicotine. And I think that's it. Were there anything else? Okay, well, I hope you learned something today. Please feel free to call the pulmonary office at UCLA if you have any other questions.