All right, guys. I'm sorry to interrupt your lunch. We want to just keep moving so that we can end in a reasonable time. My name is Brian. I'm a pediatrician at UCLA, a general pediatrician. I'm not a developmental behavioral pediatrician. That's like my first disclaimer and I have three other apologies for you up front. So, one apology is that the these talks that you're about to hear basically from now on are things that we've already done at previous training. So, um if you've already seen them or you already know this stuff, you can come help teach it. You can leave. I won't take it personally. Um, second is um that in the middle section I'm going to go through some information that in about 45 minutes that used to be three hours. So it's like three sessions that I've condensed down into one. And so it's a lot of information that's going to be kind of rushed. Again, it's all stuff that we've done in the past. But if you have questions, please stop me. Please slow us down. We may not get through everything, but we can, you know, go through more detail if you need it. So, please just let it be interactive. Feel free to raise your hands. Um, and then the third apology is that um, one of our we were going to have these screening tool session workshops and Paul Chung was going to do one of our sessions, but he had to leave because his daughter is sick. And so, we're going to sort of improvise and have three instead of four. And so, um, Rebecca Davitz, who's brilliant and awesome, is kindly volunteered to do the the work that Paul was going to do. So, she she have a little bit of extra stuff. So, And also, oh, the other thing I was going to say is Pam knows the the developmental screening, the general developmental screening I was going to do with the P the MTA. She does it every day, so she can help do that, too, if we need. So, we'll be flexible. So, awesome. Thank you. Please keep eating. Get up, go to the bathroom, get more food, get drinks, whatever you need to do. Is my mic okay? I can be hearing a little bit of feedback. I won't speak too loudly. Okay. Um, so developmental milestones. This is a lecture that um our well-known medical educator Lee Miller did at for our medical students at UCLA and then um Kate Perkins did it after him and now I'm you know co-opting their talk. So again a fourth apology, fifth apology. Um but I will do the best I can to to get through those milestones. These are very basic. You probably know a lot of them but it's kind of fun to review and it's going to be interactive. So please feel free to get up move around with me. So what are the domains of development? We think about what are the kinds of areas that we track social I heard. So social I heard language motor that's right and so motor we have what kinds we have gross motor and what about language are there different kinds how do we break that into subdomain expressive and receptive exactly so Expressive are the things that come out of kids mouths, the things they say, the sounds and language they produce. And then receptive and we'll talk about some of these things because actually expressive language isn't all verbal that you can express and communicate and have a language space gesture say that's actually very important to monitor. Good. So for the sake of this um talk we usually do gross motor first we abbreviate GM. So a baby a newborn baby what do they do? They're not moving around much. What can they do? They cry. Yes. Good. What are the functions of a newborn baby? They sleep. They eat. They pee. They poo. And they have to breathe to stay alive, right? They have to breathe in and out. And a lot of those functions are automatic, right? Their their digestive system goes without them having to do anything about it. There's one gesture they do have to be able to make in order to be able to survive. And that is that they have to suck. Sucking is actually a reflex. If you put something in their mouth, they'll suck on it. What you'll do in your newborn exam, right? You'll take a gloved hand, put your finger and feel their pallet, make sure their pallet's intact. They're no clefts or anything. And then you make sure they have a good suck reflex and that's great. What's another reflex that happens? You brush their brooding, right? So you brush their cheek and they move their head from side to side. So that's actually the first milestone. Newborn babies move their heads from side to side. And that's great because they need to be able to turn their head to the source of food. They also need to be able to turn their head to the side so they can breathe. Right? So, you never put a baby on their belly to sleep, right? Back to sleep. We put them on their back to sleep. But we do recommend putting babies on their tummies for tummy time, right? And they need to be able to turn their head to breathe. And you only do that when they're awake and you're awake and you're watching them, right? But, okay. So, side to side, that's a newborn. When they're one month old, what can they start to do with their head? Sorry. What What can they at one month? Yeah. Lift their head. Yeah. That's the one thing they can do. Lift their head up. So you put them on their belly, they can move their head to head and they can lift their head up. There's like the turtle coming out of their shell. Can you all do that? Do a little lift your head. Okay. Lift their head up and kind of move it down. Good. And then two months they lift their head up. What what comes next? If you think about their nervous system developing from head to toe and central to peripheral, that's kind of how it happens, right? Their brain is connected to their spinal cord and then there are these nerves that go out to their periphery and the myelination and the development of strength and function happens from sort of head to toe and central to peripheral. So if you think okay head, neck, what happens next is their shoulders come up. Okay. And then at three months, so shoulders at three months, what's next? Head, their shoulders. They get up. Yep. They lift up their torso and they can get up on their elbows. All right. They have chest. They get up at their chest. Chest and elbows. And then by four months, by four months, most babies, if they've had enough time on their tummy supervised and awake, as they should, they have their head, their neck, their shoulders, their chest. They get up to be on their wrist, right? By four months. And if the baby's up there on their wrist, what do you think they can do next? Right. They can turn front to back. And so that's a classic. So they're up on their wrists and they can roll over. And usually if they've had some time on their tummies, they they roll front to back first because that's easier, right? They have their hands they can push off. Since we've done back to sleep in order to prevent SID. So back to sleep was a national campaign that started in 1994. It's actually somewhat changed or modified some of these milestones a little bit because babies are spending so much time on their backs. So, how many of you have seen a baby with a flat head, a flat occiput, because they're spending so much time on their back and you know, so back to sleep has been really important to prevent SIDS, but unfortunately some of the collateral damage has been that babies are spending too much time on their back and not enough time kind of on their tummies and rolling around and doing all the things they're supposed to be doing. So there are some babies who will be so much spend so much time on their backs and they get kind of motivated to roll over. So they'll roll over back to front first or they'll be kind of delayed in rolling. So if they're if they're not meeting some of these milestones like right on the day that they turn one month, two months, three months, four months, are you going to like start calling regional center, get everybody up in arms? No. Right. This is all just kind of general ranges. But usually they'll developmentally they'll run they'll roll front to back first and then back to front after that about about five months but that's all kind of approximate varies widely. By six months what are babies doing gross motor wise? Sitting. Yeah mostly sitting unsupported. That's great. And sometimes kids will do what we call tripoding. Can anyone demonstrate a tripod? You sit and kind of you're sitting like this and then you put your hands down to support. So they're not, you know, maybe not completely independently sitting, but around six months is when you start to expect them to be able to sit. Perfect. And then what can babies do by about um by 12 months? What's the classic sort of gross motor milestone? walking, walking by 12 months. And so what are the things to get in? So going from sitting to walking, what's sort of the next stage of sitting, iPoding? Yes. They get kind of on hands and knees, do the cat cow, and they can kind of at one point sort of start crawling. They'll start creeping or crawling. So around um seven to eight months and again this is widely variable. Do not freak out if a baby's not crawling at that stage. What happens next? At about 9 to 10 they're crawling. They get up to a furniture. They try to pull themselves up to stand. That's right. Right. Pull up to stand. So, um, and that's a good precursor to walking, right? And Kate Perkins lecture always include this, um, a classic is a 9 to 10 monthth old baby who has learned to pull the stand and they get up in the middle of the night and they pull the stand there. They stand up and then they start screaming and screaming and screaming because they don't know how to get down. It's like this new milestone. And so parents come in the middle of the night, there's babies alert, and then they can't get back to sleep. kick it back down. What happens after you can pull the sand before you walk? What's that? Cruising. What's cruising? Holding while holding on to Very good. So between around 11 months, 10 to 11 months cruising. Perfect. And so you can see how this is a nice progression. And this is why we describe these milestones because they happen sort of in sequence and it kind of makes sense. They go from one thing to the next and it's like a logical progression. Um, so, okay, let's review. Drop your forks. Do the milestone march. Okay, newborn. Everyone, be a newborn. Turn your head to the side to side. Good. One month, head up. Two months, chest, shoulders up. Three months on your elbows. Four months, wrist roll over back to front to back. Then back to front. Sit up. Good. Crawling. Pull to stand. Cruise. And then walk. Yay. You've made it to one year. Awesome. Gross motor continuing. So we have one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years. Okay. Okay, now we're going to forget the months for a second. So, um, at one year we said we walk. Then what starts to happen as you are a toddler exploring. What do those sort of 15 to 18 months to two years kids do? They get, they find something, they want to explore, they start to climb. So by two, so between one and two, you're going to start to climb. And around two, kids can learn to go climb up and downstairs. Okay? So around 22 months, they can go upstairs and around 24 to 25 months, they can go downstairs. That's a little bit later. Um, and what what kind of climbing is that on stairs? Do they they have like mature climbing where they can go on one step? No. How do they do it? One step at a time, right? Maybe holding on to something. One step, two steps. They do a step and then they get their feet together. Okay. One step, two steps. So that's immature immature climbing. And then um when does that mature climbing happen where they can go one step at a time? Three. Yeah. So up at three and down by four. Okay. And again this is highly variable. Many kids will be doing this slightly before or after. But um generally it's easier to go up and down. So you can just go generally up first. And they do one step at a time completely independently. Up at three, down at four. And then um what are some other things at three? So the three you remember three is try. You can ride a tricycle. Good. And at four, look at my notes. What did Kate say? Hop on one foot. You can make a four with your leg here. Hop on one foot. And then once you're able to hop on one foot, what can you do? Skip to school. At age five is when you start kindergarten. Skip to school. All right, you got it. Anyone want to do it? Does anyone stand up? walking, climbing, just demonstrating the one step, the mature, immature. I won't make you do it. Okay. Gross motor. That's good. So, next we'll do fine motor. So, when a baby's born, um, what are they doing with their hands? Let's see. They got them in fist. Yeah. So generally fine motor we talk about things that they're doing with their tips of their fingers, their hands, but when they're newborns, they're mostly a lot of the time is spent with their hands in fists. And that's actually something to watch to make sure that in the first few months they kind of unfold and open up on their own. If if you see an older infant with clenched fist, that can be a sign of high muscle tone, right? So we don't want that. But when they're newborn, they have um fists. But so we talk about in this lecture their eyes. Actually, that's some that's like a little old surrogate. Um, so when they're first born, they can move their eyes back and forth, sort of like their head. So, they can start to fix on an object and track. Okay. Um, by about one month, they're they're they're able to move side to side by one month and sort of moving past midline. At birth, they're going to be able to fix. By one month they start to track. By two months they're going to be going up up and down. Their eyes can go up and down in response to stimuli. And by three months they can go in a circular motion. So that's just in before and then by three months their hand should be open. So what are they starting to do um at four months with their hands? What do fourmonth-olds do? Yes, good. You can start to bring their hands to midline. So, you start to move to midline. What else they do? They start to put their hands in their mouth. They're starting to have more voluitional control of their hands, right? They can move things to midline. They can put things in their mouths. Tons of four-month old babies, parents of fourmonth old babies come in saying, "My I know my child is teething now because they're just they're putting their hands in their mouth and drooing all the time." It's just a developmental milestone. Doesn't necessarily mean that they're that they're teething at that point. It's possible, but it's a little bit early. Um, what else do they do? If you had a baby, a four-month old baby lying in a crib with a mobile, what what might they do? Batting at it, right? Reaching and batting at things. bad reaching and batting. Good. So, by six months, what can they do with their hands? What's that? Yes. They can start to grasp. And how are they grasping things at six months? I'm a six-month old baby. What's that called? a rake, a raking grasp, right? They basically have their whole open hand and they can grab something. They haven't yet been able to sort of move their fingers just a few at a time. So, they have this whole hand grip. So, they have a raking grasp. What else? And then once they grab something, a raking grasp in one hand, they can transfer to another. Yep. Transferring And so this is this key time actually to talk about safety. What's a safety hazard of six-month old babies when they can start doing this? Choking on things, right? Because they, you know, when they can just put their hands in their mouth, unless you had put something in their hands for them, they couldn't actually really get it. So they, now that they can grasp something, transfer to another, and get it into their mouth, it's pretty easy for them to do that. Just think about talking about parents, talking about choking hazards and lots of baby proofing, right? Because they're getting close to being able to crawl in the next few months, right? They're going to be more mobile and they can get things in their mouth. So, it's a really good time to talk about baby proofing your house if not a little bit before that. Good. Um, and then by say nine months, fine. What's a good fine motor? nine month scale. Yeah, good. That's right. So, we have So, by certainly by 12 months, that grass becomes goes from raking to becoming a mature pinser. By by 12 months, you want to see mature pinser, which is just two fingers, an index finger and a thumb. And in between that, we have what's called an immature pinser. What what what's that look like? Yeah. So some of their fingers together usually like two or three. So not just a fine. So it's hard to get like maybe something really small but you can get something that's a little bit bigger. So this is a time immature pinser around 9 months to a mature pinser by 12 months. Um, so this is a time when we start to introduce sort of soft table foods, right? And they can start to feed themselves. They're Cheerios and things like that on their trays. They can start to pick things up and put them feed themselves. Um, what else can they do now that they're starting to be able to move those fingers and differentiate fingers, something else they start to do is point. Yeah. Somewhere between somewhere in this zone around starting around nine months you might be pointing that's a really key key developmental milestone the magic of nine months. So, we'll talk a little bit more in social and emotional and and language because pointing, if you think about pointing, it's a fine motor skill, but it's also can be a social skill, right? Because you see somebody else and um you want to show them something. It can also be a language skill, right? It's something that you you're trying to tell them something, but you don't have the word yet. So, it's it's really an important important milestone. Pointing usually starts to happen around nine months. Great. Um, and that's it for fine motor. We forget about it after that. You do start to have um it's important after that to be providing kids with um opportunities to develop fine motor. So, in preschools, we have play-doh, we have paper you can tear, we start to have safety scissors and pens and crayons and all these things. So, they can start to develop those sort of preschool fine motor skills. Okay. But we're going to skip ahead in the sake of time and go to language. All right. What's a newborn? What's the newborn language? Yeah, they cry. That's right. They're expressing themselves. So, newborns cry. And how about receptive? What What do they do when they hear a sound? Yeah, they startle or they alert. Sometimes it'll just mean the pause. Like they that you can tell it, they can hear it. It's really a test of their hearing, but it's the beginning of receptive language. They alert to sound. They become more and more awake and alert. They're looking at faces. They're moving, starting to move their eyes. They alert to sound. Important to notice those things, right? And by about um let's say about by two months, what's the classic language expressive language milestone? We're going to talk about in social. Yes. What do they how do they start to talk? Who? Yeah. It's actually quite amazing and and some babies will actually match your pitch. My husband's a musician so we he go hi and the baby go ah like on the same pitch and they that's amazing. They're brilliant geniuses. They're like just they have good spinal cords. Um pooing right and then when they after they start have those open vowels ah then they start to put their lips together their tongues they start to make those other sounds that are confidence, right? So, what can they do? They can say. So, by four months, it's this kind of in between stage called auing. It's exactly what it sounds like. Au. It's like a combination starting to put the consonants in and then by six months more consonants. Ma dad. So, it's like the long strings of consonants repeating and that's called babbling, right? Perfect. And those get reinforced, right? Depending on what language you're speaking and what culture you're in, if you say mama, mama, and there's a mother in the room, they're going to say, "Yes, I'm your mama." There's like this wonderful reinforcement. There's a daddy around. Yes, I'm your daddy. So by by nine months they start to say mama and dada but generally it's not specific and by 12 months we have mama and data as specific plus one other word. So by one year you can have at least have at least one other word other than mama or dada right is eligible. Is that all clear and consistent with what you know? Good. So then by two years what's a good two-year milestone for language putting words together. Yes. Or two word combination. And some there are kids who will start to put two words together way before that. But certainly by two years you want to start seeing two word combinations and at least about 50 words or more. And again some some B kids have way more than that. But you want that to be sort of a milestone that they at least can reach. And about how much of that language should be intelligible to a stranger? At least 50%. Right? So that's sort of a rule of thumb kind of double 24 months you get about 50 words. You can put two words together it's 50% intelligible. So by three years what are they doing? They're putting small sentences together. So like three or four words together. Small sentences. small sentences, phrases, you know, at least three words. You put three words together, you get a small sentence. Um, and about how much should it be intelligible to a stranger? 75%. Yeah. So, majority doesn't have to be perfect. And again, this is highly variable. Um, there are some three-year-olds who are really advanced. you can understand everything they say they're speaking in paragraphs, but this is what you want kind of a minimum that um 75% and um putting phrases together. You want them to start using plurals. So, sort of learning some of the rules of language. It doesn't have to be perfect. And it's fun to actually to watch the sort of three to four year old learning like say English grammar because there's so many irregular things. And so, they'll learn a a a pattern and they'll repeat it with the next thing. they'll conjugate that a verb in the same way and it's it's an irregular like I go to the store, right? That's that's you put an ed at the end and that's really normal and typical. And they learn kids learn by you modeling language. They learn so much by just picking it up. So it's not something you have to necessarily be on top of and correct actively when they're just three or four. They're still learning. They'll get it by modeling. by four years you they are starting to use more of a past tense and how much to be intelligible 100%. So it's sort of two out of four, three out of four, four out of four, right? 100% intelligible to a stranger and that by four years they should be speaking in long sentences. And again, they're becoming more and more kind of aware of the rules of grammar. Great. All right. What's next? Social What does a newborn do? So, the way they talk, it's the way they communicate, way they get your attention. What else do they do? They look at you. They They look at your face. The mother, the baby, the father, the baby, whoever's holding that baby, they start to look. They look They gaze at your face. So, it's like a they they look and they love to look at faces. They're evolved. I mean, all these things are basically evolution, right? We talked about having to turn your head so you can eat and you can breathe. And we have these reflexes so that you can turn to a breast and suck on something that goes in your mouth. We talked about another thing, you know, motor-wise, we have these grasping reflexes. So, like you're if you're a little monkey, you can grab onto your mother's fur, you can grab onto a tree or something. All of these are basically evolved mechanisms so that we can stay with our tribe and survive and be connected to the people who are going to take care of us. Right? So social development is all about bonding with the people who are going to meet those needs. Right? So you love to look at faces and you especially love to look at the faces that you know your parents, right? Um so newborns you look at faces. What happens at about six weeks? Six weeks to two months. Yeah. They start to feel a social that's such a wonderful gratifying time, right? When they're the two-month-old who's smiling and cooing. It's like those two months of investment where you're just sort of putting money in a well and getting nothing back or finally getting some stuff back. It's really wonderful and gratifying. Um, what do you say when somebody says, "Oh, my baby smiled in the delivery room the minute they were born. You say they're a genius. Little Einstein. No. Yeah, it's it's gas. I mean, babies do smile because they have those muscles and they they'll they'll be in this their sleep and they'll smile. They'll have gas. They'll smile, but it's not really a social smile in response to something pleasurable or a face until about six weeks. Good. Um, what's next? So about by about three months, babies really recognize and prefer their parents. Okay? And they can really distinguish between strangers and parents um and people that they know and don't know. And then we're going to skip all the way ahead to the nine to 10 months. What happens in that magical zone? What? Oh, yeah. About four four months. Three, three to four months. Three to four months is laughing. That's great. That's also part of language I didn't talk about. Yeah. Separation. So, nine to 10 months, they're really starting to have stranger anxiety. They go from recognizing their parents to really saying, "I want to be with my parents all the time. I have anxiety around strangers. They'll cry when the parent leaves the room. Otherwise, you know, babies, little babies can be passed from person to person. They're totally they'll smile at anyone. By 9 to 10 months, they start to see stranger anxiety. And um they'll also, we talk about this with fine motor. They like to start pointing. So that's a social language, social and communication. And it's all kind of around this idea that h by nine months you have object permanence, right? Have you heard about that? Pia day. When some your parent leaves the room, you know they still exist in the world. It happens somewhere between six and nine months. You start to know when something's not in your sight, it still exists. So you start to look for that object that falls off the high chair tray. Um the same thing with parents and strange anxiety. You know that your parents still exist. They're just not in front of you. So you're anxious. Okay. And then by about 12 to 15 months, this is all the magical time around um your social and language being linked, right? So you start to point and you start to have what we call joint attention which is really important and we'll talk about why it's important in terms of our developmental problems but um between 12 and 15 months you start to have something called social referencing too sort of related to joint attention. Does anyone know what that is? Can you describe it? Like if you if somebody's if you're with a caretaker and the baby and you you you look somewhere then you'll kind of look as a child a toddler you'll look and see what your caretaker's seeing and what they're so you're trying to see what they're seeing and point to the thing and make sure that you're looking at the same thing and that's part of language development. Why if you're looking at the same thing and they say that's a ball then you start to associate what you're both seeing and what you're hearing with that's a word, right? that's a ball. If your mom's pointing to the ball and saying that's a ball and you're looking at a light, you're not going to get that the correct object word association. So, this is really important, the joint attention um and social referencing as part of language development. Good. And then toddlers. So, I'm going to say sort of 18 months to two years, 15 months really to two years. And we're going to sort of skip ahead and go to the videos now, but um it's really a key developmental point. And I think that you're going to talk about it a little bit, Rebecca, in your parenting toddlerhood and sort of how to manage toddlerhood. But in terms of social development, it's an amazing time of sort of push and pull. So a toddler's job in the world is to explore. They're little explorers and they're going to run around and explore and do everything. They would have this drive for independence, but they also don't have all the skills they need to be independent, right? So it's this kind of push pull. They'll like run away from their parents and then realize they're far away from their parents and kind of freak out and be like, "Oh no, where are my parents? Have you seen that?" Like in an airport, the toddler running gleefully and then realizing they're they don't know anyone around them and they freak out or they you know they're running around but they they can also like fall off a cliff, right? Like you're really worried that they don't quite have the coordination to be independent. They also want to be independent but they don't have the language skills to be independent. So you start to see things like temper tantrums, right? They want to do these things all by my big self, but I they can't quite get it. They can't quite dress themselves. They can't quite do it all independently. So, it's a really wonderful time and and Rebecca's going to talk about that a little bit in terms of how to manage some of the typical behaviors that come up during that time. Um, and I'm going to talk a little bit after the videos about um some of the things to look out for. Okay. When do we when is this not normal? When is when do we have the delays, developmental problems like autism, things like that that are going to disrupt normal development? Okay, good. So, let's look at a video. Okay, get your clickers ready now. What do I have to start the video? Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. How old is this baby? What do you think? Put in your bed. Anywhere now or forever. Hold your peace. All right. Good. The majority of you said nine months. That is the correct answer. A nine-month old baby. What tells you this is a nine-month old baby? What are they doing? Crawling. Sort of creeping. Creeping is like sort of crawling. Just speeding yourself along or creeping without actually doing the coordinated arm and leg. But this baby's basically crawling. Good. Let's go to the next one just for the sake of time. Look like nobody touching him crying. How old is that baby? Put in your best answer. All right. Yeah, good. Most of you said newborn. That's the correct answer. Um 30% of you said one month old. How do we distinguish between a newborn and a one-month-old in this video? What What's a big clue? The head. Yeah, the baby has really bad headlights. Is not really moving their head at all. Remember, at one month they can start to sort of move their head up and down. So, one way to test that is to see do a head lag, which is what that examiner did was pull up their arms and they basically have no neck fun strength or function. Um, they're really not they're all they're doing is crying. Okay, two more and then we're gonna move on. Done. Okay. So, that's not a a lot of time to really see that baby, but what what do you think is that your best? Good. Most of you got two months. So, we know it's not a newborn because that's the difference between the newborn video and this one. They really the head lag went away, right? They did the same maneuver and this head came with him. Um, but why is he not four months? What's he he's still just kind of not not super like his trunk control. He's still kind of floppy, right? He's not necessarily bringing his hands to the midline yet. He's just kind of cooing in terms of language. So, yeah, not not yet four months old. Certainly not rolling. You couldn't imagine the baby rolling yet. So, not yet. Yeah. I know. I know. Yep. D. Yep. Throw it over there. Throw it over there. What do you think? How old is that baby? I see this paper. Is it pulling off? Are you putting your responses? Huh? Okay. Oh, that's not Sorry, the polling didn't work on that one. Six months, right? That's what we were all saying. Sorry about that. The the polling wasn't working. But yeah, the baby is sitting up, starting to babble, going ba da da. We didn't talk a little bit about um jargoning. That was something I kind of skipped. But what that that um acting as if it's language when it's totally nonsense, right? So going like you it sounds like they're asking you a question. That's sort of like before you start having recognizable words around around a year, you'll start to hear a lot of jargoning as they're sort of preparing to speak. And then as they start to get more and more single words in that first year, second year of life, they'll start to have words spattered in there like m milk. Like I just asked my mommy for a glass of milk, but you just the only word you could understand there was milk. That's called mature jargoning. So this is babbling though. That's waved before that mama mas. You can see how it was being reinforced by the parent there. Dada, you mean dada? Um, good. And it was flung strings of babbling. Instead of saying mama or dad, it was. So, one, I think this is the last one or two more. All right. So, um Actually, the answer to this one is um 24 months, but I I agree with you. I can see why you would say 18 months for this one. So, this is like sort of a trick question. So, this baby is running. That's a good 18 months skill there. Souping and recovering. Usually 18 months can soup and recover. Her language is actually she's not really saying a lot of words. Certainly not sort of putting words together, at least as far as you can see in the video. Who knows what she can do in the rest of her life, but um you know, maybe she has some speech delay. But this is this is a 24-month old kid. Um, and she's climbing and throwing and doing all these things. But it's I can understand why you would say 18. So that's sort of unfair. And last one. Drinking from a sippy cup. Keep hold. Hi. So, you heard one word, hi out of that. Say hi. Say hi. Say hi. Good. So, that's right. 16 months. Um, again, I think it's reason given the last one that was 24. It almost looks like 18. I can understand why some of you might have said 21, but but this baby is also one word saying hi. Not a lot of other words, is doing some of the um pulling up on things. um drinking from a cup, following commands. So, good sort of toddler, classic toddler. Perfect. You guys are great. Okay, so this I have another mic. So, now we're going to talk briefly. Again, this is like three lectures combined into one and this is a long section. Um so, again, if you need to go take a break, feel free to go do that. We're going to talk about when does development become abnormal. All right, what are the things you need to look out for? And as clinicians seeing kids in clinics, we're going to do what we call screening. Um looking at all babies to see when you have a sign to try to detect early signs of developmental or behavioral problems. So um about 10 to 15% of kids depending on the age. So if all kids age three to 17, there's a prevalence of 15%. That's the most recent data. And this is in terms of um developmental and behavioral kinds of issues. This is based on the national um health interview survey and they look at um conditions like um autism, intellectual disability, um cerebopal palsy, epilepsy, um severe language disorders, um hearing and vision impairment. So those are kind of all considered developmental disabilities. It's a big encompassing wide encompassing term. If you think about birth to five, it's probably closer to 10% because they're just had they haven't had enough time to develop things like learning disabilities. It's not something you would necessarily expect than a preschooler, right? You would have different expectations. So, but for the older kids into school age and adolescence, stuff. So, it's interesting and important. And but then thinking about what kids are actually getting in terms of services um in in young kids from birth to five um about five% of children are actually getting services through our individuals with disabilities education act the IDA services. So all of you know what those are part C you know what those are. So what's our part C system here in California early intervention. Where would you send a child who you worried about developmental delays to regional centers? Right. Yes. So our regional centers here in California um in for the birth to three kids are doing the part C and then after that schools. Yay. So three and up it's going to be through part B or special education system. So there are sort of different pots of money but all entitlement programs through the Americans with Disabilities Act. Um there's a bigger group of kids probably 25 to 30% of kids who have some concerns and risks that aren't going to be eligible for those high level services and then there's you know 60 to 70% of kids that are going to be typical but you still want to do all that screening and promotion and monitor their growth and development. So really thinking about the whole pyramid from typical up to kids with disabilities and how do we assess that look at them for for early detection and provide appropriate early intervention. So again, we talked about these domains. Um, language is both receptive and expressive. And so in expressive language, it's not just what they're doing with their mouth. They're also doing things like pointing. That can be considered part of expressive language. And then social emotional, highly important. And then motor. Um, and so again, we talked about this, but um, we talked about fine motor and gross motor. That was all of our domains and the milestones we saw. Um, this is a terrible picture of my husband when with really long hair, but um, and our first baby when he was about nine months old. But what do domain of development is a demonstration of? There's social in there. There's language, right? They're they're trying they're looking at the same direction, trying to communicate with each other. Joint attention. You can see joint attention. The magic ninemonth-old. What else? You can It's fine motor, right? using their index finger to point. That's a fine motor skill. Also gross motor. He's sitting up. So like these are things are all entwined. It's not like you can really see one thing at a time. It's all there's gross motor, fine motor, social, and language all wrapped up into this one gesture. So it's hard to really disentangle them even though we try to break them down into milestones. So as a clinician the recommendations are to do surveillance at every wellness visit. So surveillance can you describe what surveillance developmental surveillance can describe that is? Yeah. So asking questions, asking about development. How is how what do you think? How how's it going? What can your baby do? Do you have any concerns? Those are just general questions to try to elicit parents concerns and you document any concerns that might arise, but it's not actually screening until you're using a structured tool with questions in like a form. Okay. So, a a developmental screening test, which we'll we'll go through some of those formal screens. The recommendation is to do that at nine months, the magical nine months where you have joint attention, all sorts of motor milestones. um 18 months and then 24 or 30 months. Um and then an autism specific screening tool which we'll learn how to use the Mat. Rebecca's gonna teach you how to do that at either 18 18 and 24 months. And then again, if any of these don't happen by 18 or 24 months, doing them at 30 months is okay. Sort of a catch up. But these are the recommended ages. And then if there's a concern to respond promptly, take it seriously, make referrals as appropriate. Okay. So it's good us to be the people to do this in some ways because we see kids a lot right as a clinician in in a clinical setting. Um they're coming in for well visits but how many of you are not in clinical settings? Pam, you're sort of like affiliated with clinical settings, but you do a lot of you do screening in schools, in child carees, um, in in you have like screening fairs where people come in and do, you know, so there's there's other venues. Um, but it is it's nice for clinicians to be able to do it because we do see most kids in the first few years of life. Um, and that there professional recommendations are there for us to do it universally. Um, but we know just looking at the literature, looking at the epidemiology that clinicians are not necessarily doing as good of a job as we should. There are kids getting missed. So, there are kids with autism that may not get diagnosed until they come to school and they're having school failure and you sort of think, what happened for those first five, six years of that kid? Why was this a miss? Um, and there it's complicated. Parents have denial. They don't want to go through with followup with referrals. It's it's not just like a failure of the clinical system, it's a failure of the entire system. Um, but we know that there are kids getting missed. Um, so thinking about the difference between surveillance and screening, um, surveillance is really this longitudinal, flexible, less formal where you're just kind of asking about concerns. Um, but you have knowledge about the child's development and you're trying to track that child's progress and try to identify any concerns. versus screening is when you use a structured validated screening tool at specific ages in order to identify risks. Okay? And you do that for everyone. Screening means all comers, not something that you do because you're you're concerned about a problem, right? That's getting more into diagnosis and assessment. Screening is when you do it for everyone, even if they don't have any outward signs. Good. So, I'm just going to skip through this quickly, just asking about parents concerns, documenting it, keeping records of it, um, identifying risk and protective factors. Um, and then we know that policies can change this. So, we in Massachusetts there was a law requiring developmental screening. So, it's not just a recommendation in Massachusetts, the law requiring because there was a case of a mental health condition in an adolescent, I think, and the parents actually sued the state and said, "Why did you not discover this sooner?" And so there was like a court order so all pediatricians have to administer it's a formal screening tool at all well child visits. It's almost like two months above and beyond the AAP recommendations but when you make it law you can get the rates up. Still not at 100% but um they're doing better than than the rest of us. You can see North Carolina has made really good statewide efforts to increase screening and referral. So they have a above 50% but the rest of us in California is sort of there kind of somewhat below average but we're about 30%. So not great. So what when do we call it a delay? We went through this milestone lecture as if things happen like on a schedule and it's not really a schedule, right? So if you see a kid who's four months old and they're not yet rolling over, are you going to say you have a developmental delay? Not necessarily. No. You want to see the in the context of the all the developmental stages that happened before and where they're going after that. You see their trajectory. But once a kid gets to about one or one and a half to two standard deviations below average. So two standard deviations below the mean is the bottom 2.5% of kids. Right? So 95% of kids are going to be within two standard deviations around the mean. If you see it, think of a normal bell-shaped curve. spend 2.5% on either tail. So if you think about the just one tail, it's going to be two that's that's like a small proportion of kids. So that's actually a pretty um stringent criteria. Then you do call it a delay. And if and you you describe the delay based on the domain. So if it's speech delay, you say speech language. If it's more than one, um you can call it global developmental delay. Um, and in the first five years of life, it's a prevalence of about 5 to 10% with boys being more prevalent than girls in terms of having delays. So, this is an example of a screening tool. Um, this black area is two standard deviations below the mean. So, that's why they do that. That's why they do that shading is to look at how um that the child is in terms of other children that same age. That gray zone is one to two standard deviations below the mean. So that's something to be alert. It's not necessarily a delay, but if they're in that grade zone, it's like, okay, they're they're below one standard deviation or more below average. And then the white is um one standard deviation below the mean or above. We're going to talk about this when we do our screening workshops. Okay. So, if you see a young child who you expect to be talking and they're not yet talking, what could be going on? Maybe they can't hear. What else? Yeah, maybe they're just not getting exposed to that language. So, you're talking to them in English or not speaking to you in English. Could be. That's could be an exposure. Anything else? What could be going on that the kid is not talking? They could have trauma. Yeah, they could have PTSD. They could be traumatized. They could be severely anxious. What else? They could have autism. Yeah. So, it's an environmental thing. So, it's not they're not needing to speak because somebody's getting them. They're able to communicate through gestures, other things. Good. So, just to think broadly, um it could be about hearing. It could be about the way they actually move their tongues and their lips and their um their mouths. um autism spectrum often presents with language just language and speech delays. Could be neglect just not being exposed. It could be being abused. There could be PTSD going on. So thinking about this whole process as speech is something that you can measure but it's actually just the tip of the iceberg. It comes on this foundation of having um a secure attachment with your caregiver, all that social and emotional stuff and then joint attention, looking at the same place so that when I look at a ball and my baby looks at the ball, I'm pointing to the ball, I say ball, he hears that, he associates that. So that's how it all builds. So speech is just the tip of the iceberg. It's something that's easy to observe. Um and we know that there are socioeconomic differences in speech development, right? So this is now famous Hart and Grizzly. They actually recorded hours and hours and hours of actual natural language environment in different households. These are small samples, but they saw marked differences in the child's expressive vocabulary as early as 16 months um with big gaps happening between sort of among the different socioeconomic strata. And this is what's been called now the what do we call it the million word gap. 50 million word 50 how many thousands or millions of words it is at this point but yes it's the the the gaps in vocabulary um probably related to amount of exposure that they're getting and so what is a treatment so we then give them exposure to languagerich environments you can teach parents direct strategies what are things you can do to to notice that your child is trying to communicate with you what what can you do instead of just giving them what they're pointing to you can encourage them to say the word, right? Instead, because if you reward just the pointing and the grunting, then it gets rewarded, right? So, you can teach parents direct strategies. You can have formal speech therapy with a speech and language therapist. Um, and then there are these entitlement programs. So, the early intervention programs, part C from birth to three, and then part B special education from three. It's actually that goes beyond 18. I think it's like 21. I'm sorry that's an error on my part. Um, so once you get to age three though and you can actually reliably measure IQ, a developmental delay can be then diagnosed if it's bad enough as intellectual disability. So that's just something to know that um if you have two standard deviations below the mean in in an IQ test, it's a reliable IQ test. Um we call it intellectual disability. Um, we no longer use the term mental retardation, but it means the same thing, but it's not a term that we should be using because it's not as respectful of that individual and descriptive of their actual disability. Um, the way we measure the severity of intellectual disability is through their adaptive functioning. How well can you actually function in your environment? So not so much about the actual number or the IQ but how well can they have relationships, hold a job, do tasks of daily living. Um so things that can you think of any causes of intellectual disability? Mostly it's things that we don't know. Idiopathic means we don't know. Can you think of any genetic causes or toxic exposure on the heels of our environmental talk? Lead. Yeah. So maybe lead lead exposure in uterero or mercury exposure in uterero. Um lead exposure early on in in brain development like gosh Clint Flint, Michigan. Are we going to start to see some intellectual disability coming out of there from this early? I don't know. It's too soon to tell. Um but certainly lead is is one of the toxins. Mercury is another. Um any genetic conditions you can recall or other in uterero exposures? Yeah. So there are some genetics and down syndrome. Some of the tricom down syndromes being the sort of most common um fragile X is another one that's a common genetic cause associated with intellectual disability. Um in terms of other toxic exposures or um teratogen so alcohol in uterero, right? Fetal alcohol syndrome probably the number one preventable cause of intellectual disability. alcohol syndrome, infections, things again often in utero. Um some of the like toxopplasmosis, CMV, EBV, those kinds of things in utero. And then trauma, what can happen that could cause a intellectual disability? Yeah. Yes. So perinatal like hypoxic eskeemic and sephylopathy, lack of oxygen at some point and then postnatal brain trauma basically and a traumatic brain injury early in development. So this is what are we looking at here? The physical features associated with a syndrome fetal alcohol. Yeah. So that's classically it's hard. There's no blood test or genetic test to diagnose fetal alcohol syndrome. you have to have a history of exposure and then you have characteristic physical characteristics. So um the flat the smooth filtrum the thin upper lip sometimes micro nasty or microphily and then we're going to see things like Zika associated you know microephily and intellectual disability at some point but yes this is something that happened in their brain development. Um so what we do is we test their intellect. We test their adaptive functioning. You want to rule out something like hearing impairment. Consider all these kinds of um causes mostly just to see if you can take away any exposure, right? If there's anything that you can make better. Um but you don't necessarily need to do like a genetic test on everyone with intellectual disability. Um and then they're basically behavioral, educational, supportive kind of treatments. Good. So, let's talk about autism. Again, my apologies. This is like five different lectures scooped into one, smooshed into one. Um, this was the old uh diagnostic and statistical manual, the the diagnosis of autism. You had to have these three things, language impairment, social impairment, and repetitive or restrictive behaviors. And a couple of years ago, this statistical manual got revised, and now it's the DSM5. And basically the communication and the social domain just kind of went into one. They got collapsed into one that's called social communication impairment. So, so a condition like Asberers that used to not be considered part of the autism spectrum is now part of the autism spectrum. Right? So they somebody with Asperers could have a very high vocabulary. They don't have language impairment but they have social communication impairment. Does that make sense? So, it's that reciprocity, like understanding non-verbal cues, knowing who you're talking to, knowing your audience, having that back and forth. Um, that's sort of more important than the actual number of words. Good. So, again, language and social development are linked. Babies are born staring at their mother's faces. They start to have joint attention. And then when you're looking, this is at a like a aquarium, you look at the blue fish, you look at the red fish, you look at the shark, you know, you learn those words because you have joint attention. So that's really the thought in autism is that it's sort of a failure of joint attention that causes some of that language impairment. Um so here are the actual criteria thinking about the reciprocity the non-verbal communication relationships and then anything that's restrictive or repetitive. So things stereotypes things that you know babies are going to do again and again like head banging being really rigid about routines like freaking out if you don't have exactly the same thing in the same way at the same time every day um being really restricted having only fixated if you only are interested in like red crayons and you can't move their attention to anything else um then that's a concern and then being hyper reactive to sensory stimuli. So, one of the questions on the MChat you'll hear is are they really sensitive to loud noises? Um, which is something that we probably get some false positives, right? Because a lot of babies or a lot of kids are going to be like if there's a siren or there's a loud noise, there's a fire alarm, they're going to cover their ears and that's kind of normal, but it's more extra sensitive. Okay. And then it's a developmental, it's function, it's impairing your function. And then the classification is really about how much support you need. So there is a rise in prevalence. This is um now uh the CDC estimates one in 68 children to one in 42 boys. So much more common in boys. So really somewhere between one and 2% but it's been going up. And why do you think it's been going up? Yeah, we're getting better at diagnosing. There's raised awareness. Certainly people are trying to get it diagnosed earlier to get services and to be more aware to do early detection, early intervention. But I think even beyond that, there's some feeling that there actually is a real increase in in prevalence. So beyond just the better diagnosis, there probably is an increase and maybe it's related to something. I don't know. What do you think, Shir? It's all speculative. We don't know. There's pro what the best thing we know about autism is that people probably are genetically predisposed and then but it's not like a 100% penetrance. It's like a predisposition and there's something that triggers it. We don't know what exactly it is. Okay. Again, more in boys than girls. We should be screening. Um tools like the MCAT are good for screening. And then we have other tools to use to make a diagnosis. So a tool like the which is the autism diagnostic observation schedule or the autism diagnostic interview, the ADI are things to use to actually make a diagnosis. And then again, mostly behavioral treatments. um applied behavior analysis or ABA has the highest evidence of effectiveness. Um teaching things directly, teaching parents, teaching kids how to do social skills. Um and I'm just going to skip through this again because in the interest of time, but basically ABA is um behavioral kind of analysis and training that can be go from being very therapist directed. So discrete trial training is like look at me. Good. You looked at me. I give you this token treat. You have like an Eminem. Every time you look at me, you learn that it's you train somebody to to do something very small, very discreet with a very clear reward at the end of it versus something more like floor time, which is much more child- directed where the therapist kind of follows the child around. But anything where there's a therapist, a child, they're trying to analyze those behaviors could be considered ABA. All right. ADHD. Shiron, you want to come up here? This is again Chiron's lecture condensed into 15 minutes. Um, we're going to be talking about um the screening using the Vanderbilt. Actually, the Vanderbilt is probably not really a screening tool. I should be consistent. It's more of a diagnostic tool. So, we don't do it for everyone. We do it if you have concerns and you're going to be asking some of these questions about core symptoms. So, the core symptoms are hyperactivity or impulsivity. Is that kid like run by a motor? They just can't sit still. They're fidgeting. They're moving all around. Or are they being very inattentive, forgetful, inattentive, not being able to pay attention. The subtypes of ADHD are hyperactive, inattentive, or combined, where they have both, both hyperactivity and inattention. And you want it to be in more than one setting. So, if it's just happening at home, but they're perfect at school, there's probably something going on at home, right? if they're perfect. There something just happening at school and nowhere else there might be something going on in that classroom. Uh the prevalence is about 11% again males more than females. Um poor boys gosh are getting all these things disproportionately. Um, but as Chiron noted here, uh, it's likely that females are probably underdiagnosed and that could be because girls tend to have more inattention symptoms and so and less of the hyperactive symptoms and so it's not as disruptive. So if you're a teacher or a parent, they're not like running all around. They're just sort of losing things being forgetful and that's the disruptive symptoms are what people are responding to because it's disruptive to your life. So what are these symptoms of hyperactivity? These kids, it seem like they have a motor inside them. They're just dri They're just always on the go. They can't. They still they're constantly moving, tapping their feet, moving their fingers. They can't They're squirming. Um they have really a hard time at work or at school or in a lecture sometime when they have to sit still. Um older kids can sometimes force themselves to do it, but they feel really restless. So, they've learned to be social, to sit still, but they they just are are just not loving it. Um, and then having trouble playing quietly. So, impulsivity is things like not being able to wait your turn, talking excessively, running out into the street, climbing and running inappropriately, interrupting, intruding, blurting out answers. And then inattention is when um you're making really careless mistakes. You're having trouble paying attention. You may not be seeming to listen even when somebody's really looking at you and trying to say they're kind of staring off into space. Um not following through on things like homework or chores, difficulty organizing, um losing things, um being easily distracted and being forgetful. So those are these are all some of the symptoms you'll see on the screenings on the diagnostic tools. Um so you do want to do a comprehensive history and physical. We want to find out whether this is happening in more than one setting. What are the actual symptoms? You can ask those structured questions. Um, but there are reasons why people might be dreaming, daydreaming. So, if say you are having trouble learning and you're in a classroom and you have a reading disorder and somebody's asking you to read, you might have hyperactive or impulsive kinds of behaviors just as a way to get out of having to read. So, you do want to rule out learning disorders. You want to rule out things like depression or anxiety. So, a very depressed or anxious kid might kind of withdraw, stare into space, but not because they're having trouble paying attention. So, you do you'll see in the schools how other symptoms of other kind of mental health conditions are addressed to try to rule those things out. Um, and then again, has to be in two at least two settings and using a standardized tool is recommended. So, this is the Vanderbilt. you guys are going to do it in your in your groups. Um, you can give it to the teacher, you can give it to the parents. It's available in multiple languages. We certainly use it in Spanish and in English. I don't know what other languages available, but Spanish and English for sure. Um, and so the criteria for diagnosis, you have to have six or more of the symptoms. If you have six or more hyperactive symptoms, you're called hyperactive subtype. If you're if you have six or more of the inattentive symptoms, you're called inattentive subtypes. If you have six or more both, you're combined. If you're more than 17 years old, you only have to have five of the symptoms. And that's probably because again, you're sort of older. The older kids get, the less they're like, they're more they've been sort of socialized to sort of try to sit still. Um, so it's it's a little bit different in older kids than adults. Um, again, it has to be actually interfering with your function in more than one setting. Um, it has to be present before the age of 12. That's a new diagnostic. That's DSM5 criteria. It used to say seven. We've gotten a little bit more liberal, which is a good thing, I think, because there were a lot of kids that weren't really recognized before. They had to really be have high expectations in school. Um, again, it's it's it in excess of the developmental level of the child. So thinking about that toddler whose job it is to explore, we don't call them having ADHD because they're not sitting still in a seat, right? You don't expect a 18-month-old to be sitting still in a seat, right? If a two-year-old's running around, that's good thing. That's their job to to to develop and be and explore. So it has to be sort of appropriate to their their expectations. Good. Some other things that we want to think about and rule out, oppositional defiance, conduct disorder, depression, anxiety, learning disorders, and then absence seizures. You know what those are? Yeah. Describe it. Kind of staring. Yeah. Like blank stairs. It happens for very brief periods. You can elicit it by hyperventilation. People actually do that. You get somebody to hyperventilate. you can get them to have an absolent seizure, but something you do want to rule out. Um, and then medications and treatments. We're not going to I'm going to skip through a lot of that, but maybe Sham and your group, you can talk a little bit about medications if there's extra time because the going through the Vanderbilt by itself won't take too long. Um, but you it's really good to do these things in combination. So medication is the hallmark, but it's good also to make sure that you have um good parenting, that you have structure in your life. You have routines. You have a cleared off homework table. You know when you're supposed to do your homework, you have a folder that has your homework in it. You have things that are going to help structure your life so that you don't have to worry about all these things. Um for little kids, we try to do behavioral things as long as possible before getting right into medication. So preschool age kids, you don't want to jump to medication right away. But once kids are old enough and in school, medication really is the the primary management in addition to behavioral therapy. Talk about this keeping everything in its place. Um and then some some resources. So the um NIHQ, the National Initiative for Children's Healthcare Quality um publishes the Vanderbilt. It's free. It's online. You can Google it and print it out. we have it in your folders, but they have other things about guidelines, what to do if it's positive. Um, and then things like the parent training, like incredible years, triple P. Um, all right. So, we don't have much time. Um, what is what's the difference between Baby Blues and postpartum depression? How many in how many people in here have had a baby? Did you ever in those first two weeks after you had that baby cry? Maybe one. It's like it's like 80% 80% of women who have babies cry at some point in those first two weeks. It's it's it's a it's a hard time. You're sleepd deprived. you've just had a baby. Um, you're nervous. All the baby blues is really common. You just you have this expectation of having this perfect little baby and they're crying and breastfeeding is not going well. And so the the difference is that it gets better. So that it improves within two weeks after delivery. Baby blues is very common, but if it's not getting better after those two weeks, you need to be worried about postpartum depression. So our final screening tools are going to be depression screening and we can use um perinatally. Um this is cartoon this Kamala did these slides before. So you're a great little wow sister. So how was the miracle of your birthing experience Hazel? It was six minutes and it felt like I was being licked by kittens. Um so I I really like this thought of that it's really like a perfect storm, right? So you have these hormonal things, the the fluctuations going up and down. Um you expect motherhood or parenthood to be like a Marie Cathot painting where you're just still and you know gazing at each other. Um you're not sleeping. Um you have a major change in your life and your family. So it's like these biocsychosocial things all at once. It's this perfect storm um that creates uh postpartum depression. So, especially in women who are predisposed, if they've had a personal history of depression or anxiety, they're much higher risk of having that be worsened or triggered by the perinatal experience. Um, but the diagnosis is about two anything within the first year of delivery um is having two weeks of these um concerns. And and I don't know if any of you have been to medical school or have learned the siggy caps acronym, sleep, interest, guilt, energy, concentration, appetite, psycho motor agitation. So that's the basically these symptoms. Um having them for more than two weeks and and impairing your function. So it happens up to 25% of the time. That's a high estimate, but that's that's the high estimate. And that's certainly concerning. One in four women could have postpartum depression. Um certainly higher when there are psychosocial stressors in your life if you're having a stressful kind of socioeconomic time. Um any depressive episode usually peaks around six weeks but um can happen that the peaks are two to three months are having minor episodes. So actually if you did a point screening doing a screening at like four months postpartum you're going to get the highest total numbers. So it's not just in the first couple months, it's for the really the full first year it could happen. Um and there are these risk factors having your own history of depression, having alcohol or substance use, having forced social support, low income, or having an unplanned pregnancy. It happens to dads, too. Um it's certainly helpful though to moms to have a dad who's not depressed. that can be protective buffering for the baby. Um, I'm going to skip this, but this is something you can look up, the Philface experiment. It basically shows, some of you have seen it. We did this in our last training. Basically, this mom that stops reacting to her child, and you see how the child reacts when when the mom's no longer interacting. And you can see how they totally lose their ability to deal with the world because they just don't have that predictable back and forth. Um, and so we know that it affects infants. It affects their attachment and their bonding. Um, it affects language development because of that attachment and bonding and the joint attention that we talked about. Um, there's certainly risks for all these other kinds of things, developmental delays, injuries, failure to thrive. Um, so we can screen as clinicians. It's good to screen at every wellchild visit in the first year. And then once you screen, you need to know what to do. So, what are the resources and supports out there? Um, and then follow up closely. You might want to bring them back sooner than their scheduled next visit to try to figure out what's going on. Some really key universal messages that are helpful are things to say that this mother is not alone, it's not her fault, she's not to blame, and with the right help, she can get better. Those are helpful messages. Um, and then these are some resources. So um maternal mental health now um previously the LA County Perinatal Mental Health Task Force has a wonderful resource directory. So you can find on their website a resource directory that you can search by types of therapies and by zip code. So if you know your client's patient zip code and you're they're interested say and searchable by insurance. So you know that you want to find a somebody who has a um a master's degree who would see medical in their zip code. you know, you can try to find that or support groups or things, different kinds of modalities. And then certainly, you said you were from Early Head Start. So, Early Head Start, Head Start, the school district, there are wonderful mental health resources within the systems where you work as well. Okay, you have all these slides in your packet, so it should be written down for you. And then, how do we screen? We're going to go through these screening tools. Rebecca's going to show you the Edinburg post postnatal depression scale um and the PHQ2 and nine. Okay. So,