 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone. Welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glacier. Women have suffered from endometriosis for thousands of years, and yet, even in an age of extraordinary medical progress, endometriosis remains a little bit elusive, challenging to diagnose, poorly understood, and frankly emblematic of how women's pain is often underestimated or dismissed. I think most people have heard of endometriosis, and they certainly know someone who might be living with it, but few understand what it is to live with that kind of pain and how profoundly it can impact a woman's daily life. Fact is, endometriosis affects about one in 10 women, many whom struggle for years to get diagnosed, and many who suffer before finding relief. So today we're asking, what exactly is endometriosis? What causes it? How is it diagnosed and treated? And why has it been overlooked for so long, and how can we do better for women everywhere? To answer these questions and more, our two remarkable UCLA Health Physicians, my colleagues, Dr. Daniel Ginn and Dr. Maya Zapata. Dr. Daniel Ginn is an OBGYN who specializes in minimally invasive surgery. Daniel, welcome. Thank you. And Dr. Zapata is also an OBGYN. She's a regular on this podcast. She's shared her expertise with us on everything from pap smears to menopause to sexual health, and today marks her fifth appearance on the podcast. Welcome back. Thanks for having me. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. So before we get actually into the details about endometriosis, I'd love for our listeners to briefly hear what drew you each to women's health. And Maya, maybe we'll just start with you. In your practice, you see patients of all state of their reproductive lives all the way from the beginning with pap smears to menopause. But can you briefly remind us what drew you to OBGYN? Because if I remember correctly, there was some ice skating before. There was ice skating before OBGYN. And I thought I wanted to go to orthopedic surgery because that was my exposure in athletics. And then it took me to other directions. But still doing some surgery, but still being a primary health provider and taking mostly just care of women. Yeah. And you women's body. We all know how amazing you are. No, we're so appreciative that you're here. And Daniel, you focus on minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, also known as MEGS. That's true. That's very top gun to me. Can you explain exactly what that is and how you got into that kind of specific area? It's interesting that it's very timely. I'm freshly back from the American, formerly known as the American Association of Gynecologic Laperoscopy or AGL. Our annual conference was this past weekend, some little growly from flying. But the name MEGS now is actually being transitioned to complex benign gynecology. It's going to be a slow process to get there. Really recognizing that the standard of care in surgery is a minimally invasive approach overall. And so that doesn't really define the specialty anymore. Instead it's a sub specialty that has adopted in terms of diagnoses, complex fibroid care, endometriosis, chronic pelvic pain in a broader context. So I was drawn to that really, you know, as a resident, we're sort of taught to fear by proxy taught to fear patients who come in with pelvic pain. They're complicated. They take a lot longer than they're scheduled for if they're scheduled just as a routine visit. You can do a pap smear or a vaginitis exam much faster than you can do a workup for chronic pelvic pain. And I found that to be just so disappointing that we just accepted we couldn't take care of 10% of patients. And then when I was pursuing fellowship training in mental invasive surgery, the scope of what we did has to include chronic pelvic pain. It's not all surgical and it's longitudinal. It's not just take you to an operating room, fix you and you're good forever. And so the more I did it, the more I liked it because it was hard, but you as any hard thing you do it and you get better at it and it gets a little easier and you actually see people improve. You get people a version of their life back. They thought they'd lost. So when you say it's amazing, I mean, and it's incredible to me that you lean into, I mean, this isn't in just the fields of, you know, gynecology. I think a lot of people run screaming from things that seem complex and actively avoid it, actively avoid it. Absolutely. But you're like, have leaned into that, right? Can you explain a little bit about what, because I think for a lot of people, the distinction between what minimally invasive means versus just like basic surgery. Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah. I mean, it's all, yeah, it's all surgery. Yeah. Minimally invasive surgery is we generally do laparoscopy or you can also do a robot it, robot assisted laparoscopy. Some people draw this distinction as though the robot itself is a separate thing. It's not, it's all laparoscopy. And this is, this is surgery that's done through keyhole incisions, really small, half, half centimeter to a centimeter size incision, anywhere from three to five incisions, depending on what's being done. The benefits of that are faster recovery, lower risk, you know, they're tremendous benefits to that. We've transitioned, I tell patients a lot, this is not your mom's hysterectomy. Your mom used to spend a week in the hospital. Yes. For a hysterectomy that was done through a large open incision called a laparotomy. And now with the minimally invasive approach, you go home the same day. It's about two weeks of recovery at home. Most people at two weeks are about 80, 85% better and then another month or so of getting back to whatever new normal is going to be. Wow. Okay. And then tell me a little bit about how your roles, I think, you know, both, I'm going to just say like kind of a generalist OBGYN and then you as the specializing in this minimally invasive surgery, how do your roles kind of intersect? How do you work together? Well, as a general OBGYN, I might see people for their annual visit for their contraceptive needs for some new pain that they have or pain that they've been having that perhaps hasn't been addressed and then try to sort of figure out what might be causing this discomfort, what's happening, what's new for that patient, what can I address or take care of? Is it something we can do work up like imaging and ultrasound is whatever complaint they came to me with? Is it something that I can address in my office? Is it something that needs specialty care? And so for example, pelvic pain or if I think someone has endometriosis or would benefit from surgery or more complex management of it, then I would send them to my colleague, Dr. Ginn and say, hey, we've done all the initial things already. Here's the workup we've done and we, I feel that she needs this next level of more complex care and then she would see someone like him. Okay. Awesome. That makes total sense. So this actually leads into just some basics. What's the endometrium? Which one of you want to answer that? Go ahead, Maya. The lining of the uterus, it's the cells, the uterus is a muscle. It's a cute little thing that sits in your body. Only an OBGYN would say that. It's a cute little muscle. It's a cute little muscle. Almost someone without a problem with it would call it huge. It's true. It's true. But it's a powerful muscle. It's an incredible organ. Size of your fist. I think people assume it's like a tiny catalepsy. Yep. Yep. That can grow to hold a pregnancy, shrink back, do that multiple times, expel a human out of a body sometimes. Can grow all kinds of things from it, fibroids, little growths, tumors that can be benign. And then in the lining of it, the inner part of the uterus, it has a lining of cells and that's what is shed every month when someone has a period. Okay. So, we're going to endometriosis with all the sort of Greek etymology of osis and disease and et cetera. It sounds like endometrious would be a disease of the lining of the uterus, but... You would be wrong. I would be wrong. Yeah. So, the... Spoiler. I know. Spoiler alert. That's not correct. So, I mean, for many years, we taught, we're taught taught and it was mostly theoretical that the way that endometriosis formed in the first place was ectopic or misplaced endometrium in other parts of the body. Nearly everybody has some form of what we call retrograde menstruation where when you have a period, if your tubes are normal, some of that blood can leak out through the tubes into the abdominal cavity. And then we assumed that that implanted and then grows into endometriosis, but nearly everybody has that and not nearly everybody has endometriosis. My menstruation is in retrograde. That's right. Yeah. Your mercury and your menstruation. It explains everything. It really does. Yeah. Both are terrible. And so, we know that's not true because not everybody has endometriosis. And so, we've got genetic studies actually now that do show us that the endometriosis tissue, so this is endometrial-like tissue, so it responds to hormones the same way that the endometrium does. It's growing implanted and growing outside of, basically just outside of the uterus or even in the wrong layer of the uterus. We call that condition adenomyosis. That's maybe a separate topic, but the tissue is hormonally responsive and so it can be conflated as being part of the normal uterus, but it's not. And so, does it also bleed then sometimes? It can't. So, it can bleed, it swells, it causes inflammation to the surrounding tissue and then all of those processes also lead to adhesions and scar tissue. I mean, I think that's a very helpful visual, but it also to me explains why the pain could really be that severe. I mean, and also, you're also mentioning like this inflammation and the swelling. And this is where I have to say I recently had a patient with that was diagnosed with endometriosis and I was truly mortified. I mean, I graduated from medical school in 2004. I don't think that's like that long ago. I couldn't believe how little I knew about endometriosis and the inflammatory component really kind of surprised me because then I had to say, well, my goodness, there's inflammation certainly all over the abdomen, but elsewhere. So it kind of leads me to the larger question. Do we know what causes endometriosis? Yeah, we don't. So we think that the, again, you know, forever we thought it was this retrograde administration. Now we think maybe more along the lines of salomic metaplasia, which is a fancy way of saying these cells are changing from the right kind of cells to the wrong kind of cells in the wrong place, that there's some genetic link to that that we don't fully understand that. And then there's also more of a overall environmental inflammatory cytokines. These hormones and hormone entities, I start describing cytokines, that cause inflammation to these tissues like the peritoneum, which is the lining of the inside of the abdomen. And then it's how common is it? I mean, and this is, I think, I mean, I'm sure we'll get to symptoms in just a second and I'll ask you, Maya, but like how common is endometriosis? And I'm guessing since it's, I'm guessing pretty underdiagnosed, what's the number? I mean, I kind of mentioned in the intro about one in 10, but is that... I mean, we say one in 10. Yeah. I mean, obviously I'm biased because I see nearly every patient I'm seeing comes in with endometriosis or at least very convincing symptoms for it. I think it's got to be higher than that. One of the ways that I screen and sort of initial, like in an initial history gathering with a patient is ask them, how do you start having a period? When did your period pain start? Did it start when you started having periods or later? Our studies show us it could start in any decade of life, but it very commonly starts at menarchi, which is when you start having a period. If it started happening at menarchi, did it disrupt school? Right. Did you have to miss school? Have you had to miss work? Have you had to cancel soccer practice or dinner or other things that you had planned for yourself and feels like an interferes with your life? If it did and it was that bad, that is not normal. And so there are so many patients who have experienced that for decades and maybe they were part of a family where everybody had that same experience and so it was normalized. And so they thought, well, just everyone in our period, in our family has bad periods. So that goes to genetic, possibly then, like a genetic. There certainly is a hereditary pattern, even though we don't fully understand the genetics yet. Interesting. Okay. And then kind of I mean, so recognizing that you're seeing people at a certain point, right, like after Maya has seen them and then she's kind of referring them to you as a specialist, what symptoms are you seeing then like when people come to your office, right, for, you know, to start their pap smears or just kind of start family planning? Well, I think I'm going to ask them the same things that Daniel had mentioned. I want to tease out a little bit. I generally want to ask about their gynecologic history, what age did your period start? Do you have cramps? But just do you have cramps or not is really vague and unhelpful. And often people will say, yeah, they're terrible. But then when I ask them about it, they're like, oh, well, actually it's just for like 30 minutes on the first day. And so then when you get into it, you're like, okay, so it's really mild. Does it ever impact schools? You take medicines? Oh, no, I never even take anything for it. Or are you able to treat it, right? If you can treat your period successfully, your period pain successfully with an NSAID, ibuprofen, that's probably fine. Okay, so that's a pretty good thing. But if those connections are not working, then we should be looking deeper. And not everyone always asks exactly what you're doing for it. So wanting to know, okay, well, they'll say they're not that bad. Oh, well, tell me what do you do for them? Is it something that you take ibuprofen, do you take Tylenol, mitral? And they'll say, oh, yeah, I take like every day, I take four doses of ibuprofen and I use a heating pad. And I can't get off my couch. And I have some misdiastasis, so it also misdiast work. But then they might have said that they weren't that bad to me. So you really have to ask some more details about it to then say, that's not, that's more than- You contextualize a lot. Yeah, I mean, it sounds like you have to probe a little bit. And also you're asking a question and we know how fantastic of a doctor you are. But how many patients, I guess I'm wondering, self-report, right? Because if they're taught for years, like, no, this is just part of, you know, normal, a normal period. You have to prompt them. I think a lot of the time- You have to prompt them. My favorite things to teach are residents. So obviously we have an educational mission too. And I was in private practice before I was at UCLA. And one of the reasons that I came back was because I wanted to try to see this improve overall. Oh, I love it. Yeah. And so I teach the residents on a basic annual exam. You don't have to be a chronic pain specialist. Just a basic annual exam. This should not evade you. These are very easy questions to find out. And it's okay if it's too much to talk about in that appointment. I have never had a patient who I've said, hey, we have too much to talk about today. We need to split this into more than one appointment. They would much rather you spend the quality time with them to actually get them to a place of improvement than to rush through it so they're out in 15 or 20 minutes. That is such a good teaching message. I mean, because I really want to pause here because I mean, I know people, you know, we talk about gaslighting, a lot of women getting dismissed. But I mean, I think especially around, you know, normal cramps, that kind of comes up constantly, you know what I mean? And I think there's a real danger, obviously, which you're actually addressing, which is normalizing pain. Yeah. And then just in the gynecologic history. So all I've told you is I've gotten to your period where your period's painful, but then asking things like, well, when you have sex, do you have any concerns about sex? Is sex painful? And so many women are like, well, yeah, but it always has been. And it's not normal. That's not normal. Just asking the question. Just asking the question. I think queries like wait. And then that makes me want to know, okay, well, what's painful about it? Is it the skin at the opening? Is it with deeper penetration? Is it only position dependent? Is it during or after? If it's after, is it for minutes, hours or days? Like I've gotten to a diagnosis of a pelvic floor dysfunction, two questions. Wow. It's not that hard. But we're not taught to do it. We're not taught to do it. I don't want this to be remarkable that you're answering this. Exactly. I want this to be the norm. So and I think this goes to, again, this is part of our educational mission too, that luckily we have it, you know, UCL and Health. And the patients can share this. Exactly. So I mean, for everyone listening, make sure that you're asked these questions and if you're not asked, make sure that you're asking yourself and telling. That's right. And telling. And more severe things, just going back to what you're like, when do you go to your general gynecologist? Sometimes they come to like just their general OBGYN because it's become so painful. Like it's been something they've been dealing with. And then they come in saying like it's a lot of pain now. And then sometimes people laser focus in on this one new pain and don't always get to all the stuff that's associated with it. Yeah, that's right. And like at the bottom of it always is asking lots of questions to understand what had been going on. I usually at some point during an initial consult say, okay, you came to me with one problem. We've gone through the whole thing. I hear six problems. And so now we have to come up with a plan for each of those six problems in order to actually see you improve because there's not a silver bullet for all of it. Oh my gosh. It just must be such a relief to be heard and like to have, you know what I mean, just be acknowledged. Be like, oh, let's just call them out, characterize, itemize them and even again, whatever, even if you have to come back, we'll address them one by one. We cry together a lot in pelvic pain clinic. It's really overwhelming because people have been carrying this sometimes for decades have seen tremendous, you know, loss of quality of life or loss of opportunities or relationships or what have you and been told the whole time that it was normal and it was never normal. I'm going to cry with you in this clinic too. I mean, I just, I just can't overestimate like how important this message is. I think that there's like this ridiculous absurd heroism. I think that women are expected to show as well, whether it's just sort of normal or just like, no, no, no, you endure, you know, pain is sort of like a badge of strength. But like, I'm guessing too, then just sort of not only like silence, but just not even thinking about mentioning it really then delays diagnosis. For sure. I mean, the average, the average time to diagnosis for endometriosis specifically in literature is seven to nine years. It's crazy, right? It's not seven to nine years of onset of symptoms. Right. It's seven to nine years of workup. And I, to be fair, I operate in life from a belief that most people are trying to do the right thing all the time. And so I don't think that it's people are, are not paying attention or that it's intentional gaslighting. The gaslighting is very real and sometimes it's very overt, but it is appropriate when someone has painful periods to start with medical management. And so you can go through several rounds of medical management to determine that's not working. And the problem for a lot of patients, especially when they're not at a specialty center or seeing a specialist or seeing someone like Dr. Zapata, who is thinking about this and is going to send them to a specialist that she has access to, is that they continue to try failing medical management or continue to try other failing options or, or not exploring what are the other contributors to this overall picture of pelvic pain and they never make any improvement with it. Right. I started something on birth control. You should see some improvement in three to six months. And if you don't, we either change to something different or we need to explore what the next step is going to be. Okay. So let's, yeah, okay. This is great. So let's back up a little bit. I think kind of both of you mentioned, you know, these screening questions. I mean, so then how do we then diagnose? Or once you have a suspicion, what do we, how do we kind of explore if you actually have the diagnosis of endometriosis? Well, on my end, if I'm seeing someone say I saw them for their annual and I'm uncovering some of this, I would start with some imaging. If they're having pain with their periods or if they're having pain outside of their periods are telling me that they're having pain, pelvic pain or cramping and it's not just what their periods at some other time. I want to understand, is there a structural thing in their pelvis that is causing that related to their uterus, to their ovaries, assist? And so I might start with just an ultrasound. An ultrasound of the, of their pelvis. So usually that means that they, for women, if they can tolerate it, be able to use a, it's a little wand that goes in the vagina and it's able to look more closely at the uterus, take measurements of it, see if it looks and appears normal. Look at the ovaries on both sides. Look at if there's any cysts or any structures that maybe shouldn't be there, a cyst that is not part of the normal function. Cis, just to be fair, to say this out loud, almost every reproductive age woman has some cysts on her ovaries. That's their, that's what they do. They make this. Form one every time you have a really. Yes, it's their job. Yeah. I think you're the one that said that. It's their job. It's their job. It's their job. To be able to release an egg, even when people are taking medicines to sort of suppress that like a birth control pill, but cysts are common. We're trying to see is there a cyst that's abnormal, has characteristics that look abnormal, like in the setting of endometriosis. If I feel really suspicious that a person might have endometriosis based on the things that they told me where I have a high suspicion, I can order a special kind of ultrasound. It's not always available at all places that do ultrasound. With an endometriosis protocol where they look at tissue sliding and it helps us to know because a person doesn't always have a big endometriosis cyst called an endometrioma. They might have endometriosis and on ultrasound, you actually can't see it most of the time. The common refrain is people who had air quotes, normal ultrasound that showed normal uterus, normal ovaries with no cyst. On a routine scan, that's kind of all they're looking for. They measure the uterus, they measure the ovaries, if there's a cyst, they measure that and that's it. That's the end of it. If you've ever had a transvaginal ultrasound, it's like 10 minutes and it's over. You cannot diagnose endometriosis that quickly unless it's just a big cyst on the ovary. Endometriosis cyst is a very characteristic appearance to it. It should not be confused with a simple cyst or physiologic cyst. It can be conflated sometimes with a hemorrhagic cyst, which is just a physiologic cyst that has blood in it, but those resolve. Endometriomas usually don't. But these specialty protocols that Maya is talking about are particularly important and they are not available in most places. It is, unfortunately, it does often fall to patients if they have any access to this knowledge, which awesome advances with social media has made it so much more clear to patients that there's a higher level of care that can be sought. The endometriosis protocol, ultrasound takes about 30 to 45 minutes. But you're looking. We're looking. Because I'm guessing that not looking is also contributes. Absolutely. And so the sliding sign that Maya talked about is by far and away the single most important thing. So you can do a full, we call it mapping ultrasound. It really takes 45 minutes. You have to be very trained for it. Either the sonographer or surgeon has to do it. We don't get any training for that in residency. We didn't really get any training for it in fellowship. It's an evolving area of research in the last like five to 10 years. It's really tremendous. And they're unfortunately for us in the U.S. like in Australia and Brazil and Europe, there are people who are light years ahead in terms of that being closer to standard of care. But we're getting there. But you look to see, do these organs slide against each other the way that they're supposed to? Meaning your uterus and your rectum are not anatomically connected to each other. And so if we put a probe in and we push the probe up and the uterus moves with the rectum, they're probably stuck together and they're not supposed to be. But if they move in opposite directions because you're putting pressure on one and not the other, then that's probably normal. And that gives me then as a surgeon, an idea of what am I likely to find? Which is irresponsible to take a patient to an operating room outside of an emergent scenario without imaging to give you a roadmap for what you're expecting to find? So I might get that ultrasound back and it says if it's totally normal, normal tissue sliding, no evidence of endometriosis implants and they're having some pain, then I might delve a little bit more into what's causing that. Is there something in the muscles of their pelvic floor? Is there something gastrointestinal? I might have a lower suspicion. I might not push as much for further workup of endometriosis. But if there's any suggestion or their story even just still really seems like this sounds like endometriosis, I might order them an MRI to really get a better sense. MRI, you can tell us a little bit more. Does the MRI also have a specialized protocol? We also want a specialized protocol for endometriosis. Not always something that's standard. And so when patients, I've had patients where I ordered it, they got it done because maybe they live far at a radiology imaging place near them. We got the results and it really wasn't very informative and then I had them repeat it at UCLA through radiology where I knew we had someone who could read it and perform the MRI in this special protocol to be informative. I was telling patients, I'm not a radiologist but I can tell you there are some fine tuning settings to the MRI machine itself that makes it more possible to see certain kinds of tissues versus other kinds of tissues and you have to make a choice because it's ultimately a photograph of which thing are we going to look for and if they're not looking for it, they're going to miss it. Yeah, I can't help though feeling lucky if people are able to come and have these specialized protocols at places like ours. But logically speaking, if that's not accessible, if the person doesn't want to do it, some patients are like, I don't want to get an MRI. What's called a right? It doesn't make me feel better. There's also the approach of clinically trying to rule out. So I might offer them, let's use our first line agents. Do treat endometriosis and happen to treat painful periods that maybe aren't endometriosis. Okay, awesome. So even without the training, you might have a suspicion that there's endometriosis for whatever reason, whether it's not access, not availability. They can't do these specialized protocols with imaging because I think it's out there and so correct me if I'm wrong but I think there's a prevailing notion that endometriosis is so hard to diagnose. So I think when we sit around the table, I'm like, yeah, but just get an MRI because I'm a doctor too. So I'm like imaging, but you're right. I mean, an MRI can feel very overwhelming and a huge hurdle for a lot of people. Yeah, I think the to interject to, I think the overarching theme as well is that patients frequently getting told that their imaging is completely normal. Even in the setting of an endometriosis protocol, ultrasound or MRI, I tell patients, this does not mean there's nothing there. So we very frequently get, we call it a negative scan. I have all normal findings. It's reported this beautiful normal anatomy. Okay, great. What that tells me. So I go, okay, let's contextualize this because they think, oh, this is going to be really fast physics. I'm just going to say your MRI and show anything. We still go through. Okay. What does that tell us? I can say we know that there is not an impact on your ureter, which is the tube that connects your kidney to your bladder. I don't see evidence that there's a large volume of endometriosis or assist on your ovary or a large implant on your rectum. I don't see evidence that there is adhesive disease that's so severe that it could actually be damaging the organs that are surrounding it. So there's a lot of things we can get from that. You still could have endometriosis. Superficial or low stage endometriosis historically has been very difficult to see on ultrasound. The most recent research is showing us that it's not, but you have to know what you're looking for. It has to be the right setting. Patients anatomy has to be somewhat cooperative or more favorable to be able to see it. Some people can't even get that ultrasound. And many people can't do it at all. Yeah, many people can't. You mean you just don't have access to it? No, actually. You can't tolerate it. So it's 30 minutes of that problem. Tolerate is such a doctor word. It is. It is when we're like, we can't tolerate it. Right. It's true. It's uncomfortable. It's painful. They can't do it. It's exquisitely, ridiculously painful. Yeah. A 10 minute ultrasound is hard for some people. Yeah. And at 30 or 45 minute where they're really using a lot more pressure in order to make those diagnoses, they just are like, I can't do this. Right. There's no man on earth who could tolerate a transrectal for sound for 30 minutes. No. Yeah. Think about that. Yeah. It's a version. What version could everybody associate to? That you're asking a person to do so that we can get this information. Right. It's a big ask. Yeah. It is. But honestly, it's great to hear you say that. I mean, I think it's just not dismissing that the workups are work and they're painful and they're arduous, I think, is in itself. Yeah. Because sometimes patients might say, well, they ordered it, but I couldn't get it done or it didn't work. I went and it didn't work. I scheduled it for the one you ordered, but then they couldn't do it that day. So they did this other one. So now I have to go back another time. And then the doctor team saying, well, you didn't get the things they asked. Right. And oh my gosh, it really shifts the blame too. Yeah. Right. That's awful. Okay. So I want to go back to then sort of, let's say, just first line of treatment. So suspected, maybe we saw it on this specialized imaging or not. But if you suspect it, I guess, Maya, from your perspective, what are the first medication treatment options? Actually it's something hormonal. So some kind of hormonal modulating medicine, whether that is a hormone like a birth control pill, a hormonal IUD, a birth control pill may have estrogen and progesterone in it together or a progesterone only type of medication that sometimes is one that prevents pregnancy. Sometimes it's one that doesn't, but both work to sort of quiet down endometriosis if we're suspicious that it's there. And sometimes that changes the person's periods, meaning they don't get periods or it makes their periods less intense. And then we'll see how that works. Like Daniel was saying, usually in three to six months, they're going to feel better. And so sometimes people don't want to alter their periods and their cycling too much. So they might, it might sound acceptable to try a birth control pill, a typical birth control pill, because that sounds familiar to them. Maybe they took it for a short while in the past, but didn't love it when they tried it. Now we're having a different approach. Like we really want to make this painful period better. They might try it, period pill packs or the pill packs are set up so you get a period usually once a month. And so they might tell me, my periods were less intense or I felt good on that pill, but when my period came, it was still kind of really painful. So then I might try, let's, if that pill wasn't really bothersome, let's have you take that same pill, skip your period, just keep taking the active pills. And then let's see what happens. This is the hill I'll die on. Yeah, go ahead, die on a hill. Well, I mean, so this is a hill. This is a hill. I'm sorry. This is a hill I'm willing to die on. So every week we blow minds about the reality that if you're on a hormonal contraceptive that is suppressing your cycle, it is not physiologically necessary for you to have a period. And so taking birth control when tolerated, when from a symptoms. So translation on your birth control pack, you can skip the placebo week. Skip the placebo pill. The placebo pills are really a sugar pill. I have a tiny, tiny amount of hormone that's not enough. It's a patriarchal holdover that said a woman has to know that she's not pregnant or otherwise you can't, I mean, come on. But I like how you say it. Or that women aren't smart enough. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, but or that women aren't smart enough, which is also ridiculous, right? Unless it's done.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected Tell me how you took them. Did you get a period? Did you bleed each month? Did you skip those pills and then when they're like, well, no, I never I never tried that I was like, well, let's try this first to see that was an option. I like how I was like bringing us away from like our patriarchal Yes, of course, okay, but this is really helpful So any other medications then and again like I'm just gonna see if I got this right But the endometrial tissue or endometrium adjacent tissue ish It's hormone It responds to the cycling of hormones in a person's period So when you take a hormonal medication like a birth control pill that same goes for a ring or hormonal IUD Or just an oral progesterone hormone even a shot or an implant all of these things will help in these cases a lot of the time You're really partnering. I mean again, I love hearing this like you're partnering like you were saying like let's try this, right? Let's see how it goes Then let's try the more the longer extended one less There's lots of different formulations. You're the patient if it's not framed correctly It sounds very willy-nilly where they're like well, you're just trying stuff like you don't even know what's gonna help So I it is helpful to frame it is not clear. Everyone's body is different Everyone's body responds differently and so what works for one person with endometriosis or painful periods Does not work for the other or maybe it works well for you, but you hate how you feel on it Then that was not gonna be good for you. We're gonna have to try something else I mean about tolerance too. It's not just that you are okay to take a pill every day It's does it affect your mood? Does it affect your weight? Does it affect your gut? Your guy health? Some people have terrible nausea The the problem or the challenge is that for every type of birth control and every symptom that someone can have on it There are people on both ends of that spectrum. Yes, my mood is great. My mood is terrible. My hair is falling out My hair is great. I'm losing weight. I'm gaining weight. My GI is better It's worse, you know, and so it always comes back to an individualized tailored approach for that particular patient What works best for them sounds like one of our favorite Themes on the show shared decision-making. Yes, what it is Okay, so if medications don't help already it do I skip any other medications? Well, there are stronger medications called GNRH agonists and antagonists and these are not first-line medications I would argue they're more like third or fourth-line medications And so the brand names for those I'm not for allowed to say brand names That people hear most often or Lyssa and Lupron is an injection The what are they mimicking I think so the Modulating I want to know am I taking an actual hormone? It's not like actually taking estrogen or progesterone into your body Okay, but it's a medicine that Modulates or affects how your body sees or makes those hormones and so it really can change tissues that are affected by those hormones So I just put it because I don't want to put hormones in my body Maybe those hormones didn't work. Yeah, or they couldn't really take them Something like this we're gonna modulate hormones in your body and that because it's confusing sometimes the de way that the receptors work In your brain is the agonist is an antigenist So in the end they work similarly in that they're working on the hormone from the brain that ultimately stimulates the hormones from the ovary They are really really effective because what they do is they grossly down regulate the ovarian production of estrogen and progesterone but we're talking about going to technically in in Really tedious, you know Descriptions of it more of like a pre-menarcal or pre-period like pre-pubescent It's like shutting down But it's basically menopause if you're 25 years old and you take a GnRH agonist or antagonist You're gonna fill menopausal and that's what I describe it's you're gonna close everything like a menopausal nine-year-old I describe it as jumping off a hormonal cliff Okay, it sounds so fun. It's not a small thing, right? It's not a small thing It's not a good first time I'm saying that but again like again, I'm who knows how painful what measure you'll take for a horrible It is life altering to be able to get a medication like this now the biggest reason that Lupron especially it's been around for a lot longer It's an injection you can do it at one month or three months The biggest reason that Lupron has had a terrible reputation among patients is because it comes with they all come with a lot of side effects So basically you're 25 years old You take all the all the side effects that would have been experienced in menopause where you had a natural slow over years decline of estrogen production Hot flashes nights wets, you know brain fog like all of those symptoms And you're gonna have them much more dramatically because you were starting at a higher level of estrogen in the first place That's rough, but it also sounds but it's an option and it sounds like it would be life-changing But again, you can mitigate the side effects with estrogen to perfect Just a little bit of estrogen will take the edge off those symptoms without losing all of the effect of it And a lot of people This conversation though sometimes patients will tell me they tried that for a short one It was awful and I might ask a little bit Did someone give you some ad-bac therapy or a medication like a progesterone type medicine? Yeah, kind of gives your body enough hormones so you don't feel as terrible But can still allow you to use that medicine to quiet down the endometriosis and the effects that's happening on your body So a lot of still modulate and tinker with and again to bring relief and informed decision-making about what are those symptoms gonna be like you mentioned Wow Why would you say yes that if your symptoms are so severe and these other things either didn't work for you or you can't take them sometimes There's medical reasons why a person couldn't take a birth control pill or a ring or something like that or they tried them And they had terrible side effects They might be working their way to things that are helpful and often these are also Motivated by a lot of people don't want to have a surgery We haven't quite said the words that the gold standard of the way to actually diagnose endometriosis with 100% certainty If it's a surgeon who is familiar with endometriosis is actually look into biopsy it right that that narrative is Shifting a bit while what since we've gotten into the new era of endometriosis protocol imaging that maybe we can get a diagnosis Fairly certainly that diagnosis is not treatment right there's a difference in that regard for sure And one other thing I was gonna say Someone could look in someone's pelvis and it was before that is before that Because people have surgery I'm just gonna I'm gonna talk it'll come back to you Yeah, it's gonna come back to you Sometimes people will have had a surgery and they're like why even had someone do surgery and look and they told me I didn't have endometriosis So the biggest thing about the medical management part of this is that it often also brings us to a fork in the road and realizing There are other diagnoses at work for someone's overall chronic pelvic pain and I just want to say for a list of medical management means we use Medications, yes, okay. Yeah, but okay, so there's a right, but there's other conflated there can be there can be other Overlying overlapping overlying things if we successfully suppress your period and we know that because you don't bleed right you don't bleed You don't have cyclic symptoms anymore that would prompt be prompted by ovulation or by the period itself If that part of it is gone and you still have pain we should be looking for something else That's actually contributing to this which is the longer conversation that it much longer But you know only the two you know you especially are willing to have yeah And I just want to say too with the kind of individualized, you know the shared decision-making I just want to remind everyone too that you can make a decision And then you're allowed to evolve and just your decision-making is allowed to grow and evolve over time right with every piece of Additional information your own experiences. So I just I think it's so wonderful that You're taking an individual's goals, right and their You know own objectives in mind when we're making these decisions because they're not small early in the first consult I ask a patient where are you on family planning? Okay, because that impacts the whole conversation sure if they say to me Oh, I'm family complete. I've had my kids. I don't want any more. I hate kids and never wanted one in the first place Whatever we have a host of different options available to us than someone who says I'm trying to get pregnant I've been trying to get pregnant for years already right and so like let's just talk about that now then I think a lot of women think and worry about fertility Tell me how endometriosis affects or has an impact on fertility spoiler alert as we don't yeah Yeah, I mean there's a more it's a more complex answer than that But in the end we don't completely know it comes down to me to in sort of environment or or overall causes and then structural Okay, if you have endometriosis that's on the fallopian tubes The tubes are a hallway between the uterus and the ovary if the tubes are damaged to the point where they're blocked You cannot get pregnant Period the egg has to be able to get from the ovary into the tube or the in the uterus for the sperm to find it Right, so if the hallway is blocked can't get pregnant It's the same as having had a tubal ligation and so if that's the problem that's we have a whole path toward that Okay, the only way someone who has tubal blockage is going to get pregnant if the tubes cannot be repaired, which is not common Not commonly possible is going to be IVF. So that's a whole conversation to be having early on Say the tubes are normal then it's a less clear conversation So sometimes this endometriosis is affecting the uterus itself, which is called adenomyosis There is a very clear relationship between endometri between infertility and adenomyosis in the same context We think that both of these conditions are just creating an overall inflammatory environment. That's just not good for early pregnancy It's bad for sperm. It's bad for the egg It's bad for the very fragile early pregnancy that's developing and can lead to miscarriage And so that we think that's kind of where that where that is in settings of adenomyosis IVF is often recommended because you're skipping the most vulnerable part of that pregnancy at the very beginning outside of the body Implanting a growing embryo and they see better success rates with that. Yeah, but that's not where you start No, it's not where you start and I think then you know, I think thank you I just wanted to talk about that for a moment too because I'm sure there's other You know impacts as well. But so so going back to the medications Let's say we've reached a point where the medications aren't helping symptoms are controlled someone is still suffering What's the next step? Can we talk about kind of you know surgeries or other next lines of treatment? Well, I would want to know yeah a little bit more about what's not helping okay good We haven't said you mentioned a little bit about we talked about the pelvic floor a little bit But often people who have this chronic inflammatory response inside their pelvis or pain sometimes not related to endometriosis That's happening regularly for example even patients with inflammatory bowel disease will sometimes have Also dysfunction of the muscles of their pelvic floor, right? And so someone who maybe we did improve their symptoms on whatever hormonal thing we decided to try together Maybe a birth control pill, but they're still having some other pain I would do an exam to understand is there actual some of the source of the pain in your muscles of the pelvic floor? And so I would do a specialized exam to touch those muscles see how much how tight they are Are they tender and painful because even though a pelvic exam isn't necessarily a comfortable exam? It shouldn't be painful and I should be able to touch on those muscles Just like I should be able to touch on Daniel's shoulder here and he's like that I feel you touching its pressure But it's not painful if he had a stiff neck and I went and smashed on his shoulder muscle He would be like oh don't do that and that's sort of how the pelvic floor is if those muscles are acting or behaving abnormally Have some dysfunction and how they're able to relax and contract then they become tender and painful it that's part of what can make sex Uncomfortable you're more painful and can be contributing It's not always all of it that can be contributing or worsening their pain So then I can offer another intervention like pelvic floor physical therapy great to make that better And that might be something I can do in addition and then I might also refer them to Daniel to say Is there a role for surgery to see if we can take this to another level of getting you less pain? So it's almost there's also like not an either or right so I mean you could write so this is helpful I mean I'm we're layering things in and it's gonna be driven by the paint the patient because sometimes patients are like I don't want that referral because I absolutely don't want surgery I want to continue to try to change my diet and take care of myself to exhaust every option Sure, they go like other people have been through this they have been told they have been gaslit They are living with it and seeing no improvement. They are ready to go to the operating room in the end You should be getting improvement with what you're doing if you're not getting improvement with what you're doing You should be being offered surgery So then it comes into a question of diagnostic surgery versus treatment surgery, right? So in my hands diagnostic surgery has the capability of being treatment surgery because I'm prepared to deal with what I find Okay, so someone who's in a smaller community where there's not an endometriosis specialist Maybe they finally get to a point where either by suggestion from their doctor. I hope or by the patient just You know sheer force of will I want the laparoscopy. I need an answer. Okay, fine Diagnostic laparoscopy on its own in terms of just the placebo effect. It's not really gonna do anything, right? It's not treating anything But it can get us some answers and so does an answer make you feel better? Sure, because you at least have a direction to where you go, but it's not gonna relieve your symptoms But it could say hey, I have worse disease than what I thought that I had or than what they thought I had and I need a specialist Who's not in my community? So diagnostic laparoscopy where we put those small incisions like we talked about at the beginning and they put a camera inside and they only Look, okay If you're a patient who's in a small community doesn't have access to a specialized to specialized care for endometriosis And your doctor is going to take you for in for a diagnostic laparoscopy You should ask them for two things one you should ask them Please document every single thing that you found with photographs and give me a copy So that you can bring that copy to your consult with me so I can look at it because it's not typical practice So people will see with their eyes surgeons and this is nothing wrong But it's just that's depending on the age of that surgeon and yeah, and their style or that community They might look and write a very detailed beautiful report saying I saw Lesions in the posterior cul-de-sac, but if they then come to Daniel He's gonna want to know more information and what were they seeing what they thought they were seeing when you have a picture Yeah, that is very clear. I can interpret what that photo looked like I get told all the time I was told I had the worst disease someone had ever seen Okay, and then I take them to the operating room and it's like stage 2 disease That's very approachable from a surgical standpoint in the hands of specialists, right? Right so the first thing is ask for photographs, okay? If they label them even better I label I send my every single patient I operate on I send home with photographs that are labeled uterus Arrow endometriosis arrow no more endometriosis arrow so that they see and know exactly what was there one for the validation of that and to Their own records if they end up in the care of someone else who's not me So they can show them what they had the second thing They should be asking for is if you find endometriosis and you don't feel comfortable taking care of it at a minimum Please biopsy a suspicious lesion that's in a lawyer there in there Yeah, to get me a secured pathology diagnosis so that we're not guessing going forward. Yes Okay, now tell me what you do that was diagnostic. Yeah, okay, and so if it's you who's doing the diagnostic meaning while you're You know doing your diagnosis and you're doing definitely doing the biopsy tell me what you do then so obviously we've gone through The the full work up sure have imaging that's given us a roadmap to what we're expecting to find I do not expect in the absence of completely normal endometriosis protocol imaging to get in and find a giant ball lesion That we've not been prepared for I still tell patients There's a possibility that something has evaded detection Okay, that we might find and we're not set up to be able to take care of it a big lesion on their diaphragm that I need a Cardiothoracic surgeon to help me with or a general surgeon who's not available Some of those things are not safe to do without the right team assembled and the lesions let's the tissue All the time Legion lesion nodule disease or interchangeable I just like to share these words. I mean I have lesions are in a changeable Yeah, so all these implants nodules lesions the same okay, and the meat all the way up on the diaphragm I just want to say that again like you're teaching me so much But like the idea that like you would have way down here from the uterus endometrium Endometrium adjacent tissue all the way up in your diaphragm. So there's a few things I mean we have as a quick aside to that We have case reports of endometriosis in virtually every organ of the body including the brain We see it in the lungs like not the brain rarely There are case reports of endometriosis in male patients. There is something more here than just you have a period that leaks out of your tubes Right doesn't make sense the so from a surgical standpoint that The traditional approach to endometriosis in laparoscopy was ablation or burning these lesions so ablation surgery When I talk about ablation surgery versus excision surgery, which is what we do UCLA okay ablation surgery When you think of the endometriosis lesion on the surface of the peritoneum peritoneum is the stretchy lining of our of our insides The lesion is kind of like an iceberg you see the top of it You do not know how big it is underneath you don't know how widespread it goes You know how deep it goes so these lesions on the peritoneum might be only one or two millimeters on the peritoneum That doesn't sound like much but on a cellular level That's quite deep and if it goes much further than that then the question is a what's on the other side of it And is that lesion even so big that you couldn't burn it if you needed to so if we just put head-to-head excision versus ablation of stage one disease It's probably similar outcomes because these are small superficial lesions It probably can be successfully treated like that Ablation causes a lot of fibrosis though that I certainly can tell you as the person coming back to do that excision surgery later on I wish I'm worried it's so even more scarring even more scarring than that's already been there And so our goal then is to try to excise that tissue because when I excise the tissue I know I've got the whole iceberg but you're cutting it all out. What I'm leaving underneath it is absolutely normal tissue Okay, and Once you've had surgery are then you endometriosis free I have to say like I can't imagine given the fact of like everything we're talking about and it could be all these places and icebergs Yeah, so no, but not it's I mean certainly hopes So yeah, so we have to on from the very beginning of a consult about endometriosis have a real conversation This is a chronic disease. This is not a thing that I can cure you of It's not a thing that you will ever ever get to a point where you don't have to think about it at all Yeah, we hope with menopause that maybe because your estrogen levels are so much lower that you will probably see that improve Sometimes people go on really high doses of hormone replacement therapy or menopausal hormone replacement therapy They actually reactivate so there's a nuanced conversation in setting of people who have endometriosis who need menopause treatment They should not be denied menopause treatment, but we should have a nuanced conversation about what the goals are I mean, I'm just really Stunned by just how chronic the disease is and just how it sounds like just how global it affects, you know our bodies, but I mean I kind of think about dealing in coping with any chronic disease that Patients need support and community. I mean, what are what are you know, you mentioned pelvic? I think Therapy is like as a man. That's kind of like a modality of relief and treatment But what about like I mean what are other other I guess kind of overlapping diagnoses or conditions? I mean, I can't imagine people feeling great, you know mentally. I would my well-being would definitely be affected I mean it's variable, right? Yes Some people are pretty resilient with this and seem to be able to to handle it The impact that it has on their life and they feel like they're having a pretty full existence Otherwise all that subjective. Yes, if you feel like this is impacting your life, it's impacting it enough I tell patients all the time. This is not a contest of awful if it's bad for you. It's bad for you It doesn't have to be as bad as what somebody else had for it to merit treatment or merit attention There there's so much more support online than there ever used to be before We're looking at group models doctors of Pada as a champion for centering. Yes Education in patient care. I don't know if you guys have talked about we have but no let's talk about it again We haven't it's a centering health care is a type of group-based approach. It's patient-centered and it's facilitated Visit where the patients actually learned from one another we bring topics and they are the ones that are guiding the Conversation with an expert who then can educate them But it's based on adult learning theory Which we know that adults if you give them a lecture and even just in your amazing visit with patients You say this much they make take out this much because only so much can sink into an adult brain when you are trying to absorb All this information and it's evidence-based that when you do these different modules and activities They're based on adult learning theory patients retain much more. They feel validated They get the peer support so it's this way of building in peer support education the medical care They need in a patient-centered way, so we've got that going for pregnancy at UCLA. We have it going for menopause It's just we're getting started with it for a nutrition standpoint Yes So the nutrition component of endometriosis care and chronic pelvic pain is really also an evolving I feel like unfortunately everything is evolving still but it's a it's a currently evolving area of inquiry and interest and because we if you're dealing with Some spectrum of an inflammatory bowel problem or just a dietary intolerance That leads to inflammation in the gut people call it endobelida Swelling that the experience with your period that can be really profound Part of what we need to be focusing in on is is there a dietary component that's triggering some of these symptoms as well We're listening sure right there was a there was a survey study that was done Pretty recently that was asking patients with endometriosis of all the things that you try to change with nutrition What actually helped and so and it included all kinds of stuff supplements and all these everything you read about online And the only things that it showed that actually made a difference seemed to make a difference across this survey was reduction of alcohol caffeine Gluten and dairy mm-hmm, and so we start there and we start there with me because I'm gonna usually refer this patient if they have Severe bloating they need to probably seek Astroenterologists We have to build a team right yeah, and so there's some preemptive things that we can go ahead and start doing so we talk about We talk about It's a colony customer Exclusion like yes, that's not what it's called elimination elimination. Yes We talk about elimination diets and an elimination diet is where you take one thing out of the diet So you there's a couple of ways you can do it You can take everything out and slowly add one thing back in at a time or you can take one thing out at a time and see What what impact it has obviously one is severely more restrictive than the other But it can help somebody notice a huge difference I have so many patients that come back and they go oh, yeah, I cut x thing out of my diet I feel you know 50% better than I did already great and then they shared it and then they shared it groups And yes, you were saying there's not a lot there you you said this very logical like of course people would probably need support for this But healthcare is not set up. That's turn ice healthcare not set up for that type of Humans for the whole person support. So Daniel also like we're having to break out of the the historic paradigm of Pain is shameful. Mm-hmm women's pain means you're weak That it was not a thing that people talked about it's just like generations of our mothers that suffered with terrible menopause Yeah, they didn't have to quiet just that's why it because you know when you talk about it The more you hear that when you hear someone else's story and you're like I You're I thought I was the only one that had to do that like being able to share those stories being able to be witnessed That way is really powerful So we're trying to make this happen the centering for chronic pelvic pain endometriosis where patients They're still you can't get surgery in a group But the rest of the care that can support you in that journey because as we've described exactly a journey This is not like I go for one visit a consultation and then I'm done I get this one treatment and I'm done you need tools to help support you in your journey for Managing this healing from this and then how do I integrate this into my life when I want to have a baby? And how do I manage this when I don't want to have a baby when I? Are I'm having symptoms that are worse. I'm having stressors in life It's impacting some my relationship you need a different approach that is not just a one-on-one visit right you need the community I mean, let's just I mean and let's just talk about it. I mean why has this condition this chronic disease this I mean debilitating you know disease it's been around for thousands of years obviously since the beginning of human time Greek records of people within Dometriosis, I mean that's incredible and of course right we didn't have a label for it But that's what it was exactly and I mean I think that the naming the label all of these things are critical right to you know feeling recognized to Voice you know to getting relief But like why like why the silence? Why has it been overlooked for for for so long? I mean, you know, I think you we've talked about right that I mean it hasn't been a big part of our training I'm guessing it hasn't been a big part of research. I hear you using the words evolving It's never too late to evolve so but like why do you what do you both think like wise because it happens to women? Yeah People don't care about women, but you care. I mean like listen you're here both of you are here with dedicated our whole lives Yeah, yeah, first we do but we're still not perfect either Yes, I it's it's such a bigger question. Yeah, so chronic pelvic pain of any chronic pain chronic anything Yes, I mean you're an internist right? Yeah, so chronic anything is challenging. It takes a lot of time We operate in a healthcare system that says you should be able to do all this in 15 minutes That's impossible. I had to tell my old manager at my job before I came here one time I cannot do a chronic pelvic pain consult in 15 minute visit like I can't turn myself into a horse She's oh Like you really can't do it like it took such an extreme example I understand that I can't do something No, and no one would want you to no one wants to have a 15 minute conversation about that's a lot of it I think there's research too though. I mean there's obviously been a big gap in it was like 50 years ago We didn't include women in research at all. Yeah, and that's definitely still evolving I think it's really important to to think too about people with endometriosis. There's such a wide spectrum some people have Pretty severe endometriosis that's managed quite well with first-line agents. It gets better They're treated well, and they don't have a lot of symptoms. It doesn't affect their life much They just take this medicine every day, and they're great And then there's on this other side of the spectrum There are patients that either the medicines don't work for them the pelvic for PT the surgery They still have because of endometriosis Severe pain that is impacting them on a daily basis those people need to be handled and get resources They're different. It's not a one-size-fits-all thing and so I think part of what also has led to it over time being Maybe not focused on or given so much attention because sometimes People dismiss the ones that are on the the farther end of it They're more affected and assume that maybe that's just something about them and not the actual disease And so I think being able to really encompass like include everyone that that has that disease and be able to still address Even the most severe cases in a way that's appropriate for them I mean but even for you know such a you know difficult to diagnose Historically overlooked maybe challenging to treat but I have to say I mean I listen. I'm like, okay There's so much to do. I mean tell me how you feel about I guess then the chronic pelvic pain Have you been gratified as a physician in caring for patients and with this kind of? Yeah, that's why I mean I didn't go into OBGYN to do chronic pelvic pain things I think just by accident when I had worked at one of my old jobs I was next door to people that did chronic pain and they would get into my clinic because it was on the same day as the People who did the chronic pelvic pain so I would get them and then I would go ask my friends in the chronic pelvic pain clinic What do how to teach me something? Yeah, that's how I ended up doing a lot more of it But when you can say yes, we did this management of your endometriosis But this residual pain is maybe the muscles or you would qualify for an injection of something that could help those muscles to Soften whether that's Botox or or a light a keen and trigger point injection And then or or they just get sent to physical therapy that no one had sent them for before most people have never heard Most most people are like what someone's gonna put a finger in my vagina. Are you sure that's gonna help me again? Your colleague is coming on a show to discuss this Expectation like we are dealing with muscles that have been working in a dysfunctional way because of your condition for years When you start spousums and contract gonna be painful Contracted. Yeah, sometimes like well. I went once it hurt so bad that didn't work for me Can I say okay, so I send nearly everybody? I know I get real excited about this because I so for starters on a personal level I don't have a problem sharing. I have been to a pelvic floor physical therapist I've had a terrible pelvic floor spasm problem that was developed truly debilitating I think I did a pretty good job of taking care of patients before that happened to me It definitely altered my appreciation for what they're experiencing So when I tell a patient about going to pelvic PT I go there's a couple things you need to know one This is an internal exam. This is not a massage. It is not gonna feel good the first two to three appointments You're gonna probably have more pain after the appointment than you had before and if you don't know that you go to that first appointment You at home. You're like that's something happened. I am not going back to that We have to get through that It's the same as if you're not a runner and you go out and you run really hard Then you're gonna not be able to run again for you know a period of time But as you continue to do that that will get easier So usually after the second or third pelvic PT appointment if if you're doing internal work or internal exams And and manual therapy on these muscles You'll get to a place where you're maybe like a little sore when you leave the appointment But you're better later. Yes, and that's where you start really doing Improving really set that expectation. Yeah, that's important. Right. The expectation upfront and then I'm gonna also add Most physical therapist will also help patients with breath breathing breath breathing that relates on the outside Mindfulness and how you use your breath. Yeah, which then relates to chronic stress management Even if sometimes patients like but I'm not really stressed I have a job that I like and I might if my family's good. I'm good, but but integrated I mean even when we're bringing in, you know, Gia, you know, gastrointestinal  intestinal, IBS, all these symptoms, while I think everyone forgets, but while things aren't supposed to be stuck together, these organs are right next to each other. Correct. Right? And so, oh my gosh, I think about when you have a little sore in your mouth, I'm like, why does it feel so big? I mean, you think about inflammation around your uterus, your ovaries, and then right there is your bowels, your intestines, your rectum. It all is very, very connective. Inflammation in one is going to probably cause inflammation in the other. Exactly. And what you eat and how you feel. Stress, chronic stressors, well, worse than all those things. Yeah, we haven't gone quite as far as saying it. What Maya was just talking about is the element of pain psychology that is so important because so many of these patients have either been just flat out told or been made to think that they were crazy, which is just so egregious because you're not crazy, but you have this real problem that someone else doesn't understand. Which is its own psychological assault. Their own psychological assault, for sure, but the mindfulness component of that is so important. Patients aren't going to just learn that on their own. They have to be instructed in how to do it. And this is this other tool. And have an expectation. And have an expectation. Just all of a sudden doing a meditation app for five minutes isn't going to make your pain go away, but we have evidence about how that might change, how you perceive it, how you're able to manage it while you're waiting for whatever treatments to slowly improve things because it's not going to just like a light switch. Right. But it's also this whole toolkit. And again, it's not like. That's exactly right. So, you know, it's not just the control pill or, you know, the GRNH hormone modulator. Look at that. It slipped off the tongue. You know what I mean? Or, you know, and or surgery, but it's also sure it's the mindfulness. It's the nutrition. So I just really commend you for thinking about it in this because we're human beings. We're not just like one organ. Okay. We're going to go to our asking for a friend. Yes. Okay. I have bad cramps and I've been watching a lot of videos on social. Should I get tested for endometriosis? That's such a such a great question. Yeah. But that often will come to me when they come for their annual. And I'll tell them there is no test. There's just no simple test for endometriosis. And so I would ask them some more questions to say, tell me more about your painful cramps like we talked about earlier. What's happening? When are you having discomfort? What have you tried for it? Is it better when you try those things? And then are you open or willing to an ultrasound? So an ultrasound is a pretty easy way to just get a sense. Just a regular ultrasound. Is there a big old endometriosis cyst that we're like, wow, yes, seems like you might have that or is it more than on other investigation afterward. But yes, yes, it's a start. And so that's something that's available to most people. And you know, some gynecologist might be a little bit resistant when a person goes into their annual exam. Like you don't need it. I don't, I did your exam or your, I mean, I don't think you have endometriosis, but it's something that you can ask for and they should be able to say yes today. So maybe the question too is like, not only should I get tested, but should I talk about this? You should talk about it. And after talking about it, the person might not even want an ultrasound after talking about it or feeling reassured about what their symptoms are or what they do or don't have. But I think that starting with an ultrasound is a great place with the understanding that it is not a screening test. There is no screening test for it and that there's so much more to understanding about the symptoms or happen. But even if it, even if it happened as a screening test, right, we don't just routinely screen just like we don't routinely screen with ultrasound for a variant cancer, right? You're going to find cysts that are nothing that lead to surgery that didn't accomplish anything and hurt somebody. So you, you wouldn't just start doing an endometriosis ultrasound on every single person who has no symptoms. All of the management that we have in the context of endometriosis and chronic pelvic pain is symptom driven. Okay. That's really helpful to know because I mean, it kind of goes into the next question, which is I'm 28. I want to have kids someday, right? I'm hearing, definitely listening to us, right? You know, concerns about fertility. What if I have endometriosis? I think a lot of women are going to feel this way. This is probably the one of the most common. Right? What if I have endometriosis and I don't know it? And again, I think this speaks to your spectrum of symptoms, right? Like maybe I don't have debilitating periods, but is there a silent part of the condition? I mean, it definitely can be. I always tell patients like one person stage one disease is someone else's stage four symptoms and vice versa. So you definitely can have, have that be there and have had no, no reason to know about it. I think it's especially difficult for people who are not considering pregnancy until later in the reproductive years, right? What is, what does that consider? So I mean, we consider anything after 35 to be advanced maternal age, which is horrible. You're advanced maternal age 36 or so. You're just conveying the name that it's given. I know. It's what it's called. I didn't invent it, but they got, yeah. But they, you know, any, anytime we're like getting to that range. So what I, I tell patients in their 20s, so I forget how old this example was. We'll say she's 28. It's a perfect age, right? So you're a long way from where we were worried about that. Where, what do you foresee is what your ideal timeline would be. If she says it's in five years, I go, go live your life. When you get to the point, if you're having, this is presupposing no symptoms, right? Presupposing no symptoms. There were symptoms, we're working that up. But if there were no symptoms, is it go live your life? You do not have infertility until you have infertility because I have never told a patient with endometriosis or PCOS that just because they had that diagnosis, they cannot get pregnant. That's how people have an unintended pregnancy when they, they were. That's a very important message. It happens all the time. If you don't have absolute confirmation that you truly cannot get pregnant strictly based off of a diagnosis, you need to be using contraception if you're sexually active and you're not trying to be pregnant. Yeah. No, it's a blurry line because I think I appreciate that people want to be proactive, but at the same time, right? We don't want you to have unnecessary. And that's along the lines. This same type of patient might come in and also say they're not trying to get pregnant yet, but maybe soon. And then they would like some kind of workup, or might they hurt, my tubes could be blocked, but I want to know if they're blocked. And so we really wouldn't just order that exam. Number one, it's invasive. It's painful. It's a very painful exam to see if the tubes are open. And just because I prove that your tubes are open does not prove that you're going to get pregnant on your own. That is one among many factors. One many factors. And so I would still say the exact same thing. You don't have infertility. You have infertility. So I might change some of the workup. So if I have this person who's like, I was told that endometriosis, maybe this, the history they give me seems pretty consistent with how they had symptoms. They were put on the birth control pill. This 28 year old, it works great. I feel great. I love how things are. But then when I go to get pregnant, let's see. So I might say, we have, we have pretty sure you have endometriosis. You're off your pill. If you're not getting pregnant, maybe I shorten. Yeah. Maybe I short your 28. You should have pretty good ovarian reserve and be able to get pregnant pretty quickly. So then I might say, we're going to start the workup. We're not going to use the same definition of what we count as infertility for you because I have this other suspicion. We might start that workup with seeing if your tubes are open, with doing some other imaging, with sending you to reproductive endocrinologist sooner because that's individualized based on what I know about you. Again, there's still no one test for your fertility, but I'm going to have a higher suspicion and I'm going to advise you differently. Speaking of ovarian reserve, maybe we could define that because our next question is, as I heard, endometriosis could impact my ovarian reserve. It depends. Okay. If you have endometriosis that's not affecting your ovaries, probably not. If the endometriosis is an endometrioma, which is just the name for an endometriosis cyst on the ovary, then it is for sure going to damage your ovarian reserve. So now we automatically have to go back to what are our goals, what's our timeline. So say someone has an endometrioma, it's of a small to moderate size that in and of itself may or may not be causing really bad symptoms compared to one that's like the size of a volleyball or a cantaloupe or a grapefruit that is certainly going to be very symptomatic, it's going to be painful from a pressure standpoint, et cetera. The first question that we want to know is what's the goal here? First what's the symptom, then what's the goal? So if the symptom is pain, it needs to be treated period, full stop. If the goal then is, I'm in the middle of a fertility workup already and we've discovered that I have an endometrioma. Well that's where we have to start making some team discussions here with your infertility specialists about what do they recommend because they could check a test called an anti-malarian hormone or an AMH that can give you as best an estimation as we have, relatively nonspecific, but it's a better estimator than even an ultrasound looking at your antral follicle count of what your ovarian reserve is and your likelihood to have good quality eggs that could lead to a pregnancy. If we know that someone has a low ovarian reserve already and they have an endometrioma, we probably need to be more conservative in the way that we approach treating that endometrioma compared to someone who has a very high ovarian reserve. Their ovary could quote take a hit a little bit more, you could maybe completely remove that cyst, get them sufficient or not sufficient significant symptomatic relief, probably going to experience some decrease in your AMH level or your ovarian reserve overall, but if you're starting at very high level, maybe that's okay and we see it rebound a little bit afterward, but if it was really bad to start with, it's going to be even worse afterward. You're describing treatment just to be really clear, meaning take out that endometrioma that's on the cyst, one could imagine that an expert surgeon could just gently peel that away and leave the ovary untouched, but that's not what that really looks like. That's why you're talking about a hit, to really remove that abnormal tissue that's adjacent and connected to the ovary usually means damaging the ovary a certain amount that most ovaries, many ovaries rebound from just fine, but in this scenario when we're really focused on fertility, that might not be something that that person's body could handle. In the question of fertility, we talk about subfertility, which is maybe you don't have like an outright cause of infertility, but we have subfertility where just the overall milieu of what would create a successful pursuit of pregnancy is suboptimal. The question of how you approach this, endometrioma on an ovary compared to a physiologic cyst, a simple cyst that has fluid in it or one that has blood in it, those separate really easy from an ovary, from a surgical standpoint. Endometrioma is like dense velcro. As you start pulling dense velcro apart, if one side of that was normal tissue, it is stripping that normal tissue off, it's stripping those follicles also. It's not just a simple question of, hey, you have an endometrioma, I should take you to surgery and take it out. Yeah. That's what you're describing is so difficult to really say without the context of one person because it can be so different. People have surprise endometriomas and get pregnant no problem. We diagnose them on the first ultrasound and I'm like, oh, hey, by the way, there's this cyst. I mean, first ultrasound for their pregnancy. For their pregnancy. No, because when you confirm a pregnancy, I'm also looking around at your ovaries. Do you have fibroids? People have surprise fibroids. People have surprise endometriomas and they're like, I have no pain. My periods aren't even painful. Like I had no idea. We would manage it. We don't do anything to it. So that's what I was saying. The spectrum can be so wide that not everyone would need an endometrioma taken out. They might be managed in a way that means we just watch it. We use medications in the setting of getting pregnant. There are people that know it's there. We've managed it and watched it. And then they just get pregnant on their own. And then there's people that just can't get pregnant. And then we're trying to decide what's the best way to manage your fertility and your endometriosis. Yeah. I mean, the last point on the endometriomas question too is in shared decision making and counseling with their infertility doctor for someone who already has poor ovarian reserve or low ovarian reserve. The answer may not be that we only just watch it. Say this is like an 8, 10 centimeter grapefruit size endometrioma. It's causing a lot of pain. The recommendation may be just drain the cyst. We don't routinely drain ovarian cysts. If it's a cancer, that's the wrong thing to do. But we should have a very high degree of certainty that we talk about sensitivity and specificity when we talk about tests. And the higher the sensitivity is, the more likely it's going to be the thing you thought it was. The higher the specificity is, the higher the chance that the thing you didn't think it was is not what it was. So if we know that an endometrioma that has this very characteristic appearance on an ovary has an exceptionally low but not zero chance of being a cancer, could possibly be drained. We get you symptomatic improvement from that. The problem, of course, is that an endometrioma that's drained can recur. But again, we come back to what are our goals. If we're in the middle of trying to get pregnant, that might get you relief, not retain most of your ovarian function or your ovarian reserve that's already there so you can pursue forward toward pregnancy. Most patients during pregnancy with endometriosis are going to have really good control of their symptoms. It's actually kind of quiet down. Yes. But it's not treatment. No. On the list of insane things that people have said to women for many, many decades has been just get pregnant. That kid has to go to high school and be a part of your life forever. That's not a treatment for a thing that happens every month. After pregnancy, so sometimes patients, it gets so much better that then after their pregnancy, then they'll say, well, I don't want to go back on anything because I'm feeling great. I'll warn them. It's going to come back. Let's talk about year to year. We might need to use those treatments. Have a low bar to restart therapy. I know I have to get you guys back to your real lives. I just need to ask this though because this just sparked a question for me. Is that okay if I keep asking some questions? You mentioned the pregnancy quiet down. That's going to remind me as a general internist that people say the same thing to me about autoimmune conditions. Is there an idea that there's any autoimmune component caused to endometriosis? Again, I was just at this conference this past week and that's a newer topic that we're talking about. Are you saying I'm on the cutting edge? You are. I'm on the spear. Are you a deep cutting edge doctor? Your question is on the cutting edge though for sure. We don't have the research to show it. People make some wild claims about what we know or don't know. We make a lot of assumptions. We certainly have some very basic science evidence that on a cytokine level, these really small enzymes that we see, maybe there's a difference in patients with their enzymes with microbiome. The cytokines, for our audience, people probably remember these. These came a lot up during COVID. I don't know, the cytokines and inflammation. It's interesting because you have pregnancy. Chemical messengers. Because we have this high estrogen state but a low inflammatory environment. Those chemical messengers get released in inflammation. When there's tissue that is inflammatory, whether that's from some other autoimmune disease or inflammation from some other chronic condition, those little messengers wreak havoc in different places. Some of those cytokines, just to get nerdy over the research part of it for a second, we do have studies that have shown that people have a decrease in their inflammatory cytokines after excision surgery. Great. We're going to move on to from the rooftops because I have to say that it seems to be that the other tool is awareness. If you could shout just one message, you can say as much as you want, from the rooftops to anyone suffering or wondering about endometriosis, what would it be? Make sure that they've had a conversation and they feel like the person is listening to them. They've been able to talk about different options and really feel like options have been explored and explained to them. We're real good as doctors about giving you a bunch of information but that doesn't mean it was explained well. Someone might have been given options that didn't make any sense to them. What that feels like if you're the patient is you didn't get any options. It still has to make sense and understand the rationale of why we would start this approach. For example, with the physical therapy, if it doesn't make any sense, why would you go do it? You have to understand how that might be a helpful tool while you're doing these other things so all the pieces need to feel like they make sense and have some of the physiology explained which is not intuitive. Great. Amazing, obviously. There are two. One is to a younger person or to a parent of a younger person. If your period is interfering with school, you should be investigating it. If you are not making progress on any particular treatment modality, progress means I'm getting quality of life back. I can go do the day I had planned for myself. You should be investigating this further and that might require a referral to a specialty center. Was that two? I think so. I was going to say, I'm just so riveted. Young people with bad periods that are impairing their quality of life should be investigating. I like that you're also bringing in a parent or guardian. It's the advocacy as well. Oh, man. This should be for our friends too and especially younger people. I see a lot of parents that come in with their younger adult or adolescent, even patient for a console and they are carrying a tremendous amount of guilt because they've seen this devolve over time into worse and worse quality of life. Sometimes these kids are not able to go to school at all. They're on a study from home program because they're missing so much school they can't go. That translates then 10 years later as an adult into someone who can't keep a job because they keep getting better. Yes. Horrenda's like that. But often fear too because especially when we just said that most of the treatments are hormonal based. A lot of people, like my child is too young, I don't want them to be on hormones. When symptoms are that severe, there has to be a real conversation understanding what the different treatment options look like and then the implications or the impact of that disorder that's happening in their body on their long term health and well being. It's not one size fits all but it requires a conversation to see is there something we can do to make them feel better even if it's not our first line treatment. Maybe that's not an acceptable option to that person or that family but is there something else we can be doing to make them feel better? There is always something else. It sounds like there's a fear of diagnosis but it's always just reminding everyone to balance out if not eclipse that fear of diagnosis if that's there with just the relief. The relief that's a huge, huge option. Okay, those were great. Wait, I just realized why don't I get a rooftop? Bear with me. I'm new to podcasting. Maya is like you and your pain deserve attention. Yes. Okay, Maya, Daniel, I could really talk to you forever. I can't thank you enough. This is not only just so informative. This is obviously such a critical conversation. I look forward to having you both come on but I think just even just there's so much to demystify but even just explain and explore. There's still a lot. I know that they're evolving. Go. Another thought. Ask for support in your life like adult people and children in school who are young adults in school or people that they just know they're managing it their best but they can't go to work during those days because of how they're managing it or what their symptoms are. You can get like FMLA, you can get a note from your doctor. Family medical leave, yeah. You can talk to your job and we can ask for an accommodation. And find a community. Find a community of people and there are ways to accommodate around. Even if you're doing all the things sometimes you still need that and people don't feel like that's an option to ask for. Don't know that that's an option. If you don't need it you can be the one to provide it. That's right. Don't be alone because you're not. It's beyond encouraging. I mean it just to me is transformative. Both of you, who you are as people and as physicians and what you offer your patients. It's not nothing. I want to say it's the norm. I can't wait to normalize you and your approach. As genotour listeners I hope that everyone you all feel empowered to listen to your bodies, partner with your providers, keep asking questions until you're heard. And my goodness I think to anyone living with endometriosis you can both speak as well. But I would say while we don't have a cure, I mean I think it's very clear that there's medications, there's therapies, there's minimally invasive surgery that can really bring relief. And just as important clinicians like Dr. Zapata, Dr. Genhu, really take your pain seriously and advocate for you. Thank you both so much for sharing your expertise and your compassion. For our listeners there's links to trusted resources in the episode description and for everyone. Until next time, stay curious and healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. Thanks.