Hi everyone. I'm Dr. Joshua Cohen. I'm a gynecologic oncologist at UCLA Medical Center. Thank you for joining us this afternoon. Today we're going to be talking about endometrial cancer and discussing the surgical advancements and personalized medicine that we can offer for the treatment of endometrial cancer. Thank you very much for joining us today. If you do have questions, please submit them through Twitter or YouTube and use the hashtag UCLAMD chat. At the end of the talk in the next 25 minutes or so, we'll get to those questions and uh please feel free to send them in. This is meant to be an interactive session. So during the course of this presentation, we're going to review the upfront management of endometrial cancer, the genetic underpinnings, and subsequent treatment strategies with a focused on personalized medicine for patients diagnosed with endometrial cancer. Today it is September and I wanted to mention that it is gynecologic cancer awareness month. As a gynecologic oncologist, this is a very important month for us. It gives us a chance to bring attention to something that we're all very passionate about and that's gynecologic cancer. Today we're talking about endometrial cancer. And another word for endometrial cancer is uterine cancer. But there are four other cancers that I'd like to mention. Ovarian cancer, bulvar cancer, vaginal cancer, and cervical cancer. These are all cancers that arise in the gynecologic organs. And sadly in the United States of America, 98,000 women will be diagnosed with one of these cancers this year and 30,000 women will die from a gynecologic cancer this year. We're hoping that with new research and support, we can make a dent in this number and we continue to see new advances, many of which we'll talk about today, with the hope that we can bring both of these numbers down to zero. I'd like to start with some anatomy. Anatomy is a very important thing because as a patient you really want to understand what your doctor is talking about. For endometrial cancer, the focus is really the uterus. Uterus are where babies grow. There are two parts to the uterus. There's the top part of the uterus called the uterine fundus and then there's the bottom part of the uterus called the cervix. When babies grow, they grow in the uterine fundus. And when moms dilate during pregnancy, it's called the cervix. The analogy I use is the state of California, Northern and Southern California. Two very different geographic regions, but all part of the same state. If you can imagine, the uterine fundus is Northern California and the cervix is Southern California. When a doctor does a papsmear, for instance, they're checking for cancer in Southern California. They're not checking for cancer in Northern California. Today, the focus of our talk will be on Northern California or cancer in the uterine fundus. There's also the ovaries and tubes. The ovaries and tubes come off the side of the uterus. The ovaries are what make estrogen and hormones for women. And when someone makes an egg, the egg originates in the ovary. The way the egg gets to the uterus is by traveling through the fallopian tube. So the eggs develop here. It travels through the fallopian tube. When someone ovulates, the egg ends up in the uterine fundus. And if sperm meets the egg, that becomes an embryo and potentially a baby. It's important to understand these terms and over the course of the next few minutes, we'll talk more about the ovaries, the tubes, the uterus, and the cervix. The other important term to be familiar with is lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are like the highway infection. When you have swollen glands in your neck, those are lymph nodes. When someone is diagnosed sadly with an a cancer and in a in the setting of a gynecologic cancer, we focus on lymph nodes in the pelvis. So often times you'll hear a cancer doctor say we need to evaluate your lymph nodes to see if the cancer had made its way there. The analogy I use for this is uh the freeway. If you can imagine the 405, there's on-ramps and off-ramps. Cancer cells can leave a location, get on an on-ramp and off an another off-ramp. If we evaluate lymph nodes, we have a better idea of where those cancer cells have got on and off during their travels throughout your body. For uterine cancer, we focus on lymph nodes in the pelvis. So uterine or endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic cancer. 62,000 women will be diagnosed with endometrial cancer this year, which is 3.5% of all new cancers for women in the US. 12,000 women will die from cancer related to the uterus this year and that represents 2% of all women who will pass away from cancer this year. It is the most common gynecologic cancer as I mentioned. 27.5 new cases per 100,000 women per year, 4.7 deaths per 100,000 women per year. And approximately 3.1% of women will be diagnosed with endometrial cancer at some point in their lifetime. meaning that there is a reasonable chance that either you or a loved one will be impacted by this cancer. When I say endometrial cancer, that is very similar and basically conotes the same thing as uterine cancer and I will use both of those terms intera interchangeably during the talk. So what are some symptoms of endometrial cancer? irregular periods, post-menopausal bleeding, abdominal bloating and pain, pelvic pain, changes to bowel or bladder habits, meaning how often you pee or have a bowel movement, increasing size of the uterus after one's gone through menopause, meaning if you're no longer having periods, it's not normal that your uterus would get bigger and bigger and bigger, and any type of abnormal vaginal discharge. Now, these symptoms independently are not as concerning, but if they're persistent and you're having increasing symptoms, you need to let your doctor know. Be an advocate for yourself. Whether it's your OB/GYN or your primary care doctor, let them know. Say, "Hey, I'm not feeling good. This is what's happening. Can you help?" And then that'll give them information that they need to order the appropriate test or to do a biopsy or to at least get you to the right doctor who can help. So, advocate for yourself, advocate for your loved ones, mention these symptoms if they're happening. What are some risk factors for endometrial cancer? Increasing age, so older patients. If someone using is using unopposed estrogen uh during the course of their lifetime, if you were very young when you had your first period, somewhere around 8 n or 10, if someone's never had a baby, if someone went through natural menopause much later in life. The average age in menopause in the US is about 51. And so if you go through menopause much later in your mid to late 50s or early 60s that does increase your risk of endometrial cancer, diabetes melllois, obesity, something called lynch syndrome which we'll talk about more. That's a genetic condition that you inherit from your parents uh and increases your risk of uterine or endometrial cancer. Something called tmoxifen which is an important drug that we use in the treatment of breast cancer. and something called polycystic ovarian syndrome which is a diagnosis that's very common for women who do not ovulate regularly. So what's our approach to endometrial cancer? How do we address it? Well, first and foremost, I would recommend whether it's you or a loved one that you ask to visit with a gynecologic andcologist. These are doctors as I am who've had special training in the treatment of gynecologic cancer. We do an OB/GYN residency and then we do special training for another 3 to four years on how to treat gynecologic cancer. Whether you're in a community practice or or you're in a large health system, advocate for yourself again and say, "I'd like to see a gynecologic oncologist so that they can help give me treatment recommendations for my cancer." You want to make sure that you have the correct pathologic diagnosis. Endometrial cancer is a common cancer for women, but it's also still fairly rare in the big picture of cancer. And you really want an expert to look at the slides, the tissue that's biopsied from the uterus or somewhere else in your body and look at it under the microscope and give the best possible diagnosis so your doctors have the best possible information. Usually that's going to be done at a larger tertiary care hospital like UCLA or a cancer center where you have experts in gynecologic cancer who look at these under the microscope more commonly. If surgery is needed, ideally we try to do this with little incisions called laparoscopic or laparoscopic robotic surgery. And if your doctor is recommending surgery, ask them about minimally invasive surgery and whether that's an option. And we'll talk more about that in just a couple minutes. And then you really want the application of the latest evidence-based methods in cancer care and access to clinical trials. Clinical trials represent the latest and greatest in cancer care. What are the new drugs we have to treat women and what do we think is the next exciting thing that will hopefully cure someone. And wherever you are, you should hear about clinical trials and what is what's the next best available thing that we're all starting to use for the treatment of endometrial cancer. So endometrial cancer is surgically staged. Surgically staged endometrial cancer means that we would remove the uterus, the cervix, usually the tubes and ovaries and sample the lymph nodes. We then can assign a stage which is a description of where the cancer has spread. That stage is very important both for prognosis and to help us determine what the next treat treatment step may be. Whether that's radiation, chemotherapy or observation. If no, if someone says, "Dr. Cohen, I do not want surgery or I refuse surgery," then there are other options that we have that are not curative but may still help. And that's radiation, chemotherapy, and hormonal therapy, which is usually a medication called progesterone or a relative of progesterone. There are different ways to do hysterctomies. And I mentioned that ideally we would do a minimally invasive surgery. A minimally invasive surgery means use little incisions to detach the uterus, the cervix, the tubes and the ovaries from the surrounding pelvic structures. And usually the the uterus is removed through the vagina. There are other approaches. There's an up and down incision which is a midline incision and that's a big incision. Uh that's the oldfashioned incision that we used to do 20 to 30 years ago for everybody. There's something called vaginal hyctomies where you only operate through the vaginal opening and don't make any incisions on the abdomen. And so this is an important dialogue to have with your doctors, your cancer doctors about what what options you have for the route of hysterctomy. For younger patients who are sadly diagnosed with endometrial cancer, there is the option for fertility preservation. What that means is we can actually work with doctors called infertility specialists or REI doctors to collect eggs from the ovaries before you have the ovaries removed. Those eggs can then be saved and frozen or they can be connected with sperm and made into embryos. The embryos can then be frozen and then biologically that child could be yours if you choose to have a baby down the road with a gestational carrier. There are also some women who do not want to have the ovaries removed during the surgery and that's an option in which case the ovaries would remain in place and the eggs can be collected later on and again a friend or surrogate or gestational carrier can carry the pregnancy for you. But biologically the baby is yours. And then another option for fertility preservation is where the uterus is not removed. Again in the setting of endometrial cancer that's not recommended. But for patients who understand those risks and choose to keep the uterus in place, there's the option of local progesterones to try to push the cancer back to prevent it from spreading and to give someone enough time to try to have a child biologically. An important point that I'd like to make is the difference between grade and stage. I just mentioned that stage is the diagnosis of where the cancer cells had spread. Grade is what something looks like under the microscope. Grade is how the cells look. So in this diagram, this is an example of what pathology doctors look at under the microscope. They're looking at the cells. Do they look like they're dividing fast? Do they do the cells look more regular? Do they look very irregular? Do they look more aggressive? That's grade and it's grade 1, two, and three. One is the least aggressive, and three is the most aggressive. Stage again is a description of where the cancer cells had spread. Have they spread to the ovaries? Have they spread to the cervix? Have they left the uterus and gone into the abdominal cavity where the liver is or where the intestines are? When you're talking to your doctor about endometrial cancer, have a good understanding of what the grade is and what the stage is. There are different things. Sometimes you can have an early stage cancer that's confined to the uterus but under the microscope it's a higher grade. If it's a higher grade but an early stage you may still benefit from treatment after with radiation or chemotherapy or another treatment option. Please continue to have that dialogue with your doctor because again the stage and grade make a very big difference in how we recommend treatments after you've had surgery. So what are some treatment considerations for endometrial cancer? I mentioned grade and hytologology. I mentioned fertility desires and there are different iterations with that including whether the uterus is removed or not. Whether the ovaries are removed or not. Whether you would proceed or your loved one would proceed with collecting eggs before surgery. How big is the uterus? And I mentioned the route of surgery. If the uterus is a large uterus with fibroids, then a minimally invasive surgery with little incisions may not be the best approach. It may be better to use the old-fashioned incision that we we did for many many years simply because we want to remove the entire uterus intact. And if the uterus is extremely large, just like babies, if they're too big to fit through the pelvis and need a C-section, you may need a bigger incision to remove the uterus. Where's the spread of disease? So, it's not uncommon to get a CT scan before surgery. a CT scan or an imaging test uh like an MRI can help us assess whether the cancer has spread anywhere else and that's important to know because that impacts the route of surgery and the type of treatment after. And then what are the other medical challenges that people have? People with congestive heart failure or sadly patients who have many many medical problems who are extremely ill may not be safe to undergo surgery. And if we know that they're not safe to undergo surgery, then we may be better off not using surgery and instead proceeding with one of the other treatment options I mentioned, which would be radiation or chemotherapy or amunotherapy, which we'll talk about again in a couple minutes. So I want to delve a little bit more into fertility preservation because it is an important topic and this is really meant for patients who sadly are younger, usually younger than age 40 who are unfortunately dealing with a cancer diagnosis from the endometrium. And so it's not the standard of care to keep the uterus in. Meaning that if someone has an endometrial cancer, the best way to survive and live a long happy healthy life from a cancer standpoint is to remove the uterus. But for patients who say, "Dr. Cohen, I don't want a hysterctomy. I understand the risks. There are other things that we consider. Usually the cancer needs to be a low-grade cancer. I would usually consider getting an MRI of the pelvis to make sure that the cancer had not invaded into the muscle of the uterus called the myometrium. And we would talk about different therapies and usually that would involve something called progesterone. And there are different forms of progesterone. We have little devices that sit in the uterus called intrauterine devices that can deliver progesterone in the uterine cavity and try to push back those cancer cells. We also have pills that you can take and those pills work in a similar fashion where they bind to receptors in the cancer and then try to push the cancer back to more normal. The response rates there are about 60 to 70% that will find patients will benefit from this this medication. Those patients require very close follow-up where they're getting endometrial biopsies which are samplings of the lining of the endometrium about every 3 to 6 months because the risk of cancer is always there and cancer can progress or recur over time and that's why I say the safest thing ultimately is a hysterctomy and the combination of sampling of the lining of the uterus and MRIs are usually how we would follow patients until they're done having babies and at that point remove the uterus. So the surgical approach for uterine cancer or endometrial cancer is usually with a minimally invasive approach. We do a lot of robotic surgery at UCLA. The robotic platform is an instrument that we use to do laparoscopic surgery and that's with little incisions where the robot the robotic platform mimics the surgeon's movements. So if I'm sitting at the robotic platform, the robot moves the way I move to do the surgery. There's conventional laparoscopy which is standard straight instruments that we place into the abdomen with little incisions. When we do these surgeries, we don't want to morelate the uterus. Morselate means chop it up into little pieces. When you have a cancer or there's concern for cancer, do not morselate the uterus or let your provider morselate the uterus because that can increase the risk of cancer cells spreading and it can make it harder to make treatment recommendations after. There is a role for morselation but it's usually in the setting of benign conditions like fibroids not in the setting of cancer. Sentinel lymph nodes are an important topic and I mentioned the lymph nodes earlier because we want to know if cancer had spread to those lymph nodes that are in the pelvis and the abdomen. Sentinel lymph nodes are the very first lymph nodes next to the uterus and they give us an opportunity to find cancer if it's there but also to minimize the risk of a lymph node dissection because we're only removing the very first lymph nodes next to the uterus which have the highest likelihood of having cancer cells in them. We do that at UCLA and other cancer centers are now doing a sentininal lymph node dissection and I would encourage you to talk to your providers about that. We do have very good data now that minimally invasive surgery is just as equal in efficacy to up and down incisions when we treat women with endometrial cancer and that's based on a study called the LAP 2 study. It was a randomized study. So we have very good data that this is safe to use little incisions for this type of cancer. There are different types of hysterctomies and often when I see patients in the office uh they themselves have not yet understood what a prior surgeon did or what what a prior surgeon was recommending and we go through the anatomy in detail and that's because all hyctomies are not the same. As I mentioned there's the uterine fundus and the cervix but there's also the ovaries and tubes and when women say they've had a hyctomy they may not know if the ovaries and tubes were removed and I would encourage you again to advocate for yourself. Know your body. Know your medical history. Know what's being recommended. Is the doctor going to remove the ovaries, the fallopian tubes? One, the other, neither. Are they planning on doing a super cervical hyerectomy where they leave the uterus in or where they leave the cervix in and remove the uterus or vice versa? For cancer, we usually recommend removing all of these structures. But it is important to know what's being recommended. And then there's something called a radical hysterctomy versus a simple hysterctomy. A radical hysterctomy is where you not only remove the uterus and cervix, but you actually take the tissue adjacent to it, the closest part of the vagina. And that's because we're worried about cancer cells that are either invading that part of the body or the tumor is very large. And in order to remove the entire cancer, we need to do a radical hysterctomy. That's a specialized type of hysterctomy that cancer doctors like myself do. But is it is important to know the risks and benefits and you should hear about this prior to undergoing surgery whether your doctor is planning on a simple extra fascial hysterctomy or if they're planning a radical hysterctomy. This is a depiction of that. So this is the uterus and cervix, the ovaries and tubes on either side. Again, talk to your doctor, know what they're planning on removing. The standard of care for endometrial cancer is removing the uterus, the cervix, the tubes and the ovaries in most settings. And then a radical hysterctomy would involve removing the adjacent vagina which is next to the uterus. And that's something that we don't commonly do but we do when there is concern for cancer involvement of that area. So the surgical approach can be through an open or midline incision. It can be a vaginal approach called a vaginal hysterctomy. conventional laparoscopy, which again is straight sticks that we place into the abdomen, surgical instruments that the surgeons use to to remove the uterus, the cervix, and check the lymph nodes, or robotic laparoscopic surgery where the robotic platform is placed next to the patient and mimics the movements of the surgeon like myself. This is a depiction of that. So, this is the these are those instruments I'd mentioned, those straight instruments. We fill the abdominal cavity with carbon dioxide so we can see and we put a big camera on the on the end of a light and that allows us to look in the abdominal cavity and we use those little incisions here and here. Usually there's about three to four of them to do the surgery. This is an example of an up and down incision and this is again how these surgeries were done commonly in the last 20 to 30 years. we've we've gone more towards this than this, but up and down incisions still have a role and are still an important part of of how we manage patients. This is the robotic platform that we use at UCLA. Uh, and it's a very useful tool and it basically takes the place of these bigger incisions. Uh, these are in articulating arms that rotate 360° and can move in any direction and again mimic the surgeon within the patient's body. At UCLA, we have a very well-developed robotics program, and this is some information on that. And all of our gynecologic andcology surgeons, including myself, do robotic surgery, and we have a number of other cancer doctors that do colon surgery uh and uh bladder surgery. And so, it's a very well-developed field. And and here at UCLA, we're proud of the technology that we have and that we can offer this to you. Why use small incisions? reduced pain, reduced swelling, smaller risk of infection, smaller risk of bleeding, reduced scarring, shorter hospital stay, and then a quicker recovery and return to normal activity. So, if if I can offer someone a minimally invasive surgery for endometrial cancer, I will. Uh, but it is a discussion that we have with our patients about what's the best thing for them. This is an example of the sentininal lymph nodes. uh sentininal lymph nodes are now part of the national comprehensive N cancer network guidelines. These are guidelines that we as cancer doctors all follow here in the US and they're available to patients as well. I'll have that website on the slides later on. But you inject a special dye into the cervix. Again, the cervix is Southern California. So you inject the dye into Southern California. It then travels into the uterus where the cancer is and makes its way out to lymph nodes. And so we can then track, this is a picture of the uterus, we can then track where that die goes to find those lymph nodes that are right next to the uterus that have the highest risk of having endometrial cancer cells in them. And the benefit of that is that we maximize our ability to detect cancer outside of the uterus, but we minimize the risk of something called lympadeema. And I'm going to show you a picture of that. But lympadeema is where the channels of the of the lymph nodes get disrupted and swelling can develop in the legs. This is an example of me doing a laparoscopic sentininal lymph node dissection with the robotic platform. This is a sentininal lymph node that I've identified and it I'm removing it and we'll have the pathology doctors look at it to make sure there's no cancer cells there. Uh and then this is the larger blood vessels in the pelvis. But we can be very delicate and very defined about which lymph nodes we remove when we use this technology. This is again part of the national comprehensive cancer network guidelines. So cancer surgeons have all agreed this is a good approach. Uh significant data now exists that this is a safe approach for endometrial cancer. And uh I do need to say that this is not FDA approved with the use of the robotic platform but we have very good safety data uh for the use of the robotic platform in this setting. So this is lympadeema. I use the analogy of the highway, the 405 and the on-ramps and the off-ramps. What can happen just like traffic on the 405 is that when you do a lymph node dissection, you can imagine if two of those offramps get blocked off from removing lymph nodes or surgery and the traffic gets backed up or the fluid gets backed up, you can develop something called lympadeema. Uh this is manageable and it does get better with physical therapy, but we really want to avoid this. And the benefit of the sentininal lymphoid dissection is that hopefully we have a better chance of avoiding lympadema. I want to talk a little bit about genetic testing now which is a slightly different topic than the surgical treatment of endometrial cancer. We all have genes in our body. You inherit these genes from your parents, your mom and your dad and and these genes may place you at higher risk for certain cancers. If you have a personal history of endometrial cancer or a strong family history of endometrial cancer and colon cancer and or ovarian cancer, you should talk to your doctor about genetic testing. And that's where they take either a blood sample or a saliva sample and they can look at the genes in your body to tell you if you have any of the mutations that increase your risk of these cancers. There is a condition called Lynch syndrome. Lynch syndrome is an inherited condition through your family that increases your risk of endometrial cancer, colon cancer, ovarian cancer, and other cancers. If we know you have Lynch syndrome, we can safely work with you to prevent these cancers from developing. And it's important for your family to know as well because if you have this gene, other people in your family may have this gene and you could very well save their life. So discuss with your OB/GYN, your family practice doctor, your cancer doctors whether you should see a genetic counselor. And if you do have Lynch syndrome, there's a 60% lifetime risk of endometrial cancer and a 12% lifetime risk of ovarian cancer. And your doctors will recommend to you risk reducing procedures to prevent these cancers from developing. We also now have the ability to test the tumor and this is really the latest and greatest that we can offer with regard to personalized medicine. We can now take your tumor and do something uh with high sequencing where we high throughput sequencing where we can look at specific mutations within the DNA of the tumor cells themselves. Those mutations may be different than the DNA in your body because of spontaneous mutations that happen with cancer cells. But based on those mutations, we can then tell you whether you'd be a candidate for different treatments, whether it's amunotherapy where we harness your immune system to fight cancer or specific agents that are not chemotherapy but target very directed mutations in the tumor DNA. Uh estrogen receptors are another way we can treat patients without chemotherapy. It's a targeted approach. When you think about the organs in your body, they have receptors for hormones. Endometrial cancer will often express estrogen as an estrogen receptor, similar to breast cancer. For patients who have estrogen receptors on their tumor, you may be a candidate for hormonal therapies that block that receptor and prevent the cancer from spreading. There's something called her two, which is a mutation or protein in the body that can be mutated. We now can test for that mutation in your tumor and have specific drugs that are targeted to that receptor that's mutated which is something that's very new and something that we've worked with the breast cancer doctors who have also been treating patients with her receptin to see if there's benefit in endometrial cancer and it looks like there is and so discuss with your doctor whether this is something that would be reasonable for you. We now have the benefit as well of of being able to categorize endometrial cancers based on their molecular signature. Meaning what are the mutations specific to your tumor that make it different than other tumors. This is something that's very new and something that we are using to characterize different treatment options. The four categories that we use right now are something called pole e mutated, MSI high, copy number low and copy number high. These are genetic uh interpretations of your tumor that allow us to categorize your tumor and help with prognosis and specific treatment options. We are looking at different studies currently for these mutations to see what treatment options are most effective. And these are ongoing studies with recommendations that are being developed through the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. UCLA has these ongoing studies and we're actively recruiting patients to enroll in these clinical trials to determine what treatment options are best based on these molecular signatures. This is something called the cancer genome atlas. The cancer genome atlas was a large study where we took many endometrial cancers and did this very detailed tumor sequencing and all of the different tumors that we had to start breaking them up into different groups which is a different way of looking at endometrial cancer than the grade that I'd mentioned before where you look under a microscope. And so this this graph is really me meant to represent we now have very detailed ability to tell you from a very finite approach what mutations you have in your tumor and whether you'll respond to amunotherapy or different targeted therapies. So I would encourage you to talk to your gynecologic oncologist, your medical oncologist, your cancer team about your tumor and whether it's had a molecular signature profile done. For standard treatments we have chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is still the standard of care for metastatic endometrial cancer, cancer that spread throughout the body. Chemotherapy are drugs that are usually given in the vein and they travel in the veins to throughout the body to kill any cancer cells that are there. Uh they are usually used in the setting of cancer that's spread, so cancer that's beyond the uterus, cancer that's come back, so years after surgery, or if it's being given in combination with radiation as part of your initial management. you really should sit down and discuss the benefits and disadvantages of chemotherapy with your your cancer team. Chemotherapy is not for everybody but it is a very effective tool. Uh these this is an example of some of the most common chemotherapy drugs that we use in endometrial cancer. Caroplatin plet are two drugs that are most commonly used. Radiation therapy is a treatment where we take X-ray beams and we fire those X-ray beams directly into an area where cancer cells may be. So by definition it is a local treatment because we're focusing on certain areas of your body. There are different ways to do radiation. One form is called external beam radiation and that's where you're put under a larger machine and that machine has X-rays that are directed towards your body. Another treatment is called breakchie therapy. Brachie therapy is where we actually have the radiationologists place specific rods into the tumor and deliver a very localized radiation to the area where the cancer is. Vaginal breakchie therapy is very specialized. There's only a handful of radiation oncologists in the city of Los Angeles that do vaginal breakchie therapy. We're lucky that we actually have three radiation oncologists at UCLA that specialize in gynecologic cancer and do breakchie therapy. And it's something that can be very important as part of your treatment for endometrial cancer. But again, radiation has side effects as well. It's not a cure all. It's not the the fix all for everything because it also can cause damage to adjacent tissues. But it has a very important role in the treatment of cancer, especially gynecologic cancer. Imunotherapy is the new horizon for cancer treatment. We're very excited about amunotherapy, particularly with endometrial cancer. We've seen some very exciting results with certain amunotherapies in treating certain types of endometrial cancer. We do have a very good idea of who's going to respond to amunotherapy based on your tumor and whether you have a loss of expression of something called the mismatch repair proteins, which are a family of proteins that guard your DNA. Based on the genomic profile that I showed you from the TCGA and a tumor analysis or molecular analysis, we can determine if you would benefit from imunotherapy. In our body, we have cells that fight off foreign invaders. When you're sick with a upper respiratory infection, your body revs up and you have something called te- cells and they and those tea cells will attack those invaders and make them go away, which is how you get better. Cancer cells are also invaders, but they're very smart because they can fight off or hide from your immune system and your immune system will never know. What the amunotherapy drugs do is that they basically unleash the breaks on those tea cells and they show the cancer cells to the immune system which gives your ability your body the ability to start attacking them full force and it can be a very powerful treatment for women with recurrent endometrial cancer. I would encourage you again to discuss this with your gynecologic oncologist and your treating cancer team. At UCLA we do offer amunotherapy for patients that that meet criteria based on their tumor and we have ongoing clinical trials for imunotherapy. One of the most common drugs is called pembrlymab. Pembrlymab is a drug that that binds or interacts with PDL1 which is a receptor on the the tumor cell and then your T- cell which is your immune system has the PD1 receptor. And so these are very targeted treatments that can be very important in the treatment of endometrial cancer. I mentioned hormonal therapy. So again these are cancers that express uh receptors for estrogen and progesterone and there is a role for hormonal therapy including different progesterones and these can be very effective in the recurrent setting and this is an example of the names of some of these hormonal therapies and I would encourage you again to discuss this with your treating cancer doctor. Clinical trials are a very important part of what we do as gynecologic oncologists. Clinical trials represent really the latest and greatest that we can offer with treatments. Now, there are benefits and disadvantages to clinical trials. And not every cancer center offers the same clinical trials. I would encourage you to advocate for yourself and determine if there's a clinical trial that you're interested in, you may need to go to a different cancer center or come to UCLA or a larger cancer center where those trials are offered. The pros to being in a clinical trial, you get the most current cancer care. You get to be uh the treatment uh being given to you is hopefully going to help. You're going to be managed very closely by the treatment team administering the clinical trial. And you're going to help other people with cancer who are diagnosed down the road, meaning that you're contributing to knowledge that will ultimately impact other women. Why not do a clinical trial? Well, there are side effects to any treatment, and these side effects may be less known because it's often a new drug. uh the treatment being tested may not help you, meaning it just may be a treatment that doesn't work for your type of endometrial cancer. You have to go through more paperwork and more visits and more lab tests. So, there is some time, expense, and effort there. Um, and then health insurance may not cover all the costs of a clinical trial, but that's something that would be specific to the clinical trial and the cancer center you're working with. So, I just want to end with giving you some resources here to uh websites that are useful. I always say Dr. Google is powerful, but you got to be careful with Dr. Google. Dr. Google doesn't know everything and and sometimes websites have misinformation. So, but these are websites that I would recommend you check out. The Society of Gynecologic Oncology, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines, which I mentioned earlier, uh forcef facing our risk.org for women with inherited mutations um in their DNA. UCLA has a very good support center called the Sims Man Center for Integrative Encology with a wonderful website and cancer nutrition recommendations and mental health support. And the UCLA Johnson Comprehensive Cancer Center has a wonderful website with resources for clinical trials. And then lastly, clinicaltrials.gov is a is a website put out by the federal government and the NIH, but it gives you information on every clinical trial open in the United States. You want a team working with you at UCLA. We have a team approach. This is an example of our multid-disiplinary tumor board that includes radiation oncologists, medical oncologists, gynecologic oncologists like me. We're all there. We all sit down and talk about your your tumor, what options you have. And this gets done very frequently. We meet once a week and discuss p patients that are undergoing new treatments or have new scans, CT scans or new biopsies. So you really want this to take place, a multi-disiplinary approach to optimize your cancer care. And I would say that really the best way to prevent or to treat cancer is to prevent it. And uh if you're if you're a loved one or you're you're listening to this and you've not been impacted by cancer or you are, I would still say live a healthy lifestyle. Go to your doctor. have routine checkups with your primary care doctor and OB/GYN. Everything in moderation. There's not one diet. There's not one fat drug. There's not one medication that's going to make something go away. But if you live a healthy lifestyle, do things that you want, but continue to balance that with the doctor's recommendations. Usually, that's the best approach. If you haven't had an HPV vaccine, I would recommend it. This does not prevent uterine or endometrial cancer. It does prevent cervical cancer, which is one of the five cancers I mentioned. Listen to your body. Advocate for yourself. Ask your doctor questions. If you're scared or you feel like something's wrong, don't take no for an answer. Keep searching out someone until someone can help. At UCLA, we have our division of gynecologic oncology. Uh this is the website for the division. We now have five locations that we're seeing patients. Uh I see patients in Westwood, Santa Monica, and in Westlake, California. We also have providers that see patients in Santa Clarita, and Beverly Hills. And for appointments, you can call this number. Again, we're happy to help uh in any way we can, but ultimately seek out a gynecologic oncologist for the treatment of your endometrial cancer. Thank you very much. This is our main hospital here at UCLA. And with that, I'm open for questions. Okay, some questions from the audience. Is remote robotic surgery safe and when is it preferred? Remote robotic surgery is is still being tested. Uh it's not something that I would say is safe at this moment. Uh remote surgery implies that the surgeon is offsite at a completely separate hospital or location. When you do robotic surgery, you still need someone right at the patient's bedside, a first assist, which is usually a doctor or physician's assistant. The surgeon ideally is in the room. And so I think we are making progress on the safety of remote surgery. And perhaps that would be an option for someone if you're in a very rural area, but at this point it's not been proven as safe as standard surgery, which is having the the robotic surgeon in the room with the patient. What evaluations are in place to verify if cancer is gone? Very good question. It's a combination of your physical exam, blood tests, and CT scans. So, we'll do a physical exam to feel and make sure the cancer is gone. We'll often order a certain blood test called the CA125 for certain types of cancer. And we'll consider getting CT scans at a defined interval. And there's no real accepted rule on how often to do CT scans or if to do them at all. But we use a combination of these tests to figure out if the cancer is gone. And then how you're feeling. Are you having new pain? Are you having new bleeding? This is called a a review of systems. If you're having these symptoms, that also makes us worried the cancer could be back. So there's not one specific test but a combination of these different things that we use to make sure the cancer is gone. Are there special diets associated with endometrial cancer? We know that uh diets that uh for patients uh with diabetes so basically patients who are overweight produce excess estrogen. So the diet itself is not the risk. It's really the result of an unhealthy diet which increases your weight. We know that obesity is a driving risk factor and diabetes. So, I would encourage you to live a healthy lifestyle and to eat healthy. Good fruits and vegetables, lots of colors. But there's not one diet itself that would increase your risk of endometrial cancer specifically. It's more what happens by eating unhealthy within your body that causes endometrial cancer to develop. How do I find out about clinical trials? So, for clinical trials, I would recommend clinical trials.gov, which is the website I showed you uh on the slide. And that can be a very useful website because again it includes every clinical trial that's uh been started here in the United States and uh you can find a location whether it's in Los Angeles or somewhere else if there's a clinical trial that you're that you're interested in and reach out to the doctors that are doing the trial. Our uterine saroma is managed the same way as endometrial cancer. Uterine sarcomomas are different than endometrial cancer. Uterine sarcomomas are tumors that arise in the smooth muscle fibers of the uterus. That's a separate top separate topic and it's managed differently than endometrial cancer but a very important topic nonetheless. I would want you to still find your gynecologic oncologist and get recommendations from them for uterine sarcomomas. Does hormone replacement therapy cause cancer? Hormone replacement therapy in the post-menopausal setting can be challenging. We know that there are risks with it including risk of blood clots, risk of breast cancer and unopposed estrogen can cause endometrial cancer. So there is a risk with hormone replacement therapy and you really would want to work with your OB/GYN or your internal medicine doctor and make sure you're taking the appropriate precautions to reduce your risk of endometrial cancer if you're taking hormone replacement therapy. And who would make the decision for treatment after surgery? Uh the gynecologic oncologist, medicalologist or radiation oncologist. And it's a team effort. So once you have surgery, you want that tumor board to meet and that tumor board, which includes all of your treatment doctors or doctors who may treat you potentially, work together to generate a recommendation. They all agree upon that recommendation. That's what happens at UCLA and most larger cancer centers. And that recommendation is what we would use to treat you moving forward. So it's a collaborative approach to get the best cancer care for you. I think that's it for all of our questions. I want to thank you so much for being with us today. Uh it's been an honor and a privilege. And again, it's September, which is gynecologic cancer awareness month. So, please get the word out and thank you for your time.