Hello, I am Dr. Juan José Andino, urologist and specialist in sexual medicine.  Today we're going to talk about something that affects many men, but is often not diagnosed or treated, and that is Peyronie's disease.  If you or someone you know has noticed a curve in the penis during erections, this video is for you.  We will discuss what Peironi's disease is, what causes it, the symptoms, how we diagnose it, and what treatments are available. Peroni disease occurs when a scar or plaque forms inside the penis.  This tissue can cause the penis to bend or curve during an erection.  For some men the curvature is subtle, but for others it can be painful and cause difficulty when trying to have sex.   It's more common than people think. It affects up to one in ten men, usually between the ages of 40 and 70. But the good news is that it can be treated.  And there are two main phases of Peironi disease.  In the acute phase, which is the initial stage, it lasts for about 6 months and you may feel pain during erections and the shape or curve of the penis may be changing.  The curvature may worsen during this time. Then we have the chronic phase, which is when the curve stops changing and the pain usually improves. But the scar tissue and shape changes remain. It is important to see a urologist during any of the phases, but if you go early, we can try to prevent the curve from worsening.  Common symptoms include pain during erections, a curve in the penis, and hard lumps under the skin.  Some men notice a shortening or narrowing of the penis and difficulty getting or maintaining an erection.  Many men feel embarrassed or think it's just part of aging, but it's a medical condition and we can help them.  Most of the time we don't know the exact cause, but it often starts with a small wound, usually during sexual intercourse.  Sometimes it occurs after a major injury, such as a penile fracture. and if the tissue does not recover properly, it can form a scar.  To diagnose Peironi's disease, we ask you to take a picture at home with an erection to see the curve.  We also perform a physical exam to detect or feel that scar or plaque.  And in certain cases we use ultrasound to find the plaque, measure the curve and check the blood flow.  There's no reason to be ashamed. If the condition is bothering you, we have treatments, and the treatment depends on the intensity of the discomfort, whether it causes pain, affects sexual activity, or decreases confidence.  And the options include non-surgical treatments.  For example, there are oral medications that are generally used at the beginning to try to stop the plaque from getting worse.  Only a small percentage notice an improvement.  There is also penile traction therapy, which involves using a device that stretches the penis over time to reduce the curve.  There are also injections, and these are the only option approved by the FDE, called collagenase or Zaflex.  This injection helps dissolve the scar and improve the curve, but there are also surgical options.  And for more serious cases or when other treatments don't help, surgery may be the best option. We have plication surgery.  In this surgery, a stitch is placed on the opposite side of the curve to straighten the penis.   There is also a plaque incision with a graft. We cut out the scar and replaced it with a graft to help rebuild the area of ​​severe curvature.  And finally, we also have the penile implant. This is an excellent option for men who have erectile dysfunction and Peyronie's disease and are not responding to medications.  The good news is that most men feel better and regain a healthy sex life with the right treatment.  He is not alone, and this does not have to be the end of his sex life. In summary, Peironi's disease causes scarring and curvature of the penis.  Symptoms may include pain, a new curvature, and erectile dysfunction.  It is often caused by an injury, but sometimes it just happens.  We offer both non-surgical and surgical treatments.  You don't have to live with this.  Help is available.  If you have noticed any of these symptoms, come see me at UCLA, The Men's Clinic. Peironi's disease can be treated, but not all urologists have the proper training.  Thank you for watching this video. Share this video with someone who might need it.  Take care and see you later.