So the topic today that we're going to discuss are urinary stones. Um and so here's um uh the brief introduction uh slide. I am Caroline Walner. I'm an assistant clinical professor of urology and it's my pleasure to speak to you about this topic that I hold dear. So if you have any questions you can go ahead and Twitter us chat. Um so this is going to be the outline for the conversation today. First we're going to talk about the symptoms of stones. Then how stones are images imaged. Then what stones are made out of. Um next we'll talk about how stones are treated depending upon the location, size and composition of the stones and finally how to prevent future stones from building. So let's start off with a description of the anatomy of the kidneys, urtors and bladder. So as you can see here the kidneys are the organs that filter the blood to make the urine. The urine is then uh secreted into three kalouses the upper pole or multiple kalouses in the upper pole, mid pole and lower pole. Um these um three areas then drain into um the urer and the urer drains then into the bladder. Um there are points where ur urinary calculi become held up that is at the uriteral pelvic junction the junction between the kidney and the urer um where the urer crosses the iliac vessels down low here and then um at the point where the urer joins the bladder called the uritro vesicle junction. And so um that's where stones tend to hang up and uh require treatment. So who develops urinary stones? About 8.8% of Americans. Uh predominantly men more than women. It's associated with uh diabetes, obesity, and high blood pressure. It happens to be more common in the southeastern United States where the temperatures are warmer and there perhaps there's higher rates of dehydration. Um so the renal stone symptoms are different depending upon where the stone is blocking and so when the ureiteral stone when the stone passes down to the urer there is blockage of the urine and that causes kidney swelling. When the kidney swells um a patient will then experience flank pain and it's generally in this region up here of the high back and spreading along towards the abdomen. It's also associated with blood in the urine. However, when the stone uh begins to pass into the urer, the pain can become different. Uh there is acute collicky flank pain where you can never get into the right position uh because you're so uncomfortable. Uh there is associated nausea and vomiting. Blood in the urine happens here too. And as the stone passes down into the lower portion of uh the urer to um the point near the bladder, a patient begins to have bladder symptoms including urgency, frequency, got to urinate type of uh symptoms as well as lower abdominal pain that begins to radiate down towards the groin. So what are the warning signs for um obstructing stones? Well, there's a few things that we as physicians worry about. Um, one is if the patient starts to have fever and chills or signs of urinary sepsis. Uh, that is a bad uh problem with a stone and could require urgent treatment. Also, if there is intractable vomiting where the patient cannot keep down fluids or food, that's a reason to come into the hospital eently when you're having uh pain from a stone. Uncontrolled pain such that um over-the-counter pain relievers are not working. That's also a time to come to the emergency department. Then other times um are also if you have acute kidney injury which wouldn't be something that you'll feel necessarily but something we can determine on laboratory tests as well as if there is bilateral or bothsided obstruction. Let's say you have a stone in each kidney or urer that's blocking that could be uh potentially very bad and so you have to come into the hospital for that as well as if you have only one kidney and have a uh passing stone that is obstructing. So um additionally besides stones in the kidneys, uriters um there is also the bladder. Bladder stones develop um uh sometimes in the kidney and sometimes cannot pass down uh the urethra here and so the stone will settle inside the bladder and this uh contributes to incomplete bladder emptying um and can be associated with either enlarged prostate BPH or neurogenic bladder. And you'll also see blood in the urine with bladder stones. So, how are stones diagnosed? What kind of imaging studies do we do? Um, so first off, um, we do renal ultrasound, which is great because there is no radiation associated with ultrasound. And it's basically just passing sound waves, um, through the back to image the kidney. So, you can see the outline of the kidney here. When the sound waves hit the stone, it produces a shadow that you can see down here. Um, the next way is X-ray called a KUB or kidney urer bladder film. And so it just basically you can see the spine here and the pelvis here. And so you're basically looking for any stones that are radio dense and show up on X-ray. And so you can see a stone right there. The third and most sensitive way, so this is the way to pick up, you know, majority of stones is with a CT scan. And it's done of the abdomen and pelvis and it's done without IV contrast. And you can look for calcifications that are similar to the vertebral bone that you can see here. And there's a calcification right there in the right urer. Um, so what are stones made out of? Well, stones are made out of a few things. The most common is calcium oxalate. Other uh stone forming uh substances are uric acid, struvite, calcium phosphate and cyine. So calcium oxalate is the most common. About 80% of stones are calcium oxalate. They are visible on X-ray and they happen when there's too much uh calcium or oxalate in the urine and this is associated when there is a decreased volume of urine um by not drinking too much or a decreased amount of citrate. Uh the next stone type is uric acid. That's about 10% of stones. These are not visible on X-ray and they are associated with increased uric acid in the urine as well as decreased urine pH and decreased urine volume. Uh these stones are associated with protein gluttony or gout. Um and it's possible to have uh stag horns with this type of stone which means that there could be a branch stone that occupies um a few kalouses maybe even a few poles of the kidney. The next type of stone is struvite. This is an infection type stone and it is uh visible on X-ray. It's uh most often associated with bacteria in the urine that uh are uras positive and so increase the urine pH and therefore stones happen. Now this is very common to have stagghorn stones which are those branch types of stones that become harder to treat. Uh the next type of stone is calcium phosphate. This happens about less than 5% of all stones. They are visible on X-ray and they are associated with increased urine pH and increased urine calcium. It is associated with hyperarathyroidism, distal renal tubular acidosis which is a metabolic condition that leads to a basic urine pH. um or it is also associated with alkalinization treatment where sometimes the treatment for stones causes other stones to happen and these are the other ones calcium phosphate that can happen with overalkkalinization of the urine. Uh next type of stone type is cyine. These are less than 1% of stones. Uh these are very faintly visible on x-ray and they're very hard stones. it is from an inherited disorder um where there's increased urine cysteine that then complexes and forms stones. Um here too you can have stagghorn um calculi. So now let's go to the treatment for stones. So the treatment depends upon symptoms, depends upon where the stone is. And so you can see that um with a asymptomatic stone that isn't blocking, you could very easily just absorb observe this stone with doing repeated imaging to monitor the stone and you could wait for if the stone then grows in size or causes symptoms, then to go ahead and pursue treatment. So you can see a non-obstructing stone right here on this little diagram. um compared to a parankal stone which happens um in the meat of the kidney or parankma and it's outside. So this kind of a stone doesn't have a good chance of passing into the uh collecting system to cause symptoms. So there's really no need for treatment or surveillance of these types of stones. Uh once the stone passes down the urer and you start to feel pain, what are some medicines to help? Um well there's trial passage. So not everybody needs a surgery when they're uh faced with a urine urinary calculi that's passing. One of the ways we help the stone to pass easier is to take tamsyloin or phmax. It's a medicine that's used most commonly in BPH and what it does is it relaxes the smooth muscle of the urer so that way the stone can pass easier. Um, the other way to help pass the stone is to increase your hydration. So that if you drink more liquids that sends more bololises of urine down the kidney and can help push out the stone. Then of course it's also important to um control the symptoms that are associated with passing a stone. So some of the better pain relievers for kidney stone pain are your NSAID class of um drugs like Advil, Motrin, ibuprofen or leave. These medicines are good for um kidney stone pain. Uh there is also anti-nausea medicine that can be prescribed and the important thing is to collect the urine um by straining it to collect the stone and that can actually be sent for chemical analysis. So that way we will understand what type of stone it is and then can make recommendations about prevention. So the warning symptoms about when um you know stones are dangerous were kind of described earlier, but what do we do in those situations? Well, sometimes we can't organize for treatment just right then and there and sometimes it's unsafe to if there's, you know, active infection. So what our aim is to is to drain the kidney. And so we do this by placing a ureiteral stent, which is a little plastic tube that has a curly queue in the kidney and a curly queue in the bladder. And this goes past any obstructing stone that may be in the urer. And the aim is to relieve the pressure and buildup of urine in the kidney. This can improve your pain, improve nausea, and allow for any drainage of urine infection or pus um from the kidney. This also allows improvement of the renal function. So if you have those warning symptoms then you're likely to get a stent. Uh the next um way of treating stones is extra corporeal shockwave lithotripsy. So that is a long medical word for and it's basically abbreviated as ewall. Um what it is is basically targeting a shock wave at the uh back to see where the stone is. The stone must be visible on x-ray in order to perform this treatment because you need a target. Um once the stone is seen uh several shocks are given and it basically pounds up the stone and breaks it into small dust fragments there. That way there's no incision on the skin and everything is minimally invasive. There are no tubes that go through the body for this type of treatment. So because it is min minimally invasive, it's a lot of times preferred by patients. Um in order to prepare for this type of surgery, it's important that there's no stool in the way. So sometimes um patients will receive a bowel prep with magnesium citrate to help clear any um you know sediment in the in the colon. So that way the stone is clearly imaged and clearly targeted. Um when the stone is very large um if it's more than 2 cm then you will also need a uriteral stent that we talked about before and that's because after the stone is broken into small pieces those pieces then have to pass down the urer. On occasion those pieces will become stuck. Um we call that steinstasa and that happens in the distal bottom portion of the urer. Some cautions about extra corporal shockwave lithotrips or ezol is that a patient cannot be on anti-coagulation with this procedure because there is a bleeding risk. Uh patient should not be pregnant or have severe obesity or uh skeletal mal forations that make targeting the stone difficult. And um there can't be any obstruction below the stone otherwise those pieces will not pass. Uh let's see we'll go to the next slide please. Um so then uh the next treatment is uriteroscopy with laser lip lithotripsy. Uh this can be done with either a rigid camera scope or a flexible camera scope. And so you can see the scope is placed inside uh the urethra into the bladder and then it goes all the way up to meet the stone in the urer. Once the stone is found, a laser fragment, a laser fiber is placed through the scope and this is used to break up the stone into pieces. Now afterwards because the camera goes up the urer and the urer is such a small organ there's a chance that this these urer walls can swell shut and then you'd be in the same type of pain as you were before the stone. So what's often done is to leave a uriteral stent um just down the urer and that stays in temporarily um for a few days after the surgery and can generally be pulled out. Um the way of removing the stent can be either with a string which is a small tether that's at the bottom aspect of the stent and that can just be pulled in the office or um a camera scope can be placed into the bladder and the stent can be fished out with a flexible graspers. Um next you can see here is a graph comparing the two treatments that we've discussed so far. So you have ezol on this side with uriteroscopy on this side and it's comparing uh ureiteral stones in the distal or bottom portion bottom third of the urer in the mid urer and in the proximal uter which is the top portion of the urer. And so you can see the success rates for each of the treatments more or less. Um the ureoscopy group is better for distal ureiteral stones also better for mid uriteral stones um only slightly. However, in the proximal urer both treatments are you know roughly equivalent. Here uh we describe the last and finally the most invasive um surgery for upper tract stones which is PCNL or perccutaneous nephroliththottomy and this is done as a two-stage process for generally stones that are larger than 2 cm or stagghorn stones because the stone volume is so big and it's up high in the kidney. We want direct access into the kidney and so therefore uh we place a a tube into the kidney and that will be our way of entering with a larger camera scope in order to remove the stones. Um so interventional radiology generally provides the access with a thing called a nephrotomy tube and so that tube has a curly queue in the kidney and it drains out to a nephrotomy bag that's worn until the surgery happens. And then with the perccutaneous nephrolithtomy, a large camera scope is then placed directly into the kidney and that's used to break up the stone. As you can see here, it not only breaks it up, it also sucks out the pieces. Um, the risks of this type of surgery are that there can be bleeding because you're putting a hole into the kidney and the kidney is a very vascular organ. That there could be lung injury or injury to adjacent organs just because the kidney is so high. it rests you know more or less behind the rib cage. Um there can also be infection, persistent stone and need for a second look or additional surgery to treat the stone fragments. Um next um are bladder stones. Uh the treatment for bladder stones is relatively simple. Um more or less you place a camera scope into the bladder, you see the stone and you can just laser it to dust fragments there. If the stone is too large then an actual incision can be made in the bladder to cut out the stone. Uh next topic are uric acid stones. So not all stones require treatment with surgery and these types of stones are very fortunate that the urine can be alkalinized or made more basic so that the ur the uh urinary uric acid will be dissolvable. So uric acid is 10 times more dissolvable at a urine pH of seven compared to a pH of five. And therefore by making the urine more basic and using test strips to monitor, we can actually dissolve the stones without needing treatment. Um so here are some general recommendations about how to prevent future stones. It's important to drink plenty of water, about 2 to three liters of water daily. You want to limit your amount of sodium in your diet because it's all a salt water balance. So, if there's too much sodium in your diet, you're gonna have to drink extra water. Uh to try to limit your animal meat and have a moderate amount of calcium in your diet. You don't want too much, you don't want too little, but just, you know, a moderate amount. Um and then the specific recommendations can be made after performing a 24-hour urine collection. And this is done to look at all sorts of stone risk factors um that can contribute to stone formation. And sometimes we start patients on medications to help prevent stones. Potassium citrate is one of the great medications for alkalinization of the urine to make the urine more basic. Um and this is helpful for uric acid stones, cyine stones. Um also we use hydrochloroioide that prevents calcium from u being too much in the urine for forming uh calcium associated stones. And then uh there's also alpha MPG which is helpful for cyine stone formers after they've failed alkalinization and dietary modification. This medicine helps prevent the cyine from causing uh stones in the urinary tract. as well. There's acetto hydroxyamic acid which is helpful for struite stones. And so after these interventions are done, another repeat 24-hour urine collection is done generally about 6 months later to monitor if these changes have had a good effect on prevention of stone forming factors. So that is our thorough discussion about urinary stones and um I just would take this opportunity to ask if there are any questions. Okay. Um so one of the questions here is uh what is the biggest risk factor for urinary stones? The biggest risk factor is dehydration. Not drinking enough water. Um if you can drink more than two to three liters of water per day, you can dramatically, you know, decrease your risk of forming stones. Um, and a lot of people don't realize that when they exercise, they need to drink more water, especially in the summer months, too, when you're sweating more. You more water is necessary to try to prevent stones. Um, the next question is, when should I see my doctor for urinary stones? Well, you should see your doctor um if stones are new to you to talk about whether they're associated with symptoms and what sorts of treatments may need to be organized. If the stone is very large, for example, you should also go to the emergency department if you have any of those warning signs such as fever, chills, um progressive vomiting, uncontrolled pain, all those times are uh all those symptoms are worrisome and so you should be seen by an emergency provider. Um and you should also ask to see a urologist too if you want to pursue treatment of stones. Let's say if they were determined on an X-ray or a CT that was done for other reasons and we found a stone too. Well, you should, you know, talk to a urologist and and we can organize treatment. Another question is, uh, will my kidney stone pass on its own? Well, when a stone is up in the kidney, it has a long ways to go. It has to pass down the urer. So, there is a chance it'll pass on its own. um when the stone is moving further down the urer there's a better chance of it passing and also is dependent upon the size. We know that stones that are you know 5 mm or less have a very good chance of passing on their own whereas larger stones greater than 1 cm or so are very unlikely to pass on their own. So it all depends. Um is there any age specific treatment for older patients? Well, there's not really much um that's different for older patients uh except that if they're living a sedentary lifestyle, you know, that can influence how stones develop. So, it's very important to again drink plenty of water to try to prevent stones from forming. All right. Well, is that everything? All right. Thank you very much for your attention. I hope this was helpful to you.