At 38, Carly has been struggling with rheumatoid arthritis most of her life. The symptoms started early. Always the athlete, she loved swimming and soccer, but began experiencing chronic pain in her shoulder, hands, wrists, and knees. 14 years old, I was in middle school. I was going to the doctor on a weekly basis to try to figure out what was wrong with me. Carly was misdiagnosed with berscitis and overuse, but the diagnosis was finally confirmed through a blood test for the disease. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease where the white blood cells just aren't working properly. They're attacking different organ systems. Predominantly, it's the joints, but it can also attack the skin, eyes, lungs. So, the implications are systemic. Carly was prescribed routine antiarthritis drugs, but she still wound up needing tendon surgery and 5 years ago a knee replacement. But now a promising new class of drugs called biologics offers new hope in fighting the disease. So the purpose of all medications to treat rheumatoid arthritis is to decrease this overwhelming inflammation that's in the body. Traditional antiarthritis drugs target broad areas of the immune system, but biologics are genetically engineered drugs designed to take aim at just the faulty parts that unleash those armies of white blood cells. So much inflammation around the tendon causing the chronic inflammation and damage. Today we have several different types of biologic therapies, many different categories. So if one patient doesn't do well with one category, then we can switch them to another. Carly gets monthly infusions of the biologic Orenzia, but biologics can also be injected like insulin. I think it's kept me stable, able to keep a job, able to exercise. Um, so it's it's been pretty successful for me. And Carly is doing her part to help others. She was the honore at this year's Arthritis Foundation walk in downtown Los Angeles. Along with the team from UCLA, she is raising awareness and funding for research. For those who are being diagnosed today, they have a very different life ahead of them, I think, than I have