Hi, my name is David Gans and I'm one of the faculty at the UCLA Division of Geriatrics in the Department of Medicine at the David's Geffin School of Medicine at UCLA. And today I'm going to be talking about preventing falls in people with dementia. And while you're listening to my talk, please feel free to use Twitter using the hashtag UCLA MD chat to put in your tweets and we'll try to cover those at the end of the presentation today. So why are falls important in older people? Falls are a marker for a decline in function that could be reversed. And um especially as people age, when they fall, they're more likely to sustain an injury. And injury after a fall could mean the end of living on your own. Also, we find that people who are starting to notice weakness or balance problems become afraid of falling and that fear of falling can cause them to restrict their own activities and then they actually become more prone to falls. And finally, falls are quite common and costly in the older population. About a third of people aged 65 and older actually are likely to fall at least once in a given year. So, what can we do to prevent falls? Before we get into discussing prevention of falls in patients with dementia, we're going to talk about uh prevention in older adults who are healthy. Um, this is a person who's independent and living at home, basically carrying out all of their own activities. So the cornerstone of fall prevention in a healthy older adult is exercise. And you'll see there's this risk pyramid right here. And uh right here you can see this is sort of your risk from low to high. And most people in the older population are actually in the lower risk or normal risk group. And the most important thing they can do is exercise. Later we'll be talking about what to do in higher risk people uh including people with dementia. But I want to give you an overview of just what we generally recommend for older people in general. So the USPSTF that stands for the US Preventive Services Task Force and they issue guidelines about all kinds of preventive services from getting your blood pressure checked to getting um your cholesterol checked all these different kinds of things. and they recently evaluated um what is good care for prevention of falls and they found that two things were important in the general population exercise and the use of vitamin D and they gave these things a grade B recommendation now grade B means they still recommend it but the evidence base is sort of moderate it's not the strongest possible evidence that we should recommend moderate evidence but we know that exercise has a lot of other good reasons that you should be doing it so I feel confident in recommending exercise to healthy older adults and we'll talk about that now and then also about the use of vitamin D supplements. So there are lots of different kinds of exercise that can be helpful in prevention of falls including exercise classes or group exercise, tai chi and also homebased exercise can be really helpful. Um, and in all of these different kinds of exercise, about a third or 30% of falls are prevented if you actually adhere to the exercise program. In terms of like what kinds of exercise um are included in these different programs, there's gate and balance training and strength and resistance training. And those are the most common types of exercise components that are included in an exercise program that actually prevents falls. And as you would guess, in order for the exercise to be effective, it has to be done at least three times a week because if you don't do it frequently, it really can't help you. There are a lot of different options in terms of where you can go to do exercise. Um, senior centers in general offer exercise programs at low or no cost. And you can see I've listed a website here, the eldercare.gov gov website which you can use to um find local resources in your area uh including senior centers that might that might um offer exercise programs. The other thing though is that if you are having problems with your balance, you may need an individualized exercise program and this can be um you can arrange this with your physician. You can go to your physician and get a prescription for outpatient physical therapy if the physician thinks that it's appropriate. Finally, if it's hard for you to get out of your home, there is home physical therapy and that's arranged through home health services. Again, something that would be prescribed by your physician if it's appropriate. And finally, um you can also do a home exercise program and I've listed a website where you can actually find brochures on how to do upper and lower body strengthening exercises. So, if there's one point I want to make here, exercise is for everybody. No matter how what your level of physical fitness, there is exercise that you can do and that is the single most important thing anyone can do to prevent falls. Now, vitamin D has become very popular over the past few years. Um, and I just wanted to review the current recommendations for older people. As I mentioned, vitamin D may prevent falls. Um, and the recommended doses for people aged 51 to 70 um, is 600 international units daily. And if you're aged 70 and greater, it's 800 international units daily. But it's really important to know that vitamin D is toxic and overdose. We do see people who come in who've overdosed on vitamin D and it is a it is a medically hazardous situation. So, the safe upper limit of vitamin D consumption from all sources, including sunlight, dietary, and pills, is 4,000 international units a day. So, if you have any questions about this, you should definitely talk with your physician because your situation may be unique. And so, I generally recommend that before you start any kind of supplement, but particularly a supplement like vitamin D, that you discuss it with your doctor. But now I would like to get into the meat of today's talk which is to talk about prevention strategies in vulnerable older adults living at home and this includes people who have dementia. So we do know that dementia increases the risk of falls and it's not just because of memory loss. Memory loss can be a problem but it's because people with dementia sometimes don't have good insight into their situation. They may not have good insight into their physical limitations, for example, or they may not have good judgment about what kind of activities are safe for them to be doing. And finally, this is something that might not be obvious, but sometimes people with dementia actually have visual problems related to their dementia, and they don't see things properly. And so, they're more likely to trip and fall because they may not actually see see what's in front of them as well as a regular person would. I did want to emphasize that we don't have good studies that show that falls can be prevented in people with dementia. And that's because everybody with dementia is unique. There's no two people who have exactly the same pattern of their illness in Alzheimer's disease or Louisibody or vascular dementia. Any of these different dementias, each person goes through that process in their own way. So, it's really hard to do a study or come up with a program that works for a whole group of people. you really have to individualize the treatment plan for a person who has dementia. And what I can say in a nutshell is that we think that as the dementia progresses, supervision is very very important. And what I mean by that is somebody being around to help and also watch. And how much supervision is needed depends on the level of dementia. A person with very early dementia may require little to no supervision, but as the dementia progresses, they may need help um just they need may need to be cued to do certain things like let's say they're using a walker and they need to get out of bed and go to a chair or something like that. They may need to be reminded to use their walker. If you don't remind them, they may just get up on their own and that could increase the risk of falling if they're not steady on their feet. So, it's going to really need to be individualized based on the individual situation, how much supervision and what type of supervision they're going to need. So, getting back to our pyramid here, earlier we talked about how exercise is really, really important for the general population and almost everybody can do some form of exercise. But as the risk for falls increases, we need to do a more careful assessment because not everybody's going to be able to exercise and there are other risk factors for falls that we actually want to present prevent. And so this leads me to a discussion of what I'm going to call the multiffactorial assessments. This is an assessment of different risk factors for falls. And I'm actually going to go over them individually so you can get a sense of what you might want to be talking with your doctor about. But first, I just wanted to say the general recommendation on multiffactorial assessment is don't automatically do it. So, if you're healthy and you have no medical problems, don't go to your doctor asking for a multiffactorial assessment. It wouldn't make sense. However, if you have many medical problems, you might be at increased risk for falls and it might make sense for your doctor to do this evaluation on you. So, the recommendation is grade C. And what that means is consider the individual situation whether or not they need this assessment done. So what would be the what are the components of the assessment? What are the pieces that you might expect your doctor or other people working in the doctor's team to actually do? One is to actually measure your blood pressure lying down and standing up if you can stand up. And the reason for this is if your blood pressure drops a lot between when you're lying down and standing up, it could mean that you'll you could be at higher risk for falls in the future because your blood pressure could drop so much that you could faint and that that could lead to an accident, a fall, you could hit your head, all sorts of different things could happen. And this commonly happens when patients are on a lot of medications. There are certain medications that make it more likely that your blood pressure will drop when you stand up. There are also some diseases that increase the risk of this problem. Again, it's not hard to do. You can ask your doctor to do it if if he or she thinks it's appropriate. Just involves being lying down for a few minutes, checking the blood pressure, and then standing up and keeping a standing position for several minutes, and then rechecking the blood pressure. The second component of the assessment is vision. So, if you had a recent eye exam, great. You're probably doing fine. However, if you not have not had a recent eye exam, like let's say you haven't had an eye exam in the past year or two, it might be good to get another eye exam. And that's because we know that if you have visual problems, it can increase. And there have even been studies that show that if you can remove a cataract, for example, that actually can decrease the risk of falls if it's especially if it's the first cataract surgery you've had. So, there's a lot of value in getting your eyes checked. One cautionary word I wanted to say about vision is that we now are thinking that bif focal lenses can sometimes increase the risk of falls outdoors. And the reason for this is that normally the lower part of the bif focal is basically for near vision. It's for reading. And when you go outside and take a walk, you actually then have a blurry area in the lower part of where you're looking through your glasses because that's for normally for reading. and you might actually miss a an obstacle that's in your path just because you're wearing the bif focals. So consider if you do go out a lot and you do have bif focals getting a pair of single lens distance glasses. So just single strength distance glasses for outdoor use. And then the third part of the evaluation is gate balance and strength. So gate is having the doctor watch you walk. Balance is testing what happens when you get into a situation where you actually have find it difficult to maintain your balance and seeing like how much you can tolerate. And strength is sort of something that measures your lower body in particular. And the issue there is that if you if you're if you're not strong in your lower body, if you trip over something, you might be more likely to fall. So your doctor ought to be able to evaluate those things. And even if they can't, they should be able to refer you to somebody who could, such as a physical therapist. The fourth component of the evaluation is your activities of daily living. So for example, can you bathe by yourself? This is a really important thing to know because for if you are trying to bathe yourself, but you're feeling unsteady or you cannot reach behind your head, for example, then what happens is you're more likely to fall in the bathroom. Maybe you need a shower chair. Maybe you need a shower head that's mobile so you can actually shower yourself while you're sitting. These are things that can help protect you from falling. Cognition speaks for itself. We talked about earlier the risk of of falling goes up uh when you have problems with your memory or other problems. And so it's very important that that be assessed if it hasn't already. Medications. Medications are a huge issue. Many medications actually increase the risk for falls, particularly medications that make you sleepy, woozy, lightaded. If you're having any of these side effects, partic check check for as part of our assessment. And the reason we do this is most older people, particularly if they're getting more frail, actually spend a lot of time in their home. And so it makes sense to make sure the home is safe. And that can involve things like making sure that throw rugs are either gotten rid of if need be or they're flat so that there's not an edge that you can trip over. making sure that there's night lighting so that if you need to make the trip from your bed to the bathroom, it's well lit so you don't have to worry about tripping um at night when you can't see well. All of these things are potential modifiable risks for falling. And home hazards are assessed usually through what's called a home safety evaluation. And then this is where a physical therapist or another home health um person comes to the home and actually inspects the home for these hazards and then makes recommendations. They may make recommendations, for example, that you have a grab bar in your bathroom so you have something to hold on to as you get on and off the toilet. So there all these little things, they're very low tech, but they can really help in a situation where a person is vulnerable and they're at risk. So those are the seven uh components of what we talked about earlier as the multiffactorial assessments. There's one other really key thing to think about. People can fall and if they don't hurt themselves, maybe it's okay. Life goes on. But if they have a severe injury, it could be the end of independent living. And so one question is if a person seems to be falling frequently and we've done the full assessment that we've talked about and they are doing you know vitamin D and exercise to the best of their ability and they're still falling you need to think about how the risk of injury can be reduced and one uh thing that it needs to be thought about is osteoporosis. So that's where the bones become more brittle. They're more reliable to break even when a small fall occurs from ground level. Um, people with osteoporosis can break a bone and we do have treatment for that. So, you would maybe want to talk to your doctor about screening and treatment for osteoporosis, especially in the earlier phases of dementia. And the reason I say earlier phases of dementia, is because these treatments really only work if you've had them going on for a while. So, it's not something we would recommend in late dementia or advanced dementia, but early dementia, it might make sense. The other thing to be aware of is blood thinners. If you're on multiple different blood thinners, um you might want to talk to your doctor about whether it's still safe for you to be on all of those blood thinners if you are falling or if you have a loved one who's in that situation. So I wanted to also uh leave you with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. There's a lot of good materials on that website about how to prevent falls in people who are living in their own homes. And so this is a good resource that's free. I'm going to briefly talk a little bit about hospitals and nursing home settings. And hopefully most of you who are watching this presentation are watching from your own home or and are doing fine. But occasionally all of us will have a loved one who's in a hospital or maybe in a nursing home. And you might wonder what can you do if you're victit for example to help encourage the staff to protect them from falling especially if you know they have a history of of falling. Well, it turns out that the risk factors for falls in hospitals aren't all that different from the risk factors that we talked about um earlier in terms of the things that we did in the multiffactorial assessment. So, of course, if you had a recent fall, you're more likely to fall again. If you have muscle weakness, that means that you might easily trip or your knees might give out. If there's any problem with disturbed behavior, um person not realizing where they are, getting confused, they might try to get up out of bed without asking for help. So that could put you at risk. Frequent urination or incontinence is another risk factor in hospitals particularly because that's the kind of person who's going to want to get up out of bed and go to the bathroom. And most falls in the hospital occur between the bed and the bathroom. As we talked about, medications that make you sleepy or woozy or dizzy, those are risks. And also, if you've had any history of fainting or a drop in blood pressure when you stand up. So, the list looks pretty familiar. It's not all that different from what we talked about before, but what we do to prevent falls in the hospital is quite different. And that's because when you're on your own at home, you have to take care of yourself. You may have help from other people, but it's really in your court to figure out how to, you know, reduce your risks. When it's when a person is in the hospital, they're sick. They're not necessarily going to be in a situation where they can reduce their own risk. They probably need somebody to watch out for them. And it's really the hospital's staff's responsibility to make sure that the the person in the hospital is safe. And so staff supervision matter matters a lot. Just like we talked about earlier that supervision of the individual with dementia is very very important at home. Well, and the same thing is true in the hospital. Also, hospital policies matter. So, we know that certain drugs increase the risk of falls. And if they really want to make sure that they're going to reduce the risk of falls, they could take some of those risky drugs off the formulary completely. So, it it couldn't even be prescribed. So there are things that can be done, but you know, it's sort of a long-term proposition in most cases. In the short term, the most important thing is to be present in the hospital with your loved one. And if you have any concerns about the level of supervision that your loved one is getting, then you should talk with your with the hospital staff about it. And then if you do have a loved one in a nursing home, it's sort of like a the hospital. All the staff that work there need to care about prevention of falls. And that includes the director of the nursing home all the way to the nursing assistant and everywhere in between. And the strategies to prevent falls are pretty much the same ones. They're sort of a hybrid between what we do in the hospital and what we do for vulnerable people at home. So just be on the watch. If you see any situations that you're concerned about, you should definitely let the nursing home administrator know. uh that could involve, you know, seeing people who are unable to fall out of bed. Lots of things like this pop up um from time to time. So, um I just want to uh say a few words to sum up what we've talked about today. If you're living at home in the community, if you're healthy, please exercise. This is good for so many different um things, not just fall prevention. It's overall good. If you or a loved one are vulnerable, you need to get your doctor involved. and they can assess those risk factors that we talked about and then they can recommend appropriate interventions. And if with you caring about improving your situation, you are likely to reduce your fall risk because you care about it and you're trying to do something about it. And then finally, to make a difference in the hospital to the nursing home, you can go advocate for your loved one. But what we know from the research is in order to really make a difference in the hospital or the nursing home, there has to be commitment from the hospital's top leadership or the nursing home's leadership to do a better job. And so I want to thank you for listening to this talk. And um if you have questions, please tweet them. Um, and here I'm going to actually spend a little time going over the tweets that we have so far. So, um, the first tweet, in a hospital and nursing home setting, how exactly can staff from leaders to frontline caregivers go above and beyond to ensure fall prevention in nursing homes and hospitals? So if you really want to go above and beyond actually you get the physician who's taking care of your loved one to review that person's medications. It has been most people have thought of prevention of falls as a nursing issue. If the nurses would just pay closer attention to the patient everything would be fine or the nursing home resident. But what we know is certain medications that make you sleepy. They predispose to falls. They don't actually trigger the fall but they predispose. If you've got one of those medicines in your system, you're going to be confused. You're going to be sleepy. So, you can ask your physician, whoever is taking care of you or your loved one, to review your medications for any medications that might increase your risk and ask to have those decreased. And I actually had a family member of a patient I was taking care of in the hospital say that they didn't want the patient to be on so many of these sedative medications. And it made a difference in our care that the family members spoke up. So I would encourage you to do that. Um the second question is is any specific type of dementia for example vascular dementia or louisibody dementia more vulnerable to fall risks? I don't have a really good answer for this question except to say it isn't really the type of dementia as it is the behavior that the person has that's going to determine their risk. So if a person is impulsive, if they're hallucinating, if they're um not sleeping well, these kind of things are going to predispose to falls. So it's not the dementia type exactly, but actually the behaviors. If you see certain behaviors, um impulsivity, lack of good judgment, um unawareness of your environment, all of these things mean there's risk. Um, there's another tweet. Besides constant supervision, how else can vulnerable older adults living at home prevent falls? And specifically, what are some things you can do around the house to lower the risk of falls? And we talked a few about a few of these things. Um, just to emphasize a little bit more. Um, having something to hold on to is very, very important. If you've ever tried to walk around your house with a walker, it's not always the easiest thing to do because you might have something in your hands and meanwhile both hands are supposed to be on the walker. It's really awkward. So, having places to hold on to things is very important. If you're going up and down the stairs, hold on to the banister when you're going up and down the stairs. Um the grab bars, right? You can have grab bars in the bathroom. Um and we talked a little bit about having them in the toilet area, but you can also have them um in the shower. So, those are a few examples of things that you can do. We talked about the throw rugs, the night lighting. Um, another thing to think about, if you're having trouble getting on and off the toilet, that's an area of risk. You can get a raised toilet seat. And we talked about uh shower chairs if you're having unsteadiness in the shower. So, there are a number of low tech things. Many of these things are covered by insurance, particularly the shower chair. Sometimes the um the grab bars are not. So if you need those in if you need those installed, usually it's a there's there home improvement agency. Some of them will do it at low or no cost if um you have uh financial issues. There are not for-p profofit agencies that will come and install grab bars in your home. But basically having things to hold on to is really important. Making sure the paths in your home are clear. no electrical cords traversing your room or your path where you're walking. Common sense stuff, but often not always observed. Um, the next question is, since those with osteoporosis are more susceptible to injuries with falls, are there any further recommendations and precautions these adults can make? And I just wanted to expand on that question and say even if you don't have osteoporosis, everybody should be aware of injury prevention strategies. And I think uh the most important thing is to think about what's in your environment. Are there sharp objects that you could fall on? Um that's one example of something where you should think about what you might fall on. And then what medications are you on? We talked about blood thinners. I am now sometimes seeing patients who are on three different blood thinners. I had a patient come in actually um just a couple days ago on three different blood thinners and we actually had to stop one of the blood thinners because they were they were actually had a huge bruise in the face. So, so, um, this is something if you're on a lot of different blood thinners, definitely talk with your doctor about it regardless of whether you have osteoporosis. And then the final question we have is, are there any ways that uh, vulnerable adults can get further help assessing risks around the house? So, the home improvement agencies, I think we covered that is a big one. Uh and then the home safety evaluation that we talked about earlier in terms of um making sure that someone actually inspects your house. And again, the home safety evaluation is through home health through the um that a doctor would your doctor would actually prescribe uh that home health come to your home to inspect it. So, if there aren't any additional questions, I want to thank you very very much for listening to this presentation and um I look forward to hearing any future tweets. Um you can definitely tweet directly or contact UCLA Health directly with any additional questions you might have. Thank you.