Hello, I'm Dr. Wayne Brisbane, a urologic oncologist at UCLA Health. Today we're talking about focal therapy, a newer treatment for prostate cancer. Focal therapy is when we treat only the prostate cancer. This is a picture of the prostate. The urethra is outlined in yellow. This is the tube that your urine travels through. The cancer is in blue and the neurovvascular bundles are in green. The neurovvascular bundles are like the telephone wires from your brain to the penis. They make it possible for a penis to become erect. These nerves are not part of the prostate, but they run really close to it. So, treatment of prostate cancer can cause damage to the urethra and the nerve bundles. Focal therapy kills the tumor with a form of energy. This is shown in red. The goal is to spare critical structures such as the urethra and the nerve bundles. At UCLA Health, we have experience with more than six types of energy for focal therapy. This includes cryoablation, focal breaky therapy, focal laser ablation, HIU, also called highintensity focused ultrasound, nano knife or irreversible electroparation, and Tulsa pro. Now the energy we select depends on several factors such as tumor location and size. However, the decision to use focal therapy over other therapies with long-term data such as surgical removal or radiation is the most important decision and that can be tricky. For example, scientists led by Dr. Paul Bros here at UCLA have found tumors like the one I showed earlier only make up about 20% of prostate cancers. Often prostate cancer looks more like this. There's one large tumor which is the most dangerous, but there are other small tumors growing in other areas. So, as part of a workup for focal therapy, it's important to determine where your cancer is located and if there are other additional small tumors in other parts of the prostate. In that case, if we kill only one tumor with focal therapy, the other cancers will grow and take its place. At UCLA Health, we combine imaging tests, biopsy, and AI to identify patients with an isolated tumor for focal therapy. First, we use highresolution micro ultrasound and a specialized PET CT scan called PSMA. We measure the tumors and make sure there's no other cancer anywhere else in the body. Then we use an AI platform which was developed here at UCLA that combines data from MRI and biopsy to predict tumor volume and the presence of other tumors. Our research has found that tumor volume is the single best indicator of focal therapy success. Once identified, we prioritize enrolling patients in focal therapy clinical trials which offer innovative technologies. This leads to better success rates for patients and improves the way we treat prostate cancer going forward.