Hi, I'm Dr. Masha Livitz, endocrine surgeon at UCLA Health. If you've been diagnosed with osteoporosis, you might be wondering what you can do at home to help strengthen your bones. And one of the most important steps is making sure you're getting the right nutrition, especially calcium and vitamin D. As an endocrine surgeon, I take care of many patients with osteoporosis who have hyperarathyroidism or an overactive parathyroid glands. We can cure hyperarathyroidism with surgery and this has significant long-term benefits in terms of bone density and lowering the risk of fracture. But to achieve the best long-term bone health, we also need to focus on lifestyle factors, including diet and weightbearing exercise. Let's start with the basics. Calcium is a major building block of your bones, and vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. When you're not getting enough of either, your body can start pulling calcium out of your bones, which makes them weaker and more prone to fractures. For most adults with osteoporosis, the general recommendation is to get about 1,200 mg of calcium per day and 800 to 1,000 international units or IUs of vitamin D per day. Ideally, we want to get as much of that calcium as we can from food, not just supplements, because it's best absorbed in your diet. So, what kinds of foods are rich in calcium? Dairy products, of course, which include milk, yogurt, and cheese, are some of the most concentrated sources of calcium. One cup of milk has about 300 milligs of calcium. Now, some people have lactose intolerance or are worried about inflammation related to dairy. So, you can also get calcium from leafy greens like kale, bok choy, and collarded greens, which are good choices. Just note that spinach has a lot of calcium, but your body does not absorb it very well due to something called oxalates. Calcium fortified foods. Many brands of orange juice, plant-based milks, cereals, and even tofu have added calcium. Always check the label and think about how much sugar you're consuming as well. Canned fish with bones like sardines or salmon, you actually get calcium from the soft edible bones. Almonds, chia seeds, and white beans also contain some calcium, although in smaller amounts. If you add it up, you want to aim for 3 to four servings of calcium rich foods per day to get to that 1,200 mg goal. Now, let's talk about vitamin D. This is a little harder to get from food alone. Some foods that have vitamin D include fatty fish like salmon or mackerel, egg yolk, fortified milk and cereals, and mushroom exposed to sunlight. But even with those, most people don't get enough vitamin D just from their diet. And if you live in a place with limited sun exposure, especially in the winter, your levels may be low. That's why many people with osteoporosis need a vitamin D supplement, often taken daily or once per week, depending on your levels and your doctor's recommendation. Now, I also want to mention a special group of patients, those with primary hyperarathyroidism. This is the condition where the parathyroid glands in the neck make too much hormone which pulls calcium out of your bones and raises your blood calcium levels. If you have primary hyperarathyroidism, you should not have calcium supplements before surgery because your calcium levels are already too high and the calcium that you ingest won't really be absorbed. But after parathyroid surgery, when the source of the problem has been removed, your bones can start to rebuild and that's when your body really may need more calcium. So at that point, we do recommend calcium supplements after surgery. So to summarize, if you have osteoporosis, aim for about 1,200 mg of calcium per day, mostly from foods. Include 3 to four servings of calcium rich foods per day. Get 800 to 1,000 international units of vitamin D per day through food, sun exposure, or supplements. Talk to your doctor before you start any highdose supplements. If you have primary hyperarathyroidism, avoid calcium supplements before surgery, but do take calcium after the surgery as your bones begin to rebuild. Nutrition is an important part of managing osteoporosis, and it's something that you can control. Combined with weightbearing exercise, good bone health monitoring, and medications when needed, these can all make a difference in reducing your risk of bone fracture. I'm Dr. Masha Livitz, endocrine surgeon at UCLA Health. Thanks for watching this video about dietary recommendations for osteoporosis.