 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone. Welcome back to UCLA Health's medically speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Today we are welcoming someone I deeply admire, my colleague and dear friend, Dr. Dan Uslin, infectious disease specialist and chief of infection prevention here at UCLA Health. Today's topic is germs, also known as microbes, pathogens, bugs, those tiny troublemakers that hijack our sinuses, take down kindergarten classrooms, and occasionally audition for the next global pandemic. Full disclosure, I am fascinated by microbes. I have actually mad respect for them. I see them. I give them space because they seem like villains, I think, often of the human story when really they're the reason we're here at all. I'm going to nerd out. They've built the first ecosystem. They actually invented oxygen. They've been ruling the planet for about 3.5 billion years while we humans basically, in some ways, just occupy them like we're the fancy Airbnb's that they occupy. Some of them help us digest food, strengthen our immune system, and literally keep us alive. Then others take us out and make us question our life choices. I'm looking at you, oysters. So thank God Dr. Yuselin is here to break down microbial basics, share what actually works to prevent infection, tell us the truth about antibiotics, and give us practical steps to stay healthy without becoming that person who wipes down individual Dorito bags. Dan, welcome to Medically Speaking. Thank you. Delighted to be here. Okay. Let's just start very simply for everyone. What is an infectious disease doctor? Well, quite simply, we're doctors that specialize in infectious diseases, but of course, most patients with infections don't need a specialist in infectious diseases. In fact, the vast majority of infections are treated by primary care physicians, urgent carers, emergency rooms, and you don't need an expert in infectious diseases to treat those infections. So we usually get brought in when there's one of three possible issues. One is they need our expertise in diagnosing something. So maybe somebody has possible meningitis or has had a fever for several weeks and nobody can figure out why, or they're being treated with antibiotics and not responding appropriately. So they need our expertise in diagnosis. The second reason is that they need our expertise in treating an infection. While most infections like garden variety, urinary tract infections, or sinus infections, like you mentioned, are fairly straightforward, occasionally they become infections that are difficult to treat. Perhaps the bacteria are resistant to usual antibiotics and we need to use something a little bit more complicated. Or perhaps it's a patient that has multiple allergies to medications or their difficulties with dosing it for something like that. So that might be the second reason is our expertise in treating an infection. And then I guess probably a third reason and a smaller reason why we might get involved is that they look for our expertise in transmission of infection. So is there a risk to family members, to healthcare workers? Can this person work? Can they go back to school? So occasionally we'll get involved in some of those discussions as well. I mean, I have called on your expertise many times as a primary care provider, as a resident. So okay, thank you for that definition. I'd love to now ask you if you could explain to our listeners what you do as your chief of infection prevention. Sure. So infection prevention is exactly what it sounds like. It's essentially trying to prevent infections from spreading from person to person, which in healthcare is quite complex because really virtually everything we do in healthcare has infection implications. And I have honestly yet to find an example of something we do in healthcare that doesn't have potential infection implications. Let's think through some examples. So there's the obvious stuff. Like when our surgeons operate on patients, how do we make sure that that surgical equipment is properly cleaned, disinfected and sterilized so that we can't spread infections from patient to patient by the surgeries that we do? When we are feeding our patients in healthcare, we're essentially running a restaurant. So just like you think about, you go to our local sushi place, you hopefully have a letter A in the window. We're serving food in our hospital systems. We want to make sure that that is also a letter A. The construction that we do, anytime you're opening walls or ceilings or doing some major renovations, there's dust and dust plus time can equal microbes and that can be dangerous. So virtually everything we do in healthcare has infection implications in some shape. Sometimes you'll hear what I do called infection control. I prefer the term infection prevention. Control implies to me that the infection's already happened and we're just trying to control it. Whereas I like the idea that we're trying to prevent it from happening to begin with. I'm actually, I didn't even think of how complex that is. Yes, I hope we have a letter grade A. I know we do in our cafeteria. But it's delicious. It is. The omelet bar. Okay, well I'm going to, you know, on that note then, let's get into your origin story. I hope it's a villain origin story. What pulled you into medicine in the first place? And then specifically, I guess, ID, which is infectious disease. Sure. Yeah, I wish I had a cool origin story like I was bitten by a radioactive microbe or something like that. But unfortunately no. But I can actually trace my interest back to when I was a child. And I took classes with my father at what is now I think called the Los Angeles Science Center, but back in those days with the Museum of Science and Industry. And we took this class that was called It's a Small World and it's essentially was about microbes and in particular how they can affect the food that we eat. So we looked into things like fermenting. We made sourdough bread. We made sauerkraut, all of which require microbes to make. We did not make wine or beer because I was six. Yeah. And kombucha was not a thing yet. But certainly bread and sauerkraut were. And I was fascinated by this idea that there were microscopic things that you could not see with your eye that had such dramatic impacts on the world around us. And as I move forward in my career and continue to be interested in medicine, I always kept coming back to this idea that there are invisible things that can have such wide range and consequences in human disease. So you also have the mad respect. Oh, absolutely. In fact, I find it so humbling working in this field because I'm constantly learning new things and microbes consistently surprise us. I love it. So let's do a quick germs for humans crash course, if you will. I mean, I think we use all these names interchangeably, but what are we really talking about? I guess when we say bug, microbe or even infection. Yeah. So generally, we're talking about microscopic organisms and we mostly divide them into four buckets. Those are bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. A lot of these terms are used interchangeably. So some people say germs, some people say microbes. I prefer not to use the term bug because of course that has implications like insects. And sometimes I find that if you say like we're treating this bug, people may misunderstand that and you mean to say you're treating a microbe, but people might interpret it differently. So I don't like the term bug. But often these terms are used interchangeably. Yeah. We don't need the creepy crawly either. There's enough of that. There's enough of that. You know, and it's interesting because I think I was even already making a distinction between an organism and an actual infection. So I think what I'm trying to get at is that we coexist, I'm guessing, with many microbes because we do have something called the microbiome. And I was wondering if you could kind of explain that. Yeah. So microbes are ubiquitous. They're around us. They're our skin in our mouth, our nose. They're in our digestive system. In fact, they're critical as you hinted at in your introduction. They're an important part of us being alive. And we have what's called a symbiotic relationship with those microbes. Symbiotic means that we both benefit from that relationship. So we give them a place to live. We give them nutrition, for example, in our gut multiple times a day that helps them nourish and grow. And in exchange for us giving that to them, they help us digest food. They make certain vitamins for us, like vitamin K and vitamin B12. They're an incredibly important part of us being alive. So rather than viewing them as kind of an enemy to be conquered, there's a mutual benefit there. And without our microbes, we could not exist. We are a community. We are absolutely a community. Okay, let's talk transmission. And you mentioned transmission in terms of what you do in infection prevention. So how do microbes actually spread? I think that it'd be great to focus on what happens in actual real life versus your basic Hollywood depiction like contagion, which haunts me every day. So there's lots of different ways that microbes can spread because they all have different parts of the body that they infect. They have different ways that they cause infection. So we generally think of a couple ways. So the most obvious perhaps just because it's been on everybody's mind so much over the last few years is respiratory, right? So you can imagine you're sitting in the waiting room of, you know, the DMV, someone next to you's got COVID, they're coughing, sneezing, you're sitting right there, you're inhaling that that's a potential route of transmission is inhalation or respiratory. There's also things that are spread through contact. So by touch. So things like COVID are spread mostly through inhalation, but other types of infections are spread through contact. So a great example of that is what's called norovirus, which you've probably heard about. I'm sure your listeners have as well. That's the one that tends to cause so many issues with cruise ships. And that tends to be spread through contact. So it's on a surface somehow. I touch that surface and then I touch my mouth, I rub my nose, whatever, and now it gets into me. So that's a great sort of mechanism. Then there are microbes that spread through sexual contact. And your guest, Dr. Landovitz, recently went into a lot of detail about sexual transmission of infections. And then there are some things that spread through blood. So HIV, hepatitis viruses are a good example. So there's lots of different ways that things can spread and really depends on the nature of the organism and the particular route in which it's transmitted. Okay, great. And I think it's really helpful to hear sort of the different microbes because then I'm guessing that then informs that there's different tools, whether it's treatments or ways to prevent them from infecting you. And if we could just one more time just emphasize the difference between colonization of a micro versus infection. Because again, we have this community of organisms that live with us symbiotically, but that doesn't necessarily mean that you're infected. Correct. So yes, as I said, we carry microbes all over us, they're ubiquitous in pretty much every part of our body on the skin and the nose, etc. They're not causing problems. Microbes are there and normal to be there. They're essentially what we call, as you said, colonizing organisms, which essentially means that they're present in a particular part of the body, but not causing an infection. And we distinguish that between infection, which is the presence of an organism, and it's causing an immune response, which is causing symptoms. So sinus inflammation, urinary tract symptoms, diarrhea, whatever it is. So it's not just the presence of the organism, it's there plus the immune response to that particular organism. And that's what distinguishes colonization versus infection. Perfect. I could never explain that so beautifully, just FYI. Okay, so we obviously can't really talk about infectious diseases without talking antibiotics, which obviously one of medicine's greatest breakthroughs. I personally, and I guess you agree, really feel like antibiotics have changed the world. It blows my mind. I mean, when was penicillin, do you think, invented, like 30s? It was late 40s, mid 40s, and then really commercialized after that until the early 50s. Yeah. I mean, it hasn't even been 100 years. I personally wouldn't be alive without antibiotics today. So let's start with basics. What do antibiotics do, but then also maybe we could go into what they don't do. So antibiotics, and just to clarify some of the terminology, we talked about the four different types of microorganisms that we think about. So bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites. When we use the term antibiotics, we're generally referring specifically to things that kill bacteria. So we distinguish that from antivirals or antifungals or antiparasitics. And of course, because those types of infections tend to be less common, antibiotics are the ones that we by far use the most. And antibiotics kill bacteria. And that's an important thing to keep in mind. It seems so obvious. But what that means is that antibiotics, for example, don't fix holes in things. So when we see patients, for example, who have chronic diabetic foot infections where they have bone that's infected, antibiotics will kill the bacteria. But if there's a hole in somebody's foot from an untreated infection, the antibiotics aren't really going to fix that hole. If someone has a perforation in their bowel, perhaps from God forbid a gunshot or some sort of trauma, antibiotics will kill the bacteria that are present. But they're not going to fix that hole. And so antibiotics have a role. And it's important to sometimes think about what they can and can't do. And that's why we often will have to work so closely with our surgical colleagues trying to understand the best way to treat something like a complicated infection. And that's complicated. Antibiotics also don't cure the flu or the common cold. Correct. So antibiotics have different types of bacteria that they cover. So we call that in our world the spectrum of activity. Some treat different types of infections. And this gets complicated. But what antibiotics don't do is only kill the one specific bacteria that's causing an infection. So antibiotics have a spectrum of activity. They don't kill every single bacteria, but they don't kill only one type either. That becomes important when we think about the healthy microbiome like we discussed earlier and whether that antibiotic is going to have potentially untoward consequences that might have risks to an individual beyond just curing the infection. Right. A great example for that to me is when a young woman might be taking antibiotics for a bacterial, let's say respiratory infection and then ends up getting a yeast infection in her vagina because you can explain it better. Right. But the yeast overgrows in that environment. Right. That's a great example. So exactly right. The vagina is one of those body parts that normally has bacteria in it, completely normal, expected part of being alive. So when I take antibiotics to treat a sinus infection, I'm going to treat other things as well. And so yes, in women you can cause a yeast infection by essentially wiping out the normal, good, healthy bacteria that are supposed to be there, which now in some ways almost kind of creates a vacuum where there's an opportunity for yeast to overgrow and cause an infection as well. Okay. Great. What does it mean when we say bacteria are becoming resistant? So bacteria over time develop genetic ways to counter the antibiotics that we prescribe. In fact, literally within a few years of the development of penicillin, we started to see bacteria that were resistant to penicillin. In fact, Alexander Fleming, who discovered penicillin, wrote about this in a New York Times editorial, I think it was probably 1953 or so, warning of the dangers of overuse of penicillin that we would indeed see resistant bacteria to penicillin. And we did and we continue to do so. Because they're just trying to survive. It is an evolutionary thing. In fact, Nobel laureate Joshua Letterberg famously said that the future of our relationship with microbes would evolve as a battle of our wits versus their genes. It's amazing. And unfortunately, their genes are going to continue to win out because they're just trying to survive, as you said. And so over time, with continued exposure to antibiotics, they evolve ways to escape them and become resistant. Well, I'm guessing too they replicate a lot faster than we do. They sure do. Don't be nervous, everyone. Can you give us an example of an infection that used to be easier to treat but now is harder because of resistance? Yeah, so I think kind of the easiest example that many of your listeners might be familiar with is a bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus, where back in the 1950s, that was one of the first bacteria we saw becoming resistant to penicillin. So nowadays, virtually all Staph aureus is penicillin resistant. In fact, we kind of get surprised and wonder if it's actually correct when we see that it's susceptible to penicillin. That's not very common anymore. But over the last few decades, we've also seen emergence of Staphylococcus aureus that is resistant to an antibiotic called methicillin. And we call that methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA. Some people call that MRSA. And that particular bacteria, which is a very common cause of, for example, skin and soft tissue infections, becomes more complicated to treat when you have now lost a certain category of antibiotics that no longer are effective for treating it. And just for our listeners, Staphylococcus aureus, sounds so fancy. A PCP like myself, we call that Staph. You've probably heard it in the everyday lexicon, Staph. Indeed. I care immensely about this. And obviously, you do as well. Why should the everyday person care deeply about this? So I think there's a couple of reasons. One is that, obviously, on an individual level, we want to make sure that if and when we get an infection that we have antibiotics available to treat that infection. And we've already seen, I'm sure you've seen as a primary care doctor, people who are not individuals you would expect to see a resistant bacteria in, young, healthy women with a year of urinary tract infection, where all of a sudden we're now having to go to a third or a fourth line antibiotic because the ones that we would normally use to treat it, perhaps are not effective. And that makes things much more complicated for that individual and often adds days to their suffering with symptoms until we find the antibiotic that's effective. But then I think the bigger picture is on a societal level, whereas it's not just us and our symptoms. It's our loved ones. It's our communities around us. It's those individuals who perhaps have weakened immune systems, invasive medical devices like catheters in their bladder or IVs for chemotherapy, in whom are at higher risk for acquisition of bacteria and becomes much more difficult to treat than if it's resistant. So it's really part of being part of a global community. It's not just about, can I treat my infection, those around us as well. Exactly. So besides overuse of antibiotics, which again, I just think that's, we're using them a lot, are there other reasons why bacteria are becoming resistant? So overuse is certainly the most common reason. And another big thing that your listeners may not be aware of is the use of antibiotics in agriculture, and in particular in the meat industry, where antibiotics are used not to treat sick animals, but to prevent them from getting sick, essentially as growth promoters. And in fact, around 80% of antibiotics used in this country are used in agriculture, not in humans. And often they are the same antibiotics that we would use in humans. In fact, you can go, if you drive through Minnesota or something on your way somewhere, you can stop at a animal supply store and get a giant bottle of Cipro that's labeled not for human consumption, but Cipro is Cipro. So these are the same antibiotics that we would use in humans that are often being used in animals. And that then helps promote the issue of antibiotic resistance. Okay, what about, because this is, maybe I'm incorrectly telling my patients, so feel free to school and schooled me, I always tell my patients to take the antibiotics for their full course. And I usually use the word resistance, if they, you know, if you're only doing it for five days because you already feel better, that might lead to antibiotic resistance. Tell me I'm wrong. Yes, so you're not wrong. However, I think one of the least understood aspects about treating infections is how long to treat them for. I remember I had a professor back when I was first training, so this is 25 years ago, who said to me that duration of antibiotics should be football scores and safeties are not allowed. That was a direct quote. So what did he mean by that? He meant seven days. 10, 14, 21. Well, those are football scores, right? So multiples of seven. And the bacteria don't care that it's a multiple of seven, right? The bacteria are just being killed off by the antibiotic. So what has really started to be something our field has paid a lot of attention to in the last 10 or 15 years is really a mantra that we say shorter is better, that we want to give as little of that antibiotic as is necessary to treat that infection without over treating it. So if there's an infection that I could cure, like a urinary tract infection in three days, giving that patient 14 days of antibiotics becomes overkill, and that's what we start to worry about with promotion of antibiotics. So there needs to be a lot more research, and there has been quite a bit already in how to optimally treat some of these infections. And it doesn't just have to be a multiple of seven just because. I love it. Yeah. So the overkill is a version of overuse, too. Right. But your field, right? You're always looking at this, optimal doses, et cetera. Yeah. And the other thing I'll say is that stopping the antibiotic course before you've completed it also results in someone then having leftover antibiotics in their medicine cabinet. And next time, all of a sudden it's, hey, I've got a runny nose and I've got a big trip coming up. Oh, I've got a couple days left from that time. I had a urinary tract infection two years ago. People are often. Inappropriately using. And either they don't truly need an antibiotic or it may not be the correct antibiotic. Maybe you gave them something for a urinary tract infection. Now they're trying to treat sinusitis. So that becomes problematic as well. You know that's the number one asking for a friend. Yes. I've got some antibiotics just hanging around. Absolutely. Okay. Let's talk infection prevention, which you have a very important work that you do for St. L.A. health. What are the biggest infection risks in hospitals today? I mean, it was great to hear. Honestly, I hadn't even heard, had even occurred to me sort of all the spaces where you are preventing infection. But what are the biggest infection risks that you're kind of dealing with? Yeah. So I think obviously our biggest concern is transmission of what we call MDROs, which stands for multi-drug resistant organisms. And back to our earlier discussion, those are essentially bacteria that are resistant to lots of different antibiotics. Patients who are hospitalized, especially for a prolonged period of time, are at very high risk for picking up infections because often they have compromised immune systems. Maybe they've had an organ transplant or chemotherapy. They also have invasive devices like what we call a central venous catheter, which is a type of IV that is used to give certain types of medications. Or they have a catheter in their bladder or they're on a ventilator. And all of those types of devices bypass the body's normal defenses at getting an infection. So you have a combination of weak immune system and then bypassing of normal defenses puts those individuals at very high risk for getting infections while they're hospitalized. And now if the types of infections they're getting are extremely difficult to treat, that now results in not only obviously risk to that individual, but now they have to stay longer. When a three-day hospital stay now becomes a 10-day hospital stay or complicates other medical problems, like perhaps if they have asthma, now you catch pneumonia on top of that, that makes things much more complicated for that individual. So those multi-drug resistant organisms are a big focus. And when we think about how infections are transmitted in the hospital, there's basically three main ways. So the first is like the example I used earlier of someone sitting in the waiting room catching a respiratory virus. So directly from person to person. The second way is through healthcare workers as the intermediary. So patient A has an infection, healthcare worker takes care of them and then spreads it to patient B. And so you know the reason that healthcare workers spread infections from patient to patient is of course hands and lack of hand washing. So that's a major focus. And we've known since the time of Dr. Ignace Semmelweis, who is a Hungarian physician practicing in Vienna in the 1840s that hand washing is a critical way to stop the transmission of infections in healthcare. And then the third way, which I actually find the most interesting because I think it's the least well understood, is through the environment and equipment. So not hands, not directly, but through things like a bed, sinks, blood pressure cuffs, stethoscopes, these things contribute to spreading of infections from patient to patient. And more importantly, what do we do to prevent that from happening? Do they? Do they contribute? Absolutely. And I think under appreciated ways. I completely agree. So we're coming up with tools then. For example, I remember when I was a resident and I was more practicing in the inpatient setting, if there was a patient who had tuberculosis, I think for everyone listening, there are many, many precautions. We don't have to go into every detail, but there are many precautions that we take as providers to not transmit infections from patient to patient, room to room to room. But it's interesting to know that that's still evolving, especially in this kind of the surfaces and I guess contact transmission. Exactly. For example, an area that has been getting a lot of attention in the last decade has been the role of water in healthcare as a way of transmitting infection. So I'm talking about sinks and ice machines and showers and things like that, which you're like, well, those things are critically important and absolutely they are. But it's not hard to envision how, let's say hypothetically, you've got a sink that is contaminated with a particularly nasty strain of a bacteria, the one we often worry about is something called pseudomonas. And if it's living in that sink, it gets very difficult to eradicate that because this particular bacteria can form what are called biofilms, which are essentially kind of a type of slime that can stick to surfaces and metal in particular, but other surfaces as well. And now that can become very difficult to eradicate from that sink drain and now people could do things like splash that water somewhere it shouldn't be and spread that bacteria around to other surfaces, which then potentially could infect patients. So how do you prevent that from happening? People aren't totally terrified. What are we doing to prevent that? I mean, besides geniuses like you behind the scenes. So we have incredible teams that spend a lot of time doing work to prevent this from happening. Because I can say, as someone who works in administration, we aren't rife with infections in the hospital. So you guys are doing everything. Absolutely. Right. But immense efforts. Incredible teams in environmental services that help us ensure that our environment stays clean and spotless, which is not just emptying trash. It's wiping. How do you wipe? What types of disinfectants? For how long? How do we clean our sinks and showers and ice machines? We've got incredible colleagues in our facilities department that ensure that we are maintaining things appropriately. There's always new technology evolving in how we disinfect, how we clean, how do we enhance the cleaning that we do to make sure that we minimize those risks. And monitor. Absolutely. Right. Yes. It's amazing. It's amazing. Right. I mean, I think you should feel very proud of all these teams that you work with because we have a very low infection rate. We do. I mean, that's incredible. I have to say, I don't think everyone appreciates all that work that's behind the scene. Yeah. And it really does take a village. There's so many people who are involved in daily operations. Quite frankly, the environmental services workers, that's probably the hardest job in the hospital. And I say that without reservation. Right? That's not a job most people would want. And they work very hard. And a big part of the reason they do what they do is to help prevent infections from spreading and make sure our patients are safe. It's incredible. Yeah. I'd love to, if it's okay with you, I'd love to kind of talk about some of the emerging infectious diseases. What we hear about Ebola is one of them. And I feel like as a health system, we prepare to kind of care for highly contagious patients. We'll see in like L.A. Times or like patients are coming in. Someone got off at LAX with Ebola. What do you do in leading our teams to prepare for a patient that has?  anemerging infectious disease coming to one of our clinics or to one of our hospitals. Yeah, so it's a really fascinating topic. And I guess I would say another way to frame this would be how do you prepare to care for a patient with a highly contagious disease that you'll probably never see? But if you do see it, you really, really don't want to mess that up. So you remember in 2014 when that first Ebola patient came to the hospital in Texas, it was not recognized for several days, and it led to quite a disaster for that hospital because of the number of people that were exposed and actually some nurses were infected as well. Nobody wants to be that hospital, but at the same time, it's extraordinarily unlikely that you're going to see a case of something like that. So you're preparing for something unlikely to happen but with dire consequences. So we have an incredible team. We work very closely with our Office of Emergency Preparedness and multiple stakeholders, nursing, our emergency department, administration, all sorts of different stakeholders to make sure that we're prepared. So there's a couple different parts to it. One, of course, is just awareness. So knowing what's going on in the world globally. So for example, there is a outbreak of a viral hemorrhagic fever called Marburg, which is very similar to Ebola ongoing right now in rural Southwest Ethiopia. We don't get a lot of people from rural Southwest Ethiopia coming to Los Angeles. So that's probably less of a concern for us. But back in January, February of 2020, when we have a lot of people flying from China to Los Angeles, that was a very different concern. So just understanding where these things are happening in the world and staying aware. A big part of what we've done is travel screening, which is, for most of these infections, there is still a geographic component to them. If there is an Ebola outbreak going on in the DRC, well, it makes sense if someone's coming into the emergency department, we can ask them, have you recently been to the Democratic Republic of the Congo? But that has to be within reason, right? If we were going to ask everyone who's coming into their primary care doctor for an annual physical, hey, have you recently been in contact with anybody who has Ebola, it would be ludicrous. So trying to think of ways to do that in a thoughtful way that's not overly burdensome. And targeted. Yeah. And then really thinking through how somebody could get into our system with something like that. How would we respond? What would that first hour look like? Where would we put them? Who do you call? Where do you house them in the hospital? What supplies do we need? How are we going to test them? And then I think the next part that we've had to think a lot about is what does clinical care look like for a patient like this? This is not going to be business as usual. You're not going to send a third year medical student and, you know, into the room and say, okay, go take your history and examine and come back and present this case. Let me know what's happening. Exactly. And a lot of the incredible healthcare delivery that we do involves ancillary services, right? It's not just the doctors and nurses, but it's the physical therapists and chaplains and dietitians. Well, it's pretty obvious to say we're not going to have those people going into that room. We'll have them do perhaps what they do through telemedicine, which we've learned a lot about through COVID. But some of the other stuff becomes thoughtful too. Like what about imaging? We rely so much on x-rays and CAT scans and such for what we do in healthcare. How are we going to navigate that if we had a patient with something like Ebola? Because usually just for everyone to know, like you could be like on the third floor of, you know, the hospital in your bed, you might have to go down four floors and six hallways to get to the CAT scan machine. Right. And we're certainly not going to take a patient with Ebola through the corridors of the hospital to do that. Right. Just my office. Yes. Yeah. Just your office. Exactly. What about surgery? Are we going to do that? What does that look like? So thinking through a lot of that stuff. A lot of thinking on your feet. Well, or with your brain. I think the idea is to do a lot of that thinking before it happens so that you don't have to make it up as you go along. Did you, I mean, I'm just going to say this, and for our listeners, you know, Dan and I really, I like to think we went through COVID together. And do you think though of COVID as now is, I mean, right now we're saying, for example, we're categorizing like Ebola as an example as unlikely to happen. So from where we're sitting now, does COVID, did COVID feel unlikely to happen? I think we were all aware that a pandemic of a coronavirus was in the realm of possibilities. In fact, likely this was not the first time that's happened. Of course, there was the original SARS back 25 years ago. So I don't think that was unexpected. I don't think we were quite expecting to have it happen as quickly as it did as overwhelming as it did and to be as disruptive as it was that quickly. And we felt very confident that we could care for a patient with Ebola. And so when we first got a patient with COVID, like, yeah, we got this, et cetera. But then all the stuff around it, what about exposed healthcare workers and their developing symptoms? How are we going to care for our healthcare workers? When can they come back to work? We're still having that conversation. Exactly. All of those types of things, I think needed to be developed on the spot. And as you remember, public health guidance was changing so rapidly. I mean, everyone was doing the best they could. Everyone was doing the best they could. But stuff that seemed like an absolute truth day one, now on day 21, it's like, well, wait a minute, we don't think that way anymore. And that was very challenging. So challenging. I mean, I will say it to everyone. I mean, you were so heroic during that time and always, I mean, you really got us through it. Are there lessons just top of mind learned that inform now yet, you know, your approach to infection prevention? Yeah, I think really understanding who the individuals in the organization are that can help us do a lot of these things. And we worked so closely with individuals that I had not had a lot of interaction with prior to that. A great example of that is our materials management department. So they're the ones who keep all of our stock rooms stocked and our supplies up to date. And all of a sudden it was like, hey, we need 10,000 and 95 respirators. How many do we have? Well, we have 5000. And when are we supposed to get more? Not for another couple weeks. Well, that's a problem. So being able to work with a lot of those different groups to understand how to best care for patients, I think was really an important lesson learned for all of us and for those groups as well. Yes, so much as infrastructure. My heart rate is literally going up as disgusting COVID right now. I mean, just this kind of the how we coped, you know what I mean, and how we approached it. Well, you know, speaking then of kind of a little bit more of a more fun topic, but you know, our hospitals are incredibly well cared for. Thanks to you and your team. We do have like this fabulous animal assisted therapy. So what is that like from an infection standpoint point of view? It's called PAC, the PAC Connection, the people animal connection. It's the best animals come in, including a little donkey, you know, and visit some of our patients from an infection standpoint, prevention standpoint. How do you approach that? Yeah, so this is really fascinating. So we can think of animals and healthcare in several different ways, right? Of course, there's service animals. And there's emotional support animals. But what we're specific talking about is animals when used as therapy. So these are not seeing eye dogs. These are not emotional support animals. These are animals where their purpose is to bring joy to the people who are interacting with them. And so much comfort, so much comfort. And I've said several times like, yeah, they are great for the patients, but they're really great for the healthcare workers. And when you see some of these animals walk through the lobby, it's like, you know, everyone swarms around them because immediately they just bring so much joy. But how do you do that safely? Well, obvious things like where can they or can't they go? And it makes sense to say, okay, well, they're not going to go in an operating room, right? That's obvious. We're not going to bring them into a newborn nursery. That's obvious. But it gets a little bit more complex and nuanced and making sure we think through some of that kind of stuff. But then the other parts are, well, are we going to require them to see a vet? And what vaccines do they need to have received before they can safely come into our healthcare environment? Do they need a bath? How soon before? And we've worked closely with our PAC program to make sure that we can have those animals come visit and do it in a safe manner so that they can bring all the joy that they bring to our healthcare patients, visitors and employees, but do it in a safe manner. I mean, it is challenging. I mean, you're just talking about like sinks and surfaces, right? I mean, animals are, you know, covered in fur, right? They are their leashes. But so far, we haven't had any issue. We haven't. And I think that's really a testament to how incredibly well run our program is that it's done so safely. And just a great example of that is hand hygiene. So if you ever interact with the animals, I'm sure you've seen them in the lobby, their handlers carry around hand sanitizer with them and like, hold on, clean your hands first, see the animal, then you clean them again afterwards. And they're very almost religious about that, which I think is wonderful. It is. It reminds me of being at birthday parties when my kids were little, when there was always like a turtle and someone's making you wash your hands afterwards, right? Yes, exactly. We're worried about salmonella and turtles. We are. Correct. I'm glad I remembered that. Impressive. Yes. I think kind of, so this is real, so, I mean, obviously, this is incredibly illuminating. It's so complex. It is such a testament to the teams and keeping our patients and health workers safe. I guess I would say like in, I kind of think of hospital as a very, not rarefied, but as a very particular context. But, you know, again, we have tons of patients, people who work in clinics, right? And in offices. And I guess just an everyday life. I mean, you know, I want everyone to feel permission, you know, not to be overwhelmed by, you know, thinking about all these like invisible microbes infecting them. But I mean, I personally feel very much at, you know, very comfortable living my life knowing that these microbes are living symbiotically with me. Sometimes they might be causing an infection. I mean, just in a practical everyday, let's just talk about schools and daycares, for example. I mean, are they really driving infections? I mean, what's fair to say? And how do we kind of keep ourselves safe day to day? Yeah. So I think schools and daycares are unique. Yeah. And what's the word? Example, because any parent knows, like, you know, you send your kid back to school, like a week later, they're all getting money. It's like the Obonac those years. Exactly. And daycares in particular, right? Because what do little kids crawling around on the floor do? They pick stuff up, they put it in their mouth. Someone else picks it up and puts it in their mouth. So those are certainly areas where we do see a lot of transmission. But also a lot of that is building healthy immune systems, too, right? And what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. And those kids are being exposed to those germs and generally getting immune experience from doing that. Who knew Nietzsche was an infectious specialist? Do you feel like it's safe to travel internationally right now? I do. I think it's important to be aware. And there are lots of resources for an average traveler to identify potential threats. And the CDC does have great information. If you go to CDC.gov, you can look up every single country, you're going to be by destination, you can I'm going to Botswana, what do I need to be concerned about? And it's got good advice, including some maps. And then I'll always advise people who are concerned or in particular, if they have any high risk medical conditions, to discuss that with their primary care doctor or see a travel medicine specialist, because there may be a need for vaccines to catch up on or unique ones for the destination that they're going to like typhoid, for example, or medications they may need to take like malaria prophylaxis. And so having a discussion like that can be helpful, especially if you have any unique medical situations that may make travel a little bit more risky. But you know, the number one risk to travelers is not infectious disease. It's often personal safety. All of a sudden people are renting moped and cruising around in Bali on a moped. And that's a much higher risk thing than just the risk of infection. So that's really important to put into context because I do think people are instantly like, what again, what bug am I going to get? What about, you know, again, not all of us are traveling internationally, Dan? What's my biggest everyday infection risk, you know, just out and about? I mean, right now, it's still respiratory viruses, right? We all get multiple times a year. And despite all people's best efforts to wash their hands and such, we still really get a lot of respiratory viruses. I think the thing though that keeps me, I don't know if I would say up at night, but certainly keeps me concerned is measles. And what we're seeing with measles in the US, and I certainly don't want your listeners to be afraid or scared because it's still extraordinarily rare. But when we're seeing resurgence of measles, especially when, in fact, people are traveling through very dense places like you mentioned LAX earlier, especially now during the holidays. Right. So measles is really perhaps the most contagious infectious disease that there is. And when someone with measles walks into a room, they can transmit it to somewhere around 15 to 18 unvaccinated individuals, which is a lot. And measles is not just a cold. It's not just a cold. It has very severe consequences, especially for people who are perhaps young, have underlying health conditions, etc. And what worries me is somebody with something like measles walking into our emergency department and potentially infecting. Right. Or clinic and just being in the waiting room. Exactly. Right. And I will say, I mean, this is where I think being part of a really fantastic health system like ours, I mean, you'll send out emails and say, if someone comes in with suspected measles with X, Y and Z symptoms, right, rash, fever, runny nose, let's say, you know, we have protocols of saying like put them in a room, isolate them, you know, etc. But no, it's, I mean, it's a really important point. This is a potentially fatal disease that you don't have to have. We talk all the time about what we call the three eyes. So that is identify. So recognize that a patient might have something. Yes. Isolate. So somebody like measles, you're going to put them in an exam room and close the door. You're not going to have them sitting in a waiting room for an hour until they can see the doctor. So that's the second eye. And then the third one is inform. So picking up the phone and calling someone who would be somebody like me. I was like, call Dan starts at the C. But yes. Call Dan starts at the C. But yes. So identify, isolate and inform. And then we will essentially provide advice and take it from there. Yeah. Okay, this kind of this goes transitions great into our asking for a friend because we have a lot for you. Virus versus bacterial. Can symptoms alone tell does a fever mean it's bacterial? Not necessarily. None of those types of symptoms are to use the medical term, we talk about sensitive versus specific meaning whether something is good at ruling something in or out. And fever alone doesn't necessarily imply that it's bacterial. There's plenty of viruses that cause fever like influenza. So that's not particularly helpful. Another question we get a lot is about color of mucus or sputum. Yes. So green, yellow, does that necessarily mean and the answer again is not necessarily it can perhaps suggest that there's a bacterial infection but not with nearly enough accuracy to really make you as the physician be able to make a comfortable decision about should I give this person antibiotics or not for example. So sometimes the mucus sitting around makes it kind of turn yellowish. Absolutely. And for sinusitis for example, it's not particularly helpful knowing that the mucus is green versus clear. So these things are perhaps diagnostic clues but not anything you would ever hang your hat on. Right and come in and talk to us about them. Right. As I always say, don't Google alone. Right. Don't Google alone. Google with us. I like that. We already kind of touched on this but I think it's worth repeating. If I have left over antibiotics in my cabinet, can I just take them the next time I'm sick? No, because they might be the wrong antibiotic. Right and then you'll be and also like, can I just say this too? I think sometimes yes, most of the time when antibiotics are warranted, they are well tolerated meaning you take them, you don't feel terrible but sometimes like they can cause you to have diarrhea. Sometimes they don't make you feel well, let alone causing a yeast infection as an example. Exactly. So it might be the wrong antibiotic. More likely you probably don't need an antibiotic at all and then you run the risk of causing side effects. Now there are a couple exceptions to that. A common one that some of your listeners might be aware of is occasionally women who have recurrent urinary tract infections, especially for example after sexual activity, their primary care doctor may give them an antibiotic to have on hand. So as soon as you get the symptoms, you start it. Don't wait miserably. Exactly. So there are certainly exceptions to that but certainly as a general principle, having left over antibiotics to take is not good medicine. Right. Actually, and this reminds, sometimes this comes up a lot with my patients, they begin with what seems like a cold, let's say a low grade fever, stuffy nose sore throat and they say, well can I take a Z-Pak now so it doesn't turn into something? Thoughts? So that's unlikely to happen. It's unlikely to help. What I'll say is if you do nothing, you'll get better in seven days. If you take a Z-Pak, you'll get better in a week. I love it. I'm asking for my kid, do we really need to sing happy birthday twice while washing our hands? So it's so funny because there was a lot of attention paid to this of course in early COVID days and there is absolutely data suggesting that the longer you wash your hands, the cleaner they get and with what? To a maximum of about 20 seconds. And after that, you don't get much benefit. So unless you're a surgeon scrubbing into the operating room, you don't need to be sitting there scrubbing for a minute or two minutes or 10 minutes. But certainly 20 seconds is better than one second. So how do you count 20 seconds? Well, you certainly could sit there and count 1, 1,000, 2, 1,000. That's kind of boring. Singing the happy birthday song twice ends up about 20 seconds. I'm ready for another song. There's a lot of other songs. So depends on what you're into or your genre. So Love on Top by Beyonce, the chorus of that is about 20 seconds. Not my particular genre. You heard it here folks, Dr. Eustlund. Not my particular genre. More my particular genre is The Chorus to Africa by Toto. If I get bitten by a mosquito, should I panic and web-md myself into a West Nile virus? I mean diagnosis. Yes, I definitely would not panic. Fortunately, these things are still extraordinarily rare. There has been exactly one death from West Nile virus in Los Angeles County this year. So mosquitoes are very interesting and complicated. So there's really two kinds we see in LA County. And I'm sure you and your listeners have experienced both of these. So the ones that we've had for decades here are what are called Kulex mosquitoes. That's C-U-L-E-X. Those are the ones that kind of classically bite it in the evening dusk. So you're sitting out having a glass of wine and you're patio or something. You get a mosquito bite. They usually tend to bite once. They actually prefer not biting humans. They prefer other animals, birds in particular. And so those are the ones that can spread West Nile. What we've seen in the last few years though are different kind of mosquitoes called anopheles. And those are different. So they tend to bite during the day. They fly very low and tend to bite ankles. They can bite through clothing. And they often take multiple bites. Whereas the Kulex mosquitoes just do it once. So all of a sudden you walk into the house after being outside gardening for an hour and you're like, oh my god, I have like eight mosquito bites on my ankle. How did that happen? So that's those newer anopheles mosquitoes. And the concern about those is that they can spread some of these other viruses, Dengue in particular, is one that we get concerned about. So the best protection is just not to get bit. So rather than being worried about what happens if I get bit, let's talk about how you prevent getting bitten. So the first thing to do is not have mosquitoes in your backyard. Mosquitoes can breed in some very small amounts of water as small as a bottle cap. So going around, especially after we get rain, like we recently did here in Southern California, and making sure that you don't have any watering cans that have an inch of water in them or a pool cover or a bottle cap or something where there's standing water where mosquitoes can lay their eggs and breed. Second is to cover up. So if you don't have exposed skin, it's harder for mosquitoes to bite you. So if you're out gardening or spending a lot of time outside wearing long sleeves, wearing long pants, trying to cover up as much as possible. And then lastly is using insect repellent. And most of the ones that are available contain deet, which does work quite well. And that's the one we certainly recommend that people use. And it has to be reapplied. So it's not like you put it on once in the morning, and then you're good for the whole day. We recommend reapplying it throughout the day, just like you would with sunscreen, which also brings me to if you're outside gardening, you're going to be using sunscreen, hopefully, and you're going to be using insect repellent. So which do you put on first? Tommy. Okay, so people don't think about this. So right. Sunscreen goes on first. Okay, you want it directly on top of your skin. Insect repellent goes on afterwards. I like to use the analogy because this may date me a little bit. But do you remember the old Peanuts comic strip with Charlie Brown? Do you remember the character pigpen? Yes. So pigpen always had this like cloud of dirt around him. You would see him in every panel, he just had a cloud of dirt. So that's kind of what insect repellent is trying to do. We want a cloud of insect repellent around us. So if you put your insect repellent on your skin first and then put the sunscreen over it, you're essentially negating that. So sunscreen first, insect repellent on the outside. I will never forget this. Especially the pigpen. I will. Exactly. Okay, let's go back to measles. If I got my childhood shots, am I still protected or do I need that measles booster? So if you have documentation of two childhood immunizations, that is considered sufficient evidence of immunity and you are essentially done. And those immunizations work extraordinarily well. Where it gets tricky is if somebody perhaps doesn't recall. That's insane. The tricky part is people don't know. I think I did. I grew up in the United States. I don't have it anymore. That was 40 years ago. It was 50 years ago. And generally the measles vaccine is extraordinarily safe. There are some contraindications like pregnant women or people with weakened immune systems. But if there's a doubt, it's not dangerous to get a booster from your primary care doctor. That's very reasonable to do. But generally, if you know that you got two vaccines as a kid, you're good. This one's my favorite question. I feel like it comes up in my Google field whenever I say can I? It comes up as the first option. Can I drink alcohol while taking antibiotics? That's actually a fairly interesting question. You would think it would be relatively straightforward, yes or no. And the answer is it depends. It depends on what kind of alcohol it is. Yes. The gronies are great enough. So it depends on the antibiotic. But backing up a little bit. So what would be the concern theoretically about taking an antibiotic and alcohol at the same time? So there's a couple. One is perhaps that the antibiotic wouldn't work as well. So it might be less effective. And I think in general, there's not a lot of data to support that that actually can happen. So that it won't work as well to treat my infection because I drank alcohol with it. The bigger concern is really side effects and toxicity. So could I cause some sort of adverse reaction? Somehow could it damage my liver, etc.? So there are a couple antibiotics where it's pretty clear that drinking alcohol and taking them could potentially be toxic. So many of these are antibiotics we don't prescribe all that often. So for example, there's an older antifungal called ketoconazole that we really never prescribe anymore. There's another one called grizzio-fulvan. We almost never prescribe anymore. So those are less common. When you actually start to go back and look at some of the medical studies looking at alcohol and antibiotics, it's usually either a study that was done in laboratory animals where they gave rats an antibiotic and then I'm picturing like a drink with a little umbrella. I don't know how they give the rats alcohol to drink, but in some of those studies were done in the 50s, 60s, and 70s, or it'll be one or two patients in a case series where they'll say, okay, this is a patient who took this antibiotic and by the way, they were alcoholic and they had this side effect and we think it was from the antibiotic. It's really hard to know how to interpret that, especially 50 years later. That's not how we would perhaps do a clinical study these days. There was a paper I remember reviewing a few years ago where they looked at different chain pharmacies, CVS, Walgreens, Rite Aid, and compared their stickers that they put on prescription bottles of antibiotics and found that there were actually a lot of inconsistencies. So there would be certain antibiotics where Walgreens would put a warning label, don't drink alcohol, and CVS would not or vice versa. So if the big pharmaceutical chains haven't really any consensus about some of these, the reason is probably because there just isn't much consensus. So what I generally say is it's probably okay to have alcohol in moderation, which is good advice not just for taking antibiotics, but life in general. A single drink is unlikely to cause any problems. There is an antibiotic called metronidazole or flagell, which has a lot of concern about potentially taking antibiotics, but that's one of those antibiotics, sorry, potentially drinking alcohol. That's one of those antibiotics that when you actually start to go back and look at the studies that were done, it's probably not as strong an association as people would have you believe. And then there's another antibiotic, a newer one called linazolid that can have potentially concerns if you ingest a lot of food with tyramine, which can be found in red wine or like craft brew or certain types of cheeses, but the amount of those things you would have to ingest to cause problems while you are on that antibiotic is so high that it's probably pretty unlikely to cause a problem. That really is a it depends answer. It is and it's along with the answer. I wish I could say yes, it's totally fine. Trip off your tongue. Yes. Okay, no, no, that's actually very, very helpful. And by the way, you know, if you have questions, you can ask your doctor. You don't have to Google or WebMD this. Yeah, the pharmacist, the wealth of information. We had a pharmacist on, we had Dr. Melissa Denathall on. Awesome. Okay, as an infectious disease specialist, what are three things that you would never do? Well, I certainly would not drink raw milk or unpasteurized dairy. We've known since Louis Pasteur's time that that pasteurization is incredibly important to reduce the risk of transmission of microbes through ingestion. So that's certainly something I would stay very far away from. Three things I would never do. That one was a really good one. Actually, that's a good one. I'm always up to date on my vaccines. I think that's important. Should we never skip a vaccine? Correct. And certainly a informed discussion with shared decision making with one's primary care doctor about vaccines and risks and benefits is always a good idea. It's a big theme on the show is partnering with your provider, you know, discussing your goals, concerns, deciding this together. Absolutely. And then I guess the last thing is I would not take antibiotics that I don't need, which again is a discussion with your prescribing doctor. And I think part of the way we are going to get ourselves out of this antibiotic resistance crisis is for there to be a shift in consumer approaches to antibiotics. Right now you still hear a lot of, can you believe it? I went to see my doctor and she did not prescribe me an antibiotic. I was just going to say that. And what I would love to see is a shift to, can you believe it? I went to see my doctor and she tried to prescribe me an antibiotic and I don't even think I need one, etc. Well, exactly. Getting away from kind of this transactional approach, which is that if you don't feel good, Dan, you come to see me, that actually the sometimes good medicine is not prescribing something. More often than not. Exactly. And also, things can change and evolve. You could come see me on day one or day two of a cold or an upper respiratory infection. Right now, I don't think you have a, you know, you worn an antibiotic. But the whole point is that if things change, evolve, get worse, come back and then we might make a different decision. But it doesn't mean that it wasn't worth your money or your time if you didn't walk out with this prescription. Absolutely. In fact, there's a lot of non-antibiotic things that your doctor may recommend for you. There were new guidelines that came out this summer from the Academy of Odolaryngology, essentially head and neck ENT specialist, that recommended for acute sinusitis that there's a period of 10 days of observation before antibiotics are even considered. And that's an important discussion to have. A lot of patients are like, Oh, stay three. I'm not feeling better. I need my antibiotic. Yeah. And it's hard because they might feel really crappy. Yeah. But there are other things that one could do other than taking antibiotics.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected is, have been doing incredible innovations over the last 15, 20 years on rapid diagnostics, which if you can get an answer to a particular question about an infectious disease quickly can help you with a lot of this decision making. So a great example that you probably use every day in your practice is rapid strep testing. So you and I have been around a while practicing for a while. 15 years ago when someone would come to you with a concern about strep throat, I have a sore throat, I have a fever, I might have strep throat, how would you handle that? Right, in the past we had to get a big long Q-tip and scrape the back of someone's throat and it would be gone for three days, cooking in a lab. And what would happen in that three day period? Oh, I mean, the person would feel worse, not better, or we would prophylactically say, well, I see white spots on the back of your throat, let me just give you penicillin or a Z-pack. And now you can do a rapid strep test and get an answer to that in 10 minutes, 15 minutes, while the patient's there in the office and make that decision on the spot. So think about applying that type of technology to so many other things. Obviously, everyone, your listeners are aware of rapid COVID testing and how that was incredibly important. And the combo with flu now. Right, but a great example from the hospital is blood cultures, which we often do to diagnose whether a patient has a bacteria in their blood. Blood poisoning, septicemia can be very serious. It used to take us three or four days to get an answer what the bacteria is, what antibiotics will work or not. Now we can get that answer in as little as a day. There's rapid tests that the microbiologists are able to run on those samples that can inform our antibiotic choices and give us an answer. We get a two day head start on better treatment for that infection. Incredible. The second thing is there's been a lot of incredible advances in ways that we conduct infection prevention, especially related to environmental cleaning and disinfection. So for example, we come back to our environmental services workers. We talked about them before, hardest job in the hospital. At the end of the day, you're relying on humans to do behavior and people get overworked, people get stressed. There's a lot of competing priorities. What if there were ways to clean a room that were perhaps more, I don't know if I want to use the word foolproof, but can guarantee that the room is essentially cleaned and disinfected in better ways. And so there are technologies now like UV disinfection where they're these little, literally robots, they kind of look like R2D2 from Star Wars. You push them into the room, you hit a button, you close the door and then they basically fry the nuke the room with ultraviolet light, which helps to eradicate pathogens and make sure that that room is clean and ready for the next patient to come in and take over. So there's stuff like that that's happening that's really exciting. And that decreases exposure to the environmental worker and health care workers. Exactly. And then I guess the third thing is I'm very optimistic about the role that artificial intelligence is going to play in infection control and prevention. In particular, detecting outbreaks. So right now a lot of what we do is still old fashioned detective work, a lot of pouring through charts, making Excel spreadsheets, standing there with clipboards, checking things. There's a lot of exciting work being done on AI as a way to detect those sorts of things earlier quicker so that I can say, oh my God, we've had two patients with this particular infection. We're going to jump on that whereas before it might have taken us a week or two weeks to investigate to try and figure out what's going on, I can now get a head start. So better identification of clusters or threats, especially globally because we are this global society. That's fascinating. What do you think the horizon is for these breakthroughs? I think we're seeing this happening in real time. There's a group in Pittsburgh, for example, that's been publishing a lot on AI tools for detecting outbreaks. And it essentially runs in the background in the medical record and runs up flags and says, okay, you should check this out and then the team investigates. There's a lot of exciting stuff that's developing quickly. That's incredible. Okay, from the rooftops, if you could shout one message from the rooftops, what would it be besides getting the measles vaccine? Which you can say again, honestly. I think I would say that antibiotics are incredibly important. I love antibiotics. I prescribe them all the time. It's a big part of what I do. But we need to be thoughtful about how we use them and not careless, which by the way, you would say the same thing about almost any medication. Don't take an anticholesterol medication that you don't need because it could cause side effects. You certainly don't want to give someone a blood pressure medication they don't need. So we need to be really thoughtful about how we use antibiotics. They are an incredibly powerful tool. And when you're playing with powerful tools, you don't want to be reckless. Yeah, really respect the tools. Respect the microbes, respect the tools. Exactly. Anything I didn't ask you that you want to touch on? I don't think so. I mean, you're just incredible. I can't thank you enough for leading us through this. I feel like you're this apogee of science and sanity at the same time. And our health system is so, so lucky to have you. I feel very lucky as your colleague. I mean, you always take my elementary calls, which I really appreciate. To our listeners, you have to feel. I can't even say I hope you. You must be feeling much smarter, a lot safer, and a lot more motivated to wash hands. Be thoughtful about your antibiotic use. Partner with your providers in these conversations. Stay up to date on your vaccines. And I mean, I think it's what you said. I mean, infections happen. Microbes are everywhere. And then there's this incredibly, incredible solutions. And then the teams behind these solutions. And thought leaders like you, vaccines, good hygiene, smart antibiotic use, and especially science are on our side. Thanks to our evidence-based resources and show notes are in the episode description. As always, stay curious and healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. And Dr. Yuslin, all of our thanks for all of your expertise and just amazing kindness and just grace to the profession. You're welcome. This was really fun.