It's it's nice to be able to uh to come and and give a talk uh after hearing about vaccines and the uh the effect of vaccines and the impact of the antivaccine movement. um to be able to talk about GMOs and the non-controversial nature of those when uh okay uh I'm going to spend the next 20 minutes uh covering a fairly limited uh number of topics. Uh one is what is a GMO? What are GMOs? uh followed by how prevalent are GMOs uh in our community uh both in foods and crops and so on. Uh and then finally uh the number one question that people ask me um you know sometimes I'll get a phone call or an email saying Dr. Muan um you know I don't know much about this subject uh but I I know that this is controversial uh I don't need you know an entire course in molecular genetics just tell me are these things safe uh that's the number one question and uh so I'll I'll spend a few minutes or not and then if there's any time at the end or perhaps during the breakout if necessary uh I know uh labeling is another issue that's uh at the top of many people's minds so I can talk about that as well but I uh I'd prefer to keep that because that's an entirely Um it's a related obviously topic but it can take an hour uh just discussing labeling itself. It's far more complex uh than people believe. So what are GMOs? Um this is a good question. We don't actually have a legal or scientific definition of GMO in the US, right? No uh official documentation uh either at the political level or at the scientific level uh defines what a GMO is. it they do in Europe. The European Union does have an official and legal definition. We don't use it because it's illdefined. Uh generally or categorically it means anything produced using recominant DNA or genetic engineering plus a whole list of other things that don't occur in nature. And that's problematic because as a scientist we don't know everything that can or cannot occur in nature. And how do you define what is natural? Again, superficially it seems obvious, but when you think about it, when you delve into it, um it's uh it's actually a very difficult thing to define. And again, in the US, we don't have an official legal or scientific definition of natural. Um we call these things uh genetically engineered plants or um transgenic if they have genes from one species transferred into a different species. uh in uh in Canada they're called plants with novel traits. Uh so there's lots of different uh definitions that people use to uh indicate things but by and large um we use the process of genetic engineering as a trigger for something that we call genetically engineered or perhaps a GMO genetically modified organisms. Um two different uh or a bifurcation a split dichotomy between the process and the product. And this is crucial when you think about it. The process is the method of breeding. So if you use the process of genetic engineering, anything that emanates from that process, no matter how many years, no matter how many generations, no matter how many refinements can be considered ultimately a GMO. The alternative is the product. We can look at the final product and say, is this genetically modified? Is there a change in the genetic structure uh genetic composition of this final product? And regardless of how the thing was bred in the first place, whether it was traditional breeding, mutation breeding, using ionizing radiation to scramble the DNA, which by the way is considered a traditional uh breeding method, and something over 3,000 varieties of our crops that we consume on a regular basis were developed using mutation breeding, which most people don't uh know about at all. uh in the US uh we consider a GMO to be result a result of using recombinant DNA technology. We don't get into the second category of things that are unnatural because that's just a a minefield. Uh arguments abound again just on determining what is natural and what is unnatural and particularly considering the uh the type of interventions that our plantreeders uh use genetically on uh our different uh crops. Some genetically engineered products. First one is insulin. All right. first uh genetically engineered product, first GMO in the marketplace was uh insulin um produced from the transfer of the human gene coding for insulin into a bacteria, right? And virtually all of our insulin now comes from these genetically engineered bacteria that read the human DNA coding for insulin. The bacteria make the insulin in these fermentation tanks. Uh companies then extract and purify the insulin and sell it to diabetics and others who use it. prevalent in society. Uh kyosin is another early product. This was used and is used now to make cheese. Uh instead of using animal source renet as a clotting agent in the milk, people are using genetically engineered microbes to produce this kyosin which takes the place of that animal source renet. So over 90% of our cheese now is genetically modified. Uh flavor saver tomato you've probably heard of and many people will say when asked, you know, what is a GMO? They'll think of the the flavors saver tomato that has a fish gene in it. Well, flavor saver, first of all, is not on the market anymore. It was the first uh food product, genetically engineered food product on the market, but it never had a fish gene in it. Tomatoes have never had fish genes in them. And even today, there are no fish genes, genetically engineered antifoods. Virus resistant squash, a lower profile product. Uh it's not as prevalent. Um but it is being grown now. It is on the market. And some squashes that you may buy are genetically engineered to be resistant to this virus disease. Uh similarly, papaya, if you've been to Hawaii and sampled their papayas, uh the papayas, most of the papayas grown in Hawaii are genetically engineered to resist papaya ringpot uh virus, which is a devastating disease. Um the uh the papaya ringpot virus resistant papaya was developed at the same time um curiously that the disease was blown into the islands. So during the testing phases, the scientists who were growing the initial um group grove of papaya trees um noticed that their trees even though this was an experimental plot uh had no symptoms of the virus and the trees the papaya trees in surrounding fields uh were being devastated. So they knew first of all that the experiment worked. So they ramped up that, they gave it a fasttrack status and uh it essentially it is accredited with saving the papaya industry in Hawaii. Uh and then a whole range of other things. Um genetically engineered corn, soybean, cotton, canola, alalfa, sugar beets. Um they are the ones that you're likely to encounter. But the food products that you get from those are things like corn oil or soybean oil, vegetable oil, cottonseed oil, canola oil, or sugar from sugar beats. Um, those aren't genetically modified organisms, right? In fact, we don't have GMOs in any of our foods because there's no organisms in any of our foods except maybe probiotic uh yogurts and things. Um, but the organisms stay behind. In fact, even the genetically engineered plants stay behind. When you process a corn plant for oil, you're removing the DNA and the proteins. What you get at the end is corn oil, which is identical whether it's squeezed out of a genetically engineered corn kernel or a non- genetically engineered corn kernel. And that's what when they say 80% of our processed food contains GMOs. Number one, none of our food contains GMOs except as I say these things like probiotic yogurts which are not genetically engineered as far as I'm aware. And secondly, there are no remnants of the genetic engineering process in genetically engineered what's called genetically engineered genetically modified corn oil. It is identical to the traditional corn oil. uh and we also have a multitude of uh genetically engineered uh drugs uh vitamins, supplements and so on. Uh something like 25% of our modern pharmaceuticals are produced through genetic engineering. So the technology itself is prevalent in our society. Uh it contributes to a wide range of of uh products particularly things like insulin as I say but also things that that would not exist without genetic engineering. uh Dorese alpha if you have cystic fibrosis for example um you're dependent now upon the technology and on the uh on the on the food side you'd say well you know it's not really a dependency uh we don't need genetically engineered corn to make corn oil uh and that's true um but it does keep the price down it gives an even supply it gives a higher quality supply of product the status of genetically engineered crops in the US we have three major crops that are genetically engineered corn, cotton, and soybeans. Uh, and something over 90% of American farmers who grow one of these crops are growing genetically engineered varieties. The other 10% um number one is organic growers are not allowed to use genetically engineered uh varieties. So, they have to grow traditional. Uh there are other farmers who don't like genetic engineering for whatever reason. And there are other farmers who um the genetically engineered varieties don't actually work on their farm. that is they don't have uh the features on their farm, the weeds or the insect problems that genetically engineered uh varieties provide um uh resistance to or means to control. So over 90% of our farmers who grow these major field crops are growing genetically engineered varieties. And it occurs to me whenever I see these figures and it's over 90% by the way in some cases it's up to 97 98%. Uh I hear people say, "Yes, I support American farmers, but I don't like GMOs." There's a contradiction there. It's not only us. Uh Argentine farmers, the major crop there, soybean, and over 90% of Argentine soybean farmers are growing genetically engineered varieties. Our neighbors to the north, canola is the major crop in in Canada. Over 90% of Canadian canola farmers are growing genetically engineered varieties. In poorer countries in India, the only crop Indian farmers are allowed to grow that's genetically engineered is cotton. And over 90% of Indian cotton farmers are growing genetically engineered varieties. So you you wonder why I mean farmers are people too. You wonder why they choose to grow these. They don't have to. They still have access to the older non-getically engineered varieties, but they choose to grow what they know is controversial. They know some of their customers don't want to buy them, but they grow them anyway. So there must be compelling reasons for our farmers to choose to grow controversial products. So now as I say the the big issue, the big number one question is is this stuff safe? And safety is relative. Safety is relative. And it's also somewhat variable. Um nothing is absolutely safe. No scientist, no medical professional is going to say this stuff is absolutely safe or this technique is absolutely safe. There's always a relativity and we even saw that in the previous presentation about the vaccines. Um overwhelming scientific and medical evidence that they're beneficial but there are risks associated with them as well. You can also find individuals as in the previous slide. there are individuals who should know better uh that's my opinion uh should know better but um but say you know whatever you want them to say so when I'm looking at a controversial issue whether it's vaccines or GMO in the food supply or or in the uh pharmaceutical supply whatever uh you can always find an individual to say whatever you want them to say so I ignore those and I look at professional societies because in professional societies you tend to get the full range of expertise, you get the full spectrum of opinions from positive to negative and filtering out the the extremes on either end. You come to some kind of middle ground. Now when it comes to the scientific um and medical community positions on the safety of GMOs particularly as they occur in the food supply again you find situations virtually um I wouldn't say all but a great many professional societies have investigated the safety issues with genetically engineered foods and they come to some recommendation or conclusion usually in a peerreview uh analysis and conclude either that these things are are generally safe that is uh at at least as safe as what we're currently eating and that on balance the benefits outweigh the risks. Alternatively, on the other side of the ledger here, we have those professional societies that have conducted a study and come to the conclusion that no, the risks outweigh the benefits. So, let's go through these quickly. We can start on the generally positive side. The US nationalmies of science has conducted a number of studies going back to the 1980s asking various uh diverse questions on safety from from food safety which was a panel that I served on I'll disclose that uh and um environmental safety what happens when we grow these crops in the field how are they relative to traditionally bred crops in terms of the ecosystems and so on um sustainability questions uh the the technology itself how safe is the process of re combinant DNA technology. Every one of those studies has concluded that uh the relative safety is very high. The process and the products are at least as safe as the practices that plantreeders do traditionally and as safe as the foods that are currently in our grocery stores. So that's a that's a very high rank uh vote. uh the US Institute of Medicine similarly uh the American Medical Association the British Royal Society it's not just in the US but even uh across the pond in uh Britain the Royal Society of Medicine there the European food safety authority now Europe is generally more skeptical of this technology than than American consumers but even there their professional societies are saying these products are as safe as what we're currently eating the European Economic Commission uh the World Health Organization the American Association for the Advancement of Science and again I'll disclose that I'm a fellow of that organization uh the International Seed Foundation uh and so on and so forth. Now you'll notice that there are no corporate interests here right so there's uh there's no Monsanto or Dupants or Sentas and similarly uh although those organizations have also reached the same conclusion they may not have the same degree of credibility um there are also no government agencies uh the FDA the USDA and the EPA are the primary US government agencies involved in the testing and approval of these products before they get onto the market and all of those agencies have reached the same general conclusions and internationally our partners uh the Canadian uh CFIA, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, Health Canada, uh the Australian and New Zealand authorities, the uh the British authorities, DERA and so on. Uh they've also all come to these same conclusions, but I've avoided putting those because some people think that those government organizations are all corrupt and owned by by industry. Um, so what I've listed here are simply the the public professional uh societies that have uh hopefully are not as uh corrupt as our governments. So, so these organizations have all indicated that the products are at least as safe as as what we're we're eating now. Uh and on the other side of the ledger, we have those societies that have conducted a study and said, "No, hold on. We think the risks outweigh the benefits." There aren't any. Not a single professional society anywhere in the world has conducted a study on the safety of genetically engineered or genetically modified foods and crops and said that the risks outweigh the benefits. Regardless of what you may have read on the internet, there aren't any. Um, we do have other, you know, more exciting products coming through. Uh, oops, wrong way. Um, we talked about the papaya in Hawaii. People generally don't think of that. That doesn't come up in the arguments because it doesn't fit into the mold of people uh of people's arguments against the technology because they don't like either pesticides or they don't like big companies, right? There's a uh people tend to conflate especially things like pesticides. They don't like pesticides, so let's ban GMOs. Well, papaya has nothing to do with pesticides and it's not owned by a big company. it was developed in the public sector. Uh we also have new more exciting products that have a a greater consumer interest such as genetically engineered soy with modified uh oil profile that are healthier oils. Now some of these can be developed using either genetic engineering or traditional breeding. The end product is identical. You can't tell the difference. uh we have things like golden rice which is the the betaarotene or vitamin A fortified golden rice to serve those communities particularly in poorer countries uh where there's a lot of vitamin A deficiency which is very nasty condition it is it has not been able to be overcome by all of the other suggestions that that people have made we don't need golden rice we should ban golden rice and get these people to eat kale instead that hasn't worked for the last 10,000 years it's not working today if you think that that's the way to approach vitamin A deficiency. Terrific. Go for it. Grow the kale and feed it to these people. I encourage you. They'd love it. Really? But why are you standing in the way of also trying the golden rice, right? organizations are actually campaigning to ban golden rice both at a political level and also going out and literally attacking the fields where the test plots of golden rice are being grown and destroying those plots denying at least the opportunity for kids to maintain their sight. I can't see that. Uh more frivolous perhaps the non-bringing Arctic apple uh just approved last month and the innate potato. You cut these and they don't turn brown and you think, well, you know, why would you use a a controversial technology for something so frivolous? Well, the company developing the apple, they say, well, what we want to do with this apple, you know, it's not a world beater. Sure, we're not going to make billions and billions of dollars from it, but if we can send our kids to school with apple slices that don't turn brown, first of all, the kids may eat them. And secondly, it's better than sending kids to school with a Twinkie. Yeah. Um, and I mean that's that's a pretty good argument. Uh, oh, just one last point. The innate potato was developed by a company. Both of these are small companies, by the way, that develop these products. I'm not sure how small you'd consider, uh, Simplo, but, uh, the, uh, the innate potato is non-browning, and it also produces less acryumide in frying. And there were surveys taken. I just saw this the other day. Surveys that that consumers would actually prefer this because of the reduction in the acryumide which is you know linked with all kinds of uh health issues. So um you know these innate potatoes genetically engineered but they're still f you know French fries they're not particularly healthy to begin with. Uh but at least you have a less chance of getting cancer from the acryumide. um non-transgenic techniques are coming along. This is, you know, some people are concerned because we're transferring a gene from one species to a different one and mother nature simply doesn't do that. Well, scientifically we know that mother nature actually does do that. She just doesn't tell you about it. Uh it happens all the time. It's not an unnatural event. But nevertheless, there are techniques having been have been developed in recent years that don't involve transferring genes at all. It involves tinkering with slightly modifying the genes that are already present in a given species to give the traits that we're interested in. And a number of those uh products are coming through the regulatory approval process now. So finally, I'll just wrap up with this. There are no genetically modified organisms in our common foods at the moment in spite of what you may have read on the internet. Um, most of the foods that we think of as GMO or that people want to have labeled at least are things that don't have any genetically modified products in them at all. And this means corn oil, soybean oil, canola oil, cotton seed oil, um, and sugar from from sugar beats. Those are the primary products. Chemically identical to their traditional versions, right? Chemically identical. There's no substance. There's nothing remaining in the food that we as a scientist I cannot detect it. I have a pretty good lab, but if you gave me a a bag of corn seeds or sorry, a bottle of corn oil and said, "Can you tell whether this corn oil came out of genetically engineered corn or regular corn, I wouldn't be able to find anything. It's identical. The chemical composition is identical." And we know that hazard when it resides is in the substances, the components, the ingredients of the food, not in how the plants were bred many generations and many years ago. So, uh, the professional scientific and medical communities don't have concerns about the food safety aspect of genetically modified crops and foods. where there are concerns and I don't want to say this is entirely risk-f free where we have concerns is on the environment right there are some issues there they're not safety issues and they're not new I mean they're they're the same types of problems that we've seen in traditionally bred things and that that is the development of resistance weeds with resistance to herbicides or insects with uh resistance to insecticides we see those with the genetically modified some of the genetically modified crops but we don't see it categorically Um and this is not new. We know how to manage that type of thing. And uh so the the farmers, you know, going back to why so many farmers grow these things. In the surveys, the USDA uh conducted surveys of these farmers and asked them why do you grow these crops? They say because we get greater yields. We get cleaner crops. There are fewer weeds. There are fewer insect parts in the in the grain when we harvest. And therefore we make more money from it. So uh I'm going to leave it there. My time is up. And if we have questions, I'll look forward to seeing you during the breakout. Thank you very much.