Hi there, I'm Dr. Michael Yay, UCLA Health endocrine surgeon. And let's talk about a question that we get all the time. If you have thyroid cancer, how do you know if the thyroid cancer has spread? Thyroid cancer can spread in several ways. And now, the most common way is to spread to nearby lymph nodes in the neck. And that sounds really scary, but it usually isn't because these lymph nodes are often easy to remove during surgery. Sometimes the cancer can grow directly into nearby parts of the body such as the airway or esophagus. We call this direct invasion. It can also spread through the bloodstream to places far away such as the lungs or bones. But this kind of spread, also called distant metastasiz, is rare, affecting less than 5% of patients with thyroid cancer. The most common type of thyroid cancer you'll see in our other videos is papillary thyroid cancer, which grows slowly and makes up more than 90% of thyroid cancer cases. Most of the time, it stays in the thyroid or perhaps can spread to some nearby lymph nodes. So, how do we find out if it has spread? We don't always know right away. It often takes time and several steps to get the full picture. So, let us walk through these steps. Step one is of course your biopsy. Most people start with a needle biopsy to check if your thyroid nodule has cancer cells. Step two, imaging. So the next step is to use an ultrasound or sometimes a CT scan to see if the cancer has spread to lymph nodes or nearby organs. Step three is surgery. Now during surgery, we find out a lot more about the cancer. We see if we can remove the entire tumor and whether or not we can achieve negative margins, meaning no cancer is present at the edges of the tissue that was removed. Step four is the surgical pathology report. About a week after surgery, we get a detailed report, a microscopic analysis of the tumor that tells us the tumor subtype, how aggressive it is, the margin status, and whether it has spread to nearby lymph nodes or organs. In 90 to 95% of cases, the cancer has not spread beyond the neck. Great news, right? So, what happens next? About 1 in four people treated at UCLA for thyroid cancer may get radioactive iodine after surgery. This treatment helps destroy any tiny microscopic areas of thyroid tissue or thyroid cancer still present in the body and this kills both normal thyroid cells and cancerous thyroid cells. After that, we do a full body scan to check for cancer outside the neck. We also start checking thyrolobuline, a protein that is made by thyroid cells and many thyroid cancers. After your thyroid is removed, we want the thyrolobuline level to be low. Here's a simple way to look at it. If your thyrolylobulin is less than one, that is a great sign. If it's between 1 and 10, it might mean a small number of cancer cells remain. For instance, in the lymph nodes in the neck. If your thyrolobuline is between 10 and 99, we start to think about thyroid cancer spread to the lungs. And if the thyrolylobulin is 100 or more, it may indicate that the thyroid cancer has spread to bone or other areas in the body. Even if your thyrolylobulin number is high, it doesn't mean a poor outcome. Most people with detectable or even high levels of thyrolobuline still live long and healthy lives. To summarize, most people with thyroid cancer do not have cancer that has spread. So, statistically, it is unlikely that your thyroid cancer has spread beyond the neck. That's usually the first thing I say to people with this question. But it takes a few months through testing, surgery, and followup to get the full story. I often tell my patients at first the picture is a little blurry but by the one year mark we usually have a clear picture and a solid plan for the future. Around 95% of our patients treated here at UCLA for thyroid cancer are cancer free after one year. I like to say that these people sail off into the sunset. They go on to live full healthy lives. For the 5% with more serious disease, we keep a close eye on them and offer extra care as needed. We are very committed to our patients for the long term. Now, I know everyone wants to know absolutely everything about their thyroid cancer on day one, and this isn't always possible, but I beg for your patience as we learn more about your situation with time. I hope this answered your question. Thank you so much for watching. Once again, I'm Dr. Dr. Michael Yay from UCLA Health Endocrine Surgery.