Welcome to Medically Speaking, a UCLA health podcast, and I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. Today, we're tackling a topic that doesn't always get the airtime it deserves, but absolutely should. Men's urologic health. From hormone changes and prostate issues to sexual wellness and healthy aging, we're covering what every man, and frankly, anyone who cares about a man should know. I am thrilled to be joined by Dr. Christopher Sigel, professor and executive vice chair of urology at the UCLA School of Medicine. Dr. Sigel is a nationally recognized leader in urologic care and has been at the forefront of improving medical decisionmaking and patient centered care for more than two decades. His clinical work focuses on urologic cancers and surgical treatments of enlarged prostates. Chris, you are one of my most valued colleagues. I'm so glad that you're here. Welcome to the show. >> Thanks. Great to be here. So, um, let's just get right into it and we're just going to start with basics. >> Yeah. >> Tell me what what is urology? >> So, urology is a pretty broad field and I think it probably should be rebranded because it's not really just the study of urine, it sounds like. >> But, uh, so it ranges from pediatric conditions, um, kids born with kidneys aren't draining properly or abnormal urinary systems all the way to doing to doing kidney transplantation. Uh in the middle you've got things like men that have problems emptying their bladders due to BPH. Um you've got the urology cancer, so prostate cancer, kidney cancer, bladder cancer, testice cancer. And um and females we have incontinents that control their urine. When they get older, they can leak or have overactive bladders. Um and then men's sexual health of course is a big one too. >> Uh this is a very important point. So urologists see pediatric level men women. Today we're concentrating more on urologic issues in men, but it's really great to just clarify that for everyone. Um, and on that note, I guess I would ask you, do you feel like men are pretty good about going to see urologists about general men's health care? Um, you know, there is more awareness of some of that now due to media and and and uh just I think informal networks of men talking, but they're not as good as they should be. I think that's pretty wellnown. I think it's also when the men that are married live longer, >> so if they got a person that cares about them, they're often getting them to get checked and come in to see the doctor and that's a nice dynamic, but I'd say some men are a little resistant about seeing doctors for sure. I mean, I want to have a whole other conversation about that because so often, and I appreciate that women are the CEO of their families, but often they are um the ones who schedule appointments for their husbands, their partners, you know, all of their kids. And I think I really want to work with you, too, and all of our primary care doctors to say, how do we get men to take control of their own health? And like what are, you know, what are those barriers? I mean, what are some of those barriers just off the bat, do you think? >> Yeah. Uh I think to some degree, uh fear >> Yeah. is one of them. I think that um there's a certain cultural uh stigma sometimes around matters on sex. Yeah. >> Um things around your prostate. It sounds a little scary to men. It's all like there's some embarrassment about it. I'd say if you have issues down there. >> Um and then the whole thing around grin and bear it, you know, walk it off when you're kid and sports and that kind of mentality persists. And the problem is you just some some of these problems just don't go away and they show up with these really big problems. I mean, things like testicular cancer, for example, it's often very sad. You see someone come in that has a gigantic cancer that obviously started a long time ago, but they're just too embarrassed to really deal with it. Um, so yes, I think it's better to to remove the stigma from that. Yes. To normalize it for men and normalize taking care of yourself so you can take care of your family. >> I mean, honestly, I I can't pee, but um just rub some dirt in it. Right. Um, right. We can I mean, I'd love we'll we'll get into that a little bit um more. I think that as you said too like even the language that we're using like you know we're saying I have an issue down there like even the fact that we you know kind of use a euphemism to just describe like your genitals, your bladder, your kidney, your penis, your prostate. So I think the more that we can normalize it um I would think that would be constructive. Um, one of the things that, um, you know, is getting a lot of press now, which is great, and I think a lot of celebrities are using, um, their platform is to talk about menopause. And, um, there's a word that I've heard about, and I don't think it's like a direct mirror, but the words andropause um, and I think, and I'll ask you whether that's referring to also hormonal shifts in men, but I wanted to ask you a little bit about that. Yeah, it's a big topic and I think the word andropause, it's catchy and I think it conveys the sense that there's a change that happens in men as they get older. So, it's useful to sort of communicate that it's not really analogous to menopause. I mean, in women, there's a relatively quick change in hormones that's quite dramatic over time. So, you have like the hot flashes that happen acutely. Those are because the change is so acute. In men, a lot of studies show that, you know, year-over-year there is a slow drop like maybe 1% half a percent in testosterone levels and the male hormone level and um it isn't always consistent and in fact you know um there are ways you can prevent that but I'd say at a population level it's it's widely observed. Whether that is like you know for all men pathological or causing symptoms is a separate matter. >> When does that 1% drop start? >> Typically around the age 30. >> Oh okay. Yeah. I mean I will tell you um you know I have male patients in my primary care practice. Um often they will come in um no one says overtly I think my hormone levels are dropping but everyone wants their testosterone checked. >> Yeah. >> Um what should I tell them? >> Well um I'd say that first of all do they have symptoms? So testosterone is another of these things there's a lot of mythology around it and um a lot of bro science I'd say about what it does and doesn't do. Um for sure it affects libido. Mhm. >> So, um if a man's complaining of a low libido, maybe some ED, that's certainly a trigger to look for a low testosterone >> and ED is erectile dysfunction. >> Yeah, that's right. Got it. >> Um there's um you know, so actually in medical conditions, anemia, osteoporosis, those are reasons to check it for for the doctor. Um a man might complain of things like um feeling cognitively fuzzy, low energy. Those are less consistently associated. There's been some studies on this. testosterone trials looking to see if supplement testosterone changes those outcomes. Not quite as hard about that in terms of the the effect, but libido is the biggest driver and then some of those medical conditions I mentioned are also important. >> I mean, I'll take any symptom. I mean, I don't want anyone to be symptomatic, but I'm certainly in favor of men coming with a symptom so that they can have that more comprehensive workup. Something that concerns me and I don't know if if you're if this is happening with you is patients who are feeling tired, right? These like kind of nebulous feelings that are honestly often just associated with getting older. I mean this is why menopause is hard because it's you know you're getting older, there's life stressors and you know there's biologic changes. Um but often men will come in at least again to my primary care practice and say I'm just like feeling tired, not myself. Maybe not even mentioning libido. And then they're taking testosterone supplements, which just concerns me maybe just because I need to know more about it as well. What are you advising patients about supplements? >> Yeah. So, you mean um pharmaceutical? >> Yeah. Pharmaceutical supplements or I think people I think unfortunately like a lot of bro science or just popular science um that's not vetted, you know, or studied, people are just getting them off the street and taking testosterone. >> It's a huge issue. This is a big problem. I mean, you look at the rate of prescriptions for testosterone. They've tripled, you know, since 2000 and they just keep going up and we're not having epidemic of this problem. So, there's been a lot of marketing around it. Yes. >> Uh, and there's been a rise of, unfortunately, I'd say kind of testosterone mills. So, you can get a prescription, you know, pop-up clinic, not see a doctor, see someone who's working on behalf of a doctor, and essentially everyone who walks in, right, is diagnosed as having low testosterone and given a prescription without a real full workup. And the dark web, there's definitely ways to buy this stuff on the dark web. And I just say it's a it's a important hormone and when you mess with important systems in your body, you can have side effects. Uh and there if you truly do have low tea or testosterone, uh there can be really serious medical reasons for that and that should be worked up. >> Yes. >> So you know we have a a men's health center as you're aware you actually a brand new center just opened up a beautiful place to go can get a a do world class doctor to see you to evaluate what the other causes could be. Do you have, you know, a problem with, you know, your pituitary, right? A genetic problem. There are other things you can look for, you should look for before you start the medication. And I'd say if you're taking testosterone, you should be under the supervision of a doctor who's checking your levels, checking for side effects, and also ascertaining if you're meeting your goals. Because a lot of guys go on it with kind of unclear goals and don't know if they've really met those goals, but they feel like they're getting a level and that level is satisfying to them, but it might be maybe like meaningless in terms of their actual goal in life. if they want to feel stronger, have more cognitive function, did they meet that goal? And there's a period of time where there's a placebo effect in some guys and they feel better and then they kind of go back to normal because as you mentioned when you're 50, there's a lot lots of reasons for that, you know. So, um it's it's a it's a um it's kind of a wild west right now. >> Well, I mean, what are the risks of taking testosterone if you don't need it and and especially if you're getting a completely unregulated source? >> Yeah. So, um, one of the saddest things that we see, especially in younger men who are at the gym, yeah, who get it from friends or people that are selling it in the gym, they don't realize it's going to take their fertility down. >> And so, you go on injectable testosterone, your sperm count will go to zero pretty quickly. And if you're on it for years, what happens? Your testicles begin to atrophy. Um, they don't make enough of the sort of testosterone naturally. They lose their their volume. And then when you go off of it, they can't uh catch up. So infertility in younger men is a big deal. Shrinking the testicles without like the ability to you know to get them back in size. Um you can have a increase in your red blood cell count. Um which you know if that's not caught that is a risk factor for things like blood clots in your legs if you're on an airplane for too long. Um acne. Uh as your levels go too high you there's roid rage. It can happen sort of emotional disturbances acne. Um, those are all negatives. There is controversy about things like cardiovascular disease. So, I think maybe 10 or years ago roughly the FDA put a black blackbox warning on testosterone as a risk for cardiovascular and negative outcomes, but that since has been walked back. There's been sort of sort of a variety of studies that are not exactly clear on this and there's not been a great study to define the risk. So, it's unknown. Prostate cancer is one of the things people talk about quite a bit. um working at UCLA has shown that in the first two years it's not that big of a risk in terms of causing prostate cancer and in general we think it's not a real risk but um the data aren't there. You'll need like 6,000 men followed for 5 years to really understand if that is a real risk and we just don't know. So, um, those are those those are the things we talk to men about because you got to counsel them like if you want to go for this this medication, if your tea level is low, you've had it measured at the right time, 10 in the morning, um, and you use the right sort of assays, the mass spec, uh, you know, what's your goal for getting there and then basically to get there, here's a downside. These things could happen. We got to keep a close eye on you. That's the way to do this safely. >> I mean, there's so much in this because I think first of all, even the testing at 10:00 a.m. in the morning, I didn't even know that. So when my male patients are coming and saying, "Can you check my testosterone? I can absolutely tell you that you're teaching me that I've been doing this wrong. I was not checking at 10 in the morning." And in general, I don't check it because I say to my patients, "I don't really know what to do with this information, you know." So yes, let me refer you um to my friend Dr. Chris Ligel. Um, but also I mean that is a lot of risks and it's also reminding me that there's a difference between replacing something that your body is not making for whatever reason and supplementing because you're thinking that you're deficient in something because you're trying to treat right a low libido or you want bigger muscles or you know whatever your reasoning is that we absolutely should take seriously but definitely warrants right like a conversation and I think that's a lot of what this is about too I think lots times people want quick fixes for not feeling great, >> right? >> But in fact, >> it is a more comprehensive holistic conversation, right? But like low libido for example, it's not always there's something deficient in your bloodstream or your hormones, right? I mean, so and I I guess I would ask you too when people come to you and just say, "Listen, I have a low libido. I think my testosterone is low." I mean, I think I've heard you say testosterone might play a role in that low libido, but um there's a lot of other reasons, >> other reasons causing contributing to a low libido. >> Sure. Of course. I mean, there's relationship issues as you get older, work stress, all those things. And men certainly can take a bit more control of their health through exercise, sleep, and weight loss. And weight loss itself can actually increase testosterone. Um, as you know, um, fat cells, they aromatize testosterone to estrogen. So, basically, they convert it to estrogen. So, they lower your testosterone. Uh, if you're if you're overweight, you have less testosterone. It's being there's more estrogen, which shuts down your brain's signal to make testosterone. It's a bit of a vicious cycle. And some of the studies looking at the decline in age uh in testosterone and men as they age. Uh, if you look at men who are not overweight, that is an int that li is weaker. So, basically, it's pretty stable as you get older. if you keep your weight stable. So men can focus on weight loss. Uh sleep is a big one. So you know pituitary can be affected by you know insomnia, stress that can affect the the chemical signal your brain sends to your testicles to make testosterone. Those are things that people can do to to improve the situation on their own. Even ED itself can be reversed through weight loss. There's a study on that in men in Italy randomized to weight loss or um you know other or just regular care and they men on weight loss got better sexual health. So, um, the thing is it's a little harder to do, but there's also long heart benefits, other benefits that are beyond just sexual health you can get. Um, but it's also true that some men do have a low testosterone. It's a real phenomena and those men get help. And there's great methods to give them. Uh, there's convenient methods that you can actually, you know, put a pellet in, lasts for four months, there's injections, there's creams, um, there's oral pills. It's it's it's on if once you have the right diagnosis, the right goals, the right monitoring system, you absolutely can be helped, >> right? Please don't do it at home. >> That's right. >> Um, also I just want to let everyone know we will be testing you on that aromatase pathway that Dr. Cycle was referring to. >> No, it's really I mean it's it's it is complex. I think that's I think that's the point, right? And that there's not um an easy fix. I mean, I was just going to ask too. I mean, I don't know if there's a direct correlation, but is there a correlation between alcohol and testosterone or alcohol, let's say, and erectile dysfunction? And we can even talk about erectile dysfunction. >> Well, I think um alcohol and ED, yeah, if you're if you have a substance abuse disorder, yes, >> testosterone production, I'm not aware of data to support that specifically, but obviously alcohol is a toxin, so it's not good. Um, but definitely with ED, alcoholism is an issue. Um, I mean, let's talk about erectile dysfunction again, whether it's down there or below the belt, but I mean, I'm guessing pervasive. I mean, what is I mean, do you think the kind of incidence of of erectile dysfunction even a in a >> just general urology practice do you think? >> Uh, what proportion of patients used to have ED, it's a big big visit cause for visit. So, I mean, you know, in in the men's health clinics, it's maybe it's a third of the visit, something like that. >> Um, it's a very prevalent problem. Um I'd say that you know even in younger men it can be an issue. Um the the issue that basically ED is kind of or sexual dysfunction or erectile dysfunction I'll call it ED um is a canary in the coal mine and that's why we think of it as important for men's health in general. Um you know to get an erection basically a few things have to happen. The nervous system's got to signal the arteries in the penis to dilate so you have more inflow and then at the same time the veins of the penis which drain the blood get compressed when it gets full. So a bit of a tourniquet effect. And so what can happen is as you get older, high blood pressure happens. Those veins get damaged from that high blood pressure. They don't seal up as well and you can get it up and then it leaks out quickly. So that's a very common problem. Venus leak and um as you get older your inflow can get bad too if you have aththeroscerosis for example. So the changes that happen in your heart or in your your crowded artery can happen in your penis and it's a signal that there's your system is having some damage and why don't you see your primary care doctor and look at cholesterol look at high blood pressure. Um so I say if a man's developing those issues it requires more than just Viagra. It also requires a medical evaluation of what's happening. Uh and then the nervous system of course that is diabetes can affect that. >> Um and other other illnesses affect the nervous system can be a problem. >> It's so interesting the canary in the coline. I mean it really is a proxy then for health your health. >> Yes. Exactly. And you know it's it is one of the things that like do that does get men into the doctor right um again because often because their partners like what's going on and you know and are you seeing somebody else or whatever and so essentially that drives them in and then we can do a good job and you know help them with that sort of stuff. >> I mean I guess I have to concede penises and erections are really important. >> You recall that matter. Good. What about um Peron's disease? And um yeah, if you could talk Peronis disease, I see that as like often on my patients diagnosis list. I don't think I've ever diagnosed it. >> Yeah, it's um it's one of these it's a unusual problem that you probably wouldn't diagnose unless someone brought it up to you. Yeah. Basically, it's when the penis is erect if it bends uh so you can't penetrate. That's peronis disease. And it happens we think because of like repetitive micro tears in the penis. So essentially as you when you have an erection it's like having a hot dog with the casing and the casing gets bent enough and a little bit of tearing happens and a little blood seeps out and forms a scar and over time then that part of the casing won't straighten or stretch. So you know there can be a minimal degree of a curvature but people have serious problems sometimes they can't penetrate so they might want to discuss it with their doctor if they're embarrassed or whatever it is but it's very treatable. Um, and again the men's health center offers lots of treatments for this, but the most common one we're using now is an injectable called Zofhlex, which is a it's a it dissolves collagen. So, it's not a surgery. It's a procedure we do in clinic. It's highly effective. It's uh eight treatments and it can really change someone's sex life when they have this problem. There's also surgeries available, too. But it's a very it's a it's we we become a huge referral center for this. >> That's so great. I think that's such an important message and that's just something I just so want to impart. I mean, it's the talking about this, it's the normalizing, but getting people in, right? Getting evaluated. I mean, I always tell people whenever they're coming in for anything, you I know you can feel so much better. Like, we have so many options. We have so many treatments. Erectile dysfunction, it's common. And by the way, like we're not embarrassed about it. Like, this is what we do every day. Please come in and talk about it. >> Right. Right. We're I mean I mean we're a lot of our you know healthare system is focused on um people that are really sick or that are having major a cancer or something like that but we also want our patients to have full dimensional healthy lives and this is part of that a good sex life is part of that for many people and um you know getting older these things do come up it's very common uh and you know we can help people like that and even and I've noticed sometimes especially with younger guys um if they have a problem with ED um sometimes it's situational they had too much to drink or whatever ever and it happens uh and then they get a little anxious the next time and that inhibits the ability of the arteries to relax. So you can give them some Viagra for 3 months, they don't worry about it and they kind of reset their brain about it and they don't need it anymore. So there's lots of little tips and tricks you can do to help people in their lives and keep them happy. >> But then often too, right, then then there is a psychological component which is completely normal and so one thing ends up being two or three things but >> we can help. >> Yeah. Um and I'm guessing too that um sometimes partners will come together and I was just curious how you help partners maybe navigate you know these issues whether it's peronis or whether it's um erectile dysfunction. >> Yeah. I mean it I think that um often times when a partner's there you get the full picture. >> Yes. >> So uh you know it's it's it is quite the interactions are often very interesting and that partner will tell the the guy you know that's not true or actually it's happening. It's much worse than you than you're saying it is. Um, we're not having sex anymore, whatever it is. And it's a good reality check because, you know, they're there to really get the problem resolved. They don't care about the embarrassment as much as it is to solve this problem with this doctor. We got 20 minutes. Let's done. >> So, that's often the dynamic >> and they won't they won't underplay it. >> Yeah, it's good. It's great to have a partner in the room. >> Yeah, that is great. >> Um, I mean, I guess in general, just kind of zooming out a little bit, um, what is your advice urologically speaking for kind of that healthy aging? Yeah. Well, I mean I think there's um so for men the the issues are around maintaining good sexual health for sure. We always ask about that. Um we talk about diet, lifestyle, sleep as basics in terms of maintaining those things. And then if there's a pharmacological issue needed, we get into that. Um voiding dysfunction. So as men get older, um they often will develop problems voiding. Um men have a prostate gland. It gets sort of big. It sits there below the bladder. can block the urine flow. And so that's a really common problem. And you don't want to wait on that one either. Um that if you if you wait and you're starting to have trouble urinating, uh the bladder becomes dysfunctional. It's a muscle. So it starts to strain and uh it strains for too long. Um you it's stop working basically. So we ask about that. There's we start off with some pretty easy pharmacological solutions for that if needed. There's obviously surgeries for that if it's a pretty serious problem. Um we do ask about you know things like libido and um you know um sometimes a hormonal treatment as part of that solution there too. And then there's cancer screening. So the number one thing we look for is um prostate cancer that the the test for that the most common one is a PSA test which is a blood test that you have to do. Um it's recommended we do that starting at age 50 and usually stop around age 69. If you have a higher risk in your family let's say your your father or brothers have prostate cancer. um we can start at age 40. Um sometimes people will say that and black men should be started at at a younger age is too um and um if you're a carrier of certain genetic abnormalities like BA um earlier is is better too but for most the average person age 50 and typically stop at 69. >> And I mean um these are again what my male patients ask me. They're always like are you going to um make me turn to the left and cough? Literally that's every all my patients care about. Um so what do you think about testicular in like checking your own testes and um getting what's called a digital rectal exam um in the office and that would be to check for prostate cancer to assess the prostate >> right so you it's interesting for testicular cancer so the range of the typical age range is like 18 to 35 for that >> and um the the patient self exam for that is pretty bad >> okay >> and you know there's been studies on this and essentially what what tends to and men tend to not know what's down there as well as we do. Yeah. So they'll come in with a normal epidemis finding and be freaked out about it. So most public health agencies don't recommend it actually. Um I think if a patient has testicular cancer you've treated them you can teach them look for other other testicle it's good for physicians. I think a testicular exam is always good to do okay at least as a baseline to make sure and then just you know not every visit but obviously but like I mean once a year wouldn't be a bad idea to make sure nothing is happening. Most lumps and bumps down there are not cancer just to take the stress out of most guys minds. It's usually an epidmal cyst or something like that >> and the epidmus is sits on top of the >> Yeah. It's a tube that t it's a sort of like a wea station for the sperm. it sort of sits in there and then it >> and then it gets taken out of the test out of that area by the vest. So, it's a it's um most of the things you'll feel in there are related to benign reasons, but anything suspicious, take it to your doctor for sure for an evaluation. And then the rectal exam um so I you know it's medical school has changed. Yeah. Right. So like students aren't doing rectal exams as much anymore. >> And um so I'd say urologists still do them. >> Um the studies on this are also interesting. Um, you know, one study showed that basically like men that had biopsies because of abnormal rectal exams, the cancer was found as likely on the other side of the gland as where the abnormality was. >> So, um, they're not as accurate as you might think. A really experienced urologist is good at this, but it's it's not that common elsewhere. Um, and we use MRI now if you have an elevated PSA. So, if you if you have a high PSA test, the next step is typically an MRI before you have a biopsy. that can really tell us with a high degree of specificity where a targeted biopsy needs to happen. Um maybe half a percent of men with prostate cancer are diagnosed on the basis of an abnormal test alone on a rectal exam. I it's optional now according to our guidelines and on the on the practical side it's the biggest fear factor for men of getting screened >> and coming in. So I mean I think that's another reason to say and also I mean we say this again you know we had Dr. from my zapata and we were saying we're making a recommendations you make the choice about your body. I might even make a a recommendation that we should do a digital rectal exam. you don't have to do it, you know. So, I mean, of course, we, you know, we'll talk about it and of course you're an expert in shared decision-m which we can talk about, but um you know, the pros and cons of of of doing different tests, but um again, we don't want those to be barriers to coming in and getting evaluated and just check for your health, >> right? No one wants to have a rectal exam. Sometimes you got to have one for your health, but if you don't want to have one, you can still be screened for prostate cancer very effectively. >> Okay? I think that's such an important message. And guess what? this is a great message for me and then I don't have to do the digital reptile exam. >> Sorry everyone, >> right? >> Um you know is there it's I realize that so often we fra we kind of frame these conversations in terms of aging >> but I mean what would you say to the younger men? >> Yeah. Well, I mean, I think it's the ED discussion is very relevant for them. And actually, the the bigger users of Viagra, the biggest growth is in younger men, >> like in their 20s, >> in their 20s and 30s, you know, and I think some of them are using it more for recreational, you know, but the but the the they have these problems too with sexual health and they're not abnormal. >> Um, you know, some people are unlucky enough to have Venus leak when they're very young and it's it's manageable. Don't be embarrassed because all your friends aren't don't have the same problem as you do when by the time you're 55 all your friends are moaning about all these things. So sorry about >> everything. Yes. >> So but when you're 30 it's a little different and but it's it's it's easily fixable. Um and again I think the testicular exam thing is when you see your doctor that's that's the main cancer we take care of in urology for that reason. And um and this is where you know maintaining good habits when you're a young person exercise sleep. Um I think that you know um those are such key longevity strategies just tra uh strategies and they're also um you know they they have multiple benefits just for psychological health. >> So it's good to get in habits when you're younger so you can keep going when you're older. >> Yeah. Just like move as much upstream. >> Yeah. >> Um okay that's great. I think I mean I and you were talking about um erectile dysfunction before. I think that I mean again we can normalize things. People shouldn't have to dread getting older, right? And erectile dysfunction isn't a foregone conclusion, correct, with getting older, but it is highly treatable. >> Yes. >> Okay. >> There's always a way to be sexually active. I mean, it depends on how motivated you are and the couple is, but I mean, I have patients in their 90s. That's a very important part of their relationship. >> Yeah, of course. You know, especially I ask this question a lot in men with prostate cancer because it it affects sexual health and it's you it's very instructive to see. You never can't tell. You gota ask the patient what what are your values and how and I think our job as doctor is to what are those values how can we help you meet those right >> right what are the tools we have and you know shared decision-m is about here's there's there's usually five tools risks and benefits that have trade-offs let me see how we can help you meet your goal >> can can you tell us a little bit a little bit more about shared decision-m >> sure I mean so it's a passion of mine because you know I think when I was in training I saw you know there's 8 million ways to treat any one problem and how do to really pick the best one. And what I began to realize is that it's all the patients values and goals are the missing ingredient there. And um doctors haven't historically done a great job of listening for those goals. >> And uh more and more now we do we talk about it in medical school. We try to teach our residents and you know patients themselves are coming in expecting to be listened to obviously. So it's better. But I think that um that as treatments multiply and the risks and benefits of those treatments are really hard to keep track of, we need a software I think to help us make those decisions with patients of intelligent agents a platform for decision-m that's my interest. Uh and um I think that's that's where we're headed. Uh there's not usually one if you if you're in a car accident and you your femur sticking out of her leg, okay, right? We'll take care of that. But most other things what medication for diabetes you know what treatment for prostate cancer it really depends on a lot of the patients values >> right so it incorporates a medical recommendation right but then takes into account the patients goals their values right I mean almost like their core values as well because it is overwhelming I mean it's I mean if I go to the dentist and they tell me I need x-rays I'm going to be like okay you know or like I like the car mechanic says something I mean how am I supposed to possibly contest that with like my amazing you know, automotive acumen. No. So, um, but I think with shared decision-m, right, we're giving information, >> right, through software and then giving the opportunity to then also talk about it together >> and then make a decision together, >> right? So, for I mean a good example like you know you talked to a patient about a medication there's a rare side effect like for example like there's a medication um called finasteride which you know um it can be useful to shrink the prostate gland in low doses that's used to restore your hair. um it has a rare risk of um low libido or sexual dysfunction and the patient hears it and says I don't want that >> his medication but it's like a 4% risk right so how do you the strength of their negative reaction with the actual it's a rare risk that is where software can help I think to do a bit of analytic work to say well compared to the other outcomes you do want but you also really want that are much more probable what's the optimal way forward our brains aren't really designed to do that you know and as you mentioned These are unfamiliar decisions for patients. Um, we are the mechanics bringing them the options and trying to parse what's happening. But I think at the very least, if patients don't feel like they have the expertise or the confidence to make a big decision, you can always tell your doctor what's really important to you. >> I mean, that's they they won't know until you tell them and trust them to try to find the right thing to help you meet that goal. >> I I just love that question in general. I mean, I think that you can ask a patient, whatever, a friend, family member, but in this setting, a patient any time, what's most important to you? And also give it space to change and evolve over time. So whether you're coming in and you're having a procedure, what's most important to you? Often a patient will say, I want to make sure that my family can visit me, right? And that someone can spend the night here with me. Someone else might say, I want to make sure I'm not in any pain. Whatever. That might be an inpatient scenario. But on the outpatient scenario, it might be like, listen, all I want is to be able to have an erection. Great. Our job is not to judge. Our job is to make that happen and and give them all the tools. That's right. Um to make it so. But I I think shared decision- making I love that it's a passion of yours and and you know it is of mine as well. I think it is so empowering but it's not just this sort of blind like no no you make the decision cuz that's actually not always helpful. No. >> So um I think this is just a whole new revolution and transformation of how we are treating patients but caring for the patient together with the patient themselves. >> Yeah. Totally. I mean, and you're you're definitely providing that platform for us at UCLA. So, thank you. >> I could not be more excited. Um I'm curious though, like um after all these years I've known you, what got you into urology in the first place? >> Oh, yeah. Well, um it's basically accidental. I mean, I was I mean, I was really interested in neurology and but uh it was like it's fascinating, I think, and I just in the 90s you couldn't actually do much to help people with it. I mean now you can there's a stroke team and so forth but back then it was like just a really interesting area intellectually and that was I but I couldn't help anymore I felt and then I got into ortho because it was like the most the hardest thing to do. I was very competitive and like this is the hardest residency but it wasn't as much of like doctoring still was kind of the other extreme in some degree and a friend of mine said cycle don't believe about ortho check out urology and again the branding is so terrible with urology it sounds like what is that and I went to I just went to the VA and I just stepped in as a student and watched a bladder cancer surgery to have the bladder removed and build a new one huge surgery super cool and the people in urology they tend to be pretty chill. Yes. You know, like it's like you got to have a sense of humor to be urologist to some degree. We're all very relaxed, but they're good. They're hardworking, ambitious, and there's a patient aspect to that. You see patients over time, >> and so it kind of sucked me in. And um here I am. >> I will tell you, I almost went into urology because of the people. It was my favorite rotation. >> See, >> in medical school, like the coolest the coolest people, the best sense of humor. Yeah. For all the right reasons. So So you know, it's it's not an accident. Um, okay. We're going to move on to um the asking for a friend, okay, >> segment. Um, and we've gone over some of them before, but just to sort of rapid fire them, if I don't have any urologic symptoms, or I don't think I do, do I still need to get checked? >> Yes, I'd say for for prostate cancer screening for sure. Okay. If you're the ages of 50 and 69 or you have a family history, for sure PSA test with your doctor. Um, if you have older symptoms, that's that's the main thing that we would do for screening for you. >> Okay? And this might actually um get us into a a different topic which is needed to discuss but um again in the 50s um why do all why do I and all my friends urinate constantly? >> Oh yeah. >> Yeah. >> So um >> asking for a friend >> asking for a friend. Well constant urination frequent urination happens to both men and women but in men what can happen is you have um your urine doesn't completely exit your bladder because your process is blocking you. So you're also a little bit full and give you the urge to go quite a bit. That's that's the result of BPH. So, when you see the urologist, they'll have you urinate and they'll check your bladder with an ultrasound to see what's left over. Okay. If it's a problem, medication for that. Um, nighttime urination is probably one of the biggest problems. I mean, for both men and women, again, >> and that sometimes >> like multiple times. >> Yeah. You know, it's it's as you get 50, you know, once or twice a night is actually relatively common. >> Um, but the but women don't have prostates as you may know. So, >> fun fact, >> I'm like looking at the camera. What? >> Yeah, you're right. Um, >> so but that but so there's other reasons for nighttime urination and one of the most common ones is that you make less of a hormone that concentrates your urine at night. Oh. >> As you get older, vasopressin. So essentially um you make more urine than you used to at night and your functional bladder capacity goes down. So you you're awoken at a smaller bladder volume. So both sexes get up. Even if the man doesn't have BPH, if they have isolated problems at night, it's often because of that. You can actually do tests to see how much urine is happening at night and if it's above a certain threshold there's medication you can give for that problem like it can be it can if you go if you're avoiding like five times a night it'll go to two that kind of a thing um and then stopping fluids before bed is often very helpful I was going to ask right >> yeah so that that those are some that like the nighttime urination thing can be male can be you know gender you know both genders can be affected daytime overactive bladder often is prostate related >> okay Um, men casters have overactive bladers that like women can too. So, we got to see the doctor and get that sorted out. >> I'd like to emphasize that the word is benign. Yes. >> Right. Benign prostate. >> Yes. So, right. So, enlarged prostate has no risk relationship to prostate cancer. It's not a sign of prostate cancer. Don't worry about that part of it. >> And again, then there's also the the lifestyle measures like you mentioned like um whatever drinking less fluids. But you can see how this gets into a cycle, right? Like let's say you're not going to the doctor, right? and all of a sudden you're peeing five to six times a night and then you're tired the next day, right? And then you're like, I'm sure my testosterone is low, right? So, I mean, again, it's just this encouragement to no, let's like talk about it completely comprehensively. And again, this is we're all connected to I think I mean again like you're not just a penis, you're not just a prostate, right? You're not just a brain. So, all of these things are, you know, inextricably connected, which is great. >> And this men's health center, it has all has a actually we have a family practice doctor there. Yeah. So, we're trying to really make it a like okay for the man that's like not seeing the doctor, this is his his penis is taken to the doctor, we can basically help the man in in in Toto essentially. >> Let me walk you down the hall. Um uh well, and so I'm a primary care doc as you know. So, um I think some patients would like to know like when is a right time to go see a urologist? Like do they come see me first as our primary care doc? Some people have right insurance that they can just self-reer themselves to the urologist. But I mean when is the sort of right time to yeah um >> so I think um you know mostly when your primary doctor is stumped of how to make the next move. So you're typically if you have if you need for prostate cancer screening your your doctor can typically do that. Your primary care doctor can do that. Um baseline problems urinating they'll often give you phomax. >> Um they they can give you Viagra if you're having some sexual health problems. Um but then >> insurance covers for the most part. Yeah. Right. Everyone. >> Yeah. And and even for and for those those medications, those Viagra like medications, they're available now at all kinds of discounts from they're off patents. So >> And come in different dosages. >> Yes. Right. Exactly. >> Right. >> Um but then you know typically if like the the need for surgery it's not the medicine's not working, the PSA is abnormal or um maybe oh your testosterone is low, that might be a good reason for a referral. um or you've noticed that there's something wrong with the penis that's bent. Um those are reasons your doctor will send you to see the urologist and then we have a good communication with your doctor and sometimes we'll transfer you back when you're sort of stable situation and then we have great ways of communication and that you see about that. >> I know I mean that's one of the things I wanted to mention this is a very typical interaction where I'm as a primary care doc I'll reach out to Chris to see my patient. We will communicate about the issue and care for our patients together. >> Yeah, that's it. >> Which is how it should And I, as you can tell from this conversation, I don't know a lot about urology, but I can ask you and continue learning about it, which I love. >> Yeah. Vice versa. I also, I mean, you know, sometimes what medication they're on that I don't know if it interaction thing else. I can ask you. Yeah. Or there's there's lots of back and forth about we can both learn because I haven't you haven't high blood pressure since I was in 1990 in medical school. So, >> tell me about that. Um, >> just kidding. Um, uh, this is amazing. Is there anything I haven't asked you though that you know that you want to mention that I kind of forgot about? I mean, we'll have you back again to talk about many other issues, but anything else I kind of forgot you think with men's health or any messages you want to get out? >> I I I just think that um you know, especially in an age where there's a lot of marketing >> um uh around longevity, men's health, that kind of stuff. >> I would say always include a doctor in a discussion about your health. Um it's it's definitely, you know, you can certainly I patients that have all kinds of sources of information. Fine. Yeah. But at least get one of them to be a credentialed medical doctor and you can take that information, do what you want with it. But >> that's exactly right. And I think that um the doctor isn't a barrier and they're not a gatekeeper and they're not a no person. I mean, the point is is just to have right the professional insight and dimension. >> Right. Exactly. >> Um there is a lot of I mean, I will tell you the I feel like we have to have a whole separate conversation about longevity. And I will just say too that I think that that's how you define longevity, right? I think for a lot of people is tied to, and this isn't right or wrong, but tied to their sexual health, their sexual prowess, right? They're, you know, um being young. >> Yeah. >> Right. In terms of And is young tantamount to, >> you know, being attractive? Is young tantamount to being healthy? And not always. You can be healthy and aging and you can be healthy and changing, right? And evolving. Like this isn't always about a deficiency, right, >> in a hormone or testicular failure or ov ovarian failure. Right. Right. >> We're looking to optimize you whatever age you're at. >> We're lucky to to get older. >> Um you're absolutely amazing. Thank you for being here. I know you have to get to surgery. Um I just want to say it just makes me really proud to be your colleague. I mean, I feel like your patients are so lucky to have you. I'm so lucky as your colleague. And um I just want to say for our listeners, if you're a man, if you love a man, if you care about a man, don't wait for symptoms, right? Take charge of your health. Um and we can say below the belt down there. I'll just say take charge of yourself, right? And your whole being. Um and talk to your doctor. Yeah. >> Be curious about yourself, right? And and and ask questions. But more than anything, know that there's support out there. Um I also want to say that if you want more information about our urologic um health or scheduling a visit with any of our docs, we do have our uclaalth.org/urology org/yurology and we have our awesome men's health center and there'll be information about this um in our appendices whatever those visual appendices are. Chris, thank you for being here. >> Thanks for having me. Good. >> Um and until next time to our listeners, stay curious, be informed and I'm Dr. Eid Glazier. This is Medically Speaking. Thank you so much. >> Thanks, Eid.