 KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOMPA KOOM times a year. And in medicine, we call that chronic pain. For those who live with it, pain isn't just a symptom. It's a constant companion that reshapes daily life, how you move, how you think, work, and even how you see yourself. To help us unpack this critical and very complex topic and to discuss some non-invasive methods to treat chronic pain, I'm joined by Dr. Tom Strauss, professor of clinical psychiatry and the inaugural holder of the Maddie Katz Chair in Palliative Care Research and Education at UCLA Health. Tom, thank you so much for being with us today. Thanks so much for your interest in what we're doing. I am so interested. And before we get into the techniques, I want to just start with a few questions about you, if that's okay. And what drew you into psychiatry and then maybe eventually into the world of palliative care and chronic pain? Maybe we could actually even define kind of what those terms even mean for everyone. Sure. Well, I was interested as a medical student in knowing my patients well and at the same time was interested in the interaction between complex chronic medical illness and the psychological experience of illness. And so it was sort of natural for me to gravitate to the interface between psychiatry and medicine. I ended up spending most of my career working in cancer, actually. And it was during a period of time when I strayed from UCLA and was at Cedars for about a decade and a half that I had the opportunity to kind of learn cancer pain and symptom management, which is not a typical activity that psychiatrists do. And kind of my clinical identity at that point evolved into that of a palliative care physician. These days, palliative medicine is, you know, an American Board of Medical Specialties recognized subspecialty. And most of us would say that the kind of focus of the field is to help people facing serious illness live well with, you know, optimal management of symptoms and psychological distress and coping as they deal with whatever the course of that illness is going to be. Could you go into a little bit about just, I think, for our audience who aren't as familiar with the specialties, how psychiatry, I guess in your view, how psychiatry and palliative care interweave with each other? Yeah, it's a great question. And I think increasingly, you can actually answer it because there are more and more people who come from psychiatry who are training in palliative medicine, which now requires additional subspecialty fellowship training. But maybe it's intuitive to some of your listeners that most of these serious illnesses include psychological, spiritual, family elements, areas that psychiatrists are often interested in helping patients cope with and can include not just the burdens of the illness like pain or fatigue or other treatment side effects, but also depression or anxiety or a certain kind of spiritual malaise or demoralization. People call it different things. But so for the psychiatrist who's interested in medical illness and the interactions between medical illness and the psychological experience, it's an ideal blend. Would you define palliative care a little bit? I mean, I kind of think of it as the easing of symptoms or pain. Is that how you would define it as well? Relief of suffering? Yes, I think that's right. I think what's changed is that 20 years ago, palliative care clinicians really seemed to be mostly invited to care for patients who were dying, patients who clearly had terminal illness who were coping with the last stages of the disease, again, whether that was physical symptoms, emotional symptoms, whatever. I think increasingly and partly as a result of lots of good studies, it's been demonstrated that early involvement of palliative care clinicians can help facilitate sort of the best trajectory of that illness, whether that illness is heading for cure or long-term remission or is galloping towards a fatal decline soon. So palliative care clinicians kind of can help in all of those settings and increasingly in large health systems do so. I mean, it seems like the field of palliative care and its approach acknowledges that they're suffering along the way. You know, whether a disease is terminal or not, there's lots of different kinds of suffering and pain. So putting that before the end of life or even something that's terminal seems just incredibly important. I think that's exactly right. Yeah. You know, on that note, I just, I really want to acknowledge why the work that you do matters so much. My impression of chronic pain is just that it can be so devastating, you know, very isolating. People can feel invisible and it's also just exhausting. But I'd love to hear from you why you think the work is so critical. Well, your introductory comments really laid it out beautifully, right? So pain is a normal part of the human experience and normal part of the experience of any organism with a nervous system. It's when pain takes on a life of its own, when it becomes chronic in one way or another, that it perhaps in a more devastating and lasting way changes lives in negative ways. And so the work we're doing is really focused on folks who have developed chronic pain, pain that sort of has stopped making sense. Of course, we all know that the pain you learn about as a neonate or toddler is a warning system, right? It tells you to stop doing something or to move or to change your body position or whatever, take your finger off the hot stove. But chronic pain often, as I mentioned, begins to take on a life of its own where it has stopped making sense, where it is no longer providing a useful warning or other information to the person experiencing it and really begins to lead to disuse, disability, emergence of depression, anxiety, and lots of other things that are problematic. Yeah. I mean, it sounds like, I mean, it can take over just, you know, someone's identity, their sense of purpose. I mean, so I'm so excited to get into this because it's just really, it seems not just about the symptom management, but also just healing in its deepest sense, you know, in terms of restoring and connection function, meaning to someone's life. Yes. And I think finding meaning for, in someone with chronic pain, finding meaning or purpose in that is often a really big challenge because often it really doesn't make sense. Yeah. It doesn't make sense at all. Maybe before we get into the science, I just want to acknowledge all the lingo that we use in medicine. This topic in particular, I think, is kind of full of a lot of terms and acronyms. So if we could just step back for a second, can we just define the difference between acute and chronic pain? Yes. Yeah. So I think we started to. Acute pain is usually in response to an identifiable provocation or event. It serves a purpose to the person experiencing it, which is to stop doing stuff. Or if you're recovering for an operation, you know, not get up and run around the block until you're stitches afield, et cetera. And most clinicians and researchers in the field define chronic pain as pain that's last for three months or longer. And again, in terms of a phenomenon, that has really stopped making sense from the standpoint of providing an important warning or other information. And often, whereas acute pain, again, is often linked to an identifiable cause, often chronic pain becomes a self-fulfilling cycle. It keeps fueling itself. And so people will have spontaneous pain, pain not provoked by anything just coming out of nowhere, which might be experienced as an electric shock-like sensation down a limb or an acute deep ache in a way that makes no sense. Because at a neurobiological level, this is sometimes described as spontaneous depolarization of nerve cells or something that we sometimes refer to as central sensitization, where the central nervous system has made a pathologic adaptation, meaning it's now become a disease. It's no longer a symptom or response to an injury, but it's become a disease of its own sort. So, wow. So it's not like connected to an actual alarm or a sensation anymore. Exactly. That's kind of the stop making sense. It's not serving a purpose, right? So it's not serving as a warning system. So really, like it's a little bit wacky. It's kind of gotten whacked out. It's overactive. So on a very basic level, illness or injury, enough time goes by where you're feeling a sensation that actually isn't connected to a warning signal. Is that correct? Yes. It might've been originally. Yeah, originally, but now it's not. So that really then gets into, it sounds like, these non-invasive treatments that you employ to address this. Yes. Could we just back up? Because there's one more, I think, kind of type of pain that I think comes up, especially around chronic pain. And I think that's called neuropathy. So I wonder if we could define that as well. Yeah. So broadly in the chronic pain setting there, we think of sort of three different categories of chronic pain. One is neuropathy pain, pain associated with injury to the nervous system. And in this use, the nervous system is defined as either the brain or the spinal cord, which are the central nervous system, or peripheral nerve, meaning nerves outside of the central nervous system, somewhere between your spinal cord and the tip of your extremities. So injuries to the nervous system are often the cause of neuropathic pain. That could be a traumatic injury, like an accident. It could be the consequences of exposures to toxic substances. It could be caused by certain cancer chemotherapies. It could be caused by metabolic illness, like diabetes. But those could be caused by a central nervous system disorder, like multiple sclerosis, which demyelinates the nerves. So there are many, many causes. I've not even begun to list all of them, but those are some examples of nerve pain. Separately, many people will say there's also inflammatory pain, pain that emerges from inflammation. A common example would be arthritic pain, pain in the joints associated with either autoimmune or overuse-related irritation of the articular surfaces in the joints. There are many other kinds of inflammatory pain. Many of those are autoimmune. Many of those somehow seem to be couched in genetic or other factors that lead to autoimmune activation. And then finally, there is, for lack of a better term, I don't particularly like this term, but there is functional pain, which is sort of pain for which we don't really have an explanation, but that seems, again, to be an expression of a nervous system that has arrived at a set point that is different from most people's set point and where things that you or I might not notice at all, like information from our elbow in a conversation like this, for a person with central sensitization is an extremely painful thing. We often think of fibromyalgia as an example of a chronic pain syndrome for which there is no known pathology, right? There isn't a diagnosis. There isn't a pathologist who can look at a slide and say, oh yeah, that's fibromyalgia. There aren't characteristic findings on fancy studies like MRIs or EMG nerve conduction studies. People have severe chronic pain in the absence of a identifiable tissue cause. And we think that that has something to do with, again, a reset of the central nervous system that's a pathological reset, that's a reset characteristic of an illness or a disease. Why don't you like the term? I don't like functional because functional has been used for so many years to describe... Like a catch-all? A catch-all and often there's an implication that this is really a psychological or psychiatric symptom and we're not that interested in it. And that really doesn't help anybody. No, it doesn't help anyone. We care a lot on this podcast about language because words really matter. No, we do. And I think language really shapes how we understand, in this setting, how we understand health, right? As clinicians, how we connect with patients and how we certainly make sense of suffering. But certainly for patients, our friends, it's how you feel seen or validated. So there's many... I can think of other diagnoses as well and clinical syndromes where just because I think there's not exactly, to your point, a slide that a pathologist can look like or a blood test that then people don't feel validated when they're having a symptom. And I just... I really want to spend a little bit of a moment since you brought it up to say, how can we kind of even just approach and de-stigmatize some of that language? Yeah. Well, I think there have been... I think you're right on to make all those comments that I couldn't agree with you more. I think there have been efforts in the last 20 or 30 years in the pain world, at least, to move away from that. And much as in kind of all of healthcare, we now think about sort of patient-centered care and shared decision-making, where also vocabulary matters a lot. Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. You know, the kind of working definition of pain for decades now has been, pain is what the patient says it is, and it's of the intensity that the patient describes it at. And none of us really knows what somebody else is experiencing. So you as pain specialist, that's your definition? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, that's wonderful. I don't know if society, you know, kind of has adopted that, unfortunately, but that's really good to hear. Yes. I think you're right. Society probably hasn't. And we, people with chronic pain, just as people with chronic depression and other things that are hard to measure, and for which there isn't a blood test or a brain-inving study, I think often feel stigmatized or kind of can, somewhere in there is the implication. Well, if you just had a different attitude, it would be okay. But it sounds, so let's move to then these neuromodulation, I will have you define in a second, methods, because whereas maybe you can't measure the absolute, right, sort of degree of pain, you can, it sounds like you can measure the degree of relief. Yes. Yes. And although imperfect, as, you know, as many of your listeners will know, there are pain rating scales. There are rating scales for kids that don't involve words, but involve faces. There are numeric rating scales for adults. There are observational rating scales for people who are nonverbal. So there's lots of different ways to measure pain. But I think you're right. I think ultimately, you know, better, worse, the same is also important feedback when a patient is providing us with information about how a particular treatment is or isn't helping. Yeah, I just, this is all just to say, I think, I mean, I think the work that you do is so tremendous, because I think that it's, it acknowledges, acknowledges suffering, but it also, also, I think, sees people and says, I believe you, your pain is real. Let's, you know, let's work on it together. Thank you. We try. You absolutely succeed. So let's, let's break down the three main treatments that you and your colleagues are doing. And I think we can maybe start with even defining neuromodulation, but we'd love to talk about, you know, what these three treatments are, what they're best for, and really what they look like in real life when people, you know, really walk through the door of your clinic. And maybe we could start with the most well-known, which is TMS, which stands for transcranial magnetic stimulation. That's right. Okay. Tell us about it. And so TMS is a treatment that's been around for a long time and has been approved in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration for more than a decade as a treatment for refractory depression. So depression of the severity that hasn't gotten better with other more standard approaches, psychotherapy, medications, et cetera. And so the FDA recognizes that the TMS is a very effective intervention for treatment system depression with between 30 and 40 percent of people who've already not benefited from lots of treatment getting a very significant response and a significant for them percentage of those actually having their depression under remission. So that's the background on TMS. TMS involves stimulation of the cortex of the brain. That's the outer layer of the brain, just under the skull, with magnetic pulses. So it's completely non-invasive. The pulse or the device looks like a figure of eight magnet and creates a magnetic pulse, not unlike what an MRI machine creates. That pulse penetrates through skin and bone and excites neurons in the cortex of the brain. And causes them to behave differently than they otherwise would. Those cortical neurons are connected to much deeper brain structures that modulate mood. And that is thought to be the mechanism by which TMS works for depression. That was a big preamble, but I should say that, as with so many things, it's been studied in many other areas too. And there's a large evidence base to suggest that TMS can also be effective for a variety of chronic pain problems. And so that's how we bring it into our use. So what's the mechanism then kind of propose that it helps with the pain? Probably the same one that is the exciting of cortical neurons, although we use different targets, right? So there are specific areas of the cortex of the brain where we place the coil or the magnet when we're treating depression. And there are different targets where we place the coil or magnet when we're treating pain. Because they often coexist, that is people with depression tend to have more significant pain than if they weren't depressed. And people with chronic pain often develop depression. It is often helpful to treat the two simultaneously. And so we often find ourselves doing that. Is that how it was kind of first realized that it might be effective in this scenario? I think it's one of the ways. And then the other way was simply investigators around the world, taking what they understood about the neurobiology of pain and applying this new technology to see if it could help. No, it makes sense. So tell me a little bit more though. So when you mentioned it excites the neurons in the cortex. So what does that exciting then do? Right. So that might have been a slight oversimplification because depending on the intensity and pattern of stimulation, we sometimes think of what we're doing as excitatory, meaning making neurons fire more often or more intensely. And sometimes with different patterns, we actually think of it as inhibitory, meaning decreasing overactivity in certain neurons. So it disrupts patterns that are already there. I think that's a better way of saying it. Okay. Yeah. And then, so that's really interesting then. So does the brain then change after these treatments? How many treatments does someone get? So a course of TMS for depression is typically 36 daily treatments. So almost seven weeks of daily treatment. It's a big investment of time and effort on the part of the patient to come and go to a treatment center daily for that period of time. Often we see symptoms improving, both depression symptoms and pain symptoms within the first 10 or so treatment sessions. Oh, wow. Which is good because it's a lot to wait on if you're not getting something from it. I may have missed another part of your question. No, no, not at all. I mean, but it's just interesting. So it really sounds like it resets, it resets or calms then these kind of overactive pain pathways. Yeah. We think that was the part that I... Yeah. We think the current term that neurobiologists use is neuroplasticity. That is the capacity of the central nervous system not to exactly reshape itself, but for adjacent cells to interact differently. So again, changing set points or turning the gain up or down, maybe those metaphors might help people think about it too. No, it's... I mean, I think it's not just fascinating, it's incredibly hopeful. We talked a little bit about neuroplasticity in an earlier podcast with one of your colleagues, Dr. Misty Richards, when we were talking about how the brain changes with matrescence, i.e. becoming a mother and especially in that postpartum period. Yes. I think what you're talking about now, it just seems incredibly hopeful that I would imagine people feel very stuck when they have chronic pain. And so the idea that their brains can evolve or change seems very hopeful. Dr. Misty Richards, Yes. And if and when that happens, and we don't have any way of measuring neuroplasticity, but if and when that happens, then that might suggest that these treatments will lead to durable benefits, not just benefits in the moment when we're treating them. Dr. Misty Richards, Durable meaning lasting? Dr. Misty Richards, Meaning lasting weeks, months, or even longer. Dr. Misty Richards, Oh, amazing. Okay. And then I have to just ask, does it hurt to get this treatment? Dr. Misty Richards, Yeah. So TMS is really safe treatment. Dr. Misty Richards, It's a weird sensation, a magnetic pulse with a device that's just right on top of the skin of your skull. It feels like a tap. A lot of people will describe it as sort of like there's a woodpecker on my head. It's unfamiliar. Most people accommodate very quickly to it and within the first 30 seconds to a couple minutes feel like, yeah, this is not a big deal. I can sit in a chair and do this. Some people have a little skin tenderness after treatment. Some people have a headache after treatment, but generally people tolerate it very well. Dr. Misty Richards, Right. So truly non-invasive. Dr. Misty Richards, Truly non-invasive. No needles, no puncturing of skin, no marks, no loss of consciousness, no anesthesia. Dr. Misty Richards, Amazing. Tell me about another option, I think magnetic PNS, and I'll let you write down that acronym. Dr. Misty Richards, Yes. So magnetic peripheral nerve stimulation uses actually the same machine as we use for TMS, the cortical stimulation. It's simply the magnet is placed in a different location, in this case over a painful part of the body that's not the brain. And the pattern of stimulation is slightly different, but this is also an FDA approved treatment that actually relatively recently in 2023 for a variety of pain problems, both nerve injury pain, and actually there is some evidence that MPNS can help also for joint pain. So arthritic pain or pain associated with other bone or cartilage abnormalities. Dr. Misty Richards, Can you share a patient example? I mean, just like what issue or kind of pain have brought a typical patient into you for this? Dr. Misty Richards, For MPNS in particular, sure. Yeah. Well, we've treated a number of folks who have something called piriformis syndrome, which is a kind of nerve pain where the large nerves that pass through the big muscle of the gluteus, the butt, are perhaps entrapped in the muscle or have unusual anatomy such that there's pressure on them from the muscle. That can be really uncomfortable and devastating. And we've had a number of people have a really nice response to MPNS for that. We've had a number of folks with another one of the horrors of chronic pain called complex regional pain syndrome or CRPS, which is a very unique and particularly devastating pain problem that typically involves an extremity, sometimes a random onset, sometimes after an innocuous insult or injury, sometimes after a big injury like a car accident. But people will develop both severe pain and swelling and discoloration and temperature abnormalities and changes in hair growth and skin appearance and even changes in bone architecture if you do studies. And really profound disuse. I mean, some people with this problem, if it's in one of their legs, just don't walk and can't walk and develop a limb that really doesn't function. So there are many treatments for CRPS. I don't mean to suggest that ours is the only one, but we've had some folks who've had really nice responses to MPNS who've had chronic CRPS pain that wasn't responding to other things. Incredible. Okay. I'm going to ask you about one more and then I'm going to ask you how you choose which modality to administer. But I know that you also employ a treatment called the Scrambler. Yes. Which I love the name. Sounds like a very exciting carnival ride. Yes. But can you explain that one to us as well? Sure. As well. And again, if you could use a sample patient, I think that's helpful because then I, at least for me too, I can picture the process. Yes. So Scrambler is a completely different technology. So as the first we talked about, both cortical TMS, brain TMS and peripheral TMS or magnetic peripheral nerve stimulation, the device creates this magnetic pulse that penetrates through skin and simulates nerve that way. The Scrambler device is what we call an electrocutaneous device. It makes a very small, complex electrical current that doesn't feel like a shock to patients. But this device is actually connected to people through wires and sticky EKG electrodes. So again, completely non-invasive. Right. Yes. But in this case, you're putting a very small current. And the genius behind the device really is the waveform, the physics of the electrical signal that are passed from the device into the patient's skin. This was invented by an Italian biophysicist named Giuseppe Maroneo in the 1990s. And he was particularly interested in nerve pain. And the largest group of patients who've been treated with Scrambler in the world literature and now in our experience is people with something I mentioned earlier, which is chemotherapy-induced peripheral ophthalmopathy. Some of the chemotherapies that can be life-saving for some cancers, unfortunately, also have the side effect of injuring the tiny sensory nerves, typically in the hands and feet. That's what we mean by peripheral. By peripheral and that sort of presentation of burning and tingly. And sometimes it can mean treatments have to be stopped. Sometimes it can mean that doses of chemotherapy have to be adjusted downward. Sometimes it means people quit treatment altogether because they dislike that so much. There are treatments for chemotherapy and neuropathy. Unfortunately, there are no known effective preventions, but there are medications that can reduce some of the burning, tingling. Scrambler appears to work better than them. We now have experience with about 60 patients with chemotherapy, pro-pharmopathy from within UCLA Health. And we just submitted this for publication, but roughly two-thirds of our patients get at least 30% reduction in their burning, tingling pain. About half of them get 50% or more reduction in their burning, tingling pain in their hands and feet. So that's a really big effect. If you were trying to get the FDA to approve a new medication for peripheral opathy and you were able to demonstrate those kinds of results, that would be a slam dunk for approval. Most of the patients who come to us with that problem are people who've tried the medications and either didn't get enough relief or didn't like how they felt on the medications. And so that's where a non-invasive intervention can sometimes be appealing. That's incredible. I've had peripheral neuropathy and it was felt like, it was unbearable. I mean, it actually felt like bees, like a swarm of bees were on my feet. So I mean, I just, and I thankfully it was temporary, but I can imagine it's beyond debilitating. Like you can't just think about other stuff when you have neuropathic pain. And so I really feel for also patients, right, who are trying to also get then their chemotherapy to cure a different kind of disease. And then they're also having really a side effect that's just not compatible with being alive really. So this isn't, 30% or 50% just seems huge in terms of relief. Yes. Is that the aim of each session? What is the aim of the sessions to lessen, not zero out then? Well, actually our goal in every session, the voices of Dr. Maraneo, with whom I spent some time in Rome in the spring training, is speaking through me now. Your goal in every session is to zero out the pain. But you didn't say it with an Italian accent. No, I didn't, or nearly as charmingly as him. But that is our goal each time. But what is great about it is that when it works, and there's probably 25 to 35% of folks who don't respond to it at all. But when it works, it's an effect that the patient experiences in the session and in each session. So that's very reinforcing, obviously. That really conveys that something is going on. I mean, do you get to look at your patients' faces and just see relief? Yes. Yes. It's pretty wonderful. It's pretty gratifying. It's thrilling to be able to do that. That's very gratifying. And I mean, I'm thrilled for your patients. Tell me a little bit about, I guess, the treatments. How long do they last? How many sessions does one have usually? So for Scrambler, a standard course is 10 sessions. Ideally, five days a week for two consecutive weeks with the weekend in between off. That's sort of the recommended approach. By the way, this also is an FDA-cleared technology. It was cleared by the FDA in 2009. A treatment session lasts about 35 minutes. Patient comes into our clinic and sits in what looks like a dental chair. We promise we don't do dentistry. No insult to our colleagues in dentistry. But it's a chair that reclines, so they're sitting comfortably. We place the sticky electrodes on their skin based on where their pain is. The device looks like a giant TENS unit. Maybe some of your listeners will know what a TENS unit is if they've done physical therapy or whatever. And we modulate the intensity based on them feeling the sensation on the electrodes, which often feels sort of like little fire ants scratching. Some patients just love that stimulation. It's like they quickly associate it with pain relief. Others, it's like, yeah, it's kind of weird, but it's never painful. And again, when people are responding, we get results right then and there in the room, which is great. So going back to when you were talking about chronic pain and the kind of, very science-y word, but maladaptive, or maybe that's a psychiatric word, or just wacky, inappropriate, hyperactive response, wonky. Is that why this is called the scrambler? Does it scramble that sort of pattern, that maladaptive, wacky pattern? The inventor says that the signal that the device generates simulates or creates an artificial version of normal sensation. So it's telling the spinal cord and brain, you know, nothing to see here, move along, move along. This is normal input. It doesn't feel like normal to patients. It feels like there's weird, you know, fire ants under the pads. But when patients are getting the pain relief that often associated with that, then this starts to make a bit more sense. But yes, scrambler is, I think, intended to invoke the highly variable computer-generated signal that the device produces. And that's one of the ways that it's quite different from a TENS unit. The waveform is completely different. The other thing for people who've used a TENS unit, TENS units are great. I've used a TENS unit. They work when they're turned on. The minute you turn them off, they stop working. And the whole idea with scrambler is when it's working, you're building an effect over time that becomes durable and lasting. So the majority of our chemotherapy and neuropathy patients don't come back, right? They get enough relief that lasts long enough. They don't come back. Some of them might come for a booster every three to six months if they need a couple sessions. That's amazing. You're mentioning, I just want to say this too, I mean, you're mentioning FDA approval for various methods and parts of methods. I mean, I just want to say, like, I mean, clearly this is the part of medicine I think we actually don't talk a lot about, which is just like when you're actively innovating. And I want to hear from you what that's like for you. I think as a scientist, clinician, you know, what's that like? And then also, again, you're publishing papers. I don't know. It just seems like a challenge, I think, that not everyone is thinking about all the time because often we are getting treatments that have already gone through the FDA or they've been in practice for many years. But this is so innovative, right? And it's so life-changing. But that process also seems challenging. Dr. Well, I think you're exactly right in all of the ways that you said it. It's very fun, very exciting, very cool. The fact that these are all FDA cleared means we know that they're fundamentally safe, even if we're not totally sure how they work or in whom they will work. Dr. But, you know, medicine, as you and your previous guests, I'm sure, have determined, is a very conservative, sometimes rather reactionary field. And there is lots of skepticism out there about these treatments. And that is in our colleagues, that is in health insurers, that's in a number of places. So just because a device has passed regulatory approval does not mean it will be accepted and widely used. And, you know, the skepticism is appropriate, right? We want to do scientific practice. And I don't want to at all sound like an evangelist for unproven treatments. But we feel really lucky that we're able to kind of, with FDA cleared devices, sort of operate on the margin and in particular help people who've had really treatment, non-responsive or partially responsive problems get significant relief. And we don't always succeed, but we love the effort. It's so gratifying when we do get it right for folks. I mean, it sounds so gratifying. And to that point, too, I think about, you use the word refractory, right? So meaning you haven't gotten relief from other known modalities or even things that you've tried. And I know pain is hard. I mean, whether there's a latter approach, like, you know, again, I'll just use back pain as an example, right? Sometimes, you know, you know, unless you need surgery, often there's a staged approach of, you know, first rest or do gentle stretching or do some physical therapy, take some Advil. Is this the type of treatment for, you know, let's just say for the neuropathic pain where a patient has already tried, let's say, oral medications? Dr. Typically, yes. Dr. Okay. And that hasn't been enough? Dr. Yes. And there's the occasional person who's resourceful and hates the idea of ever taking a medication who finds us and if they're referring physician is supportive of this, maybe starts with what we offer. But that's the rarity. Most folks have kind of worked their way down those algorithms that you just described that I know are a big part of primary medical care practice and have sort of, their problem has declared itself to be not either adequately or at all responsive to standard treatment. But it seems like especially for, I'm thinking about my own patients, you know, who have neuropathic pain, a lot of them don't want to take medications. Dr. Yes. Dr. First of all, especially if you're undergoing cancer treatment, you're already on a lot of medications. Dr. Absolutely. Dr. With a lot of side effects, even side effects despite, you know, in addition to the neuropathy. So knowing that there's these other non-invasive options is just seems really important to know about. Dr. Yes, absolutely. And you know, our efforts to make our oncology colleagues aware of this and that it's available at UCLA. If you look around the country, Scrambler in particular is not widely available. It exists at some of the large NCI designated cancer centers like ours. Dr. What's NCI? Dr. National Cancer Institute designated cancer centers like ours. But it's not widely available and most doctors don't even know about it. Dr. Right. Yet. Yet. Thank you. Dr. Yet. Okay, no, this is great. Is there anything I didn't ask you though about Scrambler that you wanted to tell me? Dr. Well, you did ask a question which I successfully avoided but I feel I need to come back to and that is how do we sequence these things? Dr. Okay. Dr. How do we decide with a given patient where to start? Dr. Yes, yes. Dr. And the answer is we do have some ideas about that and some of it is based on prior treatment responses. Some of it's based on whether depression coexists with the pain problem or not. Some of it's based on whether they're on medicines that might interfere with the likelihood of a good response to Scrambler. But the real answer is we have no idea. Okay. Dr. And there are no studies. We think we're the only place in the country that is offering TMS for pain and depression, peripheral nerve stimulation with the TMS machine and Scrambler in the same clinical setting. So we are working on algorithms or decision trees to help us. And again, we have some general ideas but there just is not science to guide that. And so some of it is we make the decisions with the patients. Dr. Which is part of that shared decision making. Dr. Absolutely. Dr. So meaning like if I come in, I come into you and I say I'm having this type of pain, you assess me, you decide after talking to me, hearing about my pain, other meds I'm on, why I probably have this pain. Which of those modalities to try? Do you ever try all three at different times? Dr. We sometimes do. We have the capacity to move very quickly from one to another if a patient isn't responding to the one we started with. And so that's another, we think of it as an asset that we have that capacity to be nimble and to make those changes without a new doctor and a new referral and a long wait, et cetera. Dr. Well, that's the best part of you of being all in the same clinic, right? Dr. Yes, we think so. Dr. Again, are you kidding? It sounds great. I'd love to go back to the idea of neuroplasticity. So again, kind of that ability of the nervous system's ability to, I guess, right, adapt or rebalance, reset. Dr. Yes. Dr. So it sounds like all three of these modalities leverage the brain's intrinsic ability to do that. Dr. We think so. Dr. To use these, okay. Dr. And I would say, I would add to this, you know, this is not a theory that explains uniquely what we're doing. I think many of the pharmacologic or medication approaches, again, this is the term of art of this era, this induce or invoke or facilitate neuroplasticity. And it could be that some of the interventional pain procedures like spinal cord stimulators or nerve blocks or other things when they work may also do that. So it might be sort of a final common pathway for all of these things. And I hope that in the discussion, I haven't implied that those other things cannot be helpful because they can be. Dr. No, no, not at all. But I think, you know, I think just, you know, focusing on those, on these non-invasive methods. Dr. Yes. Dr. And I mean, this goes to say too, I mean, right, you're not operating in a vacuum. I mean, I just want to remind our listeners that, you know, at UCLA or wherever you're getting these treatments, you know, which sounds like UCLA is really leading here, but there's a lot of interaction, right, with the other physicians, what we call interdisciplinary teams. You know, you're not, we're looking at other treatments that you've had, your responses, other things you've tried. Dr. Absolutely. And we spend a fair amount of time, given that we have significant time with our patients in the rooms for these treatments that range from 15 to 45 minutes, to talk about other options and what else is out there that we might not offer, but that could be of help to them, whether it's a medication or an interventional procedure or something else. Dr. Do you see any trends, I guess, in the patients who come to you or respond to these treatments? I mean, I know it's kind of hard to generalize, but are you seeing any kind of common threads? Dr. Well, because again, we're sort of out there in the ether, at the sort of leading edge of new pain stuff. We tend to see people with the most difficult treatment, refractory problems, and or the people who are the most sort of sophisticated consumers of information, often information, again, that they're referring doctors haven't been exposed to before. So there are people who are, who are, have the energy to overcome maybe the referring doctor skepticism, or are suffering so much that they just plow forward. And that's, you know, great for them. We, we recognize that that's been a long road for almost everybody who comes to us. Dr. But I really, I mean, I appreciate how much you're educating me too. I mean, it reminds me that I need to educate my patients. I mean, we, we actually do talk about shared decision making on this podcast almost in, almost in every episode. And I think, I don't, I, I love talking about it just because I think there's been a shift even in how long I've been practicing medicine, where kind of before it was very much like, you know, that kind of what we call paternalistic approach to, you need this treatment and, and you should do it. And then, you know, this idea of the patient nodding and, you know, giving a scent and sort of this idea of even learning together or making the decisions together just, I think matters so much. I don't know how you view shared decision making. Dr. I completely agree. And I also think that, again, in this, in this complex domain where we, there's a lot, there's so much that we don't know. I mean, there's a lot we do know, and we can be assertive about that and declarative about that. But I think it's also simply intellectually honest to declare when we don't know. And I think most of our patients appreciate that and then can engage in this decision making process where they're relying on whatever expertise we might have, but they clearly understand sort of where the limits of our knowledge are. And then we're endeavoring in something truly together. Dr. Yeah, no, I think that honesty just only builds trust. And the idea of like, look, let's, you know, obviously you have expertise, you know, and let's partner together, Dr. Yes. Dr. You know, and, and, and try something together, I think is amazing. I, it makes, I, it brings me some chagrin that it's not, things aren't well known and options aren't, aren't well known. Is there any ways that you suggest, I mean, first of all, doing this podcast is one of them, but getting the word out. I mean, even if it's just to know, to explore options and to read, educate yourself and your doctor, you know, other doctors. Dr. Well, I think the, the, the, the, the, the, the coda to what we just talked about in shared decision-making is the patient is the expert in their pain, right? They, they know what they feel and they know what works and doesn't work. Dr. Absolutely. Dr. What I was going to say is that I think there is a whole world out there and it's very much a mixed blessing. And I know you've talked about it on the podcast before, in, in the digital world of information sharing among sufferers, information sharing in formal, formal organizations that some patients join, whether it's, you know, the complex regional pain, world or the chemotherapy neuropathy world or the poster pedic neuralgia world. There are, there are subcultures out there. I think that's where a lot of this information gets exchanged. Your question I'm avoiding answering because I don't know the answer, which is kind of how do we improve knowledge among professionals? I think we give CME talks. We do what we're doing on the podcast. Dr. That's, that's for, for all those non-doctors out there, that's continuing medical education. Dr. Thank you very much. Dr. And ultimately we, we change minds one patient at a time. Dr. Yes. Dr. So, you know, when I'm, have a home run experience with a chemotherapy neuropathy patient, that medical oncologist who referred me is really going to think about this the next time somebody says, I can't tolerate the neurontin and the lyric and the cymbalta makes me feel nauseated. Dr. Yeah. No, and these, and these conversations, I mean, it's one patient at a time, the conversations, but it's really exciting. I mean, this is really just, you know, exciting to hear about from you. Dr. Well, thanks. Dr. No, it really is. I mean, the idea of, of, of, of just options to, I think, relieve suffering are amazing. I know you've had a very long history in the, in the palliative care world as well. And so clearly, I'm just going to say this, it seems like you've dedicated your life slash career to alleviating suffering. Would you agree with that? Dr. Well, it's so kind of you to acknowledge. It's true that I found myself there as I guess a kind of calling. It's been so thrilling for me since I've been involved in our modulation in the last six years to find myself in a field with tools that are often more potent and more effective than the ones I was working with for the previous 30 years. I spent a lot of time facing off with chemotherapy and neuropathy when I worked full-time in a cancer center and using all the available treatments and hoping, you know, that they were going to help and they helped, but often now we can help more and that's really incredible. Dr. Right. So you even just feel like there's growth in your own field. Dr. Yeah. Dr. That's really exciting. Dr. Yeah. Dr. So, I mean, we, I think we're talking about some of the challenges and I think for patients, the public to have access to these treatments, sometimes it's just not knowing yet or just, you know, just here at UCLA, we're on the cutting edge. There's few places nationally, but anything else maybe that, you know, we can do to increase awareness? Dr. Well, there, you know, there can be other obstacles, insurance can be another important one. Dr. We try to work with each patient to clarify what we can accomplish with their insurer, but that's another, I think, important area of effort, particularly because by comparison, these treatments are often much less expensive than the next thing patients are in line for, like a spinal cord simulator, which is, you know, a $75,000 implant or something like that. Dr. Right. Dr. Right. Dr. So I think there's room there, but there's, there's again, a lot of skepticism, a lot of cautiousness. Dr. But we also like to encourage, we're also very much, you know, like you said, the patient, as patients, you're the expert in yourselves. You certainly are the experts in your pain. You know, as, as much as I have nothing but outstanding colleagues, we, we do like to encourage, you know, patients, people, you know, to, um, find the right fit for them. Dr. Yes. Dr. Right. And so it's definitely okay to ask your doctor, especially a primary care doctor like myself, your cancer doctor about this to any, and if they don't know, you guys can get more information together. Dr. Yes. Dr. Yes. And I do have the sense that there is less reflexive, oh, that's ridiculous, or that's hocus pocus and more. Yeah, maybe that. And this is also generational, right? I think in general, our, our younger physician colleagues have grown up in a medical culture with much greater humility and respect for individual patients and their preferences. And that's a great thing. Dr. It is a great thing. Um, okay. I have a couple of just rapid fire are asking, asking for a friend questions. Um, and you mentioned a TENS unit. I saw, I saw something about this online. It looks like my doctor's using this same machine my physical therapist uses on my knee. Can't I just ask him to do it? Dr. Your, your... Dr. TENS unit. Oh yeah. Dr. Can I use a TENS unit? Can I just do that and use whatever I use on my knee, on my, on my head? Dr. You can, uh, but it probably won't do anything. Okay. Dr. It won't hurt you, but it probably won't do anything. Okay. Um, why? Dr. Well, the TENS unit probably will not, um, stimulate your cortical neurons if you're putting it on your head. Not to mention if you have hair on your head, it's hard to actually do that. Right. Um, and you know, the, the most serious risk of any of these, um, uh, stimulation of the brain is a seizure. It's an extremely rare event with, with conventional TMS. It's about a one in 30 to one in 40,000 event. So, so extremely rare, but, um, but, um, generally stimulating one's own brain at home using a battery operated device might be considered by some at least to be a risky undertaking. Thank you for answering that so seriously. Um, I have terrible back pain and I know it's not as serious as cancer or some other illnesses, but it's really disrupting the quality of my life. Can I come in for treatment? Dr. So we would be happy to, um, on your physician's referral, evaluate you to see if we thought any of the things that we are doing could help. Back pain is super complicated as we know, um, often doesn't correlate with what imaging shows or what treatments one has already had. Um, and so, um, there are circumstances where people with chronic intractable back pain can and do benefit from what we do and there are some where, um, they don't. And so we're, we're trying to be thoughtful about that. Dr. Yeah. So come in and talk about it. Dr. Yes. Dr. Um, I'd also like to just wrap, like kind of rapid fire a few myths and they're, they're, they are stigma based, which is why I want to spend some time with it, which I was glad that you mentioned in them. Um, if we can't see the pain, it isn't real. Yeah. Ask anybody with chronic pain if that's true. Dr. Right. Well, I think that speaks to, you know, right. This like sort of, if it's invisible, you know, that it's not valid. Yes. Um, my best friend was actually on the, on the podcast a few weeks ago. She has a metastatic, um, colon cancer and she was saying something that's really hard is that in sometimes she's doing immunotherapy right now. And so right now her, she has tons of gorgeous hair. And you know, people don't, people undermine how poorly she feels, right. You don't look sick. So you can't feel sick. Yeah. Um, and I think that's why pain is so, is so difficult, but it, again, I just, again, really admire your work because I just think it's, it's not, it acknowledges who we are as human beings, right? This confluence of physical, emotional, spiritual, electrical, you know, beings. Yes. And ultimately we're relying on somebody's self-report, not a blood test, not an imaging study, not a genetics. Yeah. Um, here's a question for you talking about pain makes it worse. Uh, sometimes yes, sometimes no. Um, so I think talking about pain as in coming in for a consultation with us to see if we have something that might help. I don't think anybody would seriously make the argument that that would make it worse. It's true. However, that some people with chronic debilitating pain hyper-focus or, or over-focus on it and some of the most helpful, um, psychological approaches to treating chronic pain actually have to do with people learning to do things like distract themselves from their pain so they're not focusing on it or, uh, work on what can often become an automatic series of thoughts about what their pain is and what it means. It's only going to get worse. Um, it, it's evidence of some horrible thing that's wrong with me. Um, so, so, so that was a yes and no answer to your question. No, no, it makes total sense. And it's interesting, right? Cause it, again, it speaks to these patterns, right? Of thinking kind of like the patterns of neurons firing that get sort of overly entrenched. Yes. And maybe, maybe the, the tendency, right, for people to hyper-focus and catastrophize and ruminate and, and do the opposite of distracting themselves is another manifestation of that. Right. Yeah. And maybe there's other treatments that I'll make you come and talk to me about to, um, unearth those patterns of thinking. Happy to come back. Anytime. I love talking to you. Um, uh, but you know, you talked about psychological. I think again, completely incorrectly, people are like, oh, your pain is psychological. And so, you know, a, it's, it's, it's all in your head. It's in your head, which is to me the most damaging things people can say. First of all, there's nothing wrong with something to be in your head. Yes. And it's where most of our experience probably lives. Yes. Yeah. And it also probably, you know, buys into this sort of old mind body dualism, which is a false distinction, right? The brain, the brain resides in a body. It's connected to a body in gazillions of different ways. Yes. And, um, um, but since you mentioned psychedelics, I would say that that's one of the other exciting, uh, sort of emerging, uh, front lines of, of the field, not just of pain, but of, of psychological misery. Um, and, um, there are a number of folks at UCLA and elsewhere doing really interesting work on that. I'll make you come back and speak with me about that too. Well, or we'll find you somebody with even more expertise. Sounds great. Yeah. Um, okay. We've got from the rooftops, if you could shout, if you could shout one message from the rooftops about chronic pain and its treatments, what would it, what would it be? Uh, there are lots of cool approaches that are not well known that would be good for people to learn about. Yeah. And we're here to help educate you. Is anything, um, worry you about, um, chronic pain or even this field of, as we're trying to alleviate suffering? Well, the, the thing itself, not so much, uh, I guess, you know, there are certainly people struggle with, with, um, developing sort of an identity as a chronic pain patient and, and that can be hard to give up even when people get effective treatments. So that, that's certainly an area of challenge. Um, we haven't touched at all on, but it would probably be wrong not to acknowledge that in the last 25 years, there's also been this horrible, uh, opioid epidemic, which has in part, um, uh, emerged from the reality, for some people of chronic pain, um, and possibly, um, reckless, uh, marketing of pain drugs and possibly less than critical thinking up by some physicians on how to use them. Um, unfortunately, that, that has created a whole new sort of series of problems, including, you know, access problems for people who really need those medications, people with cancer pain who can't get adequate access to those medications in their neighborhoods or whatever. But that was a pretty loose series of associations. I'm getting too far. Right up my alley. Um, do you, do you see if, do you see a future where, I mean, I think again, just, you know, talking about stigma, but you know, people get, get, feel desperate when they need to, you know, feel like they're suffering and they need relief. Do you see a future where these non-invasive modalities, which, um, you know, again, we're, we're in the frontier of, but that are already being really effective, have a place to, you know, put a chink in that, even that epidemic or that search. I hope so. I hope so. And, um, and you know, there are lots of things evolving in other areas too, including the psychedelics realm, including the, the infused medications realm, including the interventional realm. So, you know, there are all kinds of really exciting micro peripheral nerve stimulators now, which are implanted devices that can be really effective and that are a function of sort of the, the, the digital age. I mean, everything you're saying has given, um, even with such a, serious and, um, you know, critical topic, but everything you're saying, honestly, just gives me so much hope. Um, I just feel like there's so much hope in kind of the empathy that you and your colleagues, you know, not just think about, but execute on as you're, as you're exploring and, and, and, um, uh, employing these modalities. Um, and then also just so much of the innovation, but what, what gives you hope about the, the field and the work you're doing? Well, seeing people get better is really what gives me the most hope. Um, and, uh, you know, you touched on something I just wanted to elaborate on as well, which is we, we are lucky to have an incredible group of staff and technicians who work with us. And, you know, even patients who don't benefit often say, you know, your, your people are so lovely and they're so welcoming and they're so kind. And just the experience of being treated in the clinic has been uplifting. And I think it's easy for us to forget that in all parts of medicine that, you know, there's, there's a human experience of, of consuming the treatment. Um, and even separate from, so of course it's better to get a great result, but, but the, the, that those connections are really meaningful. Yeah. And really therapeutic. I, it always reminds me how, you know, you know, we say clinic visits, but sometimes, you know, we also just say office visits. The word visit is in there. We are visiting each other. We are visiting, right. And we aren't always in the most beautiful physical environment in some of our aging buildings. So it's, it's not the architecture. No, it's your visage for sure. Um, I, um, I can't thank you enough for spending time with us today and really for your wisdom and compassion and really helping us unpack these really life-changing and innovative treatments. Um, uh, I think we both know as, you know, as clinicians, hopefully even just as human beings and all of our friends and family, just chronic pain can really steal so much. And, um, conversations like this really remind us that healing takes a lot of forms. Um, to our listeners, if you are your loved one suffers from chronic pain, I hope today's discussion inspires you to stay hopeful and then explore, ask about these new possibilities for relief. There are links to evidence-based resources, show notes in the episode description. Um, as always stay curious and stay healthy. Tom, I really can't thank you enough for being here, um, today and for our listeners. Thanks for listening. We'll see you next time on medically speaking privilege. Thanks so much. Thank you, Tom. K Thank you.