Hello, welcome to today's UCLA health webinar. My name is Dr. Susan Bookimer. I am a professor of psychiatry and biobehavioral sciences here at UCLA and I do research in brain imaging. Today's topic is going to be how does a child's brain develop. During this talk, you can ask questions on Twitter at UCLA MD chat or go ahead and just ask a question on Facebook. We'll save them for the end. Today what I'm going to be focusing on are first how brain development is designed to form connections which together we call the human conneto. I'll also talk about how these connections relate to brain function. And I'll talk about the adolescent brain the teen brain and why that teen brain is so let's say difficult. I'll also talk about a few things that can go wrong in brain development because of these abnormal connecting connections that can develop. and then I'll mention some studies that were going on at UCLA now that you could consider participating in. One of the first things that we need to know about brain development is that it's really not about size. The brain in fact does get bigger, but that's not really what's important. What's important is what's happening inside. Brain development is all about forming connections. We are actually born with a lot more brain cells than we're going to use. And in two critical periods of development at about age two and then again at adolescence we actually lose a lot of neurons. During this period of time however our brains are forming connections. The good ones the ones that we are using are going to be maintained and the rest are going to be pruned away just like we would cut off an old branch that is no longer useful. So we use the phrase use it or lose it when we think about brain development. In this way, there's a very important relationship between our environment and our brains. What our brains are exposed to, what we do, what we see and experience will all help determine which of those connections are going to stay and which ones are going to be cut away. This is a picture of the fetal brain growth from the age of 25 days all the way up to birth. And you can see that the brain starts very very primitive and very quickly develops into having the general brain shape but the main thing that changes is the folds in the brain. The folds in the brain which give rise to this characteristic brain pattern are there because they increase the surface area. By having folds we can get more neurons into that tissue and the more neurons we have the more we are able to use that information to do complex tasks that humans do. So humans have the most folded brains that there are. There are three major changes that take place during brain development. The first one is the what we call the proliferation of dendritic branches. Just as a tree grows with a long central stalk which we would call in the brain an axon. It also develops all of these branches and brain cells sprout these branches which connect to other brain cells. So that's one thing that occurs. Another one is this process called myelination which I'll show some pictures of in just a bit. But this is a covering of the axons. These are the major branches that I was talking about. And um these um this myelin is made of a very fatty substance that actually comes from a certain kind of neuron. And it's like an insulation material that allows information to process and to be sent very quickly from one brain cell to the next. And finally, there is that process of pruning, dying off of brain cells and brain connections that looks that look as if they're no longer needed. Here's a picture of what it looks like across development. In the newborn brain, we have a fair number of neurons here, but as you can see, they're very simple. They've got a single long axon that's not really connected to anything and only a few little branches, and the cells themselves are quite small. During development, these branches really start growing quite a bit, although the actual number of neurons is not changing. By nine months, you can start to see many of these connections forming and becoming more complex. But look at the age of two years. Look how incredibly dense all those connections are. There are the same number of neurons here, but that's connected. Everything is practically connected to everything else. However, if you contrast that with the young adult brain, you can see that a lot of those connections have started to prune away and the cells themselves are larger and the connections between cells are thicker. They've become stronger with age, but there are fewer of them. This is the general process. What we talk about a transition between brain plasticity that is the potential for the brain to do a lot of different things and brain efficiency that is just keeping those connections that we need so that we can use our brain energy as efficiently as possible. This is an MRI scan of a seven-year-old and a 30-year-old to demonstrate one of these processes and that is the thinning of the gray matter, the pruning or the breaking away and dying off of neurons. In the young brain, the sevenyear-old brain, you can see that there's a lot of this thick gray matter around here. And you can compare that to the same area in the adult brain where it looks much thinner. So the uh between the ages of seven and 30, we are still losing a lot of neurons. This graph actually shows the statistical change over time from the age of five through the age of 20. The brighter colors mean thicker cortex. The darker colors mean thinner cortex. And so the brain thins, although different areas of the brain thin at different rates over this period of time. And in fact, the frontal loes are the last areas of the brain to thin. They don't even complete their maturation until at least the mid to late 20s. Now, I'm going to talk a little bit about myelination. These are brain scans from the age of one week through the age of 10 years. And of course, you can see that the brain has gotten a lot bigger. But one of the other changes that you can see pretty clearly here is that this brain looks very dark as does this one. Whereas these brains look much lighter. Well, the reason why that's happening is because we have no myelin, none of that fatty substance in the infant brain. It slowly starts to develop and then accelerates incredibly rapidly. So, it's the myelin that makes this white matter, these connection tissues look very, very white. And I'll explain a little bit more about myelin and how that works. This is a picture of a brain cell called a neuron. And this is the axon, that long central branch that will lead this brain cell to another brain cell in order to make connections. At birth, there is no insulation around any of these connections. But what happens is a certain kind of brain cell comes in and forms a little sheath and wraps itself around that axon. And a number of these different neurons wrap themselves around the axon. It's like the kind of insulation that you would see on an electrical wire. We don't actually see the wires. We just see the plastic surroundings that insulates the wire. It allows that electricity to move safely within that wire. But here in this case of myelin, it also allows something special to happen. Since the brain communicates with electrical signals, this fatty substance allows those signals to skip over from these different nodes all the way down. It allows sort of a speed dib and pathway of connection. And so the more myelin there is, the faster these connections can form and therefore the better the communication can be between two different brain regions. In this MRI scan that we see here, we are seeing the infant brain from the first 100 days of life up into 300 days of life. So this is early in the first year of life. This is the MRI scan and this area down below just shows that white matter, the part of the white matter where the myelin is, that fatty substance that helps form those connections. At birth, almost nothing is myelinated. In fact, there really only two areas of the brain that have this myelin that allow for this rapid connection. One is the visual cortex. So eyes through the central part of the brain into the visual system. And the other is the mouth motor cortex. And you can guess why an infant doesn't have to do very much except find what it wants to suck and have the motor system to suck it. That's all an infant wants to do. But as the infant starts to develop, more and more systems come online, this myelin starts to get formed and it allows that child to develop faster and better cognitive skills. So the more that brain is in use, the more that this white matter starts to develop. And we see that within one year of life, we go from almost no milein to a well mileelinated brain. This is another picture of this comparing again that same seven-year-old with a 30-year-old. And I've just outlined here the white matter of the brain. And you can see this is the white matter. This is where the neurons are. And these are where the connections are. And you can see how much that white matter has grown over that period of time. So where the gray matter has shrunk, the white matter, the connections have grown. So it's all about forming connections. Here's another picture of connections that you might have heard about. This connection is called the corpus colosum. It's a connection of those fibers, those connecting fibers between neurons that connects the left side of the brain to the right side of the brain. And this is a picture of the brain cut right down the middle. So this would be the nose. This is the back of the brain, the top of the brain. And this is right down the center here. You can see in the seven-year-old, here is the corpus colossum here in white. And you can see how thin it is right here and and in the back. Whereas at the 30-year-old level, it's very nice and thick. So over time, our two hemispheres have learned how to talk to one another and to do it very, very quickly and efficiently. So why do we have all of this connection? Well, different parts of the brain have different roles. Each part of the brain does something different, but it doesn't do it all by itself. to work. Every part of the brain has to talk to other parts of the brain. It sends electrical signals throughout the brain through those white matter tracks to form these connections so that different areas can talk to each other and work together to perform complex tasks like talking as I am doing with you today. And this is all about connectivity or what we would call functional connectivity. that is not just the structure of those pathways but what those pathways are doing and the cognitive skills that can emerge because the brain is using those pathways to talk to other areas of the brain. Here's a picture just of the white matter all by itself. This is from a technique called diffusion tensor imaging and the different colors represent what direction the pathways are going in. Now I don't want to focus on the colors themselves because today we don't care so much about the direction but rather about the difference between the infant brain and the adult brain. And here in the infant brain even at birth we can see that there are important connections in the brain major fiber pathways. This one for example going from the motor system down through the spinal cord and um the corpus colossum connecting the two hemispheres of the brain. But notice on the outside there's just very little happening there. Those fine connections have not been formed. Compare that to the adult brain and see how elaborate and deep all these connections are. So development is really all about forming connections and forming them the right way. Together these connections form distinct functional networks. There are many different kinds of networks in the brain. Functional networks in the brain. I'm just listing a few of them here for illustration. For example, the visual network, collection of brain regions which together allow us to see the world and to make sense of what we see, figure out where things are when we see them. The auditory network does the same thing but with what we hear. Sensory network, where our bodies are and how we feel our bodies. So these are brain regions that are connected together left hemisphere with right hemisphere and several areas across the brain that work together to perform the complex tasks of vision, hearing, sensation, moving. But we also have some more complicated networks with more elaborate functions. The language network for example. So as I talk to you today, I have many regions of the brain that are involved in language. They're spread all throughout my brain. although mostly for me in the left hemisphere of my brain and they all have to work together in a network. There are attention networks there several different attention networks and there's this other network called the salience network. This is a network of brain regions that find out what's important in the environment and distinguish what is important from things that are less important so that it can focus on that which is most meaningful and significant. The default mode network is a completely different thing. We often call this the task negative network. This is what you do when you're not thinking. This is what we do when we're at rest. Essentially, we turn off our brain. We let it just wander. And it's very important for us to do this. It gives our brain a rest. It allows our memories to be consolidated without being bothered by the things that we are seeing and hearing. And it's probably very active while we're sleeping. And we need all of these networks as well as many more. We can measure these functional brain networks with techniques including functional MRI. So functional MRI is a MRI technique. It requires no radiation. It requires no injections. It's perfectly safe and it measures blood flow in the brain. We can measure it during task performance. So if I were in a brain scanner right now and I were doing a language task, more blood would flow to my language areas of my brain and we'd be able to see that in MRI. We can also look at correlated activity across the brain while we're just at rest sitting in a scanner because different areas of our brain which normally communicate which are normally well connected will change their blood flow spontaneously at about the same time. So these are uh great techniques for learning about brain function during development because they're completely safe for children. So fMRI shows the basic outlines of brain networks at birth. And to show you an example of this, I'm going to show you the brain of an 8-week old infant that we did an MRI scan on. And by looking at this infant just at rest actually sleeping while in the scanner we are able to look at the correlated activity across the brain to identify key networks. This is the sensory motor network. So this is the motor area of the brain where we control our movement. This is the auditory network. This is where we hear the visual network where we see. And even at birth we have the more complex salience network. the network that tells babies what is important to them. And it's really quite remarkable that we are born with the basics of these networks already connected up in our brains. Networks develop, however, from these very primitive networks over time, usually with experience. So there's a basic structure that we're born with, but these structures are shaped by our experiences. Um they are shaped into distinct modules. So for example, this is a picture of the language module, the group of language areas which have to connect together and work together to perform language. And these modules are highly distinct and within the modules they're highly integrated. So they talk within a module to each other, but they're separate from other modules. I'll explain what that means. Functional activity through development changes so that the brain becomes more modular and it becomes more efficient. So in these functional MRI scans of language in the young children, we see that there was a great deal of diffuse activity across the brain. It's in both the left hemisphere and in the right hemisphere. And it's pretty big. When we compare the same language task to young adults, we see the same brain regions, but look, it's now mostly centered in the left side of the brain. In the MRI world, left is right and right is left. So this is the left side of the brain. We see it's more specialized and we also see that less tissue is dedicated to it because what has happened is these modules have become specialized and used solely for language without any of this extra stuff. This extra stuff would have been stuff that will have been pruned away by the time we get to adulthood. And that is really the process of brain maturation that helps to support these functional networks. Now we can look at functional networks in a variety of different ways. But one is by looking at graphs. So this is a graph of a brain network where we've laid out all the different brain regions in a network. And in the adult we see that this network all talks to each other. But in the children they don't really talk so closely. So the connections have all not been as well developed here as in here. We can look at this in another way when we look at the relationship between two different networks. In this case, we're talking about the task positive or attention network and the task negative or our resting or default mode network. And what you can see in this typically developing child is that the networks themselves form discrete very distinct modules that all talk to each other but are separate from the other modules. So these are completely separate except for one point which allows switching between the two. will contrast with the network organization of a child um with an autism spectrum disorder where the same modules exist but they're not as well integrated within and there's too much cross talk between. So this makes it so that each module has interference from another module and it makes it more difficult to process information very clearly. There are other things that we can learn about developmental disabilities, developmental disorders using this kind of brain connectivity technique. Here, for example, is a study of children who are typically developing and children with autism when they're exposed to rewards. And in this case, the reward would be simply seeing a smiling face. Most of us respond very nicely to a smiling face. And we have a reward center in the brain that does that. With this kind of brain scanning, we can see that the reward network while fully intact in the typically developing kid is not working as well in the children with autism. And this is the difference between groups suggesting to us that there is a problem in the reward network of the brain of children with autism. Environmental exposures can also have a very major effect on brain development. This is prenatal exposure to alcohol. At the top here we have a typically developing child in the nine-month range and you can see the corpus colosum uh here and here and you can see the white matter and the gray matter. Um this ch this is a an MRI scan of a child who iso was um severely exposed to alcohol prenatally and I think the first thing that you can see right off the bat is that there is no corpus colosum at all. So the big major connecting fibers that connect the right and left sides of the brain is simply missing. And when we look inside the brain, we see a similar pattern, a lack of connectivity, some abnormalities in several different parts of the brain. So environmental exposures can have a profound effect upon brain development. And I mentioned before that adolescence is a time of great rapid brain change. Um with this influx of hormones the brain becomes very sensitive to new experiences. It becomes very reward sensitive and it becomes driven towards novelty and also in particular to social experiences. This makes a lot of sense because when kids grow up and become adolescence they need to find a way to launch and they can't do that unless they become interested in new things and in new people. Um, of course, um, their emotion networks also become very active. And yet, there's a problem because the area of the brain that helps to regulate and control these emotional experiences and these impulses does not come online until at least the 20s and sometimes quite late in the 20s. So we have this situation where there is a lot of impulsive impulsivity and a lot of emotional arousal without the ability to regulate that arousal. That's why teens are the way they are and that's why it's so difficult for teens because they get exposed to novel experiences which can have negative consequences and they don't have quite the regulation that is built into the brain to calm that down and to control it. There is so much more that we do not know about brain development. In fact, we're really just starting to scratch the surface. How do these connection connections, how does the human conneom develop over time? And in particular, how do individual differences um in connections relate to behavior, to cognitive strengths, to cognitive weaknesses? How do our individual experiences affect the development of this conneto? And what are the effects of things that we are exposed to and particularly our kids today are exposed to like video games and social media and things like that. How does that affect brain development? What are the effects of environmental exposures, toxins? Um uh um also things that people will will take, drugs, things like that. What are the effects of these on our brain connections? There's so much that we still don't know. And these are questions that we at UCLA are trying to answer with research. There are a few research projects we're doing right now. Um and um one is the human conneto development project where we are bringing children in from the ages of 5 through 21 and scanning their brains to look at the functional connections and the structural connections and also doing a series of tests on um cognition, how they solve problems and what kinds of things they've been exposed to and also their emotional experiences to try to understand this brain development. The adolescent brain and cognitive development study or ABCD is a study of 10,000 children across the country, 10,000 in Los Angeles County alone. Um they are recruited from select schools in Los Angeles County at the ages of nine and 10 and followed for 10 years to see what is happening exactly in adolescence during that very critical adolescent period. We're also studying the human conneto in older folks between 35 and 100 to find out what makes a brain age well and gracefully, what makes people healthy throughout their life and what are some of the changes that can affect that brain development over time. So you if you're interested, you can reach us at hcpucla.edu edu or this this is our uh website or ABC study to see if your child is in one of our uh ABCD schools or hcp@ucla.edu if you are older and are interested in thinking about getting a picture of your own brain and everyone gets a picture of their brain. So, I would like to thank you so much for paying attention and um you can ask questions now on Twitter using the hashtag UCLA UCLA MD chat or just go ahead and contact us with Facebook and I believe that we already have a few questions. So, um I will answer a few for starters. Okay. Uh one question, how do you get children to go into an MRI scanner? Well, we have special tools in our MRI scanner to make it easier for children. First, we have a practice scanner, but inside the scanner, we have special magnet compatible video projectors, video goggles, and audio systems so that uh the child essentially experiences something that looks like a virtual reality experience. And we're able to show them movies, play games while they're in the scanner, so they don't get much of the feeling of being cooped up in a hole. and we also train them in advance. So, we've been uh very fortunate and able to get most of our children safely and um comfortably into the scanner without anxiety. Uh another question, can we see learning disabilities when we see a brain scan? So that's a very good question because the brains of individuals with different learning problems such as dyslexia or auditory processing difficulties um do have some subtle differences but unfortunately they are very very subtle. So we cannot look at a scan and say that is a child that has or will have a learning disability. The brains look very much the same. There is no brain damage that causes learning disabilities. On the other hand, if we look at many many children together who have learning disabilities and compare their brains with typically developing children, then sometimes we do see some subtle differences. Um, differences in the reading areas of the brain, um, differences in the way that different areas of of the language system are connected together. So, we can see them, but not at the individual level. Okay. What makes the brain of a child with autism different? Um, that's a very good question. Um there are uh a number of differences that we see in the brains of children with autism and we are doing many studies right now on um on uh children with autism, young adults with autism and even infants who are at high risk for developing autism. We believe that autism is a problem of the development of these connections that are set on a wrong trajectory very very early in life. um we are getting better at identifying what some of these problems are and trying to intervene early so that these children will have the best outcomes. But in general, just as in the learning disabilities, when we look at a brain of a child with autism, we don't see anything wrong. There is not damage to the brain. It's merely developing in a different trajectory, forming different kinds of connections. um the ch the brains of children with autism will sometimes form a lot of local connections, but the long range connections may not be as intact. So, this is something that we're beginning to learn more and more about and hope to be able to have more answers for you as the years go by. And if we have no more questions, then I would like to thank you so much for your attention and have a great day. Thank you.