Well, thank you all for coming today and uh it's such a nice day, you know, outside. I appreciate you're all taking time to be indoors and not enjoying the nice outside sunshine. We're going to be talking about hyperbaric oxygen therapy today. And uh uh that may be a subject that you may not be particularly familiar with. Um how many of you have ever heard of hyperaric oxygen therapy? Okay, so a fair number of you have and we'll talk a little bit about some of the medical uses for this. Okay. So the talk today we're going to talk a little bit about what exactly hyperbaric oxygen therapy is. We'll go through the physiology, the science of why it works. We'll talk about some of the conditions that it's used for treating, including severe untreated anemia, diabetic foot wounds, radiation induced tissue damage, carbon monoxide injury, central retinal artery occlusion, and decompression ill injuries. Our facility, and this is a picture of our facility, was opened in 1997. It's a multi-place facility. We can uh treat up to 18 patients at time at a time and we have two wings to the chamber. So we can use two different pressures if we need to depending on the patient's condition. We treat uh we're the second highest uh uh facility in the United States in terms of the number of patients we treat per year. I'm not sure the pointer is working this well. I think we're going to give up on the pointer and I'll just do a page down here. Okay. So, hyperaric oxygen therapy is the administration of oxygen under pressure and uh you have to have a minimum pressure. What the pressure that we are all our body is sensing right now at sea level is one atmosphere. It's an arbitrary number, but it's the basically the amount of pressure that the atmosphere is putting on our body here while we're at the surface of Earth. So for hyperaric oxygen, you have to have the pressure higher than that and it has to be above 1.4 times the pressure that we are sensing at the surface uh for it to be considered hyperaric oxygen. Anything less is not considered hyperbaric oxygen therapy. So what happens is is as we have the hyperbaric chamber, the patients go in the chamber. This is the door to one of the chambers and we have a a technician who sits outside and controls the pressure. The most common pressure that we use is 2.21 atmospheres which is equal to 40 ft of seawater if you were scuba diving. So you would be down 40 feet underwater. And that gives you oxygen that's several hundred times more than your body normally would get. Are there any windows on that thing? Yes, they're little they're little peeppholes. It's sort of like a submarine. Let me go back there. Okay. So, this is a window there. Okay. And on this one, this is a window there. There's usually go in there if you're a little bit claustrophobic. You can see it's a small room. It's not that tiny. And there will be uh there's at least an in another a technician in with you. and there may be other patients so that you can read a book. Um we don't allow any electronic devices in the chamber but uh people do sudokus that kind of thing. It's not uh there's a little some people have a little bit of concern about it ahead of time but most people tolerate it very well. So hyperbaric oxygen works in several different ways. One is, of course, anytime you put your body under pressure, it's gonna it's going to put pressure on everything in your body, including if you have little bubbles. And that's particularly useful if you have like an air bubble uh blocking the circulation in your brain or another part of your body. So, just shrinking the bubble is one of the benefits of hyperbaric oxygen therapy. The other thing that it does is it causes a constriction of the blood vessels. So, you have a decreased edema. And one of the most common causes of uh uh wounds in the leg is swelling. I don't as we all get older, we all tend to have more swelling or edema in our legs. And the circulation around the ankle is a particularly weak part of our circulation. And if you have a bruise or an injury there, it's very easy for that skin to break down. And it's very difficult for those wounds to heal up unless you can shrink the edema. So that's one of the other benefits of hyperbaric oxygen therapy. And then the third is that it increases oxygen in the tissues. In addition to having oxygen attached to your red blood cells, it will have oxygen that's dissolved several hundred times more in the uh plasma in the blood uh in addition to the oxygen that's attached to the red blood cells. And that's enough oxygen so even if you didn't have any red blood cells, you could stay alive with just the oxygen in the plasma for several hours. So it's a very strong effect that hyperbaric oxygen has and because oxygen increased in the tissues causes increased oxygen so that your cells can continue to work because we all need oxygen for our cells to perform their normal functions of metabolism and and cell repair. But it also helps to um cause new blood vessels, little teeny weeny capillaries to grow into areas, for instance, wounds that don't have any capillaries in them to allow them to start to heal. It also increases the amount of collagen that is put into a wound. And it increases the um effect of antibiotics and kills some bacteria. So these are all multiple ways in which hyperaric oxygen works. It's not just one single modality. Okay. So hyperaric oxygen um can sometimes be confused with another type of oxygen system that is also uh has been in the past heavily promoted and advertised and that's regional oxygen therapy where if you have a wound you have a a container that is tight fitting and then oxygen is pumped into that area. This is not hyperbaric oxygen and it's not as effective as hyperbaric oxygen therapy. This is not FDA approved for wound healing. Some of the things that we're going to be talking about today are on this list here. So, there'll be untreated anemia, problem wounds, delayed radiation injury, chronic infections of the bones, if you have an air or gas embolism such as in decompression sickness from scuba diving accidents, carbon monoxide poisoning. um that we won't be talking much about in uh se severe infections but that's another indication that we have for hyperbaric oxygen and uh central retinal artery occlusion which is a stroke in the brain uh in the in the in the eye. Okay. So this is a uh slide which shows the how how the how the hyperbaric oxygen works. So if you have a blood vessel and you have an air bubble in it, then the hyperbaric oxygen as it's applied will shrink that bubble and allow circulation to occur around the bubble. Most of the effect that we use most often is not shrinking bubbles. That's really just for uh uh accidents such as scuba diving accidents or air embolism. Uh but is to increase the oxygen in the blood in addition to what's attached onto the red blood cell. And uh that's the most uh uh uh effective way that wound healing occurs. So let's talk a little bit about the air. Okay, the air we normally breathe here at sea level is about 78% filled with nitrogen and 21% filled with oxygen. Now oxygen is absorbed into your tissues because your body uses oxygen. uh if you say get a air bubble of oxygen, pure oxygen into your bloodstream, it doesn't cause any problems at all because it's absorbed very quickly. So, it's unlikely to cause permanent damage. However, if you have an air b a bubble that has some oxygen and some nitrogen, nitrogen is not absorbed in your body and it will sit around there for days to weeks and it can cause damage. So one of the things that hyperbaric oxygen does is not only shrink those bubbles but it helps the nitrogen to diffuse out and be replaced by oxygen which your body then uses quickly. So those are uh some of the ways that hyperaric oxygen helps with air emblei. Now this has a few little We're going to get all the animation out here first. Okay, so this is a slide which shows you that at the surface you have one atmosphere of pressure. At 40 ft underwater you have two atmospheres of pressure and then um this is around uh 60 ft on underwater have three atmospheres of pressure. So every time you go underwater you're increasing your pressure uh on your body. So, and when a scuba diver go diver goes scuba diving, they have increased pressure on their body and they're breathing air with their un uh portable underwater uh uh air uh system. So, the air that then is uh getting into their body at three atmospheres when they come back up to the surface, if there are any bubbles anywhere, those bubbles are going to expand because there's less pressure keeping them a certain size. And that's why people who have scuba uh who have uh get air into their uh into their bones or their joints can have what we call the bends when they come up to surface if they're not very careful and do what we call decompression stops and try to get all the excess nitrogen out of their body before they come up to the surface. Okay. So the mechanism we've talked about so far is is is that you can improve the circulation in areas where there's no circulation. We also hyperbaric oxygen has an infe uh effect on infection and and inflammation and it also helps the collagen in the new capillaries to form in wound healing. So there are some immediate effects and there's some late effects. This is now I'm going to let you know ahead of time. Some of these pictures are a little graphic, so if it makes you uncomfortable, you can close your eyes. Um, so this is the first set. This was an a premature infant who was born and had a uh vascular compromise to the right leg resulting in um uh gang green of the right forefoot there as you can see. uh but with we uh were the nursing staff in the ICU were able to identify this uh early on and we were able to perform hyperbaric oxygen therapy and we were able to make significant progress in decreasing the amount of permanent damage the patient's uh foot had so that we were actually able to salvage most of the foot on the infant. And this is a picture of someone who's had a graft done after they had a severe injury to the to the uh top of their foot. And with hyperbaric oxygen therapy, you can see how well that healed up. This is another picture of someone who This is more of a wound healing picture. This is a diabetic patient who's also a kidney transplant patient. So he's on immunosuppressive medicines which keep wounds from healing. He had already had an amputation of his forefoot. He had had uh some sort of a cast or boot uh that he was using that caused an injury to the top of his uh foot and it it did not heal. You can see the tendons here are exposed. But with hyperaric oxygen therapy, you can see we were able to cover up all the tendons and since this picture was taken, the the wound is completely healed over and the skin is healed over. So, we were able to provide that and that allowed him to continue to be able to um walk rather than having an amputation and be wheelchair bound for the rest of his life. Okay. So, hyperaric oxygen goes through different parts of your body to get to the tissues. And we'll just review this. So you start out with if you're breathing 100% oxygen by say a an oxygen mask at the surface that will be uh go go into your lungs into the air sacks and that's called alvear air. The air then um is uh goes through a very the very thin membranes in your lungs and gets into the pulmonary capillaries. The blood then transfers into the pulmonary veins through your circulation. It passes through the heart, goes into the heart, pumps it into the arteries and the rest of your body, goes to the capillaries and all your organs and ends up in the fluid around the cells and in the cells and within the cells. Then oxygen is used in the endopplasmic reticulum and the mitochondria to be able to provide energy to the cells for the cells to function. You think it would be exhausted by the time? Well, it's a pretty impressive thing, that's for sure. And this is just a little picture of that. One of the other uh ways that we've this is actually a study that was done that shows that hyperaric oxygen allows formation of new blood vessels. Now what happens is is a patient these were patients who had radiation wounds that weren't healing and they were started on hyperbaric oxygen at about this point and you can see that the um the the oxygen tension in the area around the wound was measured and it was very low. Anything below 40 means that your body's your wounds not going to be able to heal. Your tissues need at least a an oxygen tension of 40 to be able to heal uh wounds. And as we did about 20 hyperbaric oxygen treatments, you can see the oxygen in the tissue started to improve and new blood vessels were being formed. So it takes about 20 treatments for a radiated wound. This radiation, what would where do they get this radiation? Well, we'll talk a little bit more about that with some later slides, but uh anyone who's had cancer, about half of cancer patients have radiation therapy as part of their treatment for their cancer. We'll talk first about severe anemia. So normally our hemoglobin as we mentioned the in the red blood cells is how oxygen gets into our tissues. However, if you're anemic, your body is not going to be able to receive as much oxygen to the various organs. This of course can end up causing damage. The two organs that are probably the most sensitive are the heart and the brain, but the kidney is also a sensitive organ. Uh your skin's not quite so sensitive. Your skin can deal with low oxygen levels for a little bit longer than most of the other organs. And of course, transfusion is our standard treatment for that. Is this a good time to ask you question about anemia? Going to go about it. We're going to talk about it more later. Anemia is now. Go ahead. No, thank you. Um, so how do you know like they say when they take the blood test whether you're anemic or not? And I've been trying to take B12. It doesn't help a lot. Plus, I have small fiber neuropathy. Do you know what that is? Mhm. That's where they, you know, the the capillaries aren't getting enough oxygen and stuff and so then the nerves die off and then I'm all numb. No pain but just numb, you know, blah blah blah blah. So is is would this do something for that or Well, the amount of usually we don't use hyperbaric oxygen therapy for a mild anemia or a neuropathy unless there's a wound associated with the neuropathy. So it might in a a a severe case where there was a wound, it would very possibly be used, but if you don't have an open wound, it probably would not be used at this point in time. Research that for that the the thinking is is that there are the the other there are other treatments which are beneficial and there's been no proof that hyperaric oxygen will cure the neuropathy. I see. And this is the effect of the hyperbaric oxygen lasts about six hours. So for someone who has a severe anemia, they have to have a hyperbaric treatment two or three times a day. Well, if you don't have until the other treatments for the anemia can be addressed, either transfusion or stopping whatever is bleeding or whatever. So for someone who has a chronic mild anemia, um it would be prohibitive because you'd basically be in the hyperaric unit all day every day for the rest of your life. So it wouldn't be a very reasonable treatment. Question um what what number are considered severe uh hemoglo it depends on the patient and the organs that are under strain. Uh we used to transfuse patients to a hemoglobin of around 10 if they were ill. Okay. Nowadays we've learned that transfusions themselves carry certain health risks and and side effects. So we're not if someone's perfectly healthy and not having any uh side effects, we don't transfuse them unless their hemoglobin is less than seven. Now so some patients are have religious reasons for not getting a transfusion and sometimes also we can't we we can't locate compa compatible blood. So those are the most common applications today for hyperbaric oxygen therapy for severe untreated anemia. And as we mentioned, hyperbaric oxygen therapy increases the amount of dissolved oxygen in your tissues, which then allows your tissues to get enough oxygen until the underlying treatment uh problem causing the anemia is cured. For instance, one of our patients at UCLA a year or so ago was a Jehovah's Witness. She had a bleeding ulcer and the the uh surgeons uh were reluctant to put her under anesthesia to sew up the ulcer because her hemoglobin was only five. So they agreed to do the surgery but only after we started her on hyperbaric oxygen treatments and then they did the surgery in between treatments so that they were sure that uh she was getting enough oxygen to her tissues during the surgery. We'll talk a little bit more about problem wounds and I've alluded to this as an application for hyperbaric oxygen therapy um uh earlier in the talk. So problem wounds are a big expense to our health care system and it's increasing as our population grows older. As we talked about the venus insufficiency wounds are probably the most common cause and sometimes just um re uh getting uh the edema that's associated with these under control will help these wounds to heal. However, diabetic foot wounds are also a serious problem in terms of uh wounds in the health care system and over um half of the amputations that are done in the United States are done on diabetics who have foot wounds that haven't healed and are at risk for infection. If you have an open wound on your skin, the reason it's a concern is because that allows bacteria to get into your body and increases your risk for infection. And if you get an infection from a wound into your bloodstream, you have about a 30% chance of dying from that. So, it's a significant potential problem. And that's one of the reasons why our health care system is very interested in getting wounds to heal up on patients. um any any wound that has a tissue oxygen level of less than 40, and it turns out most of them do, um if they're not healing within two weeks, uh are wounds that um uh will probably not heal no matter what else you do without additional oxygen. What causes wounds? Okay, so there are several different things. One is is you can cut yourself and have bleeding. You can have a pressure, an area of pressure. For instance, a diabetic who has a neuropathy in their feet. The shape of their feet actually changes with the neuropathy and they're putting pressure on different parts of the the the foot where the the bone is not well protected or well cushioned and that can result in a wound. You can have a problems with the circulation. Many people who are cigarette smokers may have what we call peripheral arterial disease and if that affects the leg arteries that can cause a wound if even just if you bump yourself by accident you can end up with a wound that won't heal. Uh if you have a problem with your immune system I mentioned there was the gentleman who had uh the kidney transplant. He may be on imunosuppressive drugs or just may have a condition such as AIDS which it suppresses your immune system that keeps wounds from healing too because it allows the bacterias to continue to grow in the wound and a wound that is filled with bacteria will never be able to heal because the bacteria are keep are eating up any new tissue that's being formed. And if you have a a wound uh it may actually be a sign of cancer. So, if you have a wound that won't heal on your skin, you and it hasn't healed for several weeks, you ought to make sure that you have your doctor check it because it could be an early uh an early skin cancer. Some additional things that can contribute to problem wounds, we talked about diabetes. Anyone who has a connective tissue disease such as lupus or mixed connective tissue disease, any of those, those are all uh have problems with the circulation um in the microscopic area of the skin and can increase the risk for wounds. If you don't eat well, if you have any kind of a vitamin deficiency for whatever reason, uh and we all think we eat healthy, but some of us still may have some vitamin deficiencies. Um for instance uh people who are alcoholic will frequently not have enough of the B vitamins in their system. They're at increased risk for wounds. You may have someone who is Munchhousen syndrome is a condition where the patient is actually injuring themselves uh secretly in order to be able to have uh contact with the health care system. And so there are some patients who you know actually injure themselves and that may be a cause of a wound and you may have a reaction to a medication. You know, if you get a bad rash from a drug reaction from a medication, you can end up with having if you scratch your skin enough, some of them may end up with open wounds. How do we prevent wounds? Well, you want to prevent pressure. Okay? You want to keep uh anyone who has a tendency to fall could injure themselves and end up with a wound. So, you want to minimize uh any falls that patients have. You want diabetics who may not because of neuropathy that so many diabetics have, they may not even be aware of the fact that they have a sore on their foot. They need to have regular checks by their doctors. You know, when you go to see your doctor, if they say, "I want to take a look at your feet." Don't be surprised. Okay? We want to make sure that um you know anyone who's willing to stop smoking does because smoking increases the amount of carbon monoxide in your body which means that part of your body is not getting as much oxygen as it otherwise would because carbon monoxide competes with oxygen for the uh being on the red blood cell. And anyone who has high cholesterol you want to treat that because that can contribute to blockage of the arteries. Adequate nutrition. Okay. Probably most of us don't eat enough protein. And you want to do some regular exercise because that helps the lymph lymph system and the circulation to help keep your body from developing circulatory problems. And any other uh uh health problem that you have, you want to make sure you try to treat that and address it appropriately. So w normally go through an orderly phase of healing. Okay. So, the first thing that you want to do is is if there's any contamination like from if you if you if you fall uh and you you know say on some gravel and you get an abrasion on your leg and there's dirt that's in the wound, you want to wash that off and clean it. And most of us do that automatically. We want to get rid of any contamination because all that foreign material is a setup for infection. The next phase then is and and and what happens is your body's natural reaction to an open sore is to have the inflammatory cells such as white blood cells go into the area and clean up any bacteria or any foreign items that are still left there and that's called inflammation. Initially that's very beneficial but if it continues on it can keep the wound from healing. So you're hoping that the wound transitions into developing new tissue and are part of the skin uh is a connective tissue and if you don't have connective tissue as sort of like a matrix the normal skin can't grow back on top of it. So you want to have your connective tissue recreated and then you need new blood vessels growing into the area so that it will survive on its own. And finally, you want to have nice uh skin and uh minimized scar tissue that you have to cover the surface. All of these phases require adequate circulation and oxygen for them to proceed normally and allow the wound to heal. Let's talk about time frame. Okay, so stopping bleeding usually it just takes a few minutes. If it takes longer than that or if it's not stopping, you usually go to emergency or contact your doctor. Usually pressure will solve the bleeding issue right away on on on minor wounds. The inflammatory process usually takes between 1 and 4 days. And then the healing process may take up to 3 weeks. Okay? I don't know if you can remember the last time you had a bad cut or a a bad abrasion. How long did it take it to heal? But it was probably a week or two. And it it's very interesting, but remodeling of the wound may take up to two years. So when you have a surgeon do surgery on you um and they say no heavy lifting for 6 weeks, it's because the wound even though it's sealed up, you know, there's a little bit of scar tissue there, that scar tissue is still remodeling and strengthening for up to two years. So, uh, we have to be very, um, uh, sensitive to the fact that the wounds aren't totally strong within the fir when the within the first day or two of the wound healing. How do we predict whether or not a wound is healing normally and is going to heal on its own? Usually, if it's decreased in size by about 20% within two weeks, it will be uh it will be successful in healing on on its own. and you should be able to see about a 40% reduction in the size of the wound at 4 weeks. So, if you have a wound that really hasn't made any progress at all in terms of healing in a month, it's probably not going to heal on its own. And those would be the wounds that might be um helped with hyperbaric oxygen therapy. There was a study done of diabetics and in those in this study it showed that if you could decrease the size of the wound by 50% at four weeks that that the most of those wounds would heal within 3 months. So again the four-week cutoff is sort of generally accepted now is the point at which to consider hyperbaric oxygen therapy. A wound becomes chronic as we mentioned because you may not have enough growth factors. You may not have enough vitamins in your system to have the growth factors you need to heal the wound. There may be too much bacteria in the wound. There may not be enough oxygen. It may be that the cells around the wound are just too old and they're not going to you need you may need new new stem cells to go into the wound to heal up. And uh it may just be that they're uh you know they're multiplying and and migrating too slowly for it to heal within a reasonable period of time. We've talked about all of these. So, for instance, with a diabetic, one of the important thing is to if they have a wound on their foot is to take the pressure off the area of the wound and to make sure that if they're walking on their foot that they're not continuing to traumatize the area. Diabetes. Diabetes is a big problem for our society. It turns out that about 8.3% of the US population has diabetes. That's over 18.8 million people who've been diagnosed, but we still have a fair number of patients who have not been diagnosed and that will continue to increase because type 2 diabetes does increase as people age. That's one of the risk factors. So, if you look at a map of the United States, you say, okay, well, here we are. Here we are in Southern California and we're about at the national average for um uh di diabetes around 8% here in Los Angeles. So, we're sort of typical. The reason we're concerned about diabetes and and wounds in diabetics is because most of the people who have amputations are people who have diabetes and it's a fairly large number of people. It turns out if someone has an amputation for a wound that wouldn't heal about 50% of those patients will die within 5 years. So it definitely an amputation shortens one's lifespan. Plus they usually end up having recurrent hospitalizations and surgeries. Uh it's not unusual for an amputation site to have difficulty healing. So uh this is a significant issue for our health care system as well as for the individual patients who it who uh it affects. And by the year two uh 2000 and I think that's supposed to be 20 uh that slides off uh there should be one in three Americans born in 2000 born in 2000. Okay, got it. Thank you. You're reading it better than I am. So it's this is that we're hoping to find ways of reversing this trend, but it's it is a serious trend and that's mostly coming from pressure. uh well the wounds uh pressure or if they have a neuropathy they may have an injury and not realize it you can bump your foot and not even be aware of it. So when you talk about the costs there's it's a big health care expenditure. So, if we can somehow help to manage this better, it'll be a big help, you know, be- because right now, as you know, the Medicare healthc care budget is sort of straining and and we're all looking for ways we can try to to help uh help with that. So, what's the cost of the hyperaric? uh I have a slide on that but one hyperbaric treatment is is about the same cost as what a transfusion of one unit of blood. Now hyperbaric oxygen therapy for wound healing usually requires between 20 and 40 treatments. So it's not a small amount of money. It's a significant amount of money. But if you look at one day in the hospital it's if you've ever had a bill it's not unusual to have a bill for something like 20 $30,000 for one day in the hospital. So if you can somehow prevent people from getting infections that require hospitalization from these wounds, you're saving uh you know you're when you look at the big picture, you're saving the healthcare dollar. Does Medicare pay for that if it's going to identify it as something that's necessary to keep your limbs or whatever? Medicare covers hyperbaric oxygen therapy for problem wounds that won't heal particularly in diabetics and they have a list of uh conditions and and so forth so that you can you know you can know pretty much ahead of time whether or not Medicare would cover a specific treatment. So the patients that are diabetic, if it looks like they may end up having to have an end amputation, you know, in the near future because the wound's not healing, that would be a reason to treat them. Uh the Wagner staging system is a objective staging system, uh describing how deep the wound is. And a Wagner stage uh three is one that's near the bone. Okay? So in a foot, it's that not too difficult to get near a bone. uh and and those are considered appropriate for hypervaric oxygen therapy. And we also talked about uh if a wound is failed, standard care which involves these three items as well as antibiotics if needed uh that for over 30 days uh would also be considered. There have been a lot of when you say okay well what's the evidence for uh hyperaric oxygen therapy for wounds? This is a series of uh six studies that have been done on uh diabetic foot wounds to see whether or not hyperbaric oxygen therapy actually helped uh heal the wounds. And the orange is the number of the the measuring here is the number of amputations that occurred in either the control side of the study or the hyperbaric side of the study. And you can see in all of these studies that have been done, multiple facilities over several years, um there's been a decrease in amputations that occurred uh in these patients if they were received hyperbaric oxygen therapy in all but one study. And in this study, the amputation rate was very low in both sides. So we do feel that there's s uh significant medical evidence that shows that hyperbaric oxygen therapy is an effective treatment for diabetic foot wounds that are not otherwise healing. This is another set of studies that were done to see whether or not the ulcers would heal. Not just whether or not there was an amputation that occurred, but were we actually able to get the whole wound to heal. And as you can see, the percentage of wound healing was much greater in all the studies with the hyperbaric oxygen patients compared to the controls which are in gray. How come some studies there wasn't so much over at the end? What what went wrong there? This um there was a there was a a significant there was an increase pretty high in the hyperaric. There was also a pretty good increase in the control. Okay. So, but the difference between these two is still statistically significant. Each one of these studies have different types of patients and and so um there is some variation within the studies but that's why you do multiple studies so that I mean because if you looked at just one study this study you might say oh gee it looks really good. Question is what kind of study was the one where there were so many that didn't respond? What what were you mean this one here? The third one over the last one over this one. Yeah. Okay. Who were those people that got such a bad I mean Well, 80% of them had their wound heal. What were the What was the problem with these people that they didn't heal in the first place? The controls, they probably had a variety of problems. Okay. So, each study, anyone who is diabetic will have low oxygen in their um in their uh around the wound. uh so that would contribute it to it. Uh they may have had uh poor difficulty controlling their diabetes if their blood sugars were poorly controlled. That decreases the ability of white cells to function normally. Some of them may have had more infection than others. Some of them may not have had as good in uh nutrition as others. So between the studies there was not you know those those things were not matched in the two groups. they were matched in the two groups within each study. So in some studies you'll have good results or relatively good results with standard care but if you have a significant increase with the hyperaric oxygen it's still considered uh a positive effect. Does that help to answer that? Okay. Okay. And this is the most recent study that's been done. And you can uh you know go to diabetes care which is available on the internet if you want to and you can read about the study in more detail. We're going to talk about delayed radiation wounds next. Okay. So over a million people in the United States have been diagnosed with cancer of of all different types. And in 2010, one and a half million men and women will be newly diagnosed. And of those, approximately half of them will be receiving radiation therapy as part of their treatment. We now know that delayed effects of radiation occur in about 5% of patients. And these are things that develop several months after the radiation therapy is completed. When you're having radiation therapy, you may have several acute effects that eventually heal up on their own. You may have some hair loss. You may have a dry mouth if you're having radiation to your chest uh or your your head your head and neck. You may have uh pain in the abdomen or pelvic area if you're having radiation to that area. Those acute changes usually heal up once the radiation quite quickly once the radiation is stopped. However, we now also know that there are some delayed effects on tissues for that have been radiated that may develop 6 months or longer out. Some of them don't develop for as long as 30 years. Can they prove that it was radiation? The changes that you see in the wounds are classical for radiation. So if a biopsy is done or a lot of times the doctor will just look and if the tissues you know have the appearance that you see due to delayed radiation damage that's how the diagnosis is made. So the time onset may be between six months and several years and it may be a wound that you can see that won't heal and it doesn't uh and it doesn't heal and one of the classic things that you can see is is it doesn't bleed a lot. Okay, so a radiation wound usually is sort of very pale and doesn't bleed a lot. The only exception to that is if you have radiation damage to the colon or um the uh bladder, you can get bleeding as a result of that because the mucous membranes have been damaged and it allows the uh capillaries in those organs to bleed. We now know also that patients have a different susceptibility to radiation. And so a radiation dose that we give to one patient may not cause any problems for that patient, but to another patient it might. And we're still in the process of trying to figure out genetically what those uh differences are so we can predict and and make adjustments in the initial treatment for radiation, but we're not quite there yet. We can't predict who's going to end up with radiation damage and who isn't at this time. Also, different tissues react differently. So the areas that we see most pro uh problematic are patients who've had head and neck radiation uh patients who've had radiation say to for breast cancer if they have uh surgery in that area uh it's very difficult for those wounds to heal sometimes and then in the pelvic area where I mentioned radiation procitis or radiation cyitis can be very disabling. The symptoms that you might have is is is in the head and neck area. You may have if you have uh your jaw has been radiated and then you have to have dental work done. You may have it's not unusual to have teeth that develop cavities more easily after they've been radiated or even that the roots die and you have to have the whole tooth removed and those those wounds if uh do not heal after that kind of surgery uh very well if it's the area has been radiated. So pretty much the standard of care now is to uh provide a patient who's had radiation to the jaw area with hyperbaric oxygen therapy for a certain number of treatments before their surgery and then a certain number of treatments after their surgery to prevent the problem from developing in the first place. However, some patients may not be so fortunate and they may have fistulas or actually the bones uh dissolved and broken as a result of the radiation and may have to have hyperbaric oxygen therapy and surgical um you know uh operations to to help fix those problems. In the chest area, you can have problems from radiation due to heart valve disease. Uh you may have had if you had uh breast surgery, you may have had a uh flap done or an implant and those may may may fail several years out after you had it originally done. Uh and you can have an open wound that doesn't heal in the chest area and as in the pelvic area we talked about the uh bloody diarrhea and chronic pain. Couldn't they do prevent it for chest? At least the radiation you need to kill breast cancer and make sure it doesn't come back is at a such a level that a certain number of patients will develop delayed radiation injury to that area. And we don't have a we don't have anything we know of that can prevent it. I wish we did. And it's a small percentage. So it's not worth really not worth hyperbaricing everything. Um even if you we have no scientific data that providing hyperbaric oxygen therapy prior or during the radiation decreases the late injury. So there's no place for it before the patient's treated for the cancer. It's only if the problem develops and it only develops in about 5% or less of patients. So it is it's the minority. And when you're talking about curing your cancer, most people are willing to take that risk. I was there was another hand. Um yeah, this was a question I forgot to ask you around. Does the hyper treatment does it help wounds or inflammations that are not open? Yes, it can. Uh hyperaric oxygen will will accelerate any wound to you know healing better. So for instance, you could have a radiation wound on the inside of your small intestine in the mucous membrane there. You can't see it. It's not on the outside of your surface of your body, but it would help with heal that up too. So, but I mean like I have a severe tendonitis just inflammation away. Would this type of treatment help with that? It it probably would help, but it's not felt to be medically necessary. Now, I have to tell you, there's a fair number of professional sports people, you know, in sports teams um that have their um their players if they get like a groin injury or a muscle injury that they have them have some hyperbaric oxygen therapy to heal it up faster because they want to get them back on the field playing quickly. That's not a medically approved uh uh approach. I'll leave it at that. Is there somewhere you can go for non-medically approved? There are facilities, our facility will only uh provide hyperaric oxygen for medically approved diagnosis, but there are uh facilities, there are uh units in the LA area that will uh uh uh uh treat you for non-approved diagnosis, but are they can you trust them? Yeah, they're they're they're uh they're they have they have doctors that are they have the long things and you lay in them. Yeah, a monoplace chamber where you it's a clear plastic tube. That's what most of them are. We're the only um multi-place chamber uh right here in the LA area. There's we have there's another one at UCSD. Uh but most of the chambers that are commercially available at most facilities are monoplace chambers. It's a clear plastic tube that you lay in for your hour and a half to two hours of treatment. You don't have to worry about being over oxygenated. No, they all they all I can tell you they don't want to have any problems. uh none of these facilities. Uh so as long as that there's a reputable doctor um you and you can you can research out the names of all the facilities I would go to the undersea hyperaric medical society website and you can find facilities in the area and as long as they're um you know approved by the hyperaric medical society I would say it would be a safe place to operate to undersea hyperaric medical society and I think Their website is uhms.org. Okay. So, we've done a lot of research on radiation damage and radiation wounds as as uh as well. However, a lot of doctors, cancer doctors, radiation doctors in the community are still not utilizing hyperbaric oxygen and referring their patients as well as they might. So we still have a little bit of education to do with the medical community. Uh but it has the same benefits as treating a diabetic foot wound in that it allows new blood vessels to grow into the low oxygen areas and it can if it can actually help to prepare the area in in case if the wound is so big that it's unlikely it's going to close within a reasonable period of time, but it will help to improve the chances of having a flap or graft cover the area successfully. The next topic is carbon monoxide poisoning. So, how do any of you have like a space heater that's in your house or in your um you know mobile home or anything like that? What's a space heater? Well, a a wall heater that I have a wall heater gas. Yeah. Okay. So, I don't know if you know, but your space heaters that you have, the gas company asks that you um have them, you know, check it out at the beginning of every winter season. And one of the reasons for this is is they don't want you to be um at risk for carbon monoxide poisoning. Now, in spite of the fact that, you know, most of us do have the gas company come and check out our equipment on a on an annual basis, uh there are some people who are not aware of the importance of that andor they heater may become defective uh in between checks and those those situations put one at risk for carbon monoxide poisoning because a byproduct of the combustion of these is uh carbon monoxide. So, it turns out that a fair number of patients in the United States end up with significant carbon monoxide exposure, approximately 40,000 in United States emergency rooms annually. So, it's not a minor problem. Our unit ends up treating one to two patients with significant injuries on a monthly basis. So, we do see a fair number of these. Um, we've seen, um, one of the last people that we had treated was a young college student who was in living with her parents in Beverly Hills, but she was home for the holidays and she wanted to be by herself, so she asked if she could use the guest house. The guest house had a space heater. She and her dog spent the night there. It was cold in the evening, so she closed all the windows and doors, so it was basically airtight. And uh at 10:00 the next morning when she hadn't shown up for breakfast, her mother went out and found her in a coma. She was brought to the UC and her dog was also um in in a abundant state. So they knew there was something that both of them had been exposed to and she of course had a space heater to heat that uh uh self-contained uh unit. So she was brought to the emergency room at UCLA and we treated her and amazingly even though people who are usually that ill, rarely completely recover, she is now back in college at UC Santa Barbara. And um the dog lives the dog live too. Yeah, the dog your dog a dog seemed to be able to handle carbon monoxide a little bit better than humans. I'm not sure why. Question. Well, it's funny. Oh, I'm sorry. It's funny because at my house they wasn't working quite rightly. when you turn it on, it wouldn't come on. So the guy came and he found out it was illegal under a code and replace a thing. So I've been living probably dangerously for 20 years. Yeah, a landlord's cheap. Another question. That girl, it was my friend's daughter. Oh, okay. I know them. Yeah. What do you think about lack of oxygen after drowning? Well, that's a drowning injury is another uh serious problem and uh usually uh the if if the patient has survived the drowning uh you can support them with a respirator and oxygen 100% oxygen at sea level pressure. They usually don't need hyperaric oxygen uh to get enough oxygen to their tissues. I took my delta 200 hours outside hyperaric oxygen. I see a lot of changes but my husband bought it and I have hyperbaric oxygen at home. Oh hound. That's why I came here. I see to see what do you think? Yeah. what pressure she has to be in there or well we don't have any scientific studies on people who've had a drowning as to whether or not it's definitely needed for them to heal up uh uh so I can't be more specific than that the current standard of care which is not always as successful as we would like it to be is to provide them with 100% oxygen with a respirator. Okay. So what what happens with carbon monoxide as you know is is usually the the the the way your body gets oxygen is because the red blood cell has oxygen attached to it. Turns out carbon monoxide attaches to the same receptor on the red blood cell but it's 200 more times likely to uh attach. So it beats out any oxygen that's in the area. And then of course carbon monoxide cannot be used by your cells to provide normal metabolism and cell function. So you're basically esphixxiating your entire body when you get exposed to carbon monoxide. And the organs that are most susceptible to this of course are the heart and the brain. Fortunately, there's been some legislation passed and is starting to go into effect this year, I believe. But by 2013, all property owners are going to be required to install alarms. And you can buy these uh carbon monoxide sensors and alarms for your homes uh while you're waiting. I think they sell them at Home Depot and any of the other hardware stores. Uh and those will it'll be an alarm just like a fire alarm that senses smoke in your house. This is a sensor to sense carbon monoxide and you'd be able to pick it up. And the recommendation is to have one in the bedroom because that's the one place where you're in a closed environment and sleeping and may not be aware if you're starting to uh you know uh become ill. I'm just thinking I've already got the first smoke alarm that's still there with the battery. That doesn't work. Then we get the other one to plug in. Now we'll have this. There's no more room in my ceiling for my Well, there's a lot. Hopefully one of these days they'll combine all of them into one unit. loaded with the root quality. So, carbon monoxide poisoning can cause brain damage. It can cause hearing l uh loss and some of this uh the changes may not be immediately apparent and may take time. Uh some patients who get carbon monoxide poisoning may have problems with depression, you know, months later. Uh and uh hyperaric oxygen then will push the carbon monoxide off of the hemoglobin. In other words, it gives the oxygen an extra force to be able to attach to the hemoglobin. And in addition, the dissolved oxygen that you see in hyperbaric oxygen therapy in the blood itself is enough to maintain your cell function until the uh carbon monoxide washes out of your system. So you it's important that you try to get these patients in for treatment quickly and um that has been proven to reduce the long-term neurologic effects that can occur in hyperar uh in carbon monoxide. Is there some kind of test to see what your exposure is? Uh you can have a caroxyhemoglobin level done in your blood. It's a blood test. And they have the firemen. Of course, the paramedics are the ones who usually uh encounter. They're the first responders for these kinds of situations. And they have little um handheld devices that they can do a quick screen if they're at all concerned. And then they can put those patients on oxygen and get them uh to the nearest emergency room quickly. Okay. Most emergency rooms don't have hyperbaric eye. No, but they can at least administer regular oxygen, which is better than nothing, while they're waiting to transfer the patient to a hyperbaric facility. How many are there in the smaller Los Angeles here to downtown Santa Monica to downtown? Okay, so we have a hyperbaric oxygen facility at UCLA. Um, there's one in the I think the Oxnard area, but it's only being used for wound healing. It's only open Monday through Friday, you know, and they won't take emergency cases. So, we're pretty much u the only other uh facility that takes emergency cases at all is Long Beach Memorial here in the in the greater Los Angeles area. You're better off to get your own. Well, it's it's I mean, it's very expensive neighborhood. It's very expensive. Well, we would be very appreciative of any support that we could have to uh to increase the number of ch uh facilities that are willing to do emergency treatments. Right now, we see this as a healthc care shortage area where there aren't enough. We get people from Northern California coming being flown down here for hyperbaric oxygen therapy because the ER doctors they say they've called 10 facilities between you know their Northern California ER and our facility and none of them were able to take them. What about all the non-med facilities there? They usually don't work after hours and of course a carbon monoxide case is usually something that you know doesn't necessarily occur during you know regular working hours. Okay. So decompression sickness this is um you know scuba diving was something that developed uh uh and was popularized in the 1970s. I don't know if any of you remember uh one of the TV shows that was um you know uh was going on at that time. I think it was called Sea Hunt. Um but uh uh so we've had uh so we have here especially in Southern California we have a large group of people who do recreational scuba diving but it's also been used you know scuba diving is used in military um operations in um in uh uh oceanic research operations. Uh so there it is a it's an area which has really expanded over the last 40 years quite a bit and of course the equipment has improved and the depths to which people are able to go with their scuba equipment has also increased. Now one of the things that happens and you get more people doing uh doing a a extreme sport such as scuba diving is you're going to have more patients who have potential complications. So, one of the complications that can occur with scuba diving is decompression sickness, which ha what happens is is most people who scuba dive breathe air in their tank. Okay? And that's perfectly fine. But as you remember, air is a combination of nitrogen and oxygen. Okay? What happens is the when your body is under pressure, say it's 60 feet below, which is not unusual for scuba divers to go that deep. um the um the there are small amounts of the gas that you know the the air that's in your lungs and the oxygen that's going into your system so that you you actually form very small microscopic bubbles and there may be bubbles in the lung tissue and these are not necessarily bubbles that anyone could see under a microscope. They're very very small. uh but um when the tissues become saturated a certain pressure and we all have our tissues right now are saturated with oxygen and nitrogen but it's not a problem because we're not changing the pressure when you're at a certain depth for a certain period of time under higher pressure than you normally would be and you have all those little microscopic bud bubbles all over your body then when you change your pressure or decrease the pressure say when you're coming back up to surface those bubbles tend to expand and that's when you get into problems. And what you can see is you can get pain in your joints from the mechanical stress. Okay? And you can also get an inflammatory reaction because your body senses those bubbles as being something abnormal. So it puts white blood cells into the area and that can cause an inflammatory reaction to occur which then um can also contribute to permanent uh organ damage. So that's what decompression sickness is. Now, it's not just limited to scuba divers. Tunnel workers, people who are digging a tunnel below the water line may be at risk for this. And in fact, when some of the tunnels were being built here in LA for our subway, they had a hyper they had a decompression chamber built in so that the tunnel workers when they came out would go through a decompression process to prevent uh to prevent uh decompression illness from occurring in them. And one of the first time ways we learned of decompression illness was actually when the Brooklyn Bridge was being built back in the 19th century because they would bring the there were mules being used down in these this tunnel that was being built um you know uh when they were trying to put the pilings under the water. They had uh uh animals and work, you know, work mules and people down there and they would bring the work mules back up and the mules would end up dying. And that was when they first started to realize that um working under pressure can cause problems when you when an animal including mules in addition to humans come up to the surface. Also airplanes if you have an airplane that decompresses rapidly can result in the same problem because you're going from one pressure to a much uh you know lighter pressure. Uh so we have a arrangement with folks up in um Edwards Air Force Base because they do a lot of very high altitude flying there and they have to actually practice rapid uh decompression so that if there ever is an accident their pilots know what to do and of course a certain number of their pilots may end up having symptoms of decompression from those controlled uh practice runs and so we are uh the chamber that they uh come to to be treated if that happens. happens. And of course, if you have a hyperbaric chamber and you have patients who are under pressure, it's not so much the patient, but the inside operator who may also be at risk for decompression illness because every time you uh put pressure into the chamber and then when you're done with the treatment and you decrease the pressure, there's a chance that there could be a bubble forming mainly in the technicians because the patients are breathing oxygen all the time. The technicians are not a high-risisk job. Well, we have to monitor the patients very carefully and and also the technicians and we limit the length of time of the treatment. So, we and figure out exactly how long someone can be in. And if it looks like they're going to be they're exceeding the quote unquote tables that have been created over a number of years, then we change that inside operator out so he's not at risk for getting uh uh decompression problems. So there is no blood test or X-ray or anything that can be used to diagnose decompression illness. Okay? You have to take a good history and do a very careful physical exam to pick up the abnormalities. And usually any symptom that develops within 24 hours of scuba diving, you have to assume may be decompression illness until otherwise proven. It could be something as simple as a rash or a joint pain or just feeling crummy. So some of this the symptoms are very non-specific and if you have someone um just because their symptoms are mild at the beginning it doesn't mean that they're not going to progress and get worse. So it's very important that even someone who has relatively mild symptoms be considered for possible hyperbaric oxygen therapy and the goal is to treat them as soon as you've made that uh diagnosis. Central retinal artery occlusion is also a condition which um turns out it uh is very uh bene benefited by hyperaric oxygen therapy. So central retinal artery occlusion as you know your eye um has uh an arteries and veins that feed in through the back of the eye to all of the tissues in the eye along with the optic nerve. And uh if for some reason you get a little blood clot that maybe or a piece of cholesterol that broke off from a cholesterol plaque in your neck or somewhere in your heart and traveled up the eye if it goes into the artery in the eye it can cause a blockage and a decrease in circulation to the tissues in the eye. Now, if something's small enough in, you know, other parts of your body, a little blockage might not cause enough damage for you to be aware of it. But your eye is a very uh uses a tremendous amount of oxygen. Your retina uses up 200 times more oxygen per minute than any other organ in your body. So even a temporary decrease in oxygen to that organ can result in permanent damage. In addition to that, if say you had like a little circulation problem, you know, on this part of your hand and part of the skin died, it wouldn't necessarily be the end of the world because you would still have the rest of your hand able to function. You know, you might have a sore there, but you'd have the rest of your hand able to function. If you lose a small part of your eye, that can permanently, you know, I mean, it can be a major problem because your eye is so important um and is the only, you know, organ that you have for vision. So again, for your eye doctor would recognize that and well, this is the problem with this is most people don't understand this. If you if you notice a painless loss of vision, which is sudden onset, this is an this is what we call an opthalmologic emergency. Now, it's just like a stroke. We have patients who say, "Oh," or a heart attack. We say, "Oh, I have chest pain. Um, it's been going on for 10 minutes, but um I'm not going to go to the emergency room. I'm busy, you know, doing my paperwork at my office, and I I have an important meeting I have to go to this afternoon, and I don't want to, you know, interfere with my plans." You know, that's the problem is is that we all have denial. If you end up having some vision problem, your first reaction is to say, "Okay, I'll wait and see if it gets better on its own." I mean, that's a normal reaction. Well, I mean, you can't be running the eye doctor every 10 minutes. What's the No, but if you if you lose the vision in one of your eyes, okay? I mean, if it goes, you know, blank, you go dark, don't don't wait. Go call your doctor and he'll probably tell you to come right over or go to the emergency room. Okay? And then if looking usually you they can look in the back of your eye and they can pretty much tell right away whether or not this is a possible problem. And if it is if we can get you into a hyperbaric treatment it will allow the uh enough oxygen to get to the retina to be able to keep the retina alive until you know whatever they use blood thinners or whatever to try to treat the underlying blockage. And a lot of times these blockages will resolve in their own over um you know a week or so but by then the retinas died. So the hyperaric oxygen is sort of a bridging therapy for these patients. So someone had asked about cost earlier. It's about $500 per treatment equivalent to a unit of red blood cells. And I just listed some of the things that we've talked about today. And on average, every every patient is different, but on average, it's not unusual for a diabetic to have to have treatment because the usually by the time we see the wounds, they're pretty bad, you know, down to the bone. They require probably a couple months of treatments Monday through Friday on a daily basis. a radiation wound. We know that stem cells are not mobilized until you've had 20 hyperbaric oxygen treatments and those are felt to be very important for radiation injuries. So most uh radiation patients will end up with approximately 20 treatments. Some of them require more because the wound is very large but at least 20 for central retinal artery occlusion because we're just sort of providing bridging therapy until the clot can be busted um is is much less. uh carbon monoxide poisoning. As soon as we get the carbon monoxide out of the system, then um the patient doesn't have to continue treatments. So they require many fewer treatments. And in decompression sickness, a lot of patients, if they only have joint pain or bone pain, they may only require one treatment or two treatments. But someone who has severe neurologic problems with decompression sickness may require up to 10 treatments. Yes. After you paid for the equipment, I can't understand why the costs are so astronomical. Well, for our chamber, we have a technician, a full-time technician outside. We have a full-time technician inside. For a monoplace chamber, you're going to have a technician watching the outside and controlling the outside of the chamber. Okay? And you have you have usually that's a nurse or a respiratory therapist or a paramedic that's been having has had additional training. And you have um you have to pay for the oxygen for a monoplace chamber. You're blowing in 100% oxygen at a very fast rate. So that's not an inexpensive cost. Plus all the tubing, okay, requires maintenance and it has to be very high quality uh for all the piping for these things because um and and uh the monoplace chambers have a slightly increased risk of fire because they're filled with 100% oxygen. So they have to have a you know things. It has to be a specialized type of acrylic that the chamber's made of that. It has to be maintained. There's a a tremendous amount of maintenance cost with these. And with our chamber of course every single fitting has to be checked uh on regular basis and uh we have like what we call a deluge tank. So if there were a fire in the chamber we can you know we have a sprinkler system and we can flood it because when you have a fire in in an area which is under pressure you have to have the the water going in at higher pressure to be able to get it into that that chamber. So it's a very com, you know, when you have something under pressure, it really magnifies the cost and the complexity of the engineering side of it. So you feel that you're not making money on them. They're just barely maintaining themselves. I I you know, I don't I don't think that uh this is a profit center. I I I we don't see it as that. It's really we're we're providing a uh community uh resource. uh because these are this this this treatment is um something that helps people where nothing else has helped them you know there's nothing else that is available there's nothing competing that I can say well this is cheaper why don't we do this question yeah um when you mentioned all this special tubing do you have to be concerned about any sort of um bacteria or whatever in these chambers uh you have to be very careful about the humidity because the humidity might uh grow bacteria, but our chamber, you know, is first off, just oxygen tends to kill bacteria. So, if you're flooding a a a monoplace chamber with oxygen, it makes it very difficult for bacteria to grow and then you try to keep it clean and dry. Just like, you know, if you keep an area clean and dry, the number of bacteria that are multiplying is much less. Uh we do the same thing with our multi chamber. I got everything masked and cleaned and sterilized and parts replaced and all that. So this you don't have that because you don't have anything attached to your body and just laying in there and breathing. It's topical. Yes. You have something over your Well, it's what we have in our chamber. Um I think one of the first uh slides showed a patient with a a clear plastic hood and that's how the oxygen is delivered. So you have a clear plastic hood on and a monoplace chamber. The whole chamber is in oxygen. So, you're just sitting there without a hood or a mask on. Yeah. Is that a replaceable thing or they just sterilize those or whatever? The hoods. Um, at our facility, the hoods are uh used for a given patient only. So, you have your own hood. It has your initials and you only use that hood. And if it looks like it's wearing out or got dirt on it or anything, it's replaced. And the patients um that are in uh multi-place chambers, they have to wear low static clothes. So we we provide them with hospital scrubs because we don't want any static electricity in the in the chamber. Um so it's it's quite a it's quite a clean environment. public when these private companies do it differently. I don't I mean the monoplace I would say if you go to the undersea hyperbaric medical society and and you uh you know work with a approved uh facility which they've certified as uh having appropriate safeguards and it being you know managed appropriately I would feel that they are as safe as the facility you know at a university. Excuse me. Cup only head is going to go on there. Well, if your whole body is under pressure, including the oxygen hood, the oxygen is under pressure as well. So, you don't have to have your whole body under under in oxygen. Just as long as you're breathing in the oxygen, it's under pressure. It goes into the capillaries and it goes goes into your tissues under pressure. the whole body be under the pressure the oxygen now the oxygen's still going in through the lungs it's just in a monoplace chamber it's it the way they were designed was to have the whole chamber under oxygen but you know having your hand under in oxygen doesn't increase the amount of oxygen your body's getting it's not absorbed significantly through the hands it's it's still being absorbed through the mouth this is new before it those only 10. Uh the multiplace facilities have been available for years, but because they're very expensive and complicated to manage most uh facilities or if someone has one in their home, um they use a a monoplice chamber because they're less expensive. I mean, our chamber is set up for treating 18 patients, you know, per session. Chamber never had the mass 11 years ago. No. Uh no, we've always had the hoods. Yeah. Now, some some chambers use a mask instead of a hood, but the the oxygen is not in the entire chamber. It's being delivered, you know, through what you breathe. Oh, we're at questions. Sure. Go ahead. Are they thinking of other um less lifethreatening but but healing uses for hyperaric oxygen. I mean is the reason they don't give it to people who have emphyma who have to go around with these things attached to their bodies? Is it because it's too expensive or they don't think it would be effective or what? Well, first off, if you have somebody who has emphyma, they have a relatively compared with the wound that has a very low oxygen level, they have uh a a less lesser decrease in their oxygen so that they're able to supplement their oxygen with something that's portable, a little tube in their nose. Okay? So, they're able to be more mobile. If you're having to get your oxygen through a hyperaric chamber, you're stuck in that chamber for an hour and a half to two hours at least once a day and the effect only lasts about 6 hours. Whereas if you have a small portable tube so there would be no reason to switch people who have emphyma from their portable tube system to a hyperbaric chamber because because it it incapacitates them more. You can't heal emphyma. You're just and it's not it's not emphyma is not a um uh it's it's it's an injury to the lung but it's not something that hyper for instance hyperbaric oxygen would not help it to heal. So oxygen is just supplementing what the emphyma is lost. Question this is very furbulous. Why would Michael Jackson want hyperaric oxygen treatment? Well, uh, there have been this is a treatment that's been used in a variety of settings and different individuals have explored various uses for it over the years. Um, one of and and in some respects it's sort of gotten a bad w because of all of these um sort of alternative uses, right? Right? Uh so that's one of the reasons why at UCLA we limit ourselves to things that have been proved scientifically. Okay. Now there may be other things where it's helpful. We've done research for instance on autism to see if it would help with autism or cerebral pausy. Um in England uh they use it a fair amount for multiple sclerosis. But in the United States there ha there none of those conditions have been able to be proved scientifically to definitely benefit patients. So it's those are still not approved diagnoses in the United States. That's why I was thinking about small fiber neuropathy because it's just that I don't have oxygen on the nerves are dying off because there's you know right and that might be a reasonable area to to have someone do research on. uh the NIH does not fund a lot of research for hyperbaric oxygen therapy. So um you know it's an area where it's a challenge because it takes a lot of patience. What about pneumonia or what and also Alzheimer's where you're not getting enough oxygen through the blood anymore? Would that be helpful? Well, Alzheimer's is not necess not necessarily a lack of oxygen to the brain. It can be factor. it can be a factor but it's usually over years and years and years that the loss has been occurring before the brain you know you have changes in the brain uh so that might be a use that might be worth exploring but we don't have um as far as I know we don't have anyone doing study on that right now one of the areas they are using this study right now is the uh people who are coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan with traumatic brain injury The Department of Defense has a big uh multi- uh unit uh uh multi- uh site uh study going on to see if hyperbaric oxygen helps people with traumatic brain injury to heal. Is that UCLA or over? They're doing it at um uh there's a series of sites that the Department of Defense has designated and one of them uh I know is in um um Colorado. I don't know where the other sites are, but they have sites that are dedicated just to this study. What about lung diseases? Well, because it kills bacteria. In fact, I always do deep breathing, hoping that something gets down there and if there's anything any bad bacteria, I'll breathe it out. Well, one of the relative uh uh reasons for caution is if um you have a uh certain types of lung diseases, your air sacks may be weaker. So putting them under pressure might be uh increasing the risk for that air sack to burst. In addition, most of the time people who have respiratory infections, even if they have an underlying lung disease, we can cure those with standard antibiotic therapy. So we would not employ something like this if standard antibiotics were effective. Stroke patient. There's been some research on stroke. So far um the data that has been published does not have conclusive evidence that this helps stroke. I do know that I have seen some individual patients who had strokes where it benefited them. So I'm not saying it doesn't work for no one but the studies that have been so far done so far have not been able to say show a definite benefit. The thinking is is that's the next area where research needs to be done. What about um you know all of us live in this sort of toxic environment right and exposed to a lot of radiation from flying from X-rays and whatnot um something like that does this because it's so shortterm would it help with any of that or not? Well, it won't really help to reverse any damage you might be having from those exposures because those exposures are relatively they're they're longlasting and relatively mild. Uh so uh you know if for some reason you got a wound that wasn't healing um it you know it probably wouldn't be from the radiation you were getting from the LA you know the the the uh the the degradation of our atmosphere. Is there any side effect of somebody going there? The most common side effect is trouble equalizing the pressure in your ears because it's like going up and down in an airplane. So, you have to be able to move your jaw. Some of the patients have to chew gum, you know, and you may have to go like this to to equalize the pressure in your ear. Uh, usually everyone we can, you know, sort of coach everyone to get that uh to be accomplished. And we can also decrease the rate at which we increase the pressure in the chamber. So, it's, you know, that gives them time to clear their ears. About 25% of patients may have some blurred vision with this. If they have quite a few treatments and um the reason for that is of course your eyeball is a relatively soft piece of tissue. Your whole body is being squeezed, you know, under pressure, you know, every time you go in the chamber. Now, what happens is the rest of your bones and and most of your tissues, you're not going to notice if you know they don't quite go back to their original shape, you know, when you come out of the chamber. But the eye is very dependent on having um the sunlight, you know, the light focus in a very specific point in your retina for you to be able to have clear vision. So, if the eye doesn't quite go back to the same shape after treatment, you will find that your vision is somewhat blurred. That side effect usually clears up within two weeks to six months of stopping the treatment. So, we do tell people not to go out and buy a new pair of glasses right away, but that's another relatively common side effect. The more serious side effects is um people who are under oxygen, it turns out it lowers their seizure threshold. Our brain, all of our brains have a point at which they could have a seizure. Okay? Uh convulsion. You don't have to have a history of a seizure disorder. uh you don't have to have any other thing contributing to it, but we know oxygen under pressure will cause a seizure in about one in 10,000 patients and we can't predict ahead of time who it might be. What we do to prevent that is we give patients what we call air brakes every 20 to 30 minutes while they're in the chamber and that basically prevents the oxygen uh toxicity uh from occurring in the brain. So those are probably, you know, one of the more serious. Again, if you have an air sack that bursts under pressure, then you could have a collapsed lung from that. And of course, that would be something that would require your being in the hospital overnight and possibly needing a chest tube to reexpand. So, those are I mean, those are very rare. We've never we've been doing this since 1997 at UCLA. We've never had anyone who's had a collapsed lung because if we feel that someone is wheezing or having a lot of mucus, we don't, you know, give them a treatment that day and we address that problem and get it cleared up before they go in and have a treatment. Any other questions? Okay. Well, thank you very much. I hope this was helpful. Thank you.