Hello, I am Dr. Juan José Andino, a urologist specializing in sexual medicine.  Today we're going to talk about a treatment for erectile dysfunction that many men don't know about until it's too late: penile implants. If pills and other treatments haven't worked for you, this could be the treatment you need, especially if you're a survivor of prostate cancer or other pelvic cancer.  This could be a key part of your recovery. Let's proceed together. What is this implant?  How does it work? And what can you expect?  A penile implant, also called a penile prosthesis, is a device that is placed inside the penis through a brief surgical procedure.  It is a functional surgery, like a knee or hip replacement, designed to restore intimacy.  It gives men control over their sex life without relying on medication. It is completely inside the body and usually only requires a small incision in the scrotum that is barely noticeable when healed.  Penile implants are a permanent, long- term solution for erectile dysfunction.  They are chosen when other treatments, such as pills, injections, or vacuum devices, do not work or do not fit with the patient's lifestyle .  There are two main types of implants.  There are inflatable implants, which are the most common.  A small pump is squeezed into the scrotum to produce an erection, and when finished, a button is pressed to deflate it.   There are also malleable or semi-rigid implants.  They are flexible rods that keep the penis firm.  You just need to position it upwards when you want to have sex.  Most men choose inflatable implants because they look and feel more natural, but both can be very effective depending on your needs, medical history, and what makes you feel most comfortable.  The surgery is performed in a hospital or surgical center and usually lasts less than an hour. Most men return home the same day or the next day.  You can walk, but physical activity is limited for a few weeks.  On average, most men can resume sexual activity between four and six weeks. Your doctor will guide you through this entire process.  After healing, it may take a week to feel comfortable using the implant, especially the inflatable one. Surgery should not affect your ability to have an orgasm or feel pleasure, but in many men these aspects of sex life have changed, especially if they have conditions such as diabetes. It's important to know that your penis won't get bigger, but it will be firm and ready for sexual activity whenever you decide. Some of the benefits include a high satisfaction rate.  More than 90% of men and their partners are satisfied.  The implant is discreet and is completely inside the body.  It doesn't require pills, medication, planning, and it works instantly, restoring the patient's confidence and control. As with all surgeries, there are risks such as infection or mechanical failure, but these are very low nowadays, especially if you have the surgery performed by a urologist who specializes in this type of surgery. These implants are designed to last.  Many fuse well for 10 to 15 years or more before needing any adjustment.  Implants are generally recommended for men who have not been successful with other treatments, want a long-term, low-maintenance solution, and are healthy enough for this type of surgery, which is most men. There are also certain medical conditions such as erections that have lasted more than 4 hours called pre-ejaculate, men who have had surgery for prostate or bladder cancer, where the nerves have been affected and medications will not work.  If you live with erectile dysfunction and feel frustrated, don't lose hope.  A penile implant can give you back the confidence and control you've been looking for.  Come see me at UCLA, The Men's Clinic, and let's talk about whether this treatment is right for you.  I explain everything clearly to him, but the decision is always his.  Those who are motivated and who consider sex an important part of their quality of life often opt for this surgery.  Thank you for watching this video.  If you found this helpful, please share it with someone who needs it. You are not alone and we are here to help you.  Take care of yourself.