Hello, I'm Eric Kazerian, a professor of head and neck surgery at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and past president of the International Surgical Sleep Society, the world's primary organization dedicated to sleep surgery. I've spent my entire career in this field focusing on the surgical evaluation and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and snoring. My goal in this video is to share some of the improvements in obstructive sleep apnnea surgery that have occurred already in my career and those that are being studied, including areas where we have played an important role in these advances. During my decades in sleep surgery, I've had the opportunity to conduct many research studies. My research is currently funded by the National Institutes of Health and I also work as an adviser or consultant for a number of companies in this area. I will be sharing information about my research and also discussing the treatments manufactured by Inspire Medical Systems and Nixoa with whom I have been involved related to their research. I was born and raised in Los Angeles. Since that time, I've been fortunate to live in a number of places starting with college in Massachusetts at Harvard, graduate school at Oxford in England, and then medical school at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. I returned to the west coast for my training. First in Seattle at the University of Washington for my residency in odellarangology head and neck surgery and more graduate school in public health. Then to the Bay Area for a fellowship in sleep surgery at Stanford before I joined the faculty for nine years at the University of California, San Francisco. I moved back home to Los Angeles to join the faculty at the University of Southern California where I worked for 10 years before then coming to the University of California, Los Angeles. I am board certified in two fields that are directly relevant to sleep surgery. Head and neck surgery and sleep medicine. Taking care of patients with snoring and sleep apnea requires a broad understanding that goes beyond just performing a surgery properly. And this is why this dual training and experience is so important. My background in sleep surgery began long ago as a medical student where I was intrigued by the fact that this was a new field with many important questions that needed answers. I love my work because snoring and sleep apnea are common, fascinating, and challenging problems that can affect your health, social relationships, and ability to get a simple good night's sleep to get the most out of life. I was drawn to the field of sleep surgery specifically because the results were not good enough. In general, there was just a single procedure available to treat all patients with sleep apnnea. While it worked well for some, there was room for improvement. In these decades, there have been major improvements in both the variety of procedures we have available, but also in how we evaluate patients and make decisions about surgery with patients. The overriding theme of the advances in obstructive sleep apnnea surgery that I will discuss is something that is true for so many areas of medicine. Understanding disease mechanisms is the key to improving treatment outcomes. This starts with new approaches and applications in surgical evaluation and treatment. Neuro stimulation or the electrical stimulation of specific nerves has also developed as an important tool in treatment of obstructive sleep apnnea. Finally, we are working on understanding how we might improve surgical results by treating some causes of obstructive sleep apnnea called endotypic traits using medications that might work well in patients who do not get enough benefit with surgery alone. Obstructive sleep apnea is a symptomatic repeated upper airway obstruction occurring during sleep. It's diagnosed with a test called the sleep study which in which a patient sleeps wearing a system that can monitor their breathing patterns during sleep. A key result from that study is the apnea hypopnia index or AHI quantifying the number of sleep apnnea breathing events with blockage in breathing per hour of sleep. While some blockages of breathing can be within the normal range, what you see here is mild, moderate, and severe ranges based on this apnea hypopnia index. Basically, how frequently these breathing events are occurring. Now, more important than any single test result is how it affects patients and their loved ones. Of course, they're snoring and snoring occurs commonly with obstructive sleep apnnea. That's a very big deal for most patients. But in terms of how it affects the actual patient with obstructive sleep apnnea, there can be health related consequences primarily cardiovascular things like raising blood pressure or risk of stroke and heart attack that can be increased especially in severe obstructive sleep apnnea. There can also be endocrine disturbances something called insulin resistance that can occur with sleep apnnea as well. But one of the common complaints from patients relates to the behavioral consequences of sleep disruption. Whether it be fatigue, sleepiness, difficulty concentrating, or just feeling refreshed and getting the most out of life. It's important that obstructive sleep apnea is a common problem. This is probably the best study looking at how common it is in the US and other countries around the world. In the US, if you look across the range of sleep apnnea severity affects over 50 million adults. And if you focus on moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnnea, we're talking about probably more than 20 million American adults. The numbers worldwide are staggering. Almost a billion people with obstructive sleep apnnea across all severity. And then four to 500 million, even if we're just limiting that to moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnnea. Treatments fall into four basic categories. Behavioral measures include weight loss for those patients who might be heavy. Avoiding sleeping on your back can be very helpful and then avoiding alcohol or other seditives before bedtime. In addition, other treatments include positive airway pressure therapy shown in the upper right in which a machine that functions somewhat similar to an air blower is typically next to the bed and delivering this air pressure through a tubing connected to some sort of mask. And shown here is a mask that would go over a patient's nose. By blowing air in it, CPAP effectively balloons open the throat and prevents the blockage of breathing that might occur. That can work very well, but not everybody tolerates it well. And that's when we think about surgery or specialized mouthpieces called oral appliances with one of these shown in the lower right. Surgery is designed to open up the breathing pathway and keep that open during sleep. And when we get the muscle relaxation occurring during sleep and oral appliances basically hold the lower jaw or mandible forward and open up the airway for breathing in many patients in a different way. When it comes to thinking about obstructive sleep apnnea surgery, we've known for a long time but not all patients are the same. What you have on the far left is the stereotypical middle-aged overweight male. But that patient actually had pretty relatively mild sleep apnea as opposed to the patient in the middle who had very severe obstructive sleep apnnea and was not at all a typical patient. And it turns out was treated in a totally different way. We also in addition just looking at patients we look in the mouth and on the upper right you have a patient with small tonsils whereas the patient in the lower right has marketkedly enlarged tonsils that are touching what we call kissing tonsils. And just like the patients on the left, these two are treated totally differently. Now, those things can be helpful, but the real it boils down to our anatomic evaluation being the key. And it's a little bit more complicated than what I've just spelled out because when we breathe at nighttime, ideally air is coming through the nose shown here in this blue nasal region, but also having air come through the throat into the lungs through the orange pallet region and the purple tongue region. And it turns out that when it comes to surgery, and actually is true for oral appliance as well, we want to treat the breathing pathway a little bit like a plumbing problem or an engineering problem. We want to get the airway open and keep it open during sleep. And so effective surgery must identify where the blockage of breathing is occurring and then of course treat it appropriately. And it can be one or more of these regions that's involved. So for sleep apnnea surgery we have now a wide array of procedures and this is really where some of these advances have come even over my career and shown on the left are procedures that can treat that pallet region. The grouping here on the upper right can treat the tongue region and then you have some procedures that can treat the tongue region but can treat actually often both areas in the throat. So let's talk about the pallet region. So for a long time the main procedure available to treat obstructive sleep apnnea was this uvo palatto fangoplasty or ut that involved removing the tonsils on either side of the throat if they weren't removed already and removing the uva that hangs down to the back of the throat with a part of the soft pallet changing the patient on the left to look more like the patient on the right. What we care about is not so much what you see when you look in the mouth, but what's happening behind this soft pallet. And we the idea of removing tissue with that procedure was that you would have less stuff that can fall back and block breathing. Turns out that that worked okay, especially if you had big tonsils, but didn't work well enough and there were also some side effects. So, it turns out a number of procedures have been developed that work better and there's a couple of randomized control trials and they also really seem to have less in the way of potential side effects and risks. One of these is a technique developed in Australia which also involves removing tonsils. Patients have not had that removed previously. There often can be a collection of fat called a fat pad shown in yellow on the lefth hand diagram and remove that if if uh it exists there. And instead of just removing tissue, this is more of a repositioning procedure which you can take muscles that are behind the tonsils and cut them sort of down low. And you want to pull them forward, but you also pull them up and out at the same time. And to to do that, you make a cut in the muscle in front of the tonsils and allowing you to sew the muscles in place on a under the surface as well as a layer of stitches there on the surface. The idea behind this is that by repositioning things, you're effectively pulling the soft pallet forward so that we get that natural muscle relaxation occurring during sleep. the soft pallet because it's anchored farther forward, it's harder for it to fall back and block off breathing. For tongue region surgery, there's a number of procedures. One of them is called tongue radio frequency. Radio frequency is a controlled cauterization that's been used for many decades in medicine to treat different areas of the body. For treatment of the tongue, it involves a device with the needle tip on the end that can be placed into the back of the tongue, the front of the tongue, and actually the sides of the tongue as well. Heating up the tip of that device, you create a little bit of damage in the tongue itself. And what happens is the human body naturally heals up from that and forms a scar. That scarring, that fibrosis tightens up the tongue. So again, we have muscle relaxation that occurs during sleep. Muscles relax. So the tongue could fall back except scar tissue doesn't relax. So this makes the tongue less able to fall back and block off breathing during sleep. Part of our evaluation is looking at why people may be having blockage. Even if it's confined to a certain area, there are different reasons. And one reason for blockage in the tongue region is enlargement of this tonsil that we have on the back of our tongue called the lingual tonsil. shown here as a drawing of course to exaggerate this but that tonsil when it's enlarged may be blocking breathing and a procedure can simply go through the mouth and remove that make it much smaller and what you can see is that it opens up quite a bit of space for breathing here down low in the throat that's very helpful but we really need a test to figure out what's going on and what to do and this is where there's been you know the growth of this procedure that we named drug induced sleepodoscopy This was is a technique that was developed in Europe. I did not develop it but it was first described back in 1991. And over time it's had growing use first in other countries like in Europe and now in the United States. The idea behind this uh evaluation procedure is that we have these flexible telescopes that can be passed through the nose to look into the throat. Now originally this was you know people attempted to do this while people were naturally sleeping but of course it wouldn't be surprising that that was not so comfortable. So the idea behind drug induced sleepodoscopy is to perform this fiber optic endoscopy of patients while they're sedated. So we go to the operating room. People get some sedation through an IV and we reproduce the breathing patterns that we know exist in natural sleep because patients have had a sleep study showing obstructive sleep apnnea. So the idea behind this is we look to see where the blockage of breathing might be occurring. And it turns out that with a couple of European colleagues, Vinfried Hoenho and Nikico Deere, we developed the vote classification system that sort of the standard used around the world to characterize the findings of drug induced sleepodoscopy. And vote is just an acronym referring to the four structures that are most commonly involved in causing obstructive sleep apnnea. V being for veum or pallet. O for oroparangial lateral walls, collapse of the sides of the throat. T for tongue or tongue base shown right here and then E for epiglatus. The epiglatus is basically a trap door that covers your voice box so that when you swallow things don't go down the wrong way. During drug induced sleep endoscopy for each of these structures you can determine whether there's no obstruction related to the structure or whether there might be a partial obstruction or completely blocking the breathing pathway. And for a number of the structures there can be different sort of pattern directions of blockage in breathing. For example, the veum or pallet. You can have blockage in a front to back or anterior posterior direction, a side to side or lateral uh direction or a combination of the two that we named concentric collapse. Here are some videos. V for veum or pallet. The orientation here is that the top of the image at the back of the throat. This is the soft pallet with the ua hanging down the back of the throat. This is actually a relatively open airway behind the soft pallet. Though you can see the vibration occurring creating a lot of snoring sound. Again the back of throat is on the top of the image. This is the soft pallet and this collapse is occurring front to back and side to side. This would be the complete concentric collapse related to the soft pallet. And we don't do it very often in patients with marketkedly enlarged tonsils but you actually can barely see it. that this patient has large tonsils and you can see their throat never really opens up. So when their tonsils are really big, it's not much of a mystery as to what is blocking their breathing. But here's the uva saying hello to us. Sort of an amusing video. So that's fine. That's for V. For O is for oropharangial lateral walls. Again, the top of the image is the back of the throat. This is actually the tongue and the epiglatus right there. But they are not moving backwards to block breathing. and they're not moving up on the image. You really just have collapse of the sides of your throat of the oral ferings lateral walls. And it turns out we've shown that this is not a great predictor of good results for surgery for many procedures. Another example here, the tongue is down here. Epiglatus is there. And the sides of the throat, you see they're just caving in. T is for tongue. This is the back of the tongue. This bumpy surface like before top of the image is the back of the throat. The view is blocked by the soft pallet. So we advance the telescope and we see that the tongue is completely blocking breathing. The pathway for breathing airway which is in the middle here is going away. Now these structures can occur in all sorts of combinations. Here you see the tongue pushing the epiglatus against the back of the throat. And E is for epiglatus because epiglatus can fall back on its own. The tongue is actually out of the field of view almost entirely and the epiglatus is falling backwards on its own to produce blockage and breathing. So it's nice to have great videos. They are amusing, but really the purpose of performing drug induced sleepcopy is to improve the selection of procedures and outcomes. Kathern Green is now at the University of Colorado Denver, is a sleep surgeon who did training with us when I was at USC. She was the first author on a study we we put together looking at whether drug induced sleep endoscopy findings are associated with surgical outcomes. This was a multic-enter study involving 14 centers, 275 study participants and you it did not include people with marketkedly enlarged tonsils. So they either had their tonsils removed com previously or they were sort of within the normal range and importantly they had no previous surgery other than possible tonslectomy. What we did for all these study participants is we got four surgeons together to review a lot of videos and these are videos from before surgery. They were done in a blinded way, which means we didn't know what kind of surgery people had and we didn't know what the results of surgery were. And we agreed beforehand because sometimes there are some differences in how different people might might review and and score videos. We had agreement beforehand and how we would develop what we called consensus scores. We defined a response to surgery as being at least A-50% decrease in this apnea hypopnia index to a level of below 15. It had to satisfy both of these. And it what the study showed was that if you had moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnnea before surgery, there were a couple things that lowered your chances of responding well to surgery. If you had partial or complete collapse of the sides of your throat, the odds ratio was about 0.5, meaning that your odds of responding to surgery were about cut in half. Similarly, if you had complete blockage of breathing related to the tongue, also the odds ratio was about half, lowering your chances of responding well to surgery. And this is something that I use all the time in counseling patients about surgery. Emily Kesso who did her sleep surgery fellowship with me at USC now at Duke University added this thing called pallet shape to the to look at the same database and all those videos that we had. Pallet shape was developed by Tucker Woodson at medical college of Wisconsin and here are some drawings uh showing uh more about it with blockage of breathing behind the soft pallet which is very common. There can be different shapes of that, different reasons why people have that blockage. Some people on the far right here have the hard pallet, the bone of the roof of the mouth going to extend pretty far back so that it's a narrow space even behind the bone of the roof of the mouth. Some people the bone it's it's not so closed. It's relatively open, but there's a bend of the soft pallet often and if the narrowing occurs at the top of the bend right where it bends, they have this long area where there's some narrowing behind the soft pallet. Whereas this patient who has this angle of it, the narrowing is really just at the lowest uh level of the soft pallet on a side view. And what we show that in general pallet shape was not associated with results of surgery. But and those who had isolated soft pallet surgery, soft pallet surgery alone, if you were narrow at the bend here, odds were low or lower, I should say. The odds similarly were about cut in half of getting a good result with soft pallet surgery. And interestingly, if you had collapse, you can't really see it on this side view, but from the side to side collapse behind the soft pallet, you actually did a little bit better with these soft pallet surgery, which were primarily these repositioning procedures, suggesting that they may actually do a pretty decent job of stabilizing the sides of the throat in addition to pulling the soft pallet forward. But what soft pallet surgery probably does is treats the lower half of it suggesting that you know it's a little harder to get uh things open if you have narrowing at that bend of the soft pallet. Again something that we and others use in taking care of patients. Neuro stimulation. A treatment that has gotten quite a bit of attention over the past 10 plus years is the upper airway stimulation system available from Inspire Medical Systems. This therapy is fully implanted, which means it involves surgery to place three components here in the body. There is a pulse generator that is placed on top of the pec muscle in the upper chest and two wires that connect to it. A sensing lead goes under the pec muscle to sense breathing patterns from its location in the chest and a stimulation lead connects the pulse generator to a nerve in the neck called the hypoglossal nerve that controls tongue movement. There's currently a redesign of the generator and soon probably will not need to be using the sensing lead because the generator itself will perform any of that same function. This turns on with a remote that the patient turns it on at nighttime themselves and basically what happens when it's on is every time the patient breathes in, the generator sends a signal through the stimulation lead to the nerve in the neck that controls tongue movement to move the tongue forward. So evidence that it works comes from many studies. These are sort of the three key studies. Uh one was published in 2014 in in the New England Journal of Medicine which is one of the premier medical journals in the world showing on average the improvement in this abnipity index from 32 to 15 12 months after implantation. The second study was probably even more important for me in which they took the first 46 study participants that responded really well and did something not very nice. They turned it off for a week. Then they turned it back on. And what they showed was that when they turned it off for a week and those half of those group that responded well, the sleep apnea came back. Then they turned it back on, the sleep apnea went away. And to me that was compelling evidence that the benefits that we saw were not related to something that random like potential weight loss that might occur over a 12-month period. that was specifically related to the treatment. And finally, they actually followed these patients over five years and they showed that the outcomes were were stable over that fiveyear period of time. So it's not just one-year results, but this is something that you might expect going forward. So we've done taken this drug induced sleepcopy and and see whether the findings are associated with upper airway stimulation outcomes. And it's important because just like with that uh star trial, the one that was published in the New England Journal of Medicine in the basis of those subsequent studies, drug induced sleepcopy is required before patients currently can get this therapy. And the primary use really is to screen out those who have this finding of complete concentric collapse related to soft pallet what I showed in that video. And basically for a long time what we just told people is like well okay you got about a 65 70% chance of getting the results we might want to see but you know we we get a lot of information from drug induced sleep endoscopy it's not just that one specific finding and so the idea behind this research was what if we could identify those with maybe an 80% response rate compared to those who might have only a 60% response rate and it turns out you can so Phil Huitt who did his fellowship with us at USC is a surgeon at Massioneer in Austin he was the first author on this study and what we did was we had information from what's called a titration study which is a study that was done in always now it's done in many patients but not not required but about three months after surgery where a patient with inspire implanted would go into the sleep lab and you basically figure out what is the ideal setting to get the best possible result in terms of treating the obstructive sleep apnnea. So the response rates, I mean, it's sort of a not a perfect assessment of what the results might be over an entire night because often it's a portion of the night where you're looking at what are the ideal settings. But the response rate was pretty good. But the key findings from that study is even under ideal situation, there were a couple things that were associated with the results related to the oral fairings and the lateral walls as well as the tongue. So for the orpheric lateral walls, if you had complete blockage in breathing related to the sides of the throat, what I showed on the video, your odds of response were actually lower than if you didn't have any or if it was just maybe a partial narrowing of the space or breathing. And sort of surprisingly, but maybe not so surprisingly, if your tongue was fully falling back against the back of your throat to block breathing, what we call T2, results were actually better than they were if your tongue wasn't playing a role. And that was echoed in when we could identify maybe a primary structure playing a role in causing your sleep apnnea. 60% response rate if it was the oral ferial lateral walls versus 80% response rate for the tongue. In essence, it's not that surprising if you if you look back because of course what is inspire doing directly moving the tongue forward. So if your tongue was falling back completely and that was the key to your sleep apnnea, here you have a therapy that was directly treating it. Again, this is what we use and many other patients use to treat patients with sleep apnnea as well as this study. Serge Khadarai, a sleep surgeon at Kaiser Northern California who did his fellowship in sleep surgery with me, applied that same pallet shape analysis to the database with upper airway stimulation. And what the study showed was that narrowing at the hard pallet, this kind of picture over here, that was bad. Your odds ratio again about half and specifically is bad if you had a combination of these two different sort of bad findings of hard pallet narrowing like this and full collapse and complete collapse of the sides of your throat. There were only nine individuals in the database but only two of them responded well to inspire therapy. Whereas if you didn't have the hard pallet narrowing maybe it wasn't quite so bad. So in putting this all together what I think you know how these advances have really helped me is think about how I implement this structure-based approach. We have the structures on the left hand the first column and we have different procedures traditional approaches other pallet procedures treating the soft pallet or even the hard pallet for the oral ferial lateral walls we have procedures that may seem to help at least somewhat uh looking at pallet surgery other procedures I didn't discuss in detail but including upper airway stimulation oral appliances or even jaw advancement surgery we have a variety of tongue focused procedures and some epiglatus focused procedures of course some patients might have such you know significant skeletal abnormalities that they should think about maxilla mandibular advancement as a first-line option but the bottom line is the bottom line I think we've learned a lot more in our and improved our ability to counsel patients looking at not just body mass index but awake examination and drug induced sleep endoscopy and as we look forward with you know all treatments but especially with neuro stimulation I think we'll need to be uh learning more about who responds better to these different interventions Because right now for neuro stimulation, we've got hypoglossal nerve stimulation. We have the inspire therapy, but a couple of companies have on current trials and probably will be releasing results soon related to their work. One is from a company called Leonova doing a different kind of unilateral or one-sided hypoglossal nerve stimulation and then Nixoa with a bilateral or both side hypoglossal nerve stimulation. So I think we're closer to the beginning than the end of neuro stimulation. And in fact, one another one of our former fellows, David Kent, who's now at Vanderbilt, has done incredible work with what's called anervicalis stimulation. There's some good evidence showing that increased lung volumes, basically when your lungs are filled with air, that actually stabilizes your throat, your upper airway, and keeps it open. And the mechanism for that seems to be that you pull on different things like your voice box gets a little bit lower when you take a deep breath and it basically tightens up provides some tension so that things aren't as floppy, aren't as collapsible. So Dave's idea was well what about if we try to find stimulation to this muscle called the sterno thyroid muscle and it turns out there's a little branch uh to that muscle for what's called the anca cervicalis and basically he's done incredible work now funded by national natural institutes of health looking at this and ended up filing patents and it's been licensed to this company Nick SOA and I think that neuro stimulation has a real bright future and I think that you'll be hearing more about this in the years ahead Endotypic traits. Endotypes are distinct mechanisms contributing to disease. It is not limited to sleep apnnea. But for sleep apnnea, it turns out there are multiple factors that contribute to obstructive sleep apnnea. And here are the names of some colleagues with whom I've been fortunate to work over my career and even currently. anatomy, how the airway closes is what we've talked about and really where a lot of the focus has been with surgery and oral appliances, these mouthpieces. But how the airway closes, you know, how easily it closes and where it closes, it's the key, but it's not the only thing that plays a role in causing obstructive sleep apnnea. Other factors are listed there. One is control of breathing. Basically, how sensitive someone might be to changes in oxygen levels as well as carbon dioxide levels in their bloodstream. It's important to have a stable control of breathing. It's very helpful and helps protect against sleep apnnea. Arousal threshold is how easily someone wakes up. In general, you might think it's a good thing to wake up really easily, but in fact, for sleep apnea, it's not a good thing. And waking up too easily prevents someone from getting into deeper sleep, which can actually be more stable. We have reflexes in our throat that controls the activity of muscles that are surround the throat. It's been studied most carefully for the geogloss muscle, the major tongue muscle. And people that have strong reflex is actually very protective against sleep apnnea whereas weak reflexes are not good for sleep apnnea. I mentioned lung volumes and I won't talk about vascular factors and fluid shifts. There's not a lot of evidence there. But what's key is that for these non-anatomic treat uh traits, I'm sorry, that beyond anatomy, they're very common. Danny Eckert showed that at least one of these three other traits is abnormal in 70% of individuals with sleep apnnea. And for each one of them, it's about 30 to 40% of people have abnormal values. Now, they may not always be, you know, critical. Certainly, the anatomy is is the most critical factor in causing sleep apnea, but they can be very important. So the question is how do you figure out if someone has these traits whether they're normal or abnormal? Well, the standard method involved putting someone in a sleep lab in a research sleep lab actually and giving them CPAP. So they someone with obstructive sleep apnnea, you're administering CPAP shown right here. And what you do is a lot of the same monitors that you do during an inlab sleep study looking at EEG or brain waves. They actually added little wires going into their tongue to look at the activity of their tongue muscle. They put catheters into their throat and looked at pressure in the throat and they looked at breathing patterns. And what you can do is get someone fairly stable at a certain level of CPAP and then drop it. And what you look at is the body's response. How does the air flow respond? How does how do they start working more to get good breath and increase their negative pressure in the throat up to a certain point where they wake themselves up? And you can detect that with looking at brain waves. And basically you can get a sense of how you know the disturbance the drop in the CPAP lowering ventilation lowering breathing how what the response looks like and whether that's you know basically a stable or not stable pattern uh and how the reflexes play a role and ultimately you can produce these uh very beautiful graphs. On the y-axis you see ventilation how much breathing is occurring. On the x- axis you see the ventilatory drive, how they're trying to breathe. So I think it's easiest to understand this in thinking about supply and demand. This blue line here is basically what the patient can provide in terms of the supply of breathing off CPAP. So they start at this blue dot and what you see as their drive to breathe increases, they can increase their ventilation somewhat. on CPAP. CPAP gives them normal levels of ventilation or or high levels of ventilation. And as they lower CPAP pressures, you get less ventilation and you increase your drive to breathe. And so the blue is the supply, what they can provide. The red is their demand, what they want. And they're getting less ventilation because the CPAT pressure is lower. And that's they're trying to breathe harder. Now, normally you would end up at an equilibrium where the red and the blue lines meet. The problem is the green line. The arousal threshold occurs here before they can reach this equilibrium and to the right of the arousal threshold is and and having too much require too much drive to breathe is unstable whereas the left is stable and the problem is the equilibrium is in the unstable region. This is why this person has obstructive sleep apnnea. So potentially you can move these things around but you first have to figure out uh how to determine these things. So again you have these many causes the manual calculation looking at all these waveforms I mean sometimes you have to hope for useful data even though you spend a whole night collecting all this information you don't actually get enough information together so what people said okay well maybe we'll look at you know results of sleep studies and and you can see that people that have for example high or low arousal threshold they have different sort of generally have different uh findings on sleep studies. The problem was it involved a lot of guesswork and I think a big breakthrough was from Scott Sans who's at Brighamin Women's Hospital in Boston where with a specialized you know souped-up sleep study in the sleep lab the ability to determine some of these traits with some analysis using specialized software that he developed and it's important to be able to learn these uh what these traits might be in individual patient for a couple reasons. First is we can actually modify these things. So for example, control of breathing becomes abnormal when people travel to altitude. So this medication acettoolamide is a medication that's taken for prevention of altitude sickness. Similarly, oxygen can also stabilize the control of breathing. For people that wake up too easily, there are medications. Seditive hypnotics are used commonly. Things like ambient can be used to raise the arousal threshold. You don't wake up as easily. And again, the question is whether that might help sleep apnnea. for these reflexes. Multiple medications have been tested. In general, the results haven't been great. Although there is some combination approach that might actually prove useful, but in general, by and large, the results of medication oxygen trials have been sort of dismal. And I think that the reason has been that they've all ignored what is the most important factor, whether it's surgery or oral appliances. So, let's look at the evidence available for those. So here are results of trials of on the left acettoolomide here is esopacone one of these seditive hypnotics like ambient and here is a different medication to raise arousal threshold called trazadone for all of these not much change before and after treatment. What's important though is that for all of them there are some individual patients that do have pretty significant responses suggesting that there's something there. For some people, these traits might be important, but again, by and large, they haven't proven to be all that helpful. So, if we look at results for surgery, here's a series of graphs from one study looking at a variety of surgical procedures. And what you see is that the left hand side, loop gain, this is a measure of control of breathing. The responders in blue compared to the non-responders in red, the loop gain was lower in those individuals. Now there's some overlap of course but for a single factor this was actually quite a big difference suggesting that the people who don't respond part of that may be because they have less stable control of breathing. Now in general the responders also were a little younger but there wasn't much difference in body mass index or the apnea hypopnia index how bad your sleep apnea was prior to surgery. So loop gain seems to be the most important thing in predicting response to surgery and low arousal threshold. Waking up too easily seems to be important with surgery and oral appliances. Again limited evidence. Studies of oxygen here on the left and this medication esopacone on the right. This different studies have shown that in those who don't have pretty normal sort of anatomy, normal collapsability in their throat, they were more likely to be responders shown in blue there or shown here on the left hand side with these treatments that address these other traits. So based on this work, I now have research funded by the National Institutes of Health involving a star-studdied group of people that have really done fundamental work in this area. This is an ongoing research study here at UCLA in which individuals with moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnnea who have not been able to tolerate positive airway pressure therapy undergo a standard surgical evaluation including drug induced sleepodoscopy. And if it's determined that they're a good candidate for soft pallet surgery, we can enroll them in the study that involves an additional sleep study prior to surgery, having the surgery, and a sleep study after surgery. If they do respond to surgery, fantastic. But if they don't respond to surgery, what we're doing is treating them in a sort of what's called a crossover study with this one medication acettoolamide that's for helping stabilize control of breathing or a combination of that medication with esopacone that also raises the arousal threshold and seeing how it improves their obstructive sleep apnnea. So in conclusion, understanding disease mechanisms is the key to improving obstructive sleep apnnea surgery outcomes. I think there have been a lot of advances even in my career looking at how we evaluate anatomy adding drug induced sleep endoscopy and understanding which aspects of it are the most important potentially you know pallet shape it's a limited evidence but you know it's something that seems to certain findings seem to be very important for neuro stimulation we're looking at anatomy with drug added sleepodoscopy but also physiology we're replacing the natural loss of muscle activity that's occurring during sleep by stimulating that nerve that controls tongue movement and potentially other nerves as well. And finally looking at endotypic traits, we're combining anatomy and physiology looking at this combination of factors that plays a role in causing obstructive sleep apnnea. So past couple of decades have been exciting and I'm looking even more forward to the future.