Hello, I'm Daniel Algado, and this is your primary care physician from Jucilei Family Medicine. To create this video, we've worked with our inpatient medical team. In this video, we'll answer some common questions that patients and their loved ones have about what happens after a COVID-19 discharge. To begin, we want to acknowledge that being discharged from the hospital causes fear for both the person with COVID-19 and their household members. We hope this video provides information to put your mind at ease, so you'll know what to expect and where to go for further help. In this video, we'll cover the following: instructions for isolation; getting retested after isolation; the importance of having a primary care physician for outpatients after leaving the hospital; persistent symptoms and when to notify your doctor; how to check your oxygen level and exercise your lungs; the risk of contracting COVID-19 again; what you need to know about COVID-19 and flu vaccines; mental and physical recovery and where to go for more information when you are discharged from the hospital after COVID-19 treatment. 19. You will likely need to isolate yourself and stay away from other members of your household to keep everyone safe. Please follow the isolation guidelines as strictly as possible. 1. Choose a private room where you can be apart from others. Ideally, you will also use a private bathroom. 2. If there is no private bathroom, be sure to disinfect the bathroom and frequently touched surfaces after each use. 3. Everyone should close the toilet lid before flushing in all bathrooms in the house, as the coronavirus can be found in urine and feces and could float in the air when flushing. You should reduce your time in common areas. If you must be in this area, first wash your hands. Wear a mask that covers your nose and mouth and make sure everyone else wears their masks, stays 6 feet apart, and washes their hands frequently. Members of your household may want to wear eye protection such as face shields or goggles, if possible. Have someone leave your food outside your room and be sure to keep your dishes and cutlery separate. Also, keep dirty laundry separate and never share it.  Shake it. You may want to wait to wash your own clothes until you are no longer housemates. During this isolation, all members of your household should wash their hands frequently. The person caring for you should also clean surfaces in the home twice a day, or whenever you touch a surface. You should clean your isolation space twice a day to reduce the viral load in the space, which could spread to other rooms. Please remember that while you are in isolation, you must stay at home and ask a friend, family member, or delivery service to bring you food and medicine. This also applies to everyone in your household. To end isolation, it is recommended that patients with Kobe 19 who were hospitalized should isolate themselves until the following criteria are met: you have not had a fever for more than 24 hours while using medication that can reduce fever; your symptoms are improving, and at least 10 to 20 days have passed since the first symptoms of Kobe 19 developed. The length of isolation depends on your condition and could be longer if you have problems with your immune system. Your doctor will let you know before you leave the hospital.  This is the case if you have any doubts you can always ask your outpatient doctor once you leave the hospital. In addition to the isolation period for the person diagnosed with Kobe 19, all household members must remain at home in quarantine for an additional 10 days after the person diagnosed with Kobe 19 has recovered. This prevents the spread of Kobe 19 to other people. Once your criteria have been met and you are cleared to leave isolation, you do not need to be another Kobe 19 test before returning to work or to be considered non- contagious to others. We do not recommend repeat testing as it is possible that particles of the dead virus may remain in saliva or other bodily secretions for up to three months after the illness. Fortunately, studies have not found that recovered people have transmitted the virus even if their tests are positive. There may be rare exceptions to this if you have a condition that affects the immune system, so please discuss this with your outpatient doctor, who may include an infectious disease specialist. Once you are discharged from the hospital, your inpatient doctors will transfer your medical care to their outpatient colleagues. It is very important that you have an outpatient doctor, either a primary care physician or a member of our outpatient monitoring team for Kobe children and ELEC. This outpatient doctor will answer your questions, help you in your recovery process, and provide resources and medical guidance if you have any problems during the process. And if you were sent home from the hospital on oxygen, you may need to monitor your oxygen level. When checking your oxygen saturation using a pulse oximeter, please do the following: Warm your fingers before using the pulse oximeter. Remove any nail polish, as it interferes with the ability to obtain an oxygen level reading. Make sure you are sitting still with your index finger on the sensor and wait at least 30 seconds. A normal oxygen level reading is 95 to 100%. However, for people who are recovering from COVID-19 and still need oxygen, a higher reading may be necessary.  An oxygen level above 90 percent is acceptable. Please keep a record of your oxygen level readings to review with your doctor during your follow-up appointments. To keep your lungs active, you can use an incentive spirometer and try to inhale to get the gauge as high as you can. Be sure to note your progress. If you don't have an incentive spirometer, you can do breathing exercises to keep your lungs open. Start by inhaling slowly for 4 seconds and exhaling for 7 seconds with pursed lips. Try to do these exercises 10 times per hour while you are awake. Patients with Kobe 19 who were hospitalized may experience the following symptoms, which can last from a few weeks to a few months after discharge: fatigue, which can often be quite intense. People who have been critically ill often have muscle weakness. This is normal; we see this all the time in our living beings in intensive care and in the hospital, regardless of the cause. Your body will get stronger over time. To help you, you may need physical and occupational therapy to recover, or perhaps simply a slow but steady regimen of increased activity.  Physical activity: You should talk to your doctors for outpatient care and be careful not to overexert yourself, following the instructions of a licensed professional. Mental confusion, depression, anxiety, and insomnia are also very common and expected to some extent. You have been through a lot physically and mentally. A therapist, neurologist, or psychiatrist may be part of your outpatient follow-up team. There are many additional resources that primary care can provide. They can talk to you about mental recovery. It is just as important as physical recovery from this illness. Constant shortness of breath is also common. The lungs were very inflamed with this illness, and even small activities like going to the bathroom or getting dressed could make you feel like you are suffocating. Some people may need oxygen at home during this time, but most people can stop using oxygen within the next few weeks. Although not very common, some patients may develop arthritis, usually of the hands, feet, or smaller joints, or have constant muscle aches, headaches, or nasal congestion. You can continue taking paracetamol (acetaminophen) or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen, but we also recommend that you discuss these with your doctor.  Discuss symptoms with your outpatient provider for further recommendations. Some patients may also develop symptoms that come and go, which could feel like a mild version of the original Kobe 19 infection. We do n't fully understand this. It may get better in a few months. An outpatient doctor can help you deal with these symptoms and the distress they might cause. While you are recovering, if you experience any of the following symptoms, please contact your outpatient doctor immediately, or if they are severe, call 911: new or worse shortness of breath (oxygen levels below 90%). Please note that if you have oxygen at home, this means with the oxygen that is prescribed for you. New or worse chest pain. New or worse leg swelling. New neurological symptoms such as loss of sensation in an area of ​​the body or difficulty moving muscles in a particular area. If any neurological changes occur, call 911 immediately. We think there is a very low chance of reinfection with Kobe 19 for at least three months after infection. However, this could change as new variants emerge. Given this concern, we will continue to monitor the situation. Physical distancing, universal mask use, and handwashing are essential to prevent reinfection with COVID-19. Since your protection after having COVID-19 will wear off over time, we recommend you get vaccinated against COVID- 19 as soon as possible. You will likely have protection for three months after infection. You could wait and get vaccinated 90 days after your recovery; however, everyone's situation is different, so please discuss this with your healthcare provider. For outpatients, all those who have not yet received their flu shot this year should get vaccinated as soon as they recover from the COVID-19 infection. Often, this means doing so before leaving the hospital. Receiving your flu shot is very important, as the lungs are fragile after an infection. Because COVID-19 and the flu would be dangerous, we recommend you do this at least two weeks before receiving a COVID-19 vaccine. In conclusion, I would like to focus on the significant mental and physical difficulties this illness has likely caused you and your loved ones. Being hospitalized under any circumstances is psychologically exhausting and Physically, COVID-19 has added to this social isolation, the fear of the unknown, the fear of infecting loved ones, the loss of loved ones, social stigma, job or wage loss, and much more. Feelings of anxiety, post-traumatic stress, fear, sadness, and depression don't just stem from your experiences with this illness, but also from the landscape of these difficult times in our history. The physical toll it takes on your body can also cause a mental burden. We understand and sympathize with you and what you've been through. Although we don't know everything about COVID-19, as healthcare providers, we know how to work in uncertain circumstances. We are here to help you feel better, step by step. We recommend that you work closely with your outpatient physician and discuss these and any other feelings, thoughts, or fears you may be experiencing so they can help you receive the mental and physical care you need.