This podcast might contain mature themes and may not be suitable for all audiences. Listener and viewer discretion is advised. Welcome to another episode of UCLA Health's podcast, Medically Speaking with E Glazier. That's me. And today we're discussing integrative medicine, an evidence-based approach to health care that blends conventional medical therapies with complimentally complimentary therapies. one that focuses on the whole person to optimize health, healing, and wellness. We're going to explore the connection between your mental, physical, and emotional health and show how an integrative perspective can benefit you as a patient and as a person. So, let's start medically speaking. So, today's guest is a remarkable expert in the field of integrative medicine, Dr. Elizabeth Co. Elizabeth, you got to let me briefly sing your praises, okay? You are an assistant clinical professor of medicine here at UCLA, the David Geffin School of Medicine. You're medical director of the UCLA Health Integrative Medicine Collaborative, which we'll get into in a second. You've also pursued a lot of additional training, as if you've needed, but in integrative medicine at the University of Arizona. You've gotten your yoga teacher training and you did a physician's course in medical acupuncture. Um, my favorite factoid is that you're a passionate home cook and you've worked in um amazing restaurants like AOC and Spago. You also happen to co-write the nationally syndicated column Ask the Doctors alongside me together. And yes, together. And above all, honestly, you are such a wonderful physician and you're a human being and I'm just so grateful that you're um here today with me. So, let's get started. Um I think we should just start with some really basic definitions and um so let's just start with defining what is integrative medicine. Yeah. Oh, thank you Eve. I am overjoyed to be here with you today. So the word integrative is derived from the Latin root integer which means whole come back to high school algebra right so whole health not just the body but the mind the spirit the soul even the environment and our community so the academic consortium for integrative medicine and health outlines this definition which I'll share and it's a long one so integrative medicine and health reaffirms the importance of the relationship ship between practitioner and patient. Focuses on the whole person is informed by evidence and makes use of all appropriate therapeutic and lifestyle approaches, health care professionals and disciplines to achieve optimal health and healing. And I'll linger over that last part to achieve optimal health. So health in our conventional space, we tend to think of health as the absence of disease, right? I'm healthy if I don't have any diagnosis. But health as the World Health Organization defines is not just the absence of a disease but a state of complete physical, emotional, spiritual, environmental well-being. So while integrative medicine is a formal fellowship and board certification, what's important to know is that integrative medicine is a lens through which we see health. So it's a conceptual framework that can be practiced by anyone by an internist by a cardiologist by a psychiatrist by an acupuncturist by a psychologist and of course by you the listener. So as you are hearing me editorialize this you might be wondering this sounds great right? Isn't this how everyone should be practicing? And the answer is an enthusiastic yes. And I long for the day when we drop the word integrative and just call this good clean medicine, right? But I think I think though that it is still new for people. I think that a lot of people aren't used to integrative medicine yet. And so it might be I think helpful just you know at least at this point to say you know how would we differentiate between integrative medicine? Is it the same as complimentary? Is it the same thing as eastern? How does it differ than traditional? And I guess when I say that it occurs to me that is traditional. Do we mean western? Yeah. Yeah. Um so a central tenant of integrative medicine is the idea of blending. Right. So it's not either or. It's not a choice among two but it's an and. So there's a spirit of inclusivity. Okay. So we welcome and honor conventional medicine which we think of alopathic traditional biio medicine for all its beauty and successes and wonders while blending in approaches that are healing oriented. They tend to be based in ancient practices. So what we would call eastern practices. So think traditional Chinese medicine, think aruveda, think meditation. Um so we are shying away from the word alternative. Yes. Um, alternative insinuates this framework of right versus wrong, like mainstream versus fringe. So, we'll scratch that word alternative. Yeah. I think also sometimes people think of alternative as um not FDA approved or not evidence-based. So, okay. So, we'll stick with um integrative. Um I love I love the word blending. I think that not just in medicine, but in everyday life, things tend to be so binary. It has to be either or. So, it's a yes and, right? And I think that's how we should be talking about many things. Um, it might be helpful. I don't know. I'm just thinking, you know, I'm a primary care doctor, also known as a general internist, you know, just like you as well. But maybe we could talk about a couple of conditions like common conditions that you and I see all the time in the exam room. maybe talk about those approaches and maybe the what I would do in my you know traditional you know approach and then how maybe you would you know approach it kind of through that integrative lens because I think the framework you know as opposed to a practice is really helpful way to think about it. Sure. um why don't we pick back pain, right? So, you know, let's say we have a patient who comes and they've had back pain for six weeks and it's on the left lower side and um you know, in medicine we always say, you know, are you having red flag or alarm symptoms? Right? So, we're like, oh my gosh, are you having fevers at night? Is it waking you up? Um are you you know, are you having numbness? You know, if you're losing control of your bladder, god forbid, right? But um you know, and I might say, gosh, let's start with some physical therapy. you know, do what we call NSAIDs, which is fancy for ibuprofen, you know, in that class of medication. Um, but tell me how how you'd approach it. Yeah. So, back pain is the number two reason visit for visits to a primary care physician after number one, which is respiratory infection. Um, so it's something we see all the time in the primary care setting and all of us here have experienced back pain to some degree, I'm sure, as well. So, it's important to note that back pain is a symptom. It's not a diagnosis. Okay. So why do we have back pain? What's the root cause is always a question to keep in mind. It might be due to biomechanics, right? Maybe it's tight hamstrings or a weak core. Perhaps it's postural, right? Think tech neck, right? Which many of us suffer from. Um perhaps it's a structural problem like degenerative disc disease or spinal stenosis where there's an actual problem in the bone, right? Or it might be as simple as you need a new mattress or the pillow's too flat. You know, for women, maybe you're wearing the wrong size bra or the bag is tugging in the wrong way on your shoulder. So, um, I say this to illustrate that back pain is a symptom and the diagnosis is important, but what I'll outline generally works well for back pain from all of these causes. Okay. Um, so number one, heat. Do not underestimate the power of a heating pad. It is cheap, it is effective, and it is easy. Heat helps to bring blood flow to the muscles. It helps to soften muscles and it can be used readily at a moment's notice. Right. Okay. U massage, whether self massage, whether massage from another person, whether through use of one of the many homebased tools, same mechanism as with heat, it helps stimulate blood flow and helps to soften tissues. Um, acupuncture. So acupuncture philosophy rests in the idea of the 12 meridians. So from head to toe there are 12 meridians that are usually named after organs. And the philosophy rests in the idea ofqi. So the energetic currency ofqi which loosely can be translated into spirit. Um in acupuncture whenqi is stuck then pain ensues. So the needles work to unlock the pathways so thatqi can then flow smoothly. Okay. And the data supporting acupuncture for back pain is so robust that now Medicare covers acupuncture for chronic low back pain for patients in the United States. Thank goodness. Yeah. And finally, I'll mention yoga. Um yoga is a practice um and the word means um it comes from the Sanskrit yuj which means to yoke or to unite. So as a system yoga blends physical postures which we call asa with breath work which we call meditation uh call pranayyama to then uh unite body and breath. Um so yoga like acupuncture has such robust scientific rigor that the American College of Physicians in its guidelines for management of low back pain has listed yoga as a first-line therapy. I just want to say that um not only have I learned Latin today but I've also learned Sanskrit. Thank you very much. Um okay. No, this is this is wonderful and I think you know back pain is such a common diagnosis and again it's not an eitheror and there's obviously you know a sequential approach as well but what I'm picking up on especially is that what you said back pain is a symptom not a diagnosis and so that reminds me again that you're really looking at someone as a whole person right and acknowledging that they're not just one muscle right or one joint yeah yeah I think back to medical school days where we used to call patients as the diagnosis right like That's the uh that's the choleaccyitis, right? That's the uh diverticulitis, you know, that's the you're calling you're pairing the diagnosis with the patient, but no, it's the patient with the choices. The patient with the diver that's how we identify you're a person who then also has you know, you know, a symptom. Um okay, I love that. And you know I I um maybe we could also then because this back pain is again while it can be connected to a lot more going on you know mentally and spiritually but how about something like sleep or even stress I mean how again I mean I'd like to think that I'm not just prescribing sleeping pills for everybody but you know lots of times when people come in with a symptom right of sleeplessness um sometimes they are they're prescribed you know kind of not carelessly but just kind of quickly you know a sleeping pill and I'm just how would you how are you assessing someone's sleep are helping, you know, evaluate and improve that. Yeah. We all deserve a good night's rest, right? Yes. And just like I think of our phone, the way we charge our phone every night, we should be charging our bodies every night, you know, to full capacity. So, ideally, we charge continuously without interruption. So, we start the day at 100% battery, right? So, that's the analogy I like to give. Um, insomnia, which is the medical term for an inability to sleep, um, can be a primary diagnosis, but commonly I see it paired with something else, right? There usually is something else going on, whether it's anxiety or stress or fatigue or some of the many um, symptoms that go in this family. Um, so yes, while you're looking for the root cause of the problem of insomnia, here are some tips to at least um, get that good night's rest, right? U magnesium. Magnesium is a nature's original chill pill. Yeah. Um 80% of the body's functions magnesium takes place in. And believe it or not, 50% of us are deficient in magnesium. So magnesium deficiency can lead to insomnia, anxiety, uh muscle aches. How many of us suffer from that uh happy trio? Um, so magnesium supplementation is an easy way to at least um take off the edge, you know, help with a good night's rest, which usually comes with a bit of anxiety, too. Um, lavender oil. So, research studies show that lavender oil can be just as effective as some of the prescriptive hypnotics that we use to calm the mind. It's amazing. Yeah. And then finally, I'll mention mindfulness. Uh mindfulness has really made its way into the mainstream parlance. Um to quote our friend and colleague Diana Winston, mindfulness is the experience of paying attention to the present moment experience without judgment with openness with curiosity and a willingness to be in that space. It is a quality of attention. So mindfulness can be practiced seated and still what we think of as meditation. It can be practiced in a number of movement based practices. Think yoga, tai chi, chiong. One can be mindful while gardening, while knitting, while walking in nature. So it's a quality of attention that is rooted in present awareness. It also just makes you feel like your whole day and life aren't slipping away when you're paying attention. Yeah. Yeah. How much of our days are we really worrying about the future or living in the past, but it's here and now? You always think of attention as like gifting to other people your attention, but it's something you need to gift to yourself, right? Yeah, absolutely. Um, I mean, I'd love to ask you, I mean, what is what's inspired you to pursue integrative medicine? I mean, especially since, by the way, not to sound so Harry Potter, but you could have pursued the culinary or yoga arts. Yeah. So my foray into medicine began with an early love for food. So I was a college student here at UCLA and I fell madly in love with food, all things related, magazines, cooking shows, restaurants, cookbooks, and this was the time when the farm-totable movement was really gaining full force. Um I even planned my college schedule around the Santa Monica farmers market. Um, so with these two loves in hand, food, medicine, I was premed at that time, I was torn between how do I how do I choose? And I realized quickly that I didn't need to choose and I could synergize these two loves really through nutrition. So nutrition was an early thread in my medical training and through medical school, I found yoga, which continues to be a grounding force and my love language. While I came to the practice to expand my physical strength and flexibility, the beauty of the practice has been the mental softness and clarity that allowed me to get through the formative times of training. And then I found further training as an integrative medicine fellowship and acupuncture training. And now I synthesize these many interests as a primary care physician seeing patients in an office setting. So, it sounds like the decision was actually pretty emblematic of integrative medicine instead of it doesn't have to be an eitheror, right? It's a complete blending of your interests and your passions. I mean, I have to tell you, I feel I feel more mentally soft and have the clarification just being in your presence. No, and I know your patients do, too. I mean, you're one of the finest doctors I know, and it makes such a difference to just feel that you're caring for people through through this additional lens. And I agree with you. this is how we all should be caring for our patients irrespective of what your specialty is. Right? So if you're a cardiologist, if you're a surgeon, if you're in primary care, one of the things that you um described at the beginning was um a relationship with the provider, relationship with your doctor and how that itself can be healing and I just wondered if you could talk a little bit a little bit about that. I don't think people mention that a lot about how that partnership can also be so conducive to your wellness, your health, which by the way is very dynamic, you know, um and establishing that care and then moving together, you know, through time with a with a provider. Yeah. You know, I tell all of my patients, I am a coach for you in this journey of health. And we know that the health care landscape is confusing. It's noisy. It's very hard to navigate primary care, specialists, referrals, insurance, like what does that all mean? Right? 15 years into this and I'm still confused. Um, so it is a partnership. I tell my patients, I am by your side play by play. We are making decisions together. Um, I am your thought partner. Um, I am your coach. So that is the relationship. It's gone are the days of the paternalistic relationship, you know, of of decades long ago. Um, and just maybe we could stop for a second because I use the word paternalistic all the time. Let's just talk I mean let's take take a moment if you don't mind and describe what kind of that tradition is and how I think especially you and I really try to espouse and adopt an approach that's not paternalistic. Yeah. The paternalistic relationship is doctors says something and patient obeys. Yes. Yeah. And that was the framework of the early days. And I I will admit some patients still do well with that approach. Some patients need to be told what to do and they need to follow the rules. But in general, I find that patients crave to be more proactive in their health care. Um they want to be active participants. They want to you know engage that agency, that personal and collective agency. And our role is um more as a coach and a cheerleader whereas the patient is the captain of the team. Right. I think I mean I like to think although I'd love to hear from our patients and our audience I think that engenders more trust. True. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. With communication, trust with respect um that is the foundation for any healthy relationship, right? Um so you you know as I mentioned at the beginning in your introduction, you're our first right medical director of our UCLA health integrative medicine collaborative. Can you tell tell me a little bit about that? Yeah. So, the UCLA Health Integrative Medicine Collaborative was found in 2019 as a means to bring together our myriad of programs that UCLA Health has. We have over 40 programs that fall under the scope of integrative medicine. And the idea was to bring together all these programs under one shared aim, one unified vision. Some of these programs have been in existence for over 30 years. You'll recognize Sims Man Center for Integrative Oncology, uh Center for East West Medicine, uh UCLA Mindful, People Animal Connection. Um so we were dancing in various circles across town under different leadership and we came together and said we need to be one collective group, you know, working together, um lifting each other up. Um so we are now a group of over 90 individuals representing over 40 programs. Uh we host an annual conference every year in the fall and our ultimate goal is to build a building. So the UCLA Health Center for Integrative Medicine. So um we have um plans to build a building in Santa Monica to unite all of these programs um in one central space. Think of it as one-stop shopping where patients can seek their primary care, their specialty care, yoga, acupuncture, their teaching kitchen, meditation. Yeah. Well, tell me more about the teaching kitchen. I mean, especially since um I'm not going to trust me, I'm not going to um barrage you with like tons of nutrition and supplement questions, but about like the, you know, the the the teaching kitchen, what are some of the principles that you want to um get out there regarding, you know, nutrition through this integrative lens? Yeah. I thought I was going to go to culinary school. I signed up. I applied. I was going to be in New York for a year in the year between college and medical school. And then I quickly learned that the culinary arts is not learned from a book. Right? We can um study books, we can take tests, but really the way you learn how to cook is in the kitchen, which then sparked my decision to work in restaurants for a year in in LA between um college and medical school. Um so how do we learn to cook? It's by cooking. So the hope is to have a teaching kitchen where patients um students, medical students, trainees of all types, physicians, colleagues, um health care professionals can then learn how to shop for ingredients, how to wash vegetables, how to cut onions, and to prepare meat and to season and to find joy in the process too. I think a central message of nutrition is about finding celebration in the process. It's about connection. It's about joy. It's about nourishment. So, that's the narrative of food that I I hope to engender. Okay. Fantastic. I can't wait. And I can't wait to cook together, FYI. Um, so I mean I I will say I mean I have some some some other some questions. This is our asking for a friend segment or because this is medically speaking, asking for our medically speaking friends. I mean, just an even I'm just gonna ask right now since you're talking about cooking, what is your favorite recipe or what do you find most nourishing? I guess on a warm chili night, I love a lentil soup. Okay. Especially with chickpeas, dark leafy greens, um seasoned generously with garlic, lemon, herbs, olive oil. Shukshuka is a staple in my household, right? So, eggs that are poached in a tomato pepper sauce. Yes. Yeah. And I have to admit, I'm a West LA gal, so I love my avocado toast. Yeah. So, I prepare mine with a thin slice of a dense rye bread, toasted, thick layer of avocado, olive oil, and flaky salt. Um, we will be posting your recipes, so with your permission, of course. um you know one of these things I think that as I said when I'm listening to you to you speak about um these techniques and this framework I of course I'm like okay can I start my acupuncture now you know can I start meditating now I think a lot of people and one of our questions that we have is I feel so overwhelmed I want to meditate and I want to get acupuncture and I have like maybe 30 extra minutes in this day so what would you say to everyone you know I mean where where does one start how does one integrate just one of these practices into their day just just as a start. Yeah. So, consider the analogy of a menu. At a restaurant, you're presented with a menu. You peruse your options. You see what sounds good. You make a choice. You try it. And the next time you return, you either love that choice and try it again or you try something new. So, the same applies to the vast menu of options in the integrative medicine toolkit, right? Um, your choices will be different from mine. I might cling to one. You may toggle among three. And the choices will evolve dayto day. Yeah. Even hour to hour, week to week, and in seasons in life. So, I share this to illustrate that there isn't a prescriptive one-sizefits-all recipe that is right for the general public. It is a deeply personal choice. And there is beauty in that choice. And it's not that one is better or worse. we're just uniquely different. Um, I mentioned mindfulness. Mindfulness is a tool that we can turn to at all times. It's a quality of attention. So, that is a great place to start if you want to um bring in an integrative modality into your days. I will also mention breath. The breath is a powerful antidote to our busy mind. It is free. It is accessible. And how often are we really paying attention to our breath? So I invite you all to just be more conscious of your breathing. A deep inhale, a long exhale. The breath is a tool to access our parasympathetic nervous system. The part of the autonomic nervous system that is responsible for calm, for relaxation. I I'm feeling calmer. I'm completely um have my parasitic parasympathetic nervous system in in in in high gear. Um also I just want to point out you said breathing is free. I don't think I've ever said that out loud, but breathing is free. Um anything else that's honestly just, you know, free to start. I mean we you mentioned meditation. Um and you mentioned Diana Winston, who is our one of our experts here at UCLA Health. Um does she have an app or Yeah. So the UCLA Mindful app is free. Um there are guided meditations of various lengths. Um there's Spanish options as well. So a great way to begin your mindfulness practice um is to download the UCLA Mindful app. Um UCLA also offers yoga therapy twice a week um on Zoom. It's on Tuesdays and Thursdays um during lunchtime taught by the lovely yoga therapist Julie Roland. Um so that those are two great ways to start the UCLA mindful app and UCLA yoga therapy. Terrific. I have uh one more question for you just from from uh asking for a friend. Um you know there's a lot of people that have have um sworn by um Dr. Sarno's book about um curing back pain through a mind body approach. So less about Dr. Sarno but more about just um I get I think getting back to um all those different parts of us that contribute to how we're feeling or symptoms. Um, you know, I think, uh, we talked about back pain, we talked about insomnia. Any other though like chronic conditions, even things like rheumatoid arthritis, which is an autoimmune condition, um, of the joints that you feel like, you know, benefits from, um, an additional integrative approach. Yeah. So, back pain, I I'll share the story with you about a patient who she's a middle-aged woman who has debilitating, crippling back pain. She has had an MRI of her entire spine, which is stone cold normal, whistle clean, not a flaw in sight. She suffers from high anxiety, depression, substance use, a lot of financial strain, and her back pain augments during the times of emotional loads. Sure. Yeah. I still haven't figured her out, but it's a humble reminder whenever I see her that there are nuances in the body that we still can't understand and mysteries that are still left unsolved. But truly, there certainly is a component of emotional impact to the physical manifestation of pain. No, I think even the even the term emotional load um that's really visual. I mean, and it's very it doesn't need to be, but it's very physical. You know, you know, our lives can be really challenging. Yeah. Um and it really is. is I mean I think sometimes we use the words whole person care um and I really feel like the integrative framework um approaches that. Um I'm going to ask you um is there one integrative health practice I don't mean to make you choose but that you you know really personally swear by? Yeah. Uh the truth is yoga. Yeah. Yeah. And you do it every day. Every day. Every morning. No fail. Yeah. On the mat. You know it allows me to access a part of my We were just looking Annie our producers. It always is holding up signs for us when we're our words are too big. Sorry, I was just Does that say respiratory? Well, she said that's the number one thing. Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, no, absolutely. Well, you we talked that's absolutely right. So, we talked about back pain being number two and the first is respiratory. That's when that's when all of you people including myself come in with something respiratory, also related to breathing, but like when you come in with an upper respiratory infection, which means coughing, bronchitis, inflammation of the airways. No, thank you for bringing that to our attention. We like don't even realize how much we like play and uh talk inside inside baseball. Um Okay. But please. Yeah. So yoga. So you do it every day. Every morning I think of it like and I approach it like the way I brush my teeth my teeth and wash my face. Just something that I do. Yeah. And when you have these habits that are, you know, infused with consciousness, then that's what I call a ritual. Yeah. Um and I can't imagine my life without it. It's with me forever. It's this lifelong journey. And have you taught your kids or you practice with your kids, right? Yes. I try and they teach me too. So it is a a mutual partnership between the two of us. Yeah. It's it's really it's really humble making. Um is there any any certain position with yoga? Is that a hard one? So there are some that I love more and some that I love less of course and um they're all uniquely important in the collective experience of course. Um gosh, the poses that I have been gravitating towards recently are those that target the inner thigh. Yeah, it's a body part that doesn't get a lot of attention and a lot of love. So, think, you know, triangle pose, think any of the wide leg forward folds or seated forward folds. So, that is the flavor of the moment, but that answer will change tomorrow and next week and next month. Okay. Is there anything that I forgot to ask you about, you know, integrative medicine that you wanted to share? Just want to make sure I've Yeah. You know, a guiding ethos that I tell my patients that I I think really sums up what integrative medicine is about is this idea of I can give you a prescription or I can coach you to heal yourself. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's the idea of patient as captain. Yes. and us as coach and cheerleader um to be able to really cultivate this sense of of of personal agency to engage and to activate and to empower. I think that's exactly it. It sounds very empowering. Um and you're there, right, as the as the partner, as as the coach, but I mean that's the whole point we're even having this conversation today, right? is you shouldn't have to go to medical school to know how your body works to know that these this amazing approach exists that these modalities which is another fancy word for techniques right these practices are here so that you can feel great you know you can feel optimized exactly and I think that's where when you were talking about health or keeping healthy I mean sometimes we have to heal something every day right and we want to um keep healthy um I do want to just have a a couple of questions before I get to kind of your your takeaways Has there been anything I mean along your medical journey that's surprised you? The power of the body's innate capacity to heal. Yeah. You know in medical school we there's a saying the doctor's job is to entertain the patient while nature does the healing. Yes. And the body knows how to heal. So we distract it from that innate process. But as long as we provide the sun, the water, the fertilizer, our bodies know how to flourish. I will tell you that the longer I am a primary care doctor, the more I give the advice, please go outside and feel the sun on your face, you know, and breathe in some air and you know the your body, right, which is we're all part of um nature. I mean, honestly, it reminds me of right now it's springtime. We've just had these horrendous, devastating fires and definitely the neighborhood I live in. And right now these green shoots of grass are um sprouting everywhere. So yes, even in the midst of you know these horrendous burns and destruction, right, nature heals and prevails. Um and our bodies do too. Yeah. You know, they can take an enormous amount. Yeah. This idea of resilience, right? The body's ability to rebound and recover when it is knocked down. Absolutely. And and it can take time. I I will always want to tell my patients that. Um okay. So medically speaking, um I want to leave our listeners and our audience I mean first of all you've shared so many amazing kernels of advice and wisdom but um what are three takeaways that you really want everyone to know about integrative medicine? So one explore the menu. Okay there isn't a prescriptive one-sizefits-all approach and we all have choice and I encourage you to explore cast a wide net. see what lands. The practices should leave you feeling joyful, nourished, rejuvenated, connected. Yeah. And if it doesn't, move on. No strings attached. So again, your choice will be different from mine. Um I may toggle through three, you may adhere to one, and that's all beautiful. And our choices will evolve over time, just like our preferences for food, you know, our choices at a restaurant. So explore the menu, peruse it, and explore and have fun in the process. I mean, that's also a recipe for life, relationships, all of it. Yeah, it's wonderful. Any other advice for just living a long healthy life? Instead of long, just like full of just quality, I guess I would say too. So the obvious answer is movement, nutrition, manage stress, sleep well. Those are the four pillars that I continually promote. The fifth pillar, the more exciting pillar is the quality of your social relationships. Um, more and more research is coming out and I cite specifically the Harvard study for adult development which is a study of over 85 years which concludes that the quality of your relationships is tied to health, happiness, and a long life. Yeah, it's marvelous. Well, I have to say the quality of our relationship and getting to work alongside of you is extremely nourishing. I learned something from you absolutely every day. I've learned so much from you just even today and I just can't thank you enough for sharing um not only like what you know but who you are, you know, with all of us, with your patients. Um it's your patients are so lucky to have you, but also obviously your friends and your family um and your colleagues. Um, and don't even think you're not coming back because I have like a thousand more questions and we'd love to have you on a million times. And um, but really that's all for today. That's uh the end of our episode on medically speaking. Um, until next time, obviously heeded Dr. Elizabeth Co's advice. Um, and stay curious, ask questions, and stay healthy. Thank you so much.