And diabetes: more than 30 million people in the US have it. One in four doesn't even know they have it. But why is it so important to know if you have diabetes? Without treatment, it can affect memory, cause vision loss, and silently damage the heart and kidneys. How does this happen? insulin is a hormone that helps the body use sugar, or glucose, for energy. With diabetes, the body doesn't produce enough insulin or it doesn't work properly. When the body can't use glucose, it builds up in the blood and circulates throughout the body, where it can cause harm. Who has diabetes? Diabetes affects people of all ages, shapes, sizes, races, and ethnicities. Your child, your grandmother, your child's teacher, your police officer, or maybe you. Many programs work to improve the healthcare system for people with diabetes, but how do we know which ones are effective? This is where we come in. We are the Natural Experiments Consortium in Diabetes Next Day Care. We are a group of medical researchers and community members from eight studies across the country. We are interested in understanding which health policies and treatments improve diabetes. The experiment in our name does not mean that we let scientists decide which people will receive We actually observe very closely what is happening in the world to find out if current treatment plans and programs are really helping. We study many health records to see if certain health markers, such as a person's blood sugar control and weight, are better because that person participated in a program. Privacy is very important to us. All the records we see have been de-identified through a privacy protection process. This means it is impossible to link a person to their health information. Our studies focus on questions that are important to patients with diabetes, such as how to pay for diabetes treatment. An increase in health insurance coverage for some treatments has resulted in lower out-of-pocket expenses for some patients and employers. On the other hand, in some new insurance plans, some people pay more for certain services. Have these changes influenced the number of patients receiving services? Have they affected the medical treatment of diabetes? What is the expansion of health insurance in recent years? Health reform has given states the option to expand who can get Medicaid, but not all states have expanded their programs. This means we can compare people in states that expanded Medicaid and states that did not. We want to know if the expansion of Mary-Kate improves access to diabetes services and how it affects health outcomes for patients with diabetes. What programs exist to help coordinate my medical care? Are there coordination programs that help healthcare providers, social service agencies, community organizations, and health insurance plans work together with patients? We focus on how these programs influence the way healthcare is delivered and how they affect the health events that matter most to patients with diabetes. Using these natural experiments, our Next to Be team hopes to learn which health policies and treatments truly improve patients' lives and empower you to advocate for your health. Would you like to receive updates on our diabetes findings that can help you take charge of your health? Click here to learn more.