I was 27 when I was first diagnosed. I knew something was wrong. I just felt like there was some cramping in my breast in a way that didn't feel natural. And my first gut reaction was just double mistctomy. I've got to just like get rid of this. And obviously with everything that Angelina Jolie and a lot of people were doing in the news like there was just a big you know surge and a lot of talk around the double mystctomy. There is no question that even in women that have breast cancer only on one side and even in women that don't have a strong family history of breast cancer or the BRCA gene mutation more and more women are coming in asking for double mastctomies. Hi there. As a physician, it is concerning because we do know that the more surgery we do, the higher the rate of complications. You lose sensation in the breast, you lose sensation in the nipple. And that's an important point to bring up. I think a lot of patients don't realize that because the celebrities don't ever talk about that. Yeah, there definitely was a bit of ignorance on my end before of just like thinking like, okay, if you have cancer in one breast, it could easily spread to the other breast. If you have breast cancer in one breast, removing your other breast will not increase your survival. You will not live any longer. Removing the other breast does not decrease the chance of metastatic disease. When the cancer spreads from the breast to the lungs or the liver or the bones. If you take temoxifen or some of the other estrogen blockers, your risk of developing a whole new cancer in the other breast may be well under 5 to 10%. which means if you have your breast removed, you're doing an aggressive surgery that 90 to 95% chance you don't need. At the end of the day, the patient is the one that has to live with her decision. But I do think it's important for patients and for physicians not to make these decisions based just on fear or your initial gut reaction when you hear the diagnosis of breast cancer. The more I thought about it, the more right it felt. And I was like, I'm going to get a single mistctomy. And I remember waking up from my mistctomy and thinking like, I'm still like glad that I have this. You can always have a another mastctomy and you can't, you know, have your breast back.