Hello, I'm Dr. James Woo, an endocrine surgeon at UCLA Health. If you've been told you have a thyroid nodule and you're looking into treatment options, you might have come across something called radio frequency ablation or RFA for short. It's a new minimally invasive procedure that's been getting a lot of attention lately. One of the most common questions I get is, "Am I eligible for RFA?" So today I want to walk you through how we decide who's a good candidate and just as importantly who is not. For more basic information on RFA, including what is it and how it works, please see our other videos on our website. Now here's the most important point I want to make up front. Uh until now, RFA was not meant to treat thyroid cancer or any nodule that is suspicious for cancer. And that's really important. Most of the research in this area and what we know about RFA involves benign thyroid nodules. Our policy was to not perform RFA for thyroid cancer. And that's because after RFA, we have no way of knowing whether all of the cancer cells were treated. It's tough to track the lesion over time because the RFA procedure changes how the thyroid nodule appears. RFA also creates scarring that makes any future surgery more difficult. Now, this is slowly changing. Based on the latest evidence, RFA may be offered for papillary thyroid cancers that are smaller than 1 cm in size. We strongly advise against the use of RFA for other types of thyroid cancer or for any cancer that is bigger than 1 cm. So, if you're wondering whether you're a candidate for RFA, the first and most important requirement is that the nodule is benign and we confirm that with a biopsy. In most cases, we actually need two separate fine needle aspiration biopsies that both show benign results before we can safely move forward with RFA. That gives us a very high level of confidence that the nodule is non-cancerous. So, let's say you have a confirmed benign thyroid nodule. What else makes you a good candidate? The nodule needs to fall into one of two categories. One, it's a nodule causing compressive symptoms. These are nodules that are physically large. Um, they may not be dangerous, but they can start pressing on your windpipe, esophagus, or muscles in your neck. And that can lead to symptoms like a feeling of tightness or fullness in the neck, trouble swallowing, horarsseness or some mild voice changes, some discomfort, especially when lying down, and lastly, just some self-consciousness about the appearance of the neck. If you have a benign nodule that's causing those kinds of symptoms, RFA may be a great option to shrink it down without the need for surgery, general anesthesia, or a scar. Number two, it could also be a thyroid nodule causing cosmetic concerns. Some nodules don't cause medical symptoms, but they're visible and bothersome to patients cosmetically, especially thinner people or those with nodules right near the skin. If the nodule is benign and you're otherwise healthy, RFA may be a good fit. Now, let's talk about who isn't a good candidate for RFA. In addition to thyroid cancer, there are a few other situations where RFA may not be the right choice. If the nodule is very small and not causing symptoms, we usually just monitor it. If the nodule has features on ultrasound that are suspicious, such as irregular borders, micro calcifications, or very high vascularity, we need to be a little bit more cautious and consider it case by case. If you've had only one biopsy, we may ask you to repeat it for confirmation that it is indeed benign. And finally, if there are multiple nodules or other thyroid issues going on, sometimes surgery ends up being a better long-term option. There's also the question of expectations. RFA is not instant. The nodule shrinks over time, usually over several months. It doesn't always go away completely, but most patients get A-50 to 90% volume reduction, and that's usually enough to relieve symptoms and avoid surgery. The procedure itself is done with local anesthesia in an office or outpatient setting. You're awake the whole time. That means no general anesthesia, no incision, and no stitches. Most people go home the same day and are back to their normal activities the next day. At USA Health, we do a careful workup to see if you're a good fit for RFA. That includes a high resolution thyroid ultrasound, a review of your past biopsy results, a conversation about your symptoms, goals, and expectations, and other imaging or lab work depending on the situation. If everything lines up and you're a good candidate, we'll walk you through the procedure, the recovery, and what kind of results to expect. So to recap, you may be a good candidate for RFA if you have a biopsy proven benign thyroid nodule, symptoms such as pressure, difficulty swallowing or visible swelling, a desire to avoid surgery or thyroid hormone replacement. You are not a good candidate if you have thyroid cancer, your nodule is suspicious for cancer, you haven't had a confirmed benign biopsy, or the nodule is very small and not causing any problems. If you're not sure where you fall, we're happy to help you figure that out. Visit us at our website or give us a call to schedule an appointment. We'll help you understand your options and find the right treatment plan for you. Thanks for watching. I'm James Woo. Take care and I'll see you next time.