 tPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPDPD or restriction. It's about how the body uses energy, how nutrition interacts with hormones, muscle, and metabolism to support strength, resilience, and long-term health. So today's conversation is about understanding that system, shifting the focus away from rigid rules, and instead toward how the body actually functions and what it needs to stay metabolically healthy over time. Joining me for this conversation is Dr. Vijaya Sirampoodi. Dr. Sirampoodi is an endocrinologist, the chief of clinical nutrition, and the director of UCLA's Medical Weight Management Clinic. Her work focuses on restoring metabolic health through food-forward nutrition education, adequate protein, whole foods, and sustainable habits grounded in evidence. And her work also includes nutrition oncology, particularly breast and gastrointestinal cancers, where metabolic health plays an especially important role in outcomes. Vijaya, I'm so glad to have you here. Welcome to the podcast. Thank you so much for having me. This is exciting. I'm glad to be here. I'm thrilled that you're here. We've been waiting a long time for you to come, and I have a gazillion questions for you. First, let's just kind of define what endocrinology is. So like that first step, and then we'll kind of go into some of the pituitary gland. But then, yes, I'd love to know how then you wanted to bring it all together. That makes perfect sense to me. So endocrinology often focuses on the study of hormones, how they interplay with the body. We often think about thyroid. We often think about diabetes. That's what we often think about endocrinology, but it's so much more complex than that. Everything's a feedback system. Even menopause, PCOS, common topics are all endocrine related. Pituitary, they often call it the master gland, where people talk about cortisol and growth hormone and those things, and that's how they regulate. So everything's tied together in a loop. Yeah. And that was the feedback loops. The feedback loops. So all of these are glands, writing, secreting these hormones, chemicals, all interacting together. Am I totally kind of got it right? I'm like really searching for, I mean, honestly, insulin was very challenging for me. And these are just like coming off your tongue, tripping off your tongue, but these are very complex topics. And I mean, a lot, a lot to learn. So I really appreciate you breaking it down. So, but so tell me more. So you're in there and you're right, doing diabetes. So kind of right. Sugar, you know, sugar management control, insulin, which is produced by the pancreas. I'm just showing off for my audience. And the thyroid. And did you, were you thinking that all these glands were kind of being treated individually, which is why you wanted to bring them together? It was kind of interesting, right? Like when you're talking to someone who has diabetes, they will often tell you they feel hungry. They'll keep eating and they feel hungry, but then their blood sugars keep going up. And so you start wondering where is the connection? Not like, why are they not feeling full? Yeah. Right. Like when they're eating, why are they not feeling full? And then you start looking at, you know, the hypothalamus where a lot of the satiety centers are. It's in the brain. It's in the brain. Yeah. And so you start looking at the pituitary and the hypothalamus and you're starting to look at, Oh, there's centers up here that help regulate appetite is the peripheral signaling. So from our like gut, yes, when we're eating, not connecting to our brain. Right. Exactly. And so what's going on. And so then here I am trying to like sort this out on my head and I was like, explain it to patients. And yeah, exactly. Like, how is this going on? And then there was a more fundamental piece in diabetes clinic. It was like, if I could actually teach you how to eat, you didn't need as much medicine. Um, and did you find people responded to that? I mean, is that what patients want to get off medicine or did you want that for them as their doctor? It was kind of both. What's interesting about nutrition and what I do is the patient and I are a team. Yes. I love hearing that. And so like when, when we're talking, right, you often, sometimes people will go to the doctor and they expect, okay, here's this medicine, take this medicine and everything will be better. When I, what I do is a little bit different. I'm in a negotiation a little bit. Um, is like, okay, so what can we do? What can we do better? And we work as a team because anything I say, they have to sort of execute. Yes, of course. It's a dialogue. Yes. And so like we're, you know, every interaction, I'm like, what is possible? What is possible? And we're always looking for consistency, not perfection, never perfection, because that sets us up for failure. I mean, this reminds me, we've talked about this a lot on this show, which is the shared decision making, which is you and your patients establishing goals and then informing them your decisions and care plans accordingly. Absolutely. I mean, ultimately, right. What we're really targeting when we're looking at lifestyle and nutrition is, um, often people talk about the word longevity and, and they link it to the word lifespan. But what I'm looking at is healthspan. Yeah. And so healthspan is how long can a person live without suffering, um, consequences of chronic diseases? Can I maximize that? Right. Lifespan just tells me how long somebody lives, right? It doesn't tell you anything about the quality of their life. I love it. Um, you know, so I have to, I have to confess this, that when I was, you know, um, doing a little bit of research for this, for this episode with you, with our team, I had to look up what nutrition meant because I think I was always thinking of food being synonymous with nutrition and it's not, I mean, right. Nutrition is the science of food or I will let you define it, but I would love to know how then, you know, when it comes to nutrition, um, but for you to define that in metabolism, you mentioned these hormones, right? So these kind of, these chemicals being secreted by glands all over our body, which are in connection with each other. Um, which hormones matter most then in this nutrition sort of arena? Yeah. I mean, I think ultimately everything's a feedback loop. So everything plays a different role and every individual is different. And so sometimes I'm having conversations of different hormones. Um, and, and often like you often hear about insulin. Sure. Yeah, absolutely. People talk about insulin a lot because insulin is important to mobilize nutrients and get it into cells for energy. Ultimately the role of insulin is either to put it into your cells for energy or, you know, stored as fat for later energy. And that's the role of energy energy. It's in, it's a shuttling of a hormone. I'm the other people, you know, they often talk about cortisol and stress and how that's all related. I mean, to be fair, having, you know, often people like, Oh, cortisol is high and that's why I'm not losing weight. It's an important hormone. Like if you're being chased down by a tiger, you need that cortisol working, um, that stress hormone. And so often you need access to quick energy and that's why the glucose will go up. Okay. So it's all connected. It's all connected. So trying to pair them apart is almost very difficult, which is, which is fair. And it makes sense. I mean, I don't think we can oversimplify it. So then in regards to, I guess, digestion, nutrition, you mentioned insulin and cortisol, any, any others that's, that are involved in glucose metabolism, glucose being, you know, for everyone listening, you know, sugar. Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, obviously, you know, hot topic right now is the GLP ones, the incretins, the GIP, glucagon. This has become a really hot topic because we've entered, you know, these medications have actually opened the dialogue. It's great. Um, to different conversations, to metabolism, obesity, nutrition, um, those kind of, you know, topics. And so interestingly enough, you know, a lot of the hormones secreted by the GI tract actually are the peripheral signals that are connecting to the brain telling you whether you're hungry or you're not hungry. Okay. So we have a hormone called ghrelin coming from the stomach. It really sounds like a character. I know. Ghrelin. I know. A little gremlin running across. Totally. Exactly. Yeah. Hungry eat. And it tells you to eat, um, when the stomach stretches a little bit, it's asking you to eat. Oh, so that's so interesting. So the stomach stretches, so that mechanical stretching of the stomach is what prompts the release of ghrelin. It can. That's interesting. Um, like even chewing gum actually, like, you know, can send saliva down. It's like priming your mouth. Yes. And like secretes hormones. And you know, one of the things that people forget is that digestion begins in your mouth and there's something called nutrient sensing. So that means if you put something in your mouth, it actually can start to identify, Oh, I have a protein in my mouth. Oh, I have a carbohydrate in my mouth. And it starts telling the GI tract to start releasing some of these hormones. And so one of the things that we often talk about in, in like nutrition education is like, Hey, you know, sometimes, um, the order of the food can help you. Okay. Tell me more. Um, so help you in what way? It can help you feel more full depending how you eat. So you want to feel fuller. Exactly. Okay. If that's the goal. Okay. And so like if someone, um, eats protein or fiber, high fiber first, it actually starts, it's that they're potent stimulators of GLP one endogenously. And dot, we define endogenous for everyone. Yeah. So within the body, right? So GLP ones, which we hear a lot about, and we'll, I'm sure we'll be getting into throughout. Um, where is that actually secreted from? The small intestine, small intestine. Okay. Okay. So certain foods though. And so endogenous music, we secreted ourselves from the small intestine and protein and fiber actually stimulate it, stimulate its release, its release. And so when people are trying to feel more full, you often want to have them start with something like that is high in fiber, like a soup or a salad or something like that. Um, protein will also amino acids are very potent stimulators of GLP ones. That's why people try to eat a higher protein intake often, um, when trying to lose weight. Wait, this is so interesting. I always thought that it was, I love that I'm sharing my ignorance, but I always thought that it was the protein itself that made you full. You know what I mean? But you're saying, is that the case? Or in addition, it's also because of the GLP one. Well, it's because the protein in that nutrient sensing, it's stimulating all these hormones to do its job. It's so fascinating because it takes longer to digest protein. Yes. You have to slow your GI track down because how does GLP one work? GLP one works by slowing the digestion down, telling your brain, you're not hungry and also asking the pancreas to push out more insulin, right? I'm always talking about insulin and energy storage and things like energy. So it's all tied. It's all linked. Um, it's so linked. I mean, it's just fascinating, even just visually. I mean, just for people listening, I mean, thinking about this interplay between you put something in your mouth, right? And then the small intestine, the pancreas, the brain, it's all working in sync and it's very, very coordinated. Yes. It's fascinating. Um, and so, but I, I, I'm really interested how you tie it all to energy. Yeah. Right. So you're putting, you're talking about energy being either utilized or used or stored in the cells. Yeah. And like, ultimately what's the goal of eating? It's like, it's like thinking about it like a car, right? You put gas in your car. So it goes food is yeah. Food is just that right. Fuel, energy, right. Fuel, it's energy, it's vitamins, it's minerals. You know, food is such a complex thing. Um, you know, often I get a lot of questions in clinic about supplements, right? Yeah. Tell me what kind of questions do you get? Um, I eat, my favorite console is the, I get a whole bag of like 20 supplements and it's like, do I need these things? And they're individual vitamins and minerals. Okay. Um, B12, vitamin D, you know, there's some common ones obviously. Um, but then I start, you know, getting other vitamins and minerals in there. But the thing that I always tell people is like, I cannot recreate the food matrix with individual vitamins and minerals. And turmeric is a perfect example of this. Um, often people take turmeric for the anti-inflammatory benefits. Uh, what's interesting is we don't actually know the dose that we need. Like what, what, which dose actually has an, an anti-inflammatory effect. Right. And then the other piece is a lot of these supplements may not be paired with like a lipid or a fat to help the absorption. Um, pepper or peppering actually increases the absorption of turmeric by 2000%. So like, um, so it really depends on what else is in your belly. Exactly. And so like that food matrix is so complex. So when you're cooking, right, right. Let alone when you're cooking and something is actually heated. Right. Right. And so like, how does that get into your body? Like what is being utilized? I cannot recreate that with individual supplements. Interesting. So, so for your answer then as an example of turmeric is you don't know, we don't know, we don't know, it could be helpful. Um, you know, oftentimes, especially I work in the breast clinic, you know, does have interactions with some of the medications, um, for our breast cancer treatment. So we often recommend not to take turmeric. So, because we don't know if you're using it in cooking, we're going to not say to stop it, but if you're taking it in a capsule, we might. And I, this is a great time just to pause and tell everyone, no matter what doctor, what kind of doctor you're seeing, when you're asked what medications you're taking, always include your supplements. Absolutely. Because they are technically medications, even though. Absolutely. And they interact with other medications, but you're saying treatments, et cetera. That's very, very good. Yeah. Um, before we get more into, you know, the, the hormones that are in, you know, kind of more involved with nutrition, I, I do think, and you, you mentioned the thyroid hormone being part of the endocrinology, you know, spectrum. I do think a lot of people associate thyroid. Um, is there, you know, my weight isn't what I want it to be. Is there an issue with my thyroid? Can you just talk a little bit about how the thyroid fits into the picture or doesn't? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it absolutely, you know, one of the things that the active form of thyroid, um, is often called T3. Um, so most people don't check it cause you don't need to check a T3 and your regular visits. Um, but it is the active form. So when we take a medicine or even in our body, the inactive form is T4 and it's converted to T3. That active form T3 contributes to your metabolism. So if it's on the low side, it can contribute to some weight gain. If it's on the high side, you can lose weight. And so it's, it's interplay with the metabolism and how fast you're burning your calories. And I guess we could add to that. I mean, you tell me what you think, but in my primary care practice, I've rarely seen a thyroid problem just manifest with a weight gain or a weight loss. There are other symptoms that come along when there is too much or too little thyroid hormone. Yes, absolutely. It often like, you know, people will talk about their skin texture, their hair feeling really tired. It might even be like they feel down. Yes. Yes, absolutely. And digestion. Yeah. Right. A constipation or from the flip side, if you have an overactive thyroid, it could be diarrhea. Like you're losing weight too quickly. Again, your hair is falling out. Just your skin is different, but you're already making me think about this in a different way. Even, even with that example of, again, you know, just food entering the mouth and the interplay because, right. So even thyroid hormone doesn't, it's not that it just acts on one organ. Right. Right. So everything is connected. And I think that this feedback loop, I mean, I don't know what you think. It just, it's such a, it's just an amazing, I think, reflection of how our bodies work. Right. I mean, they're really, our body is in constant dialogue with itself. Absolutely. And like every body is different. And so like that individualization, like when we're tailoring, even when you come into clinic, we'll tailor kind of nutrition plans, depending on your medications, what your medical background is, because the interplay in everyone's body is different. Yes. Very different. I mean, and I'll just ask this too. And again, just in terms of which hormones matter most, you know, when it comes to nutrition, do estrogen and progesterone, you know, those are hormones as well. Do those have any influence on, you know, nutrition or metabolism? Yeah. I mean, great question. You know, often I get into conversations a lot around perimenopause and menopause. And, and this is a common thing I hear, like, I'm doing all the right things. I've entered my forties. I don't understand that why I'm gaining weight. And as estrogen falls in the body, that also affects our muscle. And I think that question comes up a lot. Like, does your metabolism actually change, you know, as you're, you know, going into perimenopause? But it sounds like your answer would be, I would say yes, because you're losing muscle mass. So 70 to 80% of glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent occurs in your muscle cells. And so, and then in addition, then a lot of that muscle mass for good reason, right? In the past, because, and again, I could go into this topic for a long time because I also think everyone needs serotonin because we aren't living the same way that we used to. But, um, so that's actually being converted into fat. Like nobody's imagining this or the distribution of your muscles. Okay. Because what's happening here is, is that when we eat carbohydrates or say food and ultimately it gets converted into glucose again, I'm just talking about energy, energy, and I have less muscle cells to utilize glucose. If 70 to 80% of glucose utilization is in the muscles, insulin has to do something with that glucose. Yes. And it'll move it to fat as a protective measure. Mm-hmm. I mean, what do your patients say when you say this to them? It's sort of like, I often see a light bulb go on. I, I, do you see my light bulb? Yeah. I'm shining bright. Yeah. Like a diamond. Yes. It's all of a sudden they, like, they don't feel gaslit a little bit. Absolutely. Yeah. Because I think a lot of times people are just like, you're imagining it. I'm like, no, of course you're not imagining it. And it also goes back to what you're saying too. And I would love to reassure everyone and get everyone to move away from this. Like I'm doing everything right. Yeah. You know, whatever right means. So I think in a way too, first of all, it's, it's, there's nothing wrong with, with having a greater fat or, you know, I mean, or, or muscle distribution. I think we're, we're going to be health oriented here, right? Yeah. But, um, I think people aren't imagining things. And so I do think that they feel gaslit. Yeah. And so they come in to clinic and then they're all of a sudden like, oh yeah, I do feel that that's exactly what's happening. Yeah, they do. They feel it. And it's really this matching then of this, like, of this education and science, you know, with really how we're feeling. And so I, I love, this is like one of my favorite things to like, actually like highlight. Yes. I love learning this. This is wonderful. And so it's like, we can use, you know, lifestyle modifications as a tool to, to propel this forward. Right. Cause then it informs actually then exactly to your point, are we going to spend more time doing a resistance training, building more muscle, you know, much more intentionally or eating more protein. And I guess, um, I did want to, you know, I was just touching on this a little bit too, which is, um, my impression of your incredible practice in your approach to nutrition is that you do focus more on metabolic health than body size. I'm just wondering if maybe for our listeners, you could, you know, help make that distinction. Yeah. I mean, you know, one of the biggest things is that we're trying to separate from weight as a number, as a metric for health, because it's just a number. It's meaningless. It doesn't mean anything. I mean, like technically, right. Physics, force equals mass times acceleration, right? Like it's just a number. And so, um, when we're looking at the body, we're really looking at metabolic health and we're really looking at body composition. So like percent body fat, how much muscle does somebody have? Um, and trying to maintain that over time, because again, having a, uh, trying to limit sarcopenia in the body, well, actually. And the sarcopenia again, for everyone is just low muscle mass. Low muscle mass and increased percent body fat. And, and so if we can try to prevent that, that's going to improve health span. Can I ask you something quickly? So the sarcopenia, because everyone should know these words. Um, so definitely we're going to see that as we get older, right. As we just discussed, I mean, we talked about that with estrogen going down. Does that also happen as men age? Absolutely. Yes. Okay. And then, and then you said, as it just starts at age 30, so everyone should care. Everyone should care. Like, this is not just like, oh, I can like delay this till I'm like 70. No, like we should start thinking about this in our thirties. Okay. No, it makes, it makes total sense. And so, you know, both of us caring more about metabolic health, right. Than just this arbitrary number. But the point of the metabolic health, how your body uses energy is obviously going to have a, have an important effect on, um, things like your cardiovascular health, right? So you're like your, your blood vessels, your heart, et cetera. So why is it important though, to be metabolically healthy? Ultimately, we're trying to delay chronic disease, right? We often think about high blood pressure. We think about cholesterol things. It's interesting. Um, this is more of a nutrition tidbit. Caloric restriction is excellent for helping blood pressure. Um, because what ends up happening is that if you re, if you reduce your calorie intake just a little bit, you start accessing your glycogen stores and glycogen is where, how glucose is stored in your liver or your muscle. Okay. Um, and you, this is the energy storage, energy storage, but it's also got so much water in it. So when you access it, you start urinating a lot more and it lowers your blood pressure. So like when you embark often, you know, people will say, oh, you know, when they're trying to lose weight, they'll say, oh, I lost a lot of water weight the first couple of weeks, but then they also noticed their blood pressure is better. Interesting. Um, and then like with how nutrition plays with like, um, often we forget about fiber. I never forget about fiber, but tell me more, but like cholesterol, right? We often talk about people's cholesterol. Um, fiber actually is one of the most important nutrition tools to actually lower the LDL. They've done studies where people who had a higher intake of fiber actually needed lower, um, statin doses. Okay. And LDL for everyone is, is one of the lipid or cholesterol, um, uh, uh, pieces. We literally call it pieces. It stands for low density lipoprotein, but it's a marker of, um, cholesterol. Yeah. And so like all these things are all tied to our metabolism, how we eat. It's really about dietary patterns. I think one of the things that people always fixate on is they think of macronutrients. They talk about protein, they talk about carbohydrates, they talk about fats, these like big groups, these big groups, but ultimately it's a dietary pattern because you need vitamins, you need minerals, you need fiber, you need all of these things to fuel your body. Right. In concert. Exactly. Yeah. I know. And that's not going to match with like a protein trend. Yes. Right. Yeah. And so like, I mean, the dietary guidelines recently. Tell us. Yes. Um, we have, I want to know what you, what you think. Yeah. So the dietary guidelines are interesting. Um, they, they made some good push towards like using whole foods and real foods, which I think everyone in the nutrition world is like, yes, that is a good thing. And what, how would you define a whole food? And so it's like anything that you can like eat or cook that has, it's minimally processed is what I would say. And so I guess that leads us into the conversation is what is a processed food? Um, um, and, and so I think the best way to describe it is every food almost has some degree of processing. Cause if you manipulate it in any way, it's been, if you cook broccoli, you're processing, you're processing it. So there's minimally processed and those ultra processed. And I think the big push is to get away from the ultra processed foods. Okay. And to me, um, I always say this, it's like, if you can find it in a gas station, it's probably an ultra processed food. Don't eat it. Um, so it's in a package. Other things are variable. Technically, you know, yogurt is processed, but it's a healthy food. It would be considered a healthy like option for some people. Um, and so really like looking into that. So I think that was one of the biggest focuses on the set of dietary guidelines is trying to move away from ultra processed foods. Okay. The other thing was the stricter sugar guidelines. So more reduction in sugar. Um, I think that was another good push on these guidelines. What's interesting and maybe slightly controversial and the math isn't mathing exactly is that, you know, there was, you know, an uptake. They're like, oh, you can eat, um, butter, beef tallow, um, red meat, but they're still saying that 10%, you should limit your calories for saturated fats to less than 10%. So if you increase these, that's not mathing. It's not mathing. But let's explain it though for everyone because it's, it is quite, quite confusing. I mean, I was, I was even encouraged my own kids. I'm like, look at the back of, you know, our milk carton and break, you know, break down the ingredients and we can probably do that at length, but I'll, I'll let you kind of break down just this. What's the saturated fats? Yeah. So there's, you know, we often talk about in the nutrition world, like types of fats, we talk about trans fats, saturated fats, and mono and polyunsaturated fats. And so those, the healthy fats that we call them often are more plant oriented. So like olives, nuts, like, um, you'll think about avocados, avocados. Exactly. Those are more quote unquote, healthy fats. Um, the only, and we need those. Yeah. We're going for balance. We're going for balance and we absolutely need them because hormones are made of fat. I did not know that they have a fat layer, like our neurons or our brain cells. They're layered with fat. We do need fat. Fat needs a new PR manager. Yes, it does. It's funny. I did this like article where someone asked me, what is a nutrition myth you wish would die? And it was fats are bad. That's the myth I wish would die. It's dying right here. Yeah. Okay. All fats are not bad. Yes. All fats are not bad. Okay, good. I love it. And so trans fats, we all agree are bad. And those are, you know, they typically are the ultra processed foods. They might have like any frying or deep frying changes the chemical structure of a fat and that's how trans fat appears. So delicious though. Okay. So French fry. Yeah. A French fry. Okay. Okay. So saturated fats have this like nebulous space. Okay. Um, and saturated fats are often found in animal byproducts. So like whole milk, which is also another change in the dietary guidelines that they're pushing more whole milk. Um, what do you think's behind that? The pushing of the whole milk? I think the, it's more often they think it has less additives to it. Um, so dairy processing is interesting. So what they do is they, they get the milk and then when they're pasteurizing, they also like remove the fat and then put it back in. Mm-hmm. Um, when you don't put fat back into something, you need more stabilizers or emulsifiers to like hold the milk together. Right. Make sure it doesn't expire. Exactly. And so that's, I think that was the logic, but it also increases saturated fat. Um, you know, and so butter and beef tallow, they also have higher saturated fat and you have like this kind of funny, um, you have hyper responders to saturated fats and you have under responders. So there's a range. So you will tell, you will hear people often say, Hey, I eat a ton. Oh, people are the responders. I was like, is that a hormone? Okay. No, no, no. Okay. Yeah. I was like, tell me more. Okay. So when some people eat saturated fats, their LDLs will shoot up over 200. I see. So they, they, they really kind of respond and absorb those, that saturated fat. And then it's reflected in their cholesterol markers. Correct. And so there's a question on like, okay, then, then it gets really nuanced. And this is where you need a lipidologist. I was like, I'm going to be parroting you for like weeks. Okay. Um, where, you know, is it the, you know, what size is the LDL? Right. It's very complex. It's very complex. And then you have the other person who can eat a lot of saturated fat and nothing happens to their LDL. So is that a lot of that genetics, do you think? It is a lot of, again, how you process and metabolize. Well, you already said this, right. We got to individualize, we have to individualize everything. And so I think that's where the math wasn't exactly like, you know, but ultimately the role of a physician or, you know, working with anyone is like, you take the guidelines, you take the individual, you take the best practices and then you create it as the best practice for that person. Yeah. I love that. And so it's like, not exactly. It's an art of course. Yes, it is. But something that, even though I love chat, chat can't do. Yeah. I cannot do this for you. No, um, this is what, this is wonderful to hear. So, um, right. So it's even, it's like, I can't even kind of ask you the question. What exactly do you sort of recommend or prescribe? You really have these conversations and dialogues depending. Yeah. I mean, there's broad strokes of guidelines, you know, but, um, I appreciate again, that you're not like, this is the one right way to do it. No, that doesn't exist. And everyone is different and we have to keep adapting. The other interesting piece in the dietary guideline last, but not least, and one of the most hotly debated topics currently in the, in the country right now is protein. Yes. They upped the protein goals. They went to 1.2 to 1.6 grams of, um, protein per kilogram. Don't you love that they use grams? I mean, I don't know about anyone else who grew up in this country, but do grams mean anything to you? Cause I always have to pick up my calculator and be like times 2.2. Yeah. I mean, and the first I have to remember that it's 2.2. So, okay. But yes. Okay. So what, what did it used to be? And now it's, yeah, they used to recommend 0.8 and they bumped it to 1.2 to 1.6. Um, which, you know, you have people on two, two spectrums here when it comes to the protein debate, you have people saying that Americans already get enough protein, adequate protein, and like, you don't need to worry about this. And then you have another grouping that believes like we're not getting enough protein. Um, they need to eat more protein, but I really think the right answer here is dietary quality. Okay. Because it's a different conversation. Um, protein quality is different. And so you mean amongst different foods amongst different foods. And so often like when you read a cereal box, just for example, you'll see, okay, it has seven grams of protein, but what does that mean? Right. And then it's like, then it, then it lists next to it in, if you have it with a half a cup of whole milk, right? Right. What does it mean? Yeah. So when we measure protein on a food label, it actually is just the nitrogen content. It is not actual protein. So like you can, they can add things that have higher nitrogen content. So when we eat, why do we care about protein? We're trying to eat essential amino acids that our body cannot make. So that means there are non-essential amino acids. So amino acids are the building blocks of protein and there are non-essential and essential. Essential is the ones we cannot, our body cannot make by itself. So we have to eat it. That doesn't get differentiated on a box. And so like, it's just the nitrogen content. So that's why food quality is the... So is nitrogen even a nitrogen isn't a protein? It's part of the, it's part of the molecule. So it's measuring parts of the molecules of these different amines, but some of them could be non-essential amino acids. And so this is why we're talking about like food quality. And so... Where's someone to get this food quality information? Like I'm listening, you're blowing my mind. I actually have a medical background and I'm, you know, I'm not overwhelmed, but I'm like, okay, I need a lot of clarification. So what's the average person like myself supposed to do in terms of how am I supposed to know what a good quality protein is and how that's reflected on a nutrition label? Right. And so I think it's like really, when you're looking at it, you're, when you're looking at a food label, one, we're trying to like limit the number of ingredients. Ingredients. Yes. Right. So the less ingredients, the less processing probably. Exactly. And then if you can find them in your kitchen, it's probably better. Okay. So if you can find those ingredients in your kitchen, it's probably a better thing. Okay. Um, and so like, you're looking for more like whole foods. So like if you're vegetarian, tofu, edamame, lentils, these are good sources. If you're, you know, um, an omnivore and you eat everything, you can like do eggs, you can do, um, cottage cheese, you can do chicken, you know, different like fish and fish is a great protein source also. And so like you have different options, but it's like, you should be able to identify what you're eating. So, I mean, why, what, what's behind all of this? Because I, I absolutely am inhaling my cottage cheese as well, but yeah. Um, yeah. What, what's behind it all? Like, and where's the good sort of push behind it and then where's to balance sort of the recs? Absolutely. And I, I do think, you know, there was a reason that they did push up to 1.2 to 1.6. A lot of the data has been showing, like, if we're trying to prevent sarcopenia, like building in the exercise and your protein together needs to happen. Right. And earlier in your life and earlier in your life. So you need adequate protein to build that muscle. So the push is happening there. I think, you know, some people are concerned that like there are people who don't know that they have kidney disease and like, it could be too high for them. Right. Or you're eating so much protein, but then you're not getting those healthy fats and fiber in. Right. And so we're missing others. So like, we don't want to dominate one. We need everything. It's about a dietary pattern. Yes. It's not just like one macronutrient is more important than the other. We need all of it. Okay. That makes so much sense. I can't wait to tell my girls this when I get home. Um, and so, and so this kind of brings me back to then the, the GLP ones, which you were mentioning in terms of, especially again, you know, I think you've described this metabolic framework, which is so I think helpful, but also just so healthy, you know, for some, so many ways. So, um, how do GLPs then fit into this bigger picture? You talked a little bit about what they're doing in the body, but even just kind of, um, I guess from the protein perspective, I think that you mentioned, um, they slow down the digestion. The digestion. Yeah. So, I mean, if we're talking about the GLP ones in general, as a conversation, one of the things and concerns that has come up on just say the medications, are we talking, I guess? Sure. Yeah. Um, you know, the medications have opened up the conversation a lot when it came up to nutrition and kind of these conversations that are happening a lot more, um, because they curb the hunger so much. One thing that we do, you know, in our clinics notice is sometimes actually people could be malnourished and dehydrated. It is not, unfortunately, a thing that does happen in our clinic is that we do have to send them to the emergency room because they're not intaking enough or getting enough water. Right. And that, and that's an extreme, but I mean, I think that all of us have, you know, friends or patients and right there, there's a concern about not getting enough nourishment and nourishment is different than just pounds. Correct. The weight and nourishment have nothing to do with each other for me because you can be on a GLP one and losing weight, but be malnourished, but not be actually underweight because you're not in malnourished because you're not eating food and you then you're not processing for energy, right? Or storing it as energy. Correct. And you're not utilizing, you're not getting the vitamins and minerals. I've weirdly hydrating, you're not hydrating. I have diagnosed my first case of Pelagra. Can you, what is Pelagra is basically a vitamin B3 deficiency. Um, and they were on a GLP one because they weren't getting their adequate nutrition. And so like, these are things we read in textbooks. I was going to say, I've not heard that word since medical school. Right. And so like, um, there was another case of scurvy, like there are, which is a vitamin C deficiency. So these are extreme. I'm just, I'm being extreme. No, people need to know because I mean, the, the, this is what I think how we feel about a lot of, you know, medications, that they are useful tools, but they are not a solve all. They're not a panacea. And often they have to be coupled with right. Yes. Good nutrition, good nutrition, a lifestyle program to lifestyle program. Like people who are in, you know, utilizing GLP ones as a therapy to help their metabolic health should also be engaged in a lifestyle program. Because one of the big things that people have been concerned about when relooking at the original data is are people losing muscle mass too quickly? Right. Right. And often it looks like that. So what, what's in the, what's in the lifestyle program? So, yeah. Um, and so a lot in our clinics, we have several different clinics that we, we have, we have our insurance based clinics, clinical nutrition, and then we also have our more concierge style clinic. It's a weight management clinic. And we really do body compositions actually regularly. We do blood work, EKGs, body compositions, um, and monitor them very regularly. And we match their protein goals to their lean body weight actually based on their body composition. So we do it a little bit differently. We do use the lean body weight, um, as our marker, for how much protein somebody needs. And are these people that are coming in because, um, who's the, who are the patients that are coming in? I mean, I'm curious sort of for, you know, anyone listening. So, and I guess this is not gonna be a great question because we talked about that has to be individualized, but I guess broad strokes, um, when we say kind of the pairing, if someone's going to be on a GLP one or really, you know, I guess another form. And again, I, I should back up and say that these medications were originally developed for diabetes, meaning, you know, glucose control. So there's lots of reasons that our people are on, you know, these medications, but I guess kind of just broad strokes when we say pairing being on these medications or any weight loss or any glucose controlling kind of regimen. What do we mean by like the lifestyle complements? Yeah. And so like really, you know, someone should be assessing their nutrition, like periodically ask me, Hey, taking me, take me through what you've been eating. Take me through like how much water you're getting in. Are you exercising regularly? What's that exercise look like? Are you hitting your nutrition goals? Are you getting enough fiber? One, you know, often some of the complications can be avoided if you're actually hitting your nutrition goals. So anyone who's on a GLP one, it sounds like though, really should be talking to, you know, a clinical, you know, nutrition expert like yourself, like, cause you really should be talking about these nutrition goals. Yes. Okay. I think that's really important to talk about because I don't think a lot of people are doing that. Yeah. Do you? Or not enough? Not enough. And, and so like, and obviously, um, it, it's hard to find people that know both really well, right? They know the medication and they know the lifestyle piece, but the expertise is really there. Yeah. I mean, I just, I just think that's very important because I think that the, the concern about being malnourished, like you're saying, dehydrated. I have a lot of patients who are on GLP ones and yeah, they're very, very constipated as an example, or, you know, people worry, they're like, oh, I have the ozempic face or I have, um, you know, other, other features. I'm guessing, right. A lot of it is because you've lost weight too fast or you're not have, don't have enough protein, right. All of the above. But, um, but like you're saying, it's not just one, it's not just, um, oh, you need to eat enough protein. You're on a GLP one or, or in general, you know, and you need to be, you know, adhering to this new protein guideline. Like that's not enough. Yeah. There's all these groups. There's all these groups. You have to have a balance. You have to get all the nutrition to support your body. And then there's this whole piece of right. Like I often get questions of, can I get off the drug? Yes. Tell me what you say. And, and to me, these medications are long-term medications. What they've been seeing is that if someone discontinues, there was a recent study that actually came out this month. It was a review of, it was a review. It was in BMJ, I believe, um, 36 studies. And they found that people, if they discontinued abruptly with no plan, they regained the weight four times faster than any other like lifestyle kind of weight loss program. So, and tell me what no plan means that. So they're not talking to someone on, so there's different ways we don't actually have, people are looking into it. The data is starting to come out, but, um, it's, you know, do we taper the dose? Do we lower the dose? Do we extend the timeframe? Do we, you know, how do we do that? Or do we, in addition to that, you know, really start aiming, you know, you need to hit like 30 grams of protein per meal and 15 grams of fiber. Oh, I see. So really, really then create like a, a meal plan around it. Uh, yes. Right. A food plan around it. A food plan to like, try to stimulate the GLP one from the body. Um, or is it, should we be using, you know, some of the, you know, older generation weight loss medications or like trying to bridge somebody like, uh, or, you know, in that framework, like, but the data is not there yet. We don't know how to off ramp. Not yet. Not yet. It's amazing. I mean, it's, I think they're really, really amazing medications and it's just seems like we're just kind of, and I know they've been around for a while, correct? Yeah. But it just seems like, um, we're just on this precipice of learning so much more, especially even how they affect people psychologically. It's just really interesting. What, what are your thoughts about, um, I guess, micro dosing? A lot of people are micro dosing them. Yeah. And I think it's interesting. I think we still have a lot of, you know, questions around micro dosing and everyone defines micro dosing a little bit differently. Yeah. Some people it's like the lowest dose of the prescribed medication and, um, versus compounding, right? Like, um, I don't know if we're getting into compound. Oh yeah, no, please define it. Absolutely. Yeah. Um, so compounding is when, um, we have other pharmacies saying that they're getting research grade, um, semaglutide or trisepatide and then reconstituting it, um, and then providing it to the patients versus, you know, the one that's being prescribed through the manufacturer itself. There's, you know, there's a difference, right, between compounding and the prescribed. And I think the biggest difference is that, you know, with the compounding, it's not necessarily FDA regulated. Right. So it's like hard to know exactly what you're getting. And so one of the biggest issues that it's hard to dose, yeah, it makes it extraordinarily hard to dose because, um, one of the biggest issues is that, um, it's a salt actually. So it's semaglutide sodium or semaglutide acetate. Um, the actual medication in like the prescribed medications is a base. So there are two different compounds. The salt's never been tested for human safety. And so when it's reconstituted, however they do it, um, we don't know how much is in there. It's often the active ingredient may be less. So like if someone is thinking they're taking one milligram of a compounded, um, it may not be the same as a one milligram of the actual. And so when people ask me, they come to me, they're like, I'm on the compounded. Can you switch me over? And then they're upset because I'm like dropping their dose because I'm like, I don't, or they don't, right. They're noticing that they're not, it's not having the same effect. Right. Yeah. No, but that's a really, I mean, that's a really good explanation. Um, it's hard. I mean, I think that what's hard is that it's, it's, it's such a terrific tool for, you know, for a lot of, um, reasons and at least right now it's, you know, not accessible to everyone, right? So then people are definitely going to be getting it from different places, but the education helps a lot. Just remembering, you know, kind of what's safest. And again, that's, that's why we're always encouraging people, you know, just tell us exactly what you're on, where you're getting it, you know, no judgment, bring your supplements in because all those things are also going to, you know, interact and impact how it's metabolized. We'd rather know than not know. Definitely. Because we want, we want to help. We want to help and keep you safe. Like our ultimate goal is to support everyone on their journey, their health journey. And so it's better to know than not know. It's better to know. Um, so, um, who, from a clinical perspective, um, who are the DLP one medications most appropriate for, you know, it's, we, it's currently approved for anyone with the BMI of 30 and above and BMI is of 27 with a comorbidity. And so BMI is the body mass index, which it sounds like, I'm, I don't know. What do you even think about that metric? Are we still using that? So currently that's what the insurance companies are using. And so this is a different conversation. Yeah. Yeah. It's frustrating. Um, so the insurance companies currently, um, there's been a lot of changes this past month on coverage. And I think that even in the past month, in the past month. And so as of January 1st, you know, some of the insurance companies have decided to take, you know, the stand, we're not covering any weight loss medications. And some of them are saying, okay, BMI over 40. Um, some of them are saying, you know, previously Medi-Cal was covering it. It's not covering it anymore except for certain situations. I think, you know, if someone has sleep, severe to moderate sleep apnea, um, uh, MAPLD, you know, certain, what was the last word? Um, MAPLD. Oh, oh, the fatty liver disease. Oh, right. Oh, right. Oh, yes. Yes. Sorry. Yes. I needed that acronym broken out for me. Um, and I just want to, if I could stop you too, I, for our listeners too, it just reminds me too, that, you know, sometimes, right. You, you go and you see a doctor like myself or, or, um, Dr. Samputi and, um, right. We, we, we have to sometimes mark things in terms of like insurance codes so that they, you know, your insurance company will pay for a medication. And some of those are just like, again, like when you say BMI or body mass index of 40 for the insurance company, it's a word usually, right. Associated with obesity. It tells us nothing truly about your, about your overall metabolic health. It doesn't tell us whether your blood pressure is up. Um, it doesn't tell us what your cardiovascular fitness level is, right. It doesn't. And that's where body composition is way more important. And I think, you know, there was a new metric that came out recently that hasn't picked up yet, but I think they're looking at the body roundness index, body roundness. Okay. You tell me. And so it's like, we're like spherical. They basically was mathematical modeling, um, where we're like, they created a sphere out of the human body and like you measure your waist circumference and then you input all these numbers and it, um, kind of tells you your metabolic risk and they felt like it was better mathematical modeling and metabolic risk meaning, you know, um, tell me what you mean by metabolic risk. So, you know, people who are increased risk for metabolic consequences, cholesterol issues, high blood pressure issues, high sugar issues, those kinds of things, like people who are more increased risk for chronic disease. Um, what's like funny is that BMI was never meant to be used as a clinical tool. It was meant for population health. It was designed by an epidemiologist from Belgium. I think if I remember correctly, um, in the 1800s, yeah, we really have to like right size, no pun intended. Like, I mean, cause it just doesn't make any sense and it's preventing, I think a lot of people, you know, from getting, you know, prescriptions they need or want, you know what I mean? Or at least have a conversation, you know, have access to. And so like what to me and often I have this conversation with people that come to me and they're like, I really think I would benefit from a GLP one. And I'm like, I think that you would, the insurance company is a different conversation. And so like we're having two different conversations being like, it's don't, it's not that I don't think that it's needed. And on the flip side and on the flip side, you know, you, there could be a quote unquote, what looks like an elevated number of BMI, but not necessarily mean that you need to do anything. Right. I just think it's important. I mean, I think it's very, very important to frame weight by metabolic health. I mean, like I'm a perfect example. I'm South Asian. We are the poster children of metabolic health issues at what looks like normal weight. And so that's where body composition, I think is really important. I can have a percent, a high percent, like sitting in front of you, like I could be at this weight, have a high percent body fat and have be very high risk for diabetes and heart disease. Um, whereas like someone else would not be just by the nature of genetic backgrounds. Mm-hmm. Right. And, um, it's interesting. We had one of our colleagues, Dr. Ravi Daveyan, who's a cardiologist, and he has talked a lot about why, um, South Asians have a higher predisposition to cholesterol. And you mentioned, it made me think of our conversation earlier, um, in our conversation about, um, uh, 300 or 400 years ago, right? Because he was telling us about how, um, there was a history of famines. Yep. Right. So I'll let you finish that, but it's what it made me think of. I mean, like we're a culture that like, you know, we have a high percentage of people who are vegetarian, right? Like you often associate being vegetarian or vegan, like this epitome of health, but like you have a high population that tends to lean that way anyways, and they're still metabolically not the best. Right. Right. But it's, again, and it's, it's, it's that we, we can't just look at just like a, you know, a collection of numbers. Right. It's so helpful. Um, are there ways, I guess, to, um, uh, for best for people to manage, I guess, blood glucose or blood sugar after meals, that's when it's highest. And it just, I mean, some people are on these, on the, on GLP ones, but for people who are not, and in general, is there better ways to sort of eat our food? You mentioned food order. Yeah. Is there anything else that you kind of recommend about like the way we eat and what we do kind of around our meals? Yeah. I mean, definitely food order seems to play a role. There's a few studies that came out of New York supporting this. Like if you ate protein and fiber first, your blood sugars would be lower overall through the meal, um, because you've slowed your digestion down. So you're not spiking your blood sugar. Um, so that's one thing you could go for a walk after meal. There was this study about fidgeting, leg fidgeting actually. So like you could sit here and like fidget your legs and it would actually lower your blood sugar. So like, um, so any form of movement after eating can help like regulate blood sugar, um, having more muscle mass overall, right? So 80% of glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent is in your muscle. Cause it has a place to go. Exactly. Oh, interesting. Okay. And so like often I get consults with my women and they'll tell me I have pre-diabetes, but you know, they'll have a, like they're, they're in the healthy range or lower normal. And they're like, I don't understand how I have pre-diabetes. I'm like, it's cause you need more muscle. I'm going to tell you to eat more and build muscle. Right. Oh my God. I mean, I think this is going to be a relief for so many people. Cause I, people, a lot of people are like, I'm not eating sugar. Yeah. Although while we're talking about that, I, cause I think everyone deserves this education, including myself, you know, sugars aren't just in candies and cookies, right? So maybe you could tell us like, where else are there sugars? So the body, you know, when we eat carbohydrates, like, um, it can be anything from like sweet potatoes. It could be pasta, pasta, it could be bread, anything tortillas, rice. Yes. All of those, like our body will break it down, um, into glucose ultimately into the body. Fruit has it vegetables, like all foods, again, they're not isolated. It's not like you eat a vegetable and it's all fiber or, you know, yes. And fiber technically is a carbo anyways. No, but I think it's hard. I mean, cause again, I, I really, I really want to relieve everyone from like, I'm, I'm doing everything right. Like there is nothing right. And like you're saying, foods have so many different ingredients and different properties. Um, but it is important to know, but this is really interesting too, right? I mean, if, if you're eating protein or you're eating carbohydrates and the sugar has nowhere to go, but into, um, fats or sugars, right? Exactly. And so, um, really increasing, like really focusing. It's funny. There's a meme out there, um, that said, what do I have in common with my teenage son? We're both obsessed with protein and resistance training. Yeah. Yes. And we all, and I guess you'd say like we all, we probably should be. Yeah. We, especially obsessed, but yes. Yeah. Um, we're all gym rats now. Right. Um, but yeah, it's funny cause my patients, like they'll come into my clinic and they know I don't expect everything to be magically perfect the next time we meet. It's like, I just want to help them get to where they want to go. And like yesterday I was seeing a patient who I realized, you know, I've seen her for over 10 years. Um, she's gone with both my pregnancies through like with me and like, I was like, wow, we really do have a long term relationship, but she's probably the healthiest she's ever been. And it's taken us 10 years to get her here. So it's a long term journey. Yeah. Like it's not going to be magically fixed overnight, like instant. No, because we're human beings. I mean, how lucky to be on the ride together. Yeah. So I love being on people's journeys with them because like, I'm here to be a cheerleader on the side. I'm not here to like say you should do this and you should do that. Very educated cheerleader. No, it's, it's rad. I mean, and it sounds like at the nutrition center too. I mean, we talked about GLP once that was just one medication, but you know, um, my impression is that again, medications aren't the foundation necessarily. Right. No, they're just a tool. Right. And it's partnering on this, in this journey. And, um, you mentioned, right. It's a whole foods, um, adequate protein, but also then I'm guessing just this ongoing nutrition education because right. I mean, it is confusing. The guidelines are changing. So it's just this constant conversation, but education is a big part of it. Education is the key and it's fundamental. Like when people come in, like every single time we like go over something new to try to help them get, you know, sometimes if people know the why it's so much easier to execute. Yeah. What's an example? I mean, like, for example, like if you know the piece about like, you know, the women who tend to be a normal weight and they have prediabetes and if you explain to them, hey, this was the body's normal way of protecting itself, we just have to counteract it. And like, all of a sudden they're empowered or like, right, there's actually a tool I can do this instead of continuously restricting and restricting and restricting. Exactly. Or even sort of, you know, why, why if, if, you know, someone's connecting something to a high blood pressure or high cholesterol that that's going to connect to making a food choice, right. Or a portion size choice. If we know that down, you know what it's connected to. Yeah. When you know your why and why you're doing it, like it's so much more powerful and your why can change. I was going to say, it's your why. Yeah. Yeah. It can't be somebody else's. Yeah. And it changes. Exactly. Your why could change. Like people walk in and they're like, I want to lose weight for a wedding. And I'm like, okay. But then like, as we go through the journey, their why starts to change because they're, they're like, oh, I'm feeling better. You know, the GI tract actually secretes the highest amount of serotonin in the body. And so, and there is evidence that it does cross into the brain. And so the choice of food that we make can affect how we feel. Um, and so really like choosing foods that have like, you know, more nutritional, you know, like choosing intentionally so that you feel better ultimately propels you forward in a more positive way. That makes so much sense. Um, do you mind just briefly breaking down kind of what serotonin is just for our listeners? Cause I think this is so, I mean, this goes to what was gonna be my next question about the mind, gut, you know, connection. Yeah. I mean, so in our body, we have something called the microbiome and the microbiome is the gut bacteria that, you know, it's on our skin, it's on our mouth that often we talk about in our GI tract and it is its own sort of entity. And one of the things, one of the byproducts is this hormone called serotonin, another hormone. And often we associated it, associate serotonin with how we feel and like, and so if you have higher levels of serotonin, you might feel better. And so like, if we choose foods that help our GI tract feel better, then we feel better. I'll connect. It's all connected. Yes. It's just amazing. And just, you know, what you're talking about earlier about just the, even just putting something in your mouth and the brain anticipating, I'm guessing the brain, right? Like your, your mouth sends signaling, right? But I'm guessing like, if I'm looking at something, right? So it's going through like my optic tract, is the brain also kind of anticipating visual cues of like, you know, food, like people start getting hungry, right? When they start looking at food. Yes. And what's interesting is we actually have a couple of clinical trials in conjunction with the interventional GI team. Yes. Great. And Dr. Adarstakar, my colleague, it's their endoscopic procedures. So like, we're looking at, you know, can we, one of the studies is like, can we off ramp people off of GLP-1? If we, you know, kind of treated the first couple of layers of the duodenum because of this nutrient sensing thing. And the duodenum is part of the small intestine. Yes. And so like, if we treated the duodenum and like, let the tissue grow back into healthy, normal tissue, can the person get off these medications? Like there's so much like happening with nutrient sensing. Do we want people to get off the medications? You know, I think it's like, everyone has a different idea of what this looks like. And some people don't want to be on a medication the rest of their life, but we also have, you know, people that are like, yeah, this is, we're going to be on a medication the rest of our life. And I guess the big question is, is do we think that weight challenges are chronic disease? Right? Like if someone has high blood pressure, no one is like saying, oh, get me off this medicine. So if someone has weight challenges, like, should we be taking them off the medicine? It's interesting. Yeah. And like you're saying, it's a constant dialogue as well. Yeah. And it's, and it connects to all the why. Um, I think what, uh, one of the things you said, I just want to emphasize for everyone is when you said, you know, um, this is a journey, like you described your patient of 10 years. And so all these recommendations that you're making, right. And that we're all, we're talking about, no one has to do all at once. No, it's almost impossible to do it all at once. We have to take this stepwise because we want this to be forever. You're right. These healthy choices, right. And we want to sustain this metabolic health. Exactly. Yeah. I think that's so important. Um, okay. We're going to move to our asking for a friend section, even though I probably asked you a thousand questions already that, you know, qualifies asking for a friend. Um, and there's so many listener questions. Um, but, um, I think just to kind of, you know, kind of synthesize it. Um, I do think that even though, and maybe the answer is, is that there just aren't rules. I think people are looking for rules and guidelines and not everyone can come to, you know what I mean? The nutrition, you know, your amazing nutrition clinic. Are there just general rules of thumbs for diet that apply to most people? Yeah. I mean, I would say if you can try to emphasize vegetables, um, I think that's one important thing. And people often like say, oh, vegetables are so expensive right now, but actually frozen vegetables are a great option. Great. Um, they're actually flash frozen at the farm. So they actually retain a lot of their nutrition. People often think, oh no, fresh is better, but they actually ripen along the way from the farm. So, you know, frozen has good nutrition. Fantastic. Um, so I do think like trying to get half your plate to be vegetables and then really trying to see, okay, for each meal, for each meal, as best as you can. Um, I also tell them like, you know, maybe talk to your doctor about your protein goals and like what those should be for you depending in context to how old you are. Exactly. Are you menopausal, et cetera? Okay. Um, and then also like, you know, often carbohydrates get a bad rap, complex carbohydrates are not bad for you. You need to feel energy. You need to like get enough of carbohydrates as well. What's a depth, what's kind of an example of a complex carbohydrate? Yeah. So complex carbohydrates, it takes longer for the body to break it down. So it doesn't spike your blood sugar as quickly. So things like, you know, um, sweet potatoes actually are a good complex carbohydrate. You can think about like whole grains. So brown rice, bulgur, buckwheat, those kinds of like whole grain. Tooth some farro. Yes, exactly. Sorry. Um, okay. Okay, great. No, no, but this is helpful. Okay. So, um, do we miss any group? Oh, and healthy fats and healthy fats. And so like, I often like people get scared, but like excited. I was by healthy fats and healthy fats. Okay. Um, and so like often you'll look at other plates, like, you know, um, the Canadians actually include healthy fats on their plate. Um, in their like visual. Oh my God, they're so nice and smart. And so like adding, you know, a little bit of olive oil, having some avocado, like that's not a bad thing. Yeah. I've heard you say before half an avocado a day. Yeah. Tell it, tell me why just has it all avocado. Interestingly enough, we've, we've done studies at the center where we added avocado to a burger actually like, and had people eat it and they found that they, their, the vasoconstriction or how tight their blood vessels got, um, was less if they added the avocado without the avocado. That's fascinating. Yeah. And so avocado is fantastic. Um, it does have a lot of good nutrition. It might help, you know, with also fatty liver disease. There's been some conflicting data between, but like ultimately these healthy fats are good for the body. Like I said, hormones have fats. They're necessary. They're necessary. I have learned so much about, um, salts today and fats. Hormones are fats. What? Um, okay. All I hear is that the Mediterranean diet is the be all end all. Is there evidence behind that? Why is it such a good choice? Um, or is it a good choice? So I guess I should clarify one thing of that hormones are like lipids. Lipids. Yes. Lipid soluble. So they're protein and fats is what I should say. Proteins and fats. Yeah. Don't worry. I won't. Don't worry. I won't misquote. She's like, oh my gosh. Um, okay. Proteins and fats. Got it. Um, Mediterranean. You're coming off as the expert. I'm coming off as the, you know, I'm like, okay student. Yes. No. Um, the Mediterranean diet, you know, what's interesting about the Mediterranean diet? And this is again, total backstory. So the way the Mediterranean diet came to be was from the seven countries study. Um, Ansel Keys was a cardiologist, um, from university of Minnesota and he was doing the seven countries study. So he went around looking for countries that had, um, less heart disease than we did. And so he, when he did, he did these dietary recalls and he stumbled into Italy and Greece. But what was funny is he did these recalls during Lent. Okay. So we don't know how, you know, we call it a confounding variable. Yes. Um, so, but you know, ultimately, right? Like you're looking at these places, these blue zones and the, the Mediterranean areas like has a couple of them in there and where the food is just delicious. Yeah. The food is, and it's, it's actually more of a plant based, but not vegetarian or vegan diet with healthy fats. And so we often hear it, but it's not, it's more of a chronic disease. It's definitely helps with chronic disease. It's never been looked at truly for weight loss specifically. I see. Okay. So like it is a great healthy diet, that healthy diet. Yeah. Great. Um, and okay. We talked about GLPs, which is great. Thank you for explaining it all to me. Oh my gosh. I guess I should wrap it up. You've been so generous with your time. Um, you've really, you've, you've educated me so much in, in, in, in addition to our, our listeners. But, um, I guess if there's one thing that you'd want, um, our listeners to remember from today's conversation, what would it, what would it be? I think, you know, one, I would say focus on whole foods, less ingredients is better. Okay. Um, and ultimately, you know, nutrition, exercise, sleep, all those behavior things are the fundamental, right? All of it together, all of it together are the fundamental things to help you feel better. And everything else is just tools. Just tools. I love it. I think that is the most healthy framing I've ever heard. Um, I can't thank you enough for not only how thoughtful and expert you are, but just how grounded kind of this conversation is. It's, it's so helpful for me and I promise for everyone who's listening. Um, I really, really appreciate the work that you do your approach to nutrition. And especially again, in this framework of how, you know, our bodies are functioning and really like not just surviving, but thriving. It's, it's just exceptional. And, um, you're just reminding, I think all of us that there's nothing nutrition doesn't have to be restrictive, right? And it certainly doesn't have to be rigid, but just about, again, it's supporting the body, but really just, you know, really getting us, you know, getting us all to thrive. So, um, you know, for our listeners, I think, you know, that, that, that takeaway is amazing. I think, again, just, you know, learning that metabolic health is based on nutrition, movement, muscle preservation, muscle building. Um, and that, yeah, we have great medications, but again, they're tools, you know, in, in, in the context of who we are. Um, we will include, um, links to evidence, evidence-based resources and our show notes and to, and to the center for nutrition and everything that you do. Um, and I just, I can't thank you enough for your, your time today. I've completely kept you over, but I, you could tell I couldn't stop asking you questions, um, for our listeners until next time, stay curious, stay healthy. And thanks for listening to medically speaking. Thank you so much. Oh, just amazing.