On January 27th, 2015, over two years ago now, I got a text uh that basically said, "Call me very serious." I was told that he had a 90% chance of dying. He had multiple organ failure and from that lost oxygen going to his hands and feet which in essence made his hands and feet die. So what happened was that I had a series of events that led to sepsis which ended up taking all or part of each one of my limbs. What does the pain feel like in your hands? It feels like somebody's holding a big lighter underneath my fingertips all day, every day. When I came to UCLA, it wasn't great. I was in a wheelchair. I had lost almost 50 lbs. I didn't have very much hair left and all of my limbs were necrotic. Jonathan had a very unique procedure that's only been done not many times around the world and that we replaced his entire left hand with somebody else's left hand. Jonathan's surgery involved repairing 23 tendons back into their normal position, repairing three nerves, two arteries, and three veins. Now, the tendons are very interesting. If they are not balanced appropriately, the hand doesn't function. So, we had to find the perfect balance for these. And there is no cookbook recipe on how to do this. It took almost 15 truly talented surgeons from not just UCLA, but around the city and around Southern California. They all came together to help Jonathan. I've met hundreds and hundreds if not thousands of medical professionals and UCLA has a common thread of greatness. I could move it if I That's amazing. As he woke up, he was able to move his thumb and then within a day or two he was able to move his fingers. The functionality came almost in flashes. One second I couldn't do it and then the next second I can move my thumb and it just and it would happen like every 10 minutes. He has the most incredible attitude that I've ever met. He doesn't look back. He only looks forward. It has been I must say a journey with him that has been completely inspirational to me and he is an example of the will and determination of a patient who just wants to get whole again. Being a father is the most important thing I've ever done in my life. And you know, I don't think any daughters should grow up without their daddies. I fought back to live and I fought back to have a life and I fought back to be there for her and for Jennifer and for the other people that love me, which is an extraordinary amount of people that I didn't even know about. There's never a transplant without a donor. the donors out there, the donor families for all these years that have made decisions to give the gift of life or to give the gift of bringing back quality of life. Those families are heroes. I did have a lot of mixed emotions because I know that something bad happened to somebody else for something good to happen to me. And that's probably been the toughest part of this entire process. Being Laker for the day means the world to me because it means the world has the opportunity not only to experience what's possible in this medical miracle, but also what's possible within themselves to do whatever it is that they set out to do. He has gained liberation. He has gained the freedom to be able to do something like this. Think about it. He doesn't have a leg. He doesn't have part of his toes. He doesn't have his right hands, fingers, and he has a transplanted left hand. Yet, he was able to do this. And just watching him with his first shot swish a basket, it really means the world to me.