>> Kelly was born with a severe heart defect, and we've been coming to UCLA since about 1988. As a mother of a heart patient, and later on of a heart and liver patient, it was all consuming for me. >> I had the privilege of getting to know Kelly over several years, really, from the time right around her transplant and having transplanted her liver myself. >> I established the Kelly Lee Tarantello Endowed Chair. >> My name is Fady Kaldas, I'm an associate professor of surgery here at the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine. I'm the Kelly Lee Tarantello Endowed Chair in Integrative Liver Transplantation, >> UCLA has done about 2500 heart transplants and close to 7000 liver transplants, but Kelly needed both heart and liver. >> Kelly was a pioneer in that she was one of the early patients that had this operation and this problem, she was one of the more complex patients that we've actually ever done. >> Kelly was very fun loving. She was not somebody who has a chip on her shoulder. >> It didn't matter what was on your mind when you walked in there and you saw Kelly smile, it was inspirational. >> You know, Kelly did not survive her disease, just the same, I know Kelly received excellent care at UCLA Health. They cared for her from the time she was 16 months until she was 32. So I feel it's important that I should give back and support UCLA Medical Center and the programs that is ongoing. >> Delphine is an extraordinary human being. You know, I think that her story with Kelly, it was not just inspirational from Kelly's standpoint, but it was also inspirational from Delphine's standpoint. It's a story of tremendous love, perseverance and dedication. I mean, she was so willing to sacrifice anything and everything to be there for Kelly through so many years. >> Once again, I would say my affinity for Dr. Kaldas and his work is what motivated me to give to and set up the endowment. >> The philanthropy and the support by this chair moves our work forward in multiple ways. The programmatic aspect of it that allows us to synergize our efforts between heart transplantation, liver transplantation, end stage cardiac disease, end stage liver disease, congenital cardiac disease, and then also better understand what it is we're doing with respect to research and the pathophysiology of this. We're still learning about these patients. If you look at the age of these patients when they have these operations, they're in their 20s or 30s, I mean, they're trying to live life and you want to give them as much normalcy as humanly possible. And we're intent on doing that. >> I hope that this will make a difference for the families to make it easier for them to manage both mentally and medically. >> The tremendous benefits of this chair in terms of its ability to improve care for patients like Kelly in the future, which I think tremendously serves Kelly's legacy. Kelly wanted, one of the things she really wanted to see is patients like her do better and do well.