Ladies and gentlemen, Kid Captain Tyler Johnson! I am a big basketball fan. I wanna be a basketball player when I grow up and an actor. [Tyler] is number five in the nation in 5-year-olds to have this disease. It usually Normally doesn't happen until your teenager. Once he started crying himself to sleep at night, two nights that happened. I decided to take him to the emergency room. They took a lot of x-rays, they told us the condition, what they came up with was osteosarcoma. He finished seven months of chemo. He went through his surgery, he had the tumor removed, and then he got another surgery for limb salvage. That didn't work out so well, so we went with amputation above the knee. We exhausted every other medical decision that we could. We've been pretty much living in the hospital. That's where we were at for pretty much the past two and a half years. Right now, the doctor's prognosis for Tyler is that we're waiting for his prosthetic Which is the best thing ever for us right now, because finally we can put this behind us. And move on with him running, playing, jumping and being a kid again. Yet all the doctors and nurses Were very surprised at the energy level Tyler had while doing chemotherapy. They couldn't believe. It was like as if he wasn't even getting treated for anything. I gotta do jumping jacks every morning to get ready for him. He didn't let nothing stop him. He still wanted to go outside. He wanted to play, he wanted to go to the mall I like shooting hoops with my dad. You'll have to turn score, and I'm like every basket Tyler is a very creative kid. He's a very talented kid just, very gifted, very funny. Like you know he tells me, "Dad, I want to be a comedian one day,  I want to be on stage." And I think he has all the right tools to become a natural born comedian cuz he's very funny. I want to tell all the sick kids that are in the hospital right now that they will get better, and they will be out of the hospital soon. And the doctors and the nurses will take care of them. And they will be healthy forever.