Hi, I'm Marvin Berg Snider and uh thank you for joining us on this webinar and today I'd like to talk about pituitary tumors and give you a an introduction about pituitary tumors and some of the exciting new treatments that are now available uh for uh physicians to treat uh pituitary ary tumors. I'm a professor here at UCLA and I head uh the U pituitary tumor program. I invite you to uh join this conversation uh on Twitter at the the hashtag uh there you see at UCLA MD chat. So I just want to start off with a just a real brief um explanation of uh about pituitary tumors. uh pituitary tumors are also called pituitary adenomas. So we use those chain those terms interchangeably. Um like any tumor in the body we talk about pituitary tumors because they come from cells from the pituitary gland. Just like liver tumors come from liver cells. These come from the pituitary gland. Where is the pituitary gland? Well, if you were to uh take some object, which uh I'm sure your child has, and and place it up their nose, it's right in the back of the nose. And you see here the in the circle where the pituitary tumor is, the eyes are are back here, and it's deep almost in the middle of the skull. In terms of its anatomy and the relative anatomy of where the pituitary gland sits, I think the most important thing to understand is that it sits just below the optic nerves. And where the optic nerves cross is called the kayazm. And you can see the arrow right there. And as pituitary tumors grow, what happens is they can push up on the kayazm and cause visual uh problems. And we'll talk about that in a little bit. So, one thing that's uh nice about pituitary tumors is that they're almost always benign and uh it's very very rare that we see patients with pituitary carcinoma, which is the cancer of the pituitary gland. Uh so, you can rest assured that if you have a pituitary tumor, it's almost always benign. Um but the effects of a pituitary tumor can be quite serious including I mentioned the visual loss but if the pituitary tumor is secretreting certain hormones it can cause problems in your body that can lead to very very serious consequences. So even though the tumor itself behaves benignely the hormones it produces can be very very serious. Um we when we talk about prevalence of pituitary tumors or how often they occur in the public um there's a couple different considerations. You may read on the internet that one in five people have pituitary tumors. That comes from studies of autopsy studies generally older patients. And when the pathologist dissects the the pituitary gland, they can find tiny what we call microscopic pituitary tumors that really aren't of any significance. So that one in five figure is really misleading. Um when they've looked at large populations who just had MRI scans of the brain and and seen how many incidental pituitary tumors they find, turns out there's about one in a thousand uh pituitary tumors discovered uh in this way. and and that kind of correlates with what we've seen in the general population. They occur by chance. Um so, uh cases of what we call familiar pituitary tumors are quite rare. So, if you have one and you have children, there's a very very low probability, almost none, that you're going to pass it on to your child. So, what does the pituitary gland do? Um many people refer to it as the master hormone gland of the body. And hormones are chemical signals that are made by the body in this particular case by the pituitary gland that circulate in the blood and that's what classifies them as hormones. Hormones then affect different tissues or organs in the body. The pituitary releases hormones and then many of the hormones that the pituitary releases actually go to different organs or other glands in your body that make other hormones. And that's why it's called the master gland. How are pituitary tumors discovered? Well, as I mentioned, some pituitary tumors secrete an excess amount of a certain type of hormone. And if they do so, it's those chemical effects on your body that leads to the discovery of the pituitary tumor. In other cases, a pituitary tumor can grow quite large in size and then it can start affecting the tissues around it. If it grows upward towards the optic nerves, it can cause visual loss and people can actually lose their peripheral vision. If it compresses the normal gland, then you start losing function of the normal gland and you can have hormonal effects due to that. You could have a combination of above. If you have hormonal effects and a large tumor, you can have visual loss. you can have an excess of certain hormones and a diminishment of certain other key hormones. And then fourth way is that in some cases you get an MRI scan or a CAT scan for some unrelated reason and we have an incidental discovery of a pituitary tumor. So pituitary tumors come in all size in all sizes. And here's a MRI scan. And MRI scans take slices through the body and this is a slice right down the middle of the head. The nose is here, the forehead, the top of the head, and the arrow is showing showing the area or where the normal pituitary gland sits. And the optic nerve, you can barely see it as a line right above the pituitary gland. Now, if you have a small pituitary tumor, this is called a micro adinoma. And it's sort of an arbitrary designation. Anything less than 10 millimeters is called a micro adinoma. And 10 millimeters is about half the size of the dime shown there. And on this image, the arrow is pointing to the darker gray area of where the micro adinoma is situated. And the wider area kind of like a sickle shape above it is the normal gland stretched over the top of this pituitary tumor. Now, here's a macro adenoma that's larger than 10 millimeters. And you can see it's a much much larger tumor. And where the optic nerve used to be is now elevated and compressed. And the normal gland is this very thin line of white surrounding the tumor. So you can see how enlargement of the gland of the tumor can compress the gland and you can get failure of the normal gland. And as I mentioned the optic kayazm where the optic nerves crossed are severely compressed in this patient. So I want to now switch gears a little bit and now talk about some of the more commonly affected hormones that are uh related to pituitary tumors. I'm going to talk about the normal function of these hormones and then as you can see once you understand the normal function then when you have an excess of the hormone then you get uh other uh effects that many are unwanted. So this is just a partial list of the types of uh hormones that the pituitary tumor makes. And I'm not going to discuss each one of these because each one of uh each one of these hormones could be a webinar in in itself. But if you take just general classes of pituitary hormones, the top two LH and FSH and we refer to them in in in these abbreviations are sort of the sex hormones. They're involved with reproduction and you can see they're involved with making of the sex hormones or sperm production or ovulation. The next hormone TSH stimulates your thyroid gland to release thyroid. U prolactin is a hormone that is important at the end of pregnancy involved with breast milk production. growth hormone is kind of obvious what it does. Uh and um you see it's involved with muscle and and bone growth. ACT is a a critical hormone. It it it tells your adrenal glands to make a hormone called cortisol. And then we have other hormones made by the posterior pituitary gland, ADH, which affects your water balance and oxytocin, which some of you may uh know from uh your reading uh is called the love hormone that when you're in love, your oxytocin levels go up. It also it's involved with contraction of the uterus after childirth. And we're not we're not going to talk too much about that because it really doesn't isn't affected with pituitary tumors. The three hormones that I like to concentrate on today because they're the most commonly ones affected with over secretion of hormones are prolactin, growth hormone, and act. So prolactin, you may know that the word to lactate means to make milk. Prolactin is the hormone that stimulates the breast to make milk. And at the end of pregnancy when estrogen levels are high and you have prolactin a mother's uh breast gland starts uh getting ready for childirth and after childirth this is allows this allows her to feed her child. So the one of the main uh functions of prolactin is breast milk production. But nature also doesn't want a new mother to get pregnant again. So while a mother is breastfeeding her child during that duration of of weeks to months uh typically a mother doesn't have menstrual periods and that's because prolactin decreases the amount of sex hormones that are released by the pituitary gland and stops menstrual periods during breastfeeding. Prolactin is uh the release of prolactin is regulated by a chemical released by the brain called dopamine. And as dopamine is released by the brain, it actually shuts down the release of prolactin. So when your body needs more prolactin, less dopamine is released. So if you have an an excess of uh prolactin that is uh produced. So what happens in a female is essentially the female body thinks that they just had a baby and they they're not going to have menstrual periods and sometimes they even have breast milk production. Now for a male who's never had a menstrual period they never know if they were missing that. And only the second effect that the de the decrease of the sex hormones occurs and they can have low testosterone. And unfortunately uh that isn't clinically evident or people don't go see their doctors about that or even if they do and a low testosterone is found a prolactin level isn't drawn. So, it is important if you're a male with low testosterone to ask your doctor to get your prolactin levels drawn because in some cases they're going to find a pituitary tumor and that's something that can be fixed if it's discovered early on. So, a pituitary tumor that produces prolactin is called a prolactinoma. And um when it secretes an excess amount of that hormone, it causes those problems. And in this picture here we see that the uh arrow points of this dark area the normal gland is more in white and uh the dark area here is a prolactinoma that's fairly small in size. It' be a micro adinoma. So I mentioned that dopamine is the is the chemical that shuts down prolactin release. So u there is a medication called kbergolene that acts just like dopamine. It acts on certain receptors that only respond pretty much in the pituitary gland and it shuts down the production of prolactin. And when it does that for many many patients the tumor shrinks away in about a third of patients they can be cured just with this hormonal therapy. It's not a chemotherapy. It's actually pretty well tolerated and most patients don't require surgery if you have a prolactinoma. um but in about a third of patients they can't tolerate it or it's not it doesn't work well and so I still do operate on patients with prolactinomas but uh like I said fortunately if you have a prolactinoma you have a very very good medical therapy for it there are other options if if medical therapy and rad and surgical therapy doesn't work including radiation therapy and I'll talk about that a little bit later so the second hormone I'd like to talk about and it's the second most common. Prolactinomas are the most common hormone secretreting tumors are growth hormone secretreting tumors. Now growth hormone um you're all probably well aware of uh the professional baseball players uh are often caught doping uh growth hormone because it really adds to their uh muscle bulk. Whether it adds to their strength or performance is is unknown. Um, but what growth hormone does in the body, it itself is a pituitary hormone that has direct effects on muscle and on bone. But it also stimulates special cells in the liver to make a hormone called IGF-1. It's insulin-like growth factor. And both growth hormone and IGF-1 then circulate in the bloodstream and affect bone growth and muscle uh maintenance and muscle growth. So when a child is going through puberty and and in their growth spurt a lot of growth hormone and IGF-1 is circulating and during that time that's when they grow. When you have an excess of growth hormone produced by the pituitary tumor, if you have if you have if you haven't stopped growing yet, you get gigantism. And and here's a picture of uh a pituitary giant. This this gentleman had a pituitary tumor. And you can see just how tall he became. He was over eight feet. Many pituitary giants are 7 feet or over. Um Andre the Giant, the the movie star, is a pituitary giant. you had a pituitary tumor. If you've already stopped growing and then you develop a pituitary tumor, you develop a slightly different uh condition called acromegaly. And acromegaly literally means growth of your limbs or your of your tissue. So you no longer become taller, but you have many of the same physical features that the the giants have. And and here are are some of them. So, as I mentioned, acromegaly is abnormal growth of the hands and feet. Uh, if you're an adult and your shoe size keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger, you should go see your doctor to make sure that you don't have acromeaggaly if your wedding ring no longer fits and you have to keep resizing your wedding ring. And so, this picture here is my hand. That's a picture of my hand next to an acroaggalic hand. And you can see just how large these hands can become. And it's it's a diagnosis that you can make sometimes with a handshake. It's like shaking hands with a a soft dough of bread that's been hasn't been cooked yet that the hands are very doughy and mushy. It can also affect the facial appearance and and and not in flattering ways. Um many of the facial changes almost looks like you're become a Neanderthal type. You have the ridges above your eyebrows become very prominent. Your nose becomes prominent. the cheek can become very large and the jaws become large. Uh you see this gentleman here has many of the features the the teeth spaces because when the jaw gets larger the teeth spread apart the tongue can become very large and many different organs can enlarge um which which cause problems because the the soft tissues in the back of your throat enlarge your voice becomes low and if you listen to Andre the Giant in the movies that he's been on he has a very very low voice and that's caused by the acroaggaly uh changes because of these extra soft tissues. You can also get sleep apnea and uh this is one way that it's diagnosed uh through people who develop sleep apnea that you should be screened for acromeaggalene. Um if you have too much tissue in your in your wrist area, you can get something called carpal tunnel syndrome when you get pain in your thumb and the side of your hand here with repetitive motions. Um it also enlarges the heart and when the heart gets enlarged it doesn't pump efficiently and patients with acromeaggaly can develop heart failure. It can be quite serious and actually untreated patients with acromegaly have a shortened lifespan and unfortunately many acroaggalic giants or pituitary giants don't live much beyond 50. What is the treatment for acromegaly? Well, if the tumor can be removed surgically, if it's a nice surgical candidate, the best treatment is surgery. There are medications and I I'll mention them a little bit later that are becoming more and more effective and we commonly use a combination of surgery and medications to treat this because it's so important that we uh achieve a cure for acromeaggaly and then as sort of a third line therapy or last resort we can result to radiation therapy if surgery is not an option or if you're not responding to medications. Now the third uh pituitary tumor I'd like to then discuss is cortisol. Cortisol is a stress hormone. Um it's production is stimulated by act which is released by the pituitary gland. And um this is a hormone that uh if you're in a very stressful situation, if you're being robbed, um the pituitary gland produces act, which releases cortisol and it releases uh epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, allows you to run away or the what we call the fight or flight. If you have an excess, you get something called Cushings disease. And I I'll explain what that is. So Cushian's disease is a really debilitating disorder. Um the main thing that it causes is obesity and um in America and other uh countries where obesity is becoming more and more common. It's increasingly difficult to distinguish who has just plain obesity for other reasons versus Cushing's disease. The obesity is mainly around the trunk. And you can see uh this patient her legs are aren't at least the bottom part aren't that obese. Uh it's mainly what we call trunkal obesity and they get those purple stretch marks on the on their abdomen which are different than stretch marks from after pregnancy which aren't purple. There's many changes in the face, rounding of the face. uh it becomes reddish more acne on your face and patients with Cushing's disease can also develop uh diabetes melatus sugar diabetes which can be very difficult to treat because of the cortisol. They can develop very high blood pressure and also have very very difficult to treat blood pressure. the muscles don't like cortisol in high levels and so you get muscle weakness and they and so uh very athletic people can no longer even do a deep knee bend because of the muscle weakness. Another finding is easy bruising and if you have a lot of bruising on your skin and you got weight gain and some of these findings you should ask your doctor about Christian's disease and like acromegali if untreated it's often fatal because of the effects of the diabetes and the high blood pressure and the effects uh on the other organs of your body. Now it's difficult to diagnose Cusheen's disease. Um most patients by the time they actually had the onset of symptoms and diagnose it it's 8 to nine years because uh they don't go see their doctor or even their doctor misses it because uh even in endocrinologist hands it's a difficult diagnosis to make but a lot of it is if you if you bring it to your doctor's attention and they see the if you see the right doctor then you can make the diagnosis earlier. The best treatment for this is surgery if there and these are typically very small microinomomas and if we can find them and remove them you can be cured. Uh there are medications that can be used to block the cortisol production by the adrenal glands and sort of treat the symptoms but doesn't really directly treat the pituitary tumor. Um there are newer medications now that have some promise on treating uh the direct uh production of ACT and in some cases radiation therapy is needed and there are other surgical options including sometimes removing the adrenal glands to stop the production of cortisol. So those are the hormone producing tumors. Now I'm going to just mention now the large pituitary tumors. So which can be hormone producing as well. These cause loss of vision and hormone deficiencies rather than excess hormone problems. So this is sort of a what uh description of what you might get if you have a visual problem with a pituitary tumor. On the top is what you might see the normal view of the white house. And on the bottom you basically have lost your peripheral vision. You can only see what's in front of you and you can't see what's on the side. And this can be quite uh um risky in terms of driving a car. you don't see a pedestrian on your right side or you don't see someone pulling in from from the right side. So this is what you get from optic kayazm compress compression called the bite temporal hemianopsia losing your temporal vision. Now the pituitary insufficiency is have uh there's different hormones that can be affected there. The one that kind of drops out first with pituitary tumor compression are the sex hormones. And then for a male, they come in with low uh testosterone. For a woman, it may be that they think they went into menopause earlier than they really should have. Hypothyroidism, lack uh insufficient thyroid can then cause fatigue, weight gain, tiredness, growth hormone deficiency if you're a child means that you don't grow and you remain short. Uh, and if you're an adult, it has fewer effects, but can cause some loss of muscle mass and also just not feeling well. And then cortisol deficiency is the last to go. It's the most robust hormone and it can cause low blood pressure and it is serious. You can even die from cortisol deficiency. And here's a here's a showing a severely compressed normal gland. Kind of outlined it there in um in uh pink. So what are some of the advances now? Uh and here's where the excitement is because actually all three mechan uh three treatments of medication, surgery and radiation have all improved over the last 10 years. So on the medical side, one advice that I can give you is that you really should see an endocrinologist. And if it's one of these more complicated pituitary disorders, you may want to see a endocrinologist who specializes in pituitary tumors. They're called neuroindocrinologists or pituitary endocrinologists. This is my colleague Anthony Heene here at UCLA who's a world expert on pituitary tumors and he is able to we work together to try to figure out what's the best management for any given patients. I mentioned for prolactinomas that kbergolene is our first round of treatment. For acromegaly there are several medications octriotide and riotide that affect the release of growth hormone. Pegnisavant stop blocks the action of growth hormone at the liver. And so uh between those two medications about 60% of patients can receive uh some benefit and normalizing their IGF-1 levels. Cushian's disease unfortunately has kind of eluded us in terms of a medical treatment. There are some newer agents uh uh that have some promise but unfortunately they they only work in a very small percentage of of patients. So again I uh really suggest that that you seek out an endocrinologist who specializes in pituitary tumor management and you can usually typically find those at pituitary centers that specialize in pituitary tumors. I'm a surgeon and this is uh where uh my involvement is in terms of the treatment of pituitary tumors and probably the one of the biggest revolutions that have occurred for pituitary tumor management is the use of the endoscope. And here the endoscope is this device here. It has a little star uh label on there. Uh it's it's a device that allows us to shine light and look deep into dark holes. There's a camera sitting right there and uh we as you can see in the lower right hand corner are looking at a highdefinition television monitor and doing the surgery just like that. This is opposed to what traditional pituitary surgery was uh and still is in in in some places and this is how I learned pituitary surgery but no longer do it this way where you have a speculum you put it down the nose and this is all that you see. you see a very small area to to work. You don't see all the the what you need to see and uh although it can be effective for smaller tumors and some other tumors really almost every pituitary center now has gone to an endoscopic view and and this is an endoscopic view uh where you can see all the structures. This is the pituitary tumor right here. Uh if you were using a speculum in the old technique, this is about all that you could see. you couldn't see any of the these other structures. And here again, the tumor and the normal gland. And with endoscopic surgery, an experienced surgeon, we can literally just peel the tumor off the normal gland, preserving the function of the normal gland because we can basically see everything. So there's increasing consensus that endoscopic surgery is safer. It allows more complete removal of even larger tumors. And many tumors that previously were considered inoperable either through the nose or in some cases just plain inoperable, we now routinely approached with endoscopic surgery. This is a patient uh of mine that I saw. This was uh his pituitary tumor and he had seen two other surgeons who both recommended that we do that they do a cranottomy. remove the skull here and approach it from underneath the brain to remove this tumor because they thought that it was just too big to approach to the nose. But with endoscopy, this is a pretty straightforward tumor. And you can see here a complete removal after endoscopy. And to do this, you need to work, I think, as a team. So here's my colleague Marilene Wong. She's a a head and neck surgeon. She specializes in surgery of the nose and sinuses. She's a rhinologist. So we work together and she takes the initial part of the surgery. We work together for removal of the tumor and then she takes care of the nose afterwards which is really important. The healing of the nose is something that must occur in in in the most benign fashion to so you can get back to work and recover faster. And then radiation therapy. Um this is something that in the over the last uh 10 20 years has really revolutionized radiation therapy. Used to be that you used to stand in front of a radiation machine and they would irradiate through your head and they get your temporal loes of your brain and your eyes and and a lot of dilitterious effects of radiation. This machine here rotates over the head and as it does so a beam is always pointing at the pituitary tumor and it allows much more precise radiation basically just to where the tumor is. And this is kind of like a topography map showing the falloff of radiation doses away from the normal gland. So the other structures here's the optic nerve outlined here actually gets a lot less radiation than than they used to. So, this is really a great technology and a and a great treatment for patients who can't have surgery or have failed medical uh uh uh treatment. Um it's sometimes overused uh uh and so we use it as a sort of a last resort here at UCLA. And I just want to close with uh it's a team approach. Uh the pituitary gland because it involves the vision, the hormones, the nose, the neuros a neurosurgeon because it's right below the brain is best treated uh with a team of uh physicians. And that's kind of what a pituitary center is all about. It's a coalition of of physicians that come together and uh work as a team closely to decide what's best for any individual patient. And I'm very fortunate to work with uh just superb head and neck surgeons who uh uh uh allow me to do very complex operations. I mentioned Dr. and other neurosurgeons, endocrinologists, radiation doctors, uh, special interventional radiologists, pathologists, and opthalmologists for the treatment of pituitary tumors. You can get more information about this at our website. It's pituitary.ucla.edu. We have many different uh web pages about different topics of pituitary tumor. And again, u, please join the conversation on Twitter. So I have some uh some questions that have uh already come up. Um so one question and it's it's commonly asked is how did I get a pituitary tumor? Uh I know it's a bit glib but my answer is bad luck. Uh although again it's a benign tumor and among different types of tumors that you can have uh because it's often curable and treatable it's better luck in in that respect. We don't really understand the underlying mechanisms of whether it's radiation or some chemical that you're exposed to or genetic effects that cause pituitary tumors or maybe what all the above but again we just don't have enough understanding yet to to answer that question. Um what is endoscopic surgery of pituitary uh tumors? Um I I think I uh explained that. So the endoscope is a is a is a tube a glass surrounded by a sheath that allows us to go into areas of the body. Uh many people have laparoscopic uh removal of their gallbladders. That is an endoscopic procedure. And so uh it belongs in that group of surgeries that we classify as minimally invasive because we no longer have to make large incisions because we have such great illumination and visualization with the endoscope. When you remove a pituitary tumor, is the pituitary gland removed at the same time? Well, that's clearly not our goal. Um, unfortunately, the pituitary gland can be damaged during pituitary surgery and and that happens in about two to 3% of cases. It's typically very large pituitary tumors in which the gland is very, very thin and it's just unavoidable to injure the gland. But for the most part, the gland function remains intact and even sometimes improved. My doctor tells me that my testosterone might be c my low testosterone might be caused by a pituitary tumor. Can you explain why? So there's sort of two mechanisms for a male with low testosterone related to a pituitary tumor. either a large tumor that's compressing the normal gland or an elevated prolactin level which diminishes the secretion of the sex hormones and then telling the the the testes to make testosterone. So if you have a large prolactinoma and you're a male, you have a double whammy. You have two different reasons why the testosterone could be low and and some of these patients have extraordinarily low testosterone levels. After removing the pituitary tumor through my nose, will I still be able to breathe through my nose? Well, it depends just how much surgery we have to do. In many cases, you still can breathe, but you're going to be congested for the first day or two and then it quickly gets better. If you have sleep apnea beforehand, we can put a tube in your nose at the time when you wake up. So, it allows you to breathe afterwards. So for some patients uh the answer is yes that uh you may not be able to breathe through your nose for a couple of days. I've heard that gamma knife radiation can cure my pituitary tumor without the need for surgery. Is that true? So gamma knife is a brand name of a technology similar to what I showed before in terms of that what we call beamshaped radi radiation therapy or stereotactic radio surgery. um in general radiation therapy is very good at controlling tumor growth um how it affects the hormone levels. So if you have a hormone producing tumor that's over secretreting for example growth hormone the effects of radiation first take many many months to years sometimes and you you clearly don't get the same type of response you can get with surgery or radiation so as I said that we typically uh resort to the last resort for for radiation is a headneck surgeon always needed for endoscopic surgery and the answer is no Um we prefer to I prefer to always work with a head and neck surgeon because again they are the nose specialists. They really take care of my patients nose during surgery after surgery and that can actually be a cause of uh a lot of uh anguish and and suffering if your nose doesn't heal well after uh pituitary surgery. But I know there are some surgeons who choose not to use a head and neck surgeon and uh we sometimes see some of their patients afterwards and our head and neck surgeons have to go in there and try to uh fix some of the scarring and and all that that's occurred. So I I think it's the ideal case but not necessary for every pituitary tumor. Are there new or experimental medicines for pituitary tumors? Uh the answer is yes. Um, usually any experimental trial you're going to find at a university center and where you have a a pituitary program and a pituitary endocrinologist who's heading that. We have many at UCLA uh uh uh in terms of experimental trials going on for various types of pituitary tumors including Cusheen's disease and for acromegaly after surgery when can I return to work? That's also a question that's almost always asked. Um, you can return to work part-time in about two weeks as long as you don't have to lift anything heavy. Um, we usually tell our patients that around three to three and a half weeks you can return to work full-time and uh without really uh too many restrictions and um and and that's sort of the the best uh estimate in terms of giving your boss of when you're going to go back to work. um how can I or what can I expect my nose and sinuses to feel like after surgery? Now that varies a lot depending on what how they were before surgery. Some people with a history of sinusitis with chronic congestion can have more problems than other patients. If you live in a very dry area u where uh you have more prone to nose bleeds that can also cause uh more problems. But in general, um, your nose takes about two months, three months to completely heal after pituitary surgery. But after about a week or two, your sense of smell starts coming back. Your nose function becomes much more normal. You have less scabbing or what was called crusting. And by a month, most patients are actually doing quite well and and and quite happy with their nose function. which ones here the top ones. Are there any clinical trials for pituitary tumors? Yes, there's uh actually some exciting new drugs that are being developed uh particularly for Cushing disease and acromegaly and u these are often uh available again at at university centers or at the fine pituitary centers of excellence uh where a pituitary or neuroindocrinologist is heading the program and um again for for Cushian's disease and for acromegaly um there's there's very good clinical trials and even for um pituitary carcinoma which I didn't discuss today there are several medications that are being tried for those uh very rare patients who have that how do I manage my pituitary tumor on a daily basis well um you manage it with your endocrinologist and depending on whether you have a hormone excess or a hormone deficiency then they either had to give you replacement hormones or we work on a management scheme to either reduce the the the excessive hormone to a normal level or remove the tumor surgically or by some other means. Um but by and large there's not a lot for you to do uh to manage it other than to see your endocrinologist, work with your endocrinologist as as a partnership to develop a treatment management scheme that's best for you. Can a pituitary tumor go away without treatment? Um, it's rare. Um, sometimes smaller tumors uh and the non hormone produce producing tumors uh can remain small and we just often watch those with yearly MRI scans and sometimes they never need treatment. Um, it's quite rare though to see a pituitary tumor involute and and go away without some type of intervention of medication, radiation or surgery. Does does a pituitary tumor affect children definite differently than adults? Um so first pituitary tumors are very uncommon in children. They normally occur uh in in young adulthood extending all the way to the 60s and 70s. Um if they are hormonally secretreting tumors um there's a couple of issues. So with acromegaly if you're a child you develop gigantism. So if both parents are 5'6 and your child is 6'2 and there's no history of uh tallness in your family, you should really suspect that that there's a pituitary tumor uh causing this abnormal growth. And again, they'll have many other features of acromegaly with that a deep voice, large hands. Um pituitary tumors in terms of treatment in children are very different as well because um as a child there's many different hormonal changes puberty growth that have to occur and they're working very closely with a pediatric endocrinologist to help those stages occur normally are very important. uh small children. Uh we've uh operated on uh children younger than 10 years old. Uh their nose development still isn't complete and there's other factors that we have to take uh into effect uh with children. And lastly, we really try to avoid radiation in in a child because the effects of radiation can uh be for for decades afterwards and so it children are definitely treated differently. What is the outlook for people with pituitary gland tumors? Overall, it's very good. If you're diagnosed earlier uh and uh and you get really effective treatment with using a team uh approach of experts, it can be excellent. Most patients do very very well with treatment uh with surgery. they can go back to work, have a basically a normal uh livelihood and once their nose heals in a couple of months, they can go scuba diving, skiing, whatever they want. If you have a hormonally secretreting tumor or Cushing's disease and all that, there it's so important that we we achieve normaly in the hormones and once we do that, you can practically go back to a normal life if you haven't had too many of the ill effects of the hormone prior to uh being treated. And what are the symptoms of pituitary disorders? If you kind of just want to break it down to the basic ones, there's the overp production of hormones. It can cause a variety of different symptoms. There's the underprouction of hormones due to a large tumor compressing the normal gland. And the third uh symptom that uh that is the most common is visual symptoms of loss of peripheral vision. Thank you. I have a mediumsized pituitary cyst and possibly an adenoma, although it's a questionable on MRI. My blood work is also confusing, but a high IGF-1 Is it possible the cyst is causing the high IGF-1? That's a very difficult uh and challenging question. Um particularly if if we don't have the the values. Um typically cysts don't aren't uh related to hormone excess from pituitary tumors. Most pituitary tumors are solid tumors. They have a small cyst associated with it. So the possible adenoma is probably a much more likely explanation that that if it's releasing growth hormone that's leading to your increase in IGF-1. Um what is the average cost of this type of surgery? Um there's many different costs involved with health care. um the the the hospital cost in terms of what it takes to treat a pituitary tumor patient, including the hospital costs, the surgeons fees, pathologist fees, the MRI scans, and all that are uh somewhere around uh $20,000 uh dollars in terms of what the hospital costs are. Now how that translates into what a hospital bill is is a different equation. Uh the hospital does need to make a profit. Uh and uh so it may be more than that but in general that's the typical cost. All right. Thank you very much for for joining me today and goodbye.