Hi everyone and welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Advocacy is one of those words we hear a lot, especially in conversations about healthcare. I think we know that it's all important, but sometimes it's hard to imagine what it actually means for us as individuals, as patients, as families, or even professionals um trying to figure out how to make a difference. Today, I am joined by someone, a woman who is quite literally a living example of what it means to be an advocate on every level. Her work has impacted government policy makers, clinicians on the ground in low to middle inome countries, many individuals and their families living with breast cancer and most of all her own experience with breast cancer. It is with the most utmost pleasure that I welcome Dr. Felicia Null to the podcast. Dr. Null serves as the associate of the chancellor at UCLA. She's a senior adviser to the dean and president of UCLA Health. She's an economist and a global health researcher. And among her many accomplishments, she's written a deeply personal and very beautiful book, Beauty Without the Breast, sharing her own journey with breast cancer. Felicia, thank you so much for joining us today. >> Thank you for having me and for doing this podcast, reaching out to so many people. >> It's just incredible that you're here. Um, I'd love to start today's episode talking about you, um, and your background. Um and maybe we could start with your personal journey with breast cancer. >> Of course. Um and thank you. So this year will very year my 18th year since my diagnosis which was in October of >> and with no family history, no reason to suspect or worry about it. In my first baseline mammogram at age 41 in a small clinic in Cornavaka in Morales in Mexico, I was diagnosed with an invasive breast cancer. Um stage two, let's call it um luckily triple positive. So there was so much to be done with that cancer. um which is a message that you know women need to understand that now um today some of the most aggressive form of breast cancer are some of the most treatable in great part because of a discovery at UCLA health of trstuzma of percept invasive breast cancer this very aggressive breast cancer again age 41 my children were 11 and three >> and with no reason to suspect and it turns out that um I do not have BA even though Ashkanazi Jewish heritage is is mine. So, we went into this kind of blind. Um, I had never worked on that topic before. It was not my issue. I'd worked quite a bit on, you know, issues of children with cancer and access to education, but this was all new. Um, and we can talk a little bit about how that, you know, story unfolded, but I was very lucky to have amazing treatment in Mexico. And then an incredible orchestra leader, Dr. Julie Glo, um, who is at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, who allowed me to really get the best possible plan for my treatment in place, and here I am. >> Uh, you know, it's interesting as you, um, and thank goodness you're here. We're we're so grateful for for so many reasons. You mentioned that you were 41. This was a screening mammogram. So, you know, just to break down everything for our listeners, screening meaning that you had this test done in the absence of symptoms, correct? So, you weren't having any quote symptoms, changes in the nipples, nipple discharge, dimpling of the breasts, pain, lumps, etc. And I just I really want to emphasize that, right? So, you went for your routine screening mammogram. Um but it must have been all the more surprising then like you were saying you didn't have any quote known risk factors. Um but then to get this diagnosis um can you tell us about maybe how that felt? >> Of course. And you know there's a part also in the book where I think back and I think you know maybe there was something was there discharge was there something I didn't pick up that I should I think every woman we attack ourselves men too when we're diagnosed with this disease which does happen. Um, and I have to say usually this is what I say to the women that I work with, um, many of whom are have no risk factors and do not have breast cancer. When I'm giving talks, I say, "Look, your job is not to find out if you have breast cancer. It's to look for changes." >> And especially for younger women, especially where there isn't access to mimography, many of the places I work in, if you know that you're clear at a certain point in time, monthto month, look for a change, right? and then go and have a physician check is that change significant or not. That is your job to look for changes. Um so I didn't believe it. I assumed I was, you know, there in this clinic in the where we have our house in Cornavaka. And I figured that they were keeping me there because I was married to the former minister of health, my husband, Julio Frank, who had just finished up as Minister of Health of Mexico. And they kept saying, "No, we have to do, you know, we have to do more pictures." And I said, "I got to get to a meeting. I've got someone waiting for me." And I called my um OBGYn who is a good friend of mine, Dillis Walker, who actually works at UC now. And I said like, Dillis, they've got me here because of who I'm married to. She said, you know, okay, put them on the phone. >> And Dillis then said, you need to stay as long as they need you to stay. Which is my first sort of inkling that something was, you know, very wrong. And then I started asking questions, but they couldn't answer them. And it was, you know, pretty clear I had a bad rat score, which is what, you know, you score on a mammogram. Um, and that was what it was coming into. Um, you know, and then it was clear that there was something that could be felt. I went over to her office that afternoon. There was felt something. We called Julio. He was um on route back from Europe. He didn't believe me. He said I was exaggerating at first. >> Yes. It was a very He said, "You got to be exaggerating. It can't be that bad." and Dillis got on the phone and said, "It's worse than what she's saying, so come back." And uh that was, you know, that was the first while, but the first um >> Do you think that was part of his shock kind of, you know, the exact the exaggerating comment? >> I think that because there was no reason to believe that this could happen >> and you know, the first I think the first reaction of anyone who loves you is of course you don't have cancer, >> right? Of course. Yeah, that's what I mean. Exactly. It's just you've got a screening mamogram, you're 41, you know, you're just you're worried, but you don't have to be this worried. Um, and >> it's such an important point though. I think I think I think people think that there has to be a reason, right, to get cancer, that you needed some exposure or that there's some genetic risk. Yes, those do exist sometimes, but often there isn't a quote reason, >> especially with breast cancer. >> Especially with breast cancer. And another reason why to get your screening mammogram, >> your screening mammogram. And if we can go into it for a minute, I really think it's extremely important to know your body. >> Yes. >> And know your breasts um and how they change and your entire body to feel comfortable touching and exploring yourself in all parts of your body. Um and this is what we can teach, you know, very young women. This is what we need to be teaching when we're in junior high, high school, and even earlier. Feel comfortable touching and knowing yourself. Feel that you have a beautiful body and you want to get to know it. Um, I think that's really part of what we have to do as individuals, as women for sure, but anyone. Um, and then you observe changes over time, right? Because we know that mimography is not especially effective on dense breasts and particularly below age 40. Um, and by the way, no magic number on 40 like I it could be 42, it could be 43. We talk about 40, 50, we don't know the exact age at which mimography should. What we do know, as you know very well, is that it's not especially effective >> in younger women. So what do we offer younger women? And in the places where I work, I talk a lot about breast clinical exams and I speak a lot and I believe in this very strongly. We have research to support this. You do not need a physician to do a breast clinical exam. >> A health promoter can do a very effective breast clinical exam. You need to actually have touched and felt a lot of breasts and some cancers. >> Yes. And so a health promoter who has good contact with the community, um a nurse, um someone working in a hair salon, um seriously is a very good um potential advocate and person who can help a woman to undertake breast clinical exam. Um because we're not trained for that as individuals. We're not trained for this. But we can train, right? >> We can train on how to do exploration. Well, and I love what you said, too. I mean, the first step you is just training on yourself, which is to say just know your own body and know something feels different if it changes, but also get to know your body and I mean, appreciate it, but also um it's yours >> and map it. We actually have, you know, two circles and you have a 3:00 and a 6:00 and your body on the right or left and you mark what you have >> because you can have a perfectly benign lump in one side. It's been reviewed and you know it's there. you've got it marked and you look for you look for changes. But the other is in the places that I work um you know it's the inverse of here the vast majority of women are diagnosed in stage three or four >> when we're speaking about you know lumps the size of oranges or worse and there is no question that with a an exam using your fingers you can downstage that and so we're trying to push towards downstaging I'm not saying with clinical exams you can manage to find that you know 1 cm or that stage one you can do better than stage three or four um we see just masses that never should have gotten to that level. Right. >> Right. And that's what we're trying to do in a lot of the places. Um but I think it's also just a very relevant message given that we know that breast cancer is increasing among younger women >> and we don't exactly know why. >> Um so what do we do about it if not not ideal? We look at ultrasound and we look at >> you know actually being able to explore with our hands, >> right? I mean um you and I were talking before we started today, but we we both have daughters. What what message would should we send to the younger generation? I think >> um you know I think it depends on whether or not there's a history in the family. >> Sure. And where they live. >> And where they live. So you know we know and we have to be clear about it that um >> we suggest that the daughters of women who have had breast cancer think about having MRI, mimography or ultrasound 10 years before age of diagnosis of their mother or father. Um not because we're sure that mimography is the best, but when you complement it with something else, it can be extremely effective because we know risk is higher. >> Yes. >> Right. Um I think the decision to and we should talk about this a little bit is um what what is um a previvor? When do women decide and when is it the right decision to have a so-called prophylactic mastctomy? I think this is something that many of our daughters ask themselves. >> Um what is the right time? should we do this? Should we not do this? What are the other options? Um it's very different when you're living in a country where you really don't have access to care. Yeah. Um and where you can think about reconstruction, where you don't have the same choices. But you know, overall >> the message to daughters of women with breast cancer is start earlier and you need to be followed up much more closely. But I do think we need to talk like really seriously about um choices around mastctomy >> um and why and when having done it. >> Right. Well, and it's um I I actually hadn't heard that term previvor. >> Can you tell me a little bit about that? >> Previvors are uh you know women who are at risk but they do not have cancer and they choose to have typically a double mistctomy, >> right? they may or may not have the gene and then you can combine it with other things like euphorctomy and you know every I think every decision is a personal one and can be justified. >> Um I personally waited 15 years before I had the other breast off. >> Um and I think you know there were many reasons why I finally decided to do it. Um so I just think it's a very personal decision. >> And it's not an easy surgery to have. You know, I I never refer to this as top surgery, with all due respect to those who use that word. It's a very serious surgery. It doesn't always work out as well as you'd like it to. And you don't do it because you think you're going to look better afterwards. >> Um this is sort of I think one of the most important messages. It isn't a cosmetic procedure. And I think that there's a little bit of risk here that um women would run into it thinking um and I've I've been told that myself. You'll you'll be you'll >> Right. >> Right. Um you have all sorts of options to you know have be be much perkier. Let's put it that way. Um that's not the reason to do it. >> And it doesn't always work out that way. >> No. And it certainly comes with risks. >> Comes with risks. And there are all sorts of options um that do not involve a mistctomy. which is an amputation in the end and making sure that women have access to those options I think is hugely important. >> Yeah. I mean it sounds like um thankfully that you know you were able to have a wonderful care team. You mentioned your uh gyn I think when you were when you were in Mexico. Um can you share um how um you chose a treatment path and how you assembled you know your own care team? >> Of course. So, you know, that and that's an interesting story because um sort of stage one, which is like the first hundred pages of the book, is me, you know, not accepting that I actually have a cancer diagnosis and going through the different processes of the biopsy, etc. um and how that played out and lots of time um being incredibly frightened in the breast and then getting the diagnosis and deciding that you know I really wanted to save my breast and going through multiple surgeries even though my surgeons were saying look we can't get clean margins the right decision is a mistctomy um one piece that was really important there really really important there for me is that they didn't expect that I would need a mistctomy when they first went in. >> So I they hadn't talked to me about it and thank goodness they and you know Julio decided to wake me up and talk to me about it because we know that one of the most important and decisive factors in the success of a mistctomy is that the woman has to be choosing it. >> It's got to be your decision and I had not made that decision. So, you know, I struggled surgery after surgery to try to get clean margins. And by the time that they had found another lesion, a third lesion, and there was really very little left in my breast, they still said, "It's your choice." >> Yeah. >> Because we can take that lesion off and you can have radiotherapy and the outcomes will be very similar, but you don't have a lot of breast left. >> And that was the point in which I said, "Okay, myctomy is the right choice for me." It was about the same time as I also decided that I could do advocacy. But speaking of that moment, which was really key, so you have to imagine sort of a person me who was depressed um refusing a lot of treatment, not going along with a lot of it, absolutely refusing chemotherapy, >> and thinking that even though the recommendations were there, I just couldn't do it. And there's this one day and I describe it in the book where I go out for a walk and I start the walk sure that I'm not going to have I'm not going to go through treatment. And as I'm walking along the street in Cornovaka where I was diagnosed, I think of a woman same age as me, two kids, and she's in another hospital, the public hospital, not the private hospital, and she doesn't have the choices I have, >> right? because she can't get the care either because she can't afford it or because there's no one to take care of those two little kids. And suddenly it occurred to me that I was incredibly lucky and blessed. You know, I had Julio there by my side. He was not, you know, always supportive, doing everything to accept me as a woman, me as a mother, me as his wife, me as a decision maker, and would be there to help with our daughters going through this. And I had full access to care. >> Yeah. >> And there I was saying, "No, but I don't want this. I can't do it." And suddenly I thought to myself, you know, I have something I could do. I have a voice. I'm going through this for a reason. And I can use this to try to help all of these other women who don't have the same access I did. And right around that same time, the new national health insurance that Julio had put in place, the Sigoro Popularar was covering breast cancer treatment for all women in Mexico. So there was a huge message to give that if you will just be screened and if you will just accept a diagnosis, you will not have to pay for your treatment. You will not be impoverished. We can help you to survive. Um especially if you're diagnosed early. So I picked up that message, went on with the mistctomy. um and had a an amazing team um of of surgeons. But I got to say I was full-on rejecting the chemotherapy for a good couple of months. Um it was a very personal reason. >> My father was a concentration camp survivor. >> And it wasn't actually the chemotherapy. It was the idea of looking myself in the mirror and seeing the vision of someone who was in the concentration camps. And the fear for me was overwhelming. Yeah. Um, and nothing was getting me through it. Um, until I thought to myself of my two kids and um, the little one in particular um, who is adopted. We talk about it in the book and the thought that she couldn't possibly lose two moms. >> And if she was going to, then she had to at least think that I had fought. >> Both of them need to think that I had fought to give it a shot to be there for them. And I knew I needed the chemotherapy. And that's what got me in that first round. But um which I did at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance with Julie Greyo and her amazing team. But you know after that first round which was shocking um and all the things that happened to your body going forward from there it got comfortable is not the right word but I was really at peace with it. >> You know the day my hair fell out and you know I write about it. I didn't think I could go out in public. Um, but I realized if I didn't, I would never go, >> right? Wrapped my head and went out to a big event and realized that again, I had I had this voice. I had this opportunity. And I was very lucky to have all the support in the world that most women don't have. You know, the women I work with, um, I don't know how they do it, but they have chemo early in the morning, get on a bus, go back to work. Um, all over cities all over the world. um they don't have access to antiimetics, they don't have access to anything that would help them to manage the symptoms and yet they go on with their lives because it's a chance of surviving. >> So that's what brought me forward and there's you know whole long 15 years or so of getting towards a point where I had the second mistctomy. Um lots of surgeries. Um I went septic in my last dose of chemotherapy which they say only happens to the wife of a physician. Of course. >> Exactly. Yes, >> it's it's it's it's an incredible journey and the revelation that you're mentioning on that walk um really struck me struck me because I think often I think especially providers oncologists might say look you have all these options how could you not do chemotherapy or how could you not take advantage of this treatment and I just felt like you were really reminding everyone that and and and sharing today with us as well that these thoughts these fears are so personal and especally the legacy, you know, of your father and thinking about um this horrendous, you know, time in a in a concentration camp and, you know, looking in the mirror that all that is part of being a human being. And then when you get a, you know, a very very serious diagnosis like this, it's not just cut and dry, you know, oh, I'm just going to do this medicine. I'm going to have this surgery. And you mentioned something I think is incredibly important, which is choice. And we've talked on even on this podcast with with other experts as well about shared decision-m, you know, and making these decisions together. I love hearing that you weren't just making one choice or one decision, but it's been part of this 15 years you were grappling with these choices and decisions, >> right? And in a lot of the work we do on health systems now more generally, um, we talk about patient co-creation. >> Yes. We have to understand and in fact a lot of the work we're doing now we have a commission for with the Lancet the medical journal of the Lancet on cancer and health systems and we're we're looking at the journeys that women face from prevention through to paliation with a diagnosis like breast cancer and when you talk to women about their journey and you look at all the different places where they face barriers you have a really good understanding of what to do in terms of policy that you don't get when you look at the data and you don't get when you look at the legislation, you don't get it unless you actually speak to the women about literally how they're walking through the health system. >> And that's data speaking to women. >> That's speaking to women. And I talk a lot about how, you know, it's one thing to like learn about a health system and he led a health system. But living it is a whole different story. when you get into that hospital bed and you have to live through even with health insurance, all of those decisions, you finally understand what it really means to make choices and make choices about, you know, daily life, choices about your children. Um, but I also I really wanted to go back to something about the idea of looking in the mirror. >> Yes. >> Right. Um, so you I remember one of my probably was like the first big interview I did and I must have had the m the first mistctomy was like maybe it was fresh two weeks prior and I'm in front of a microphone like this. It's hanging down. And he said to me, "So, you know, you just had a mistctomy. What do you see when you look at yourself in the mirror?" And yeah, that was like exactly like your eyes just that was like I was like, "What what am I seeing?" Um, and I thought for a minute and I realized that even though I mean this is a fresh mistctomy, a large scar, um, very prominent, um, what I saw was a woman that I liked much better in terms of the strength I was seeing in the mirror than the woman before, right? And that's a lot of what imbued me with that strength. And then Julio's sorts of messages along the way which I know most women don't have with him saying you know to our children and to me you are beautiful like this because our image of ourselves is what is beautiful. I mean I know so many women tell me no I don't want to know because my husband will leave me because I'm going to be ugly if I have a mistctomy because I need my breasts. That isn't what makes you beautiful. And there's, you know, there's a story in the book where most days I was in pretty good shape, right? But this one I was feeling pretty rotten and it took me a lot to get up and walk over to the lunch table and was sitting with the two kids, you know, three and 11. And by that point, I was like bald, myctomized on one side, bloated from the chemotherapy, you know, wearing a-ine dresses. I >> And I'm walking over to the table and he says to the girls, "Isn't your mother beautiful?" like your father's gone crazy. You know what? But I looked at their faces and they were like, "Wow, you know, she really is and he really thinks this." That kind of a message to our daughters went well beyond the breast cancer. And that's a lot of what I think we can do in advocacy with a disease like this. Yes, we're speaking about breast cancer, but really what we're speaking about is women's rights and womanhood. Yeah. and womanhood and what is beautiful about us which is so much more than our breasts, >> right? >> And that message has to like reverberate throughout our lives, >> Um >> so loudly >> so loudly because the real cancer is that societal cancer of machismo which is the word we use >> in Spanish but I can give you in any language in every country, right? >> Yes. That's the cancer that blocks women from getting care and from believing in ourselves and all >> that blocks men. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean tell me I mean tell me more. I mean I have to say I think and this is my own limitations you know of maybe in my clinical background. It is it was really eye opening for me to hear about um the machismo but also that there was also this fear. I think I've been coming at it from a very clinical perspective, but the fear of being abandoned, the the of that a lot of women um you know, experience. I mean, we I want to talk about it later with you as well, but you know, in in your book, there's these beautiful letters that I know that um your husband gave you permission to publish where it sounds like you had, you know, luckily, my goodness, such a different experience, right? And for him, not just to write you personally and privately, but then publicly, right? and and also in front of your daughters especially to promote this other other more expansive right you know definition of of beauty a lot based on experience right um but how can we combat that I I have to say I was really horrified to think that on top of dealing with a serious diagnosis that that was going to inform how people felt about their treatment and just their just daily fears no it's huge so just going back to the husband since you know this is UCLA health as well. The husband happens to be the chancellor. >> He does >> of UCLA first. >> Husband first >> father first. First thank you father. Um and yeah he was he was amazing. um you know we would do talks together and there would be sort of several hundred women there and I could tell my story but the minute he stood up and said a woman is more than their breasts they would go wild like this is amazing you know that this is being said to us um and I think it took us a while to realize just how important that was. Now, for me personally, he was there for every chemo session and he wrote those amazing love letters while I was in the chemo and I think I probably nearly broke his heart um when I waited and waited and couldn't get into that chemo room, but he supported me at every step of the way through it. >> That's incredible. >> He was and he is um and so that's a huge part of it. But, you know, let let's speak for a minute about um what I think can only be called violence against women. um domestic violence against women and we're doing more and more research on this. Um I'm helping some collaborative work with an amazing um physician here at UCLA Health with Patty Gance and at our Johnson Comprehensive Cancer Center. Um so the way I understood it initially was when I realized how many women not only poor women but women with whom I was doing advocacy um you know wealthy women um at the top of the social sectors in Mexico >> would say my husband left me because they couldn't deal with the diagnosis >> and it's not a secret until you start to realize more and more women have experienced this. Um, and they're afraid of abandonment. They're afraid of being left with children that they can't take care of in the face of a diagnosis that means that they can't often work as hard as they did before. Um, if they were working, um, they can't pay the medical bills as well as taking care of their kids and the husband, father of their children has walked out because of the breast cancer. That kind of abandonment is a kind of violence that layers onto the trauma of having a diagnosis like this, right? But I think there are a couple of ways to look at this. One is not all men are going to do this necessarily if we could provide them with some support. So no excuse for the behavior. But I also believe that there is psychosocial support that we can provide to men, to couples to be able to get through this kind of a diagnosis successfully. It's not easy to watch your partner wake up from mastctomy, >> right? It's also happening to them. >> It's happening to them in a different way and helping them to be able to cope with it effectively and be supportive. But that kind of couple therapy is really lacking. We just don't do it. Right. Right. But then, so I think that's one piece that we could do a lot more work. >> Can I ask you a quick question about that? I mean, I'm I'm well, I love picturing um your husband and and you you know, both speaking to these roomfuls of of women. Were there men in the room, too? I mean, the >> there were some, >> you know, I just feel like there's just there's right there's that where's the cuz they need to hear that. It's the role modeling, but cuz you listen to stories, right? I mean, I'm hearing your story. I read your book. I mean, that's going to stay with me, right? But, you know, men might be told something, right? Or partners, right? But it's incredibly powerful to hear, you know, you and your husband speak together. >> You know, I'll never for the the first time that we did this, there was a woman who had just been diagnosed. >> And she came up and in her best Spanish used a really horrific word, the equivalent of, "I will be ugly without breasts." And standing next to her was her partner who wasn't saying it. She was saying it, >> right? And she didn't realize I was misctomized. And I said, "Am I ugly?" She's like, "No." I said, "Well, I only have one breast." >> Mhm. >> And he's still with me. So, you are not going to be ugly, but her own image of herself. >> Yes. >> Was of that she would be ugly and worthless without her breasts. >> And I mean that part too. I mean, I think partners, men, we you know, of course, but I want to desenter the men too for women and say like, yes, it's it's the rights your personal interpretation of your beauty. And so much of that is just internalized, right? Talk about internalized cheese. >> Yeah. >> This is why I also said you don't have a mistctomy for cosmetic reasons. >> Exactly. Oh my gosh. Exactly. >> So it it's it's a serious it's for a different reason. Um but so going back to the So first I think there's a lot we could do to prevent some of that if not abandonment to improve the way that your partner can support you. whoever your partner is, by the way, male, female, or other gender, right? Um, but the other thing that we're beginning to do um a lot more work on is, and I have another Lancet Commission on this, >> the level of violence against women and children is horrendous. We are speaking about one in three women globally, globally everywhere in the world, um, and at least one in five children, um, girls and boys. And what we can reasonably hypothesize is that that kind of physical and emotional and mental trauma um makes you much more susceptible to different diseases. Um it's been hard to prove, but I don't think it's without correlation that the trauma can affect the biology and the cellular level and make you much more likely to get many things. So that's that's one. Um but the other is that the whole survivorship part of a cancer journey breast or otherwise is tremendously affected when you have suffered violence or when you suffer violence like abandonment during that process. Right? The survivorship journey is about recovering your own sense of self and beauty in yourself. >> And if you've suffered that it's much more difficult. The other place where I think there's a a really concerning overlap is this reason why women will tell me I don't want a mammogram because I don't want to know I have the disease because I will be abandoned. >> Right? So that whole problem with later detection with women not going forward to be checked is because in large part of the violence and trauma they've experienced and the way we've been brought up to think of what we are >> and what makes us worthwhile as women and as human beings. If we can get rid of that much ema, if we can get rid of that violence, we will have been getting rid of a huge risk factor for at least mortality around breast cancer and many other diseases. Um, that's where I begin to talk about like real prevention. >> Right. Exactly. Because there's the fear when you have a diagnosis, but then there's the fear of even finding out if even getting detected. >> Right. Exactly. And I What do you want to tell me? I want to tell you that you should be afraid of not knowing. >> Yes. you shouldn't be afraid of knowing because with access to treatment survival rates are you know 98% um at 5 years in many parts of the world. So you want to find out as early as possible that you have a disease as long as you can get access to treatment >> and have these conversations because I mean I think I think it's very very instructive to hear that you even with great access to care right your husband was the the minister of health that you still said you know but this is my choice and my decision and you had to think about it >> oh I had to think >> and that takes time >> right >> I I think I think that's an an incredibly >> it takes time very honest conversation >> very honest conversation and the grace to give yourself and everyone around you that you're thinking about something. >> Yeah. And I think that idea of conversation is really important too. So must have been like the third time I was trying to get um clean margins and I was set and it's the night before and it suddenly occurred to me and I said well I have any feeling left like no you know it hadn't even feeling in the breast or in the nipples. in the breast. Anywhere in the breast. Exactly. So, it's like, of course, they they assumed I knew, you know, you won't. Now, that isn't always the case. >> Um, I think surgeries are newer. Things can be that, you know, things are different now. There is a way to do nipple sparing surgeries for some women if they're caught early enough. There are options. But in my case, 18 years ago, that was not the option. But in the minute that I realized, wait, I will have no feeling. I said, "I'm not ready for a mistctomy yet." >> And like, you know, you got to have this tomorrow morning. And I said, "I can't have this tomorrow morning." >> Yeah. >> Um because no one had talked to me about all of the different feelings and issues I would go through. Um and you do with the survivorship, with the care, with the treatment. There are all sorts of things that you go through. And I think the more we can prepare women for that, >> the better off they are. Survivorship is all about lots of things happen to your body. Some of them are going to get better and some of them aren't. And so it's better I believe that we know about it and we can work with it than not. >> I mean I couldn't agree more. I think um um you know you talk about um the word survivorship um um and I think you you know highlight that term a lot and something we like to talk about a lot on this podcast is language you know and and the impact that the words that we use especially in medicine you know um just have such an impact about how we ourselves are seen as patients how other people see us how we talk about things and you know in society um I'd love to just take a moment to talk about what that word means to you and maybe it isn't easy to define like you're saying. I mean, it's spanning years, moments, you know, tons of different feelings. But, um, I I love hearing that you're working with Dr. Patty Gans. I've known her since I was a little girl. I went to school with, um, one of her sons in elementary school. But, um, you know, I just Patty's been super. >> Isn't she super? But the even the words kind of survivorship, tell me a little bit what that means. >> So, you know, um, the word survivor is used a lot particularly with breast cancer. Um, so first I use the word survivor much more to think about the concentration camps >> and domestic violence and violence against children. That's where I use the word survivor more. >> Um, so I had tended to reject the survivor word for that reason. >> But the second reason is I would be, you know, giving these talks and you learn as you go along as an advocate. and a friend in the room who had stage 4 breast cancer came down and said, "You know, I'm not in your chart. >> I'm not one of those women who is likely to survive this." And so, I'm not a survivor. >> And then they said, "Well, you know, everybody's a survivor as soon as you're diagnosed." But all of those women >> feel all of those people feel left out of the room. They're in a different room. And I realized, you know, sometimes I'm uncomfortable being alongside my friend, my colleague, the other woman that I'm trying to work with who I know won't survive. That's scary for us. That's the second reason that we have to be inclusive. We don't know. And you know, I do a lot of work on paliotative care and end of life. We don't know when it crosses over from survivor into paliotative care. We really don't know. And it can go back and >> end of life, right? Even different. Yes. Yes. And you may die of something else in the end. Anything can happen. So I really started thinking about a journey. And for me the word survivorship >> talks about a journey >> and it's a long journey over time. It's a journey when you can be quite ill at some points and not at others where you learn to get over the way that your diagnosis and your treatment has limited your life and find other ways to live your life. But it really is the word journey is is the right word. And so I didn't never have like the idea that either you're a survivor or you're not. It's never convinced me to tell a woman >> who has stage 4 who's got metastatic disease, oh you're a survivor, right? >> And I guess the other part of it is, you know, when we go to the walks and we're dressed in pink and we're, you know, it's not all rahrh. No, >> it's it's this is why I think we have to allow women to talk about it as it is. >> Um the first time I used the word um amputation for a mistctomy with a physician, oh no, we don't use that word. And I said, "No, wait a minute. You're going to you're talking to me about removing a part of my body that is external, like it's what's the difference between my arm and my breast?" >> And the physician said, "Well, women wouldn't accept it if I used that word." And I said, "Yeah, but it is an amputation. You have phantom breast. You feel that you've lost something. You need to talk about it. It's it's it's a journey >> and it's your word. It's your word. And if it describes your experience, it's meaningful." >> I'm sure. I bet it describes the feeling that women have often, but we don't get to talk about it that way because even when you're in that like advocacy space, you're supposed to be >> positive and glad we're alive and what more could we want? You're allowed to want other things, you know, you're allowed to mourn what you lost and you're allowed to talk about it and you're allowed to figure out the ways in which all the systems around you can help you >> to do better with that. I mean, I think I think it's very hard to exactly define advocacy as as as you and I were, you know, briefly talking, but it seems to me that talking honestly, right, is probably the most meaningful, right, that and just most authentically representing, right, what people are going through or what they are fearing of going through. I mean, that's really representing, right, and supporting other people. And I think there's also a piece of that that has to do with discrimination against women womanhood as well because we aren't supposed to talk about certain things because it doesn't matter to us. >> You know, prostate cancer and impotence is something that, you know, of course >> there would be support for men and of course you would want to work on this >> and tons of research dollars. Yes. >> Tons. How much for women >> around what it means to be forced into induced into have your menopause induced you know 10 15 years beforehand. Um where is the support for us in that and then where is the support for that woman as part of a couple who also needs counseling and ways to figure out how to manage that. So, it's it's all wrapped up in the idea that we shouldn't care about our sexuality, that we've already produced children, so what more should we do? Or we chose not to, so then what are we? Um, it it's really wrapped up in that. And so, I think >> again, there's more to beauty than the breast. >> Much more. Yes. And this is where I really strongly believe that the breast cancer movement can do a lot around gender. I still call it um discrimination, gender discrimination, and gender equality um for women. Yes. For all genders actually. Um >> because we're talking about um a health condition, a disease that affects a particular part of our body and our womanhood and where there's a huge audience out there. Somehow this pink movement was really extremely successful. So I think it's time that we stopped only advocating around our breasts >> and we're actually advocating for the rights of women and others to healthare and to live a full life. >> Yes. and and advocating for all of like to your point all the support around the diagnosis right all the support >> for longitudinally right for the cancer diagnosis the treatment the psychologically right I mean it's not just exact I mean again with all due respect it's it's great for us to you know do do the walks and wear the ribbons um and there's a tremendous tremendous opportunity for the support the education um especially around identity along the entire spectrum. >> The whole um phase of survivorship care, which is still relatively new, when we look across the world at our data, um the part that's missing >> is almost always survivorship and paliative care. >> Yes. Right. But within certain parts of the world, Patty's being a pioneer on this um survivorship care, the US, Canada, Europe, >> that has really come to the four because more and more women are surviving. Like we have really good statistics to share. We've talked about, you know, all of the suffering around breast cancer, but we should show like at least a couple of statistics, right? >> Of course we will. Yes. So 45% drop in mortality in the last 30 years, >> right? That's huge. It doesn't mean that there aren't still women who are going to pass from this disease. Um, but it has dropped tremendously. >> It's incredibly hopeful and a lot is because of early detection, right, and shared decision-m and treatment >> and good treatment. Exactly. Access to good treatment. This topic we the access to herceptin for her positive breast cancer discovered at UCLA health is huge has you know turned that kind of breast cancer on its head to a disease that you live with or survive rather than one that takes your life. But that 45 that's like when we talk about any success story that's a huge success story. The one before that was cervical cancer enormous success story. This means that like fewer and fewer women should die of breast cancer, but more and more women are being diagnosed with breast cancer. >> So it's where say we're victims of our own success, right? So the fact that we survive longer, um the fact that we don't die of other diseases mean we're going to get >> diseases like breast cancer and that we have so much more we can do to manage that cancer, but that we also have so many more survivors. Yes. So that survivorship care is really important to develop and offer um to the many many women who are going to be alive afterwards. >> Absolutely. And even the tools of diagnosis, the tools of treatment, they've been transformative, >> but we also need to and we need to also acknowledge the transformation for those who go through this journey. >> Yeah. Exactly. >> Um you know, I um I'd love to talk about um uh you you've been talking a lot about advocacy, which is great and again difficult to to define exactly. I think that you demonstrate advocacy in everything that you do and I think that's in a much better way an illustrative, you know, definition. Um, I was telling you a little bit before, but I'm a total Latin nerd from from from a long time. And, you know, when you break out the word add, you know, ad and vocari, it means, you know, to call to move towards calling, right? And so there's lots of definitions. I think in the 1500s it was like almost had a more legal definition. But you know today I think of it just your you know whether it's representation or summoning or calling. I think of so much of the work you do as giving voice to um and it's it's just so powerful. Um, and I love hearing how you're talking about data, and I wondered if you could talk a little bit about research and data and how you utilize that to um, you know, affect and effectuate um, policy. So, you know, our the NGO that we founded in Mexico um, is called Tomato Lope um, which literally translates since you're a Latin nerd um, to take it to breast. Yeah. >> Right. It it we use the term take it to heart. >> Yeah. >> Um and that lema had been used a lot around breastfeeding but had not been used around breast cancer before. >> So calling it domat means you know really take it seriously. But, you know, sort of like our signature piece of data or graph um is one where we showed how mortality from cervical cancer in Mexico had, you know, been really high in the mid 80s and had dropped from about 16 per 100,000 to below eight. >> Wow. >> Around the time that I was diagnosed, 2005, 2006, 2007. But then you look at the breast cancer mortality curve and it's just like an upward trend. And when we started doing this, people said, "Oh, no. poor women die of breast cancer and Mexico poor women die of cervical cancers, right? And so most of the women in Mexico are dying of cervical cancer and like the aha moment was when we said no actually the majority of us are breast not cervical. We've been really successful on cervical. We have this huge emerging challenge called breast cancer. And when we could say to our clinicians and policy makers, wait, you need to include information on breast as well as cervical cancer in all of the grassroots work that you're doing on health education for women all over the country. And then we were able to show that it was just in like the poorest regions where there were still more women dying of cervical than breast and say look this is unacceptable but once you're finished dealing with cervical you're going to be facing this emerging challenge of the non-communicable disease of the breast cancer. So we were able to really show um what we call the epidemiologic transition looking at cervical cancer and breast cancer but the policy message was there is this huge tsunami coming at women and you're not aware of it because you have this false idea that most women have cervical cancer and not breast cancer and you're wrong here. This is so that was one of the ways that we used data and everybody was incredibly surprised to see it. um everybody being the policy makers, even Julia when I showed him this figure was shocked, right? >> Um it was just nothing we had seen before. And the more I went in front of, you know, we had an anti-poverty program that worked in the poorest parts of Mexico. And they're like, we're not saying anything about breast cancer when we're doing health education because we don't need to. >> I said, well, look at these figures. >> It's interesting like this either or like we only have room for one topic here. Yeah. >> Right. Speaking of right, womenhood. Yeah. you can actually actually you can even face both right >> right and this was this was when the vaccine was very in its very early days so it wasn't about the vaccine um so that was really a very important message but the other thing that we used and I still use is you need success stories right >> and when we talk about a 45% decline in mortality in the US we're not seeing the same in places like Mexico we're seeing an increase in mortality still and it's going to keep going up even though it's not nearly at the same level that we saw in say the US or Canada. So what do I tell people? I say look first of all you have the chance to take advantage and leaprog through all this and see and use all of the science that's been developed elsewhere. But the other is I'll go back to the cervical cancer story and say look that huge drop in cervical cancer mortality wasn't the vaccine. >> It was women agreeing to have an invasive test called a papsmear. Mhm. >> And you know, I'm sure that if we were, you know, sitting in a classroom in the mid '80s, particularly in Mexico, and saying, "Oh, women are going to go and have a peps," be like, "Yeah, right." Well, they did because we are actually able to internalize information that we're given, use it, think about how to protect ourselves and go and have the tests we need to have. Cervical cancer is incredible success story even before the vaccine. And you know, by the way, also related to one of the other topics I know you talk about on the show, which is HIV, AIDS, you know, use of condoms. It's it's it's linked, right? These are really important stories that link together when we think about public health. I am so interested that you described the papsmear as invasive that you're acknowledging that, you know, that it's actually a procedure that, you know, is very meaningful and can feel very invasive for women. I just feel like so much is about just as as you're talking right is just undermining right or minimizing or dismissing and just by even you saying that word it just really acknowledges that um these things aren't small you know >> but one thing is to accept that it's an invasive test another is to make sure that it's done in a way that's done with dignity >> absolutely >> and that's true of everything to do with our breasts as well. >> Yes. Absolutely. And it's typically, you know, I literally hear about like lineups of women with their top off waiting to be checked. This is not how you do this. >> And a lot of it is not about money. It's not more expensive to do things with dignity. >> And we just seem to forget the value of like dignity of the poor. >> That's right. >> Of everyone. For sure. Yeah. Um we we did um we did have one of our gosh maybe it was our first or second no our second episode of this podcast was with Dr. from Maya Zapata who talks about you know your routine um pap test and it is excellent but so much of what she promotes is you know comfort normalization and dignity um and I love hearing that and I just I I hate to think that that's something that we take for granted you know here at you know at our health system or in this country and that that's not you know afforded to everyone >> but we can advocate for that >> and tell me tell me how yeah so one thing is helping women to understand that they have a right >> yes to ask for better care >> and to ask for dignity and to say I am not willing to accept this right to insist so you can have someone else in the room with you your friend your sister um to stand up for yourself which is not easy to do in a situation where there is a lot of trauma and violence so we think about only domestic violence but there's a huge amount of work that's been done on should we call clinical violence. It's the violence that women suffer when they're in childbirth, when they're going through tests where that lack of dignity really crosses the line. >> It's incredibly traumatic. >> It is incredibly traumatic and it crosses a line of what is violence. >> Well, and then it's the it's then as you you know um suggested too, there's the future trauma when you don't, for example, take care of yourself, right? Or you're not able to go get that screening test, right? >> Um you're diagnosed later. Yes. like a kind of a weird phrase to use, but that's the catch. Either you accept the lack of dignity that it means to go through a test like this or >> you're accused you didn't take care of yourself. Absolutely wrong. Absolutely wrong. >> But I really feel that this is changing in so many ways. Yeah. >> And again where this is where the advocacy say changing because of the lot of work that you do honestly. Thank you. >> No, it's true. Yes. >> But the advocacy movement on breast skin has been huge. We don't hear that around cervical. This is something that's really interesting. >> The advocacy around cervical is to do with the vaccine. >> Even if you look at sort of the literature, the Latin stuff, right? The literature, women writing about their own experiences, very few women write about cervical cancer, >> many women write about their breast cancer experience. >> Very true. Yes. Just anecdotally, just I'm just thinking to myself, absolutely. >> Yep. And it's not that there's less cervical cancer, at least historically, >> but we would you would never write about that part of your body, I guess. Um, and so we don't have that kind of advocacy. And I think >> it behooves the breast cancer movement to think about that broader advocacy question, all that we can do in some way. Cervical cancer is an obvious example, but there are many more. >> Such a good point, right? Like change from the spotlight to just like a flood light, right? Exactly. Exactly. You know, and it's when we think about we talk a lot about how um science was all about male mice until recently, right? Um and probably why breast cancer needed that advocacy because this was a disease that largely affected women. Um cervical cancer the same. So, who was going to figure that out or invest in that when you didn't even have female mice to get it, right? Yep. We've come a long way. It's huge. And it's not that many years since then. It's It really is a >> It hasn't been many years at all. No, it hasn't. It hasn't. >> Um I'd love to hear, you know, even more. You know, you mentioned your um the nonprofit, the the NGO. Um um a lot of work with civil societies, faith-based organizations. Um and um I'd love to hear just some more concrete examples of, you know, some of the the work that you've done. Um >> it's just it's incredibly helpful and inspiring, but it's also it just I wanted to kind of lead to kind of what can I do every day, you know, that's, you know, in my own sphere. So when we were talking a little while ago about I said you don't need a doctor to do a breast clinical exam. >> You use the word health promoters which is by the way in the states I can say I haven't often heard that word. >> Oh interesting. So it's huge in low and middle inome countries right. Um so one of the things we did with the NGO and I was really happy able to partner with Nancy Keading a physician that's based at Harvard. Um we trained thousands of health promoters and primary care nurses and physicians. Yes. >> Right. around breast clinical exam and breast health overall um throughout Mexico and then we proved scientifically we reviewed we analyzed that they were getting information they were learning and they were able to retain that information. So we were teaching them about breast health, teaching about breast um cancer and teaching them about breast clinical exams and they now all of those women, most of them are women, most of the promoters are women, most of the nurses and a lot of the doctors are women. Um can be in their clinics and in their communities much more prepared to be able to deal with this disease. Which gets back to what I had said from that, you know, figure where I was trying to tell policy makers, look, we got to do something about breast cancer. They said, okay, well what? >> Mhm. I said, "Let's we don't have mimography for everybody, but let's train the armies of health promoters that we have to be able to do something." >> The one thing, you know, I've always wanted to do this. I've never had the chance to do it. I really think that if we could look at like nail salons, hair salons. Oh, yeah. This is where women open up. And I just don't think you need a medical degree to be able to downstage a stage three breast cancer that looks like an orange. I mean, my daughter when she was six could have done this. >> Yes. Right. Yeah. >> Um, so that's who we were looking at. We were really trying to think about downstaging communities that didn't have access to mimography and uh to prove that, you know, health promoters could learn this and retain this knowledge. And and I think we did. Um, that was a couple years back. could we go to see where we can go with it going forward, but I have a a very strong belief that that army of people and communities can do a lot. Oh, I couldn't agree more. I we have we have community health workers and um we've we had Nikki Miller and Jasper Comp on this, you know, the show recently. It's an incredible episode. I'll um I'll make you listen to it, but just the incredible work, but the partnership with community health workers and again you've you've alluded to this too, the meeting, you know, patients before even people are patients, women um where they are, you know, and you know, you mentioned nail salons, you know, we've there's been studies, you know, even where we've done um uh been able to improve blood pressure in barber shops, for example. You know, we we really we need to get out of, you know, this ivory tower of a clinic, right? and and bring the medicine um and bring the health and the education um to people. >> I wanted to talk one of my crazier ideas that I've never been able to try. So, you know, I believe that we should be doing a lot of this in school age children, right? So, then it occurred to me um a while back, but have not been able to do the study. We should teach young men how to explore breasts. >> Mhm. because it isn't it's not that uncommon that it's actually a partner who finds the lump and not the woman herself. >> Happened to a friend of mine. Yeah, absolutely. >> So, if we coupled that with an idea of, okay, um gentlemen, here's how you actually can effectively fondle a breast, >> right? They'll learn how to do that respectfully, >> and think about all that it means to be a healthy breast. Yes. >> Right. So, I actually think we could combine it with all sorts of important um health education and message about dignity and womanhood, but at the same time think, well, you know, 5 10 years down the line, >> they may actually be finding in their partner something, right? >> Um that's like my hope that we could combine breast health with all sorts of other issues that we need to work on. >> I love that. I mean, you know, a big part of even why, you know, we're doing this podcast is because we don't think you have to go to med, you know, medical school to know how your body works and how to keep it healthy. But what we really want to do is say, listen, you can keep yourself, your partner, your friends healthy. You you deserve to have this information. Exactly. >> Right. And I think especially with um normalizing, you know, consenting, right, nonviolence, you know, you know, to to to your point, I mean, I can't think of anything more important than you're keeping yourself, people you love, your communities healthy. And even in these cases of you know um these you know let's say their their partners it also gives them this permission and this knowledge like you might also get sick one day right and I think it normalizes vulnerability and illness and um >> you know I don't even want to say weakness because I think that you know unfortunately I think that has such a negative connotation when really there's nothing wrong without having moments of weakness. And I I want to bring this back to your book a little bit because I I've never read a book like yours where there's um and I think there's a lesson in in itself this tremendous um power in being vulnerable in being h being afraid being frightened being haunted you know by you know family legacies. I mean that in itself is a story I think that when shared and humanized I think makes things like even just being like oh getting a mammogram feel much more you know in reach you know getting genetic testing in reach going to a health promoter a physician a nurse in reach and I I think that's something that I just don't I haven't experienced that having been discussed before I really I thought that was really just very unique on top of being very beautifully written. >> Thank you. It helped me more to write the book, I'm sure, than anyone else. >> We happen to have it right here. But I'll let you That's the English version. Absolutely. There you go. That is the English version. >> Can you tell me a little bit about the cover? I don't know if you mind showing the camera, which is right this way, but I I actually thought the cover was very beautiful, too. >> So, that is a painting by Joy Leavville, um, who was born in Britain, but is a Mexican artist. She passed a few years ago. And if you ever come to the residence, which I hope you will, then you'll see this painting. Um, I would love to have you there. So Joy um I had purchased this painting um Julio bought it for me as a gift when I was in the throws of my treatment and when we were going to write the book and I had met Joy I went to see her and said Joy can I use this as the cover of my book >> and Joy allowed me to and I I here it is again it's it's that you know nothing is even about this >> woman um and yet it's very very beautiful um everything is a little bit >> I would say that is what makes her beautiful so that's that is the cover of book. I wrote it first in Spanish um to de la Petro and then it was our little one Mariana who picked this title which has worked very well. Um I think she might have been she might just have watched you know Beauty and the Beast or something when she came up with it I have to admit but when she said that's it because there's no translation for Tomato. >> No that's interesting that you're saying too and also taking it to the breast taking you know take it to heart. Um I think that um in hearing about the incredible advocacy work and again even just how you how you speak what I mean how can we um as individuals I guess advocate for ourselves for our fellow women and this is a message again for men women our children I mean on an everyday I guess basis like even you know at home right so I really think um one point is to this idea of we are beautiful however we are. >> Um >> it's a constant message. >> It's a constant message and when you think about something as dramatic as a mystctomy. >> Mhm. >> You really have to think about it in other terms, you know. Um and especially if put aside the issue of reconstruction, not reconstruction that so many women don't have access to. Um so I think we have to bring home this message of what is valuable about us and what is beautiful about us. um ourselves within our families, within our communities um that can come out of a disease as difficult and painful as something like breast cancer. And when we, you know, when we think about breast cancer, we don't think about a message like beauty, we think about another kind of a message around pain, around suffering, around death, around fear. >> But um very beautiful things can actually come out of it. And um when I give a talk, I often and more and more I've been doing something around the idea of an economics of hope. But the last um photo that I always use in my talks um is a picture of my younger daughter and I in a butterfly farm >> um in Canada. And so the story is this that as I mentioned I went septic in my last infusion of chemotherapy. Um and for those who don't when you septasemia can kill you very quickly. It's a you will be able to explain it better than I, but it is an infection of the blood that goes through your body very quickly. >> Very, very dangerous. >> Extremely dangerous. Um, shocking to go through and uh if you don't have access to surgery and antibiotics very quickly, you will not live. >> And so that morning um the day after the infusion when I was rushed to the hospital and I had to say goodbye to Mariana um I thought I might not see you again. And you know cancer for almost everyone is the disease you love over time. You do have a chance to talk to say goodbye to speak in in in most cases. But that day was the only time in my treatment I thought you know sweetheart I might really be saying goodbye to you. And the picture though is just a week later you know I went into surgery. I had my port removed for the usually if anybody can get a port get a port. It's a great thing to have a port. It makes it much easier to get chemotherapy but ports can get infected. So mine had to be removed surgically. But after that surgery, one week later, we're in Toronto and we go to the butterfly farm and the photograph, which not sure I can find it quickly, but if I can, I will. It's her watching a butterfly land on a turquoise hat that I have on because I'm bald. And bald was never that easy for Mariana to deal with. But that day that all the butterflies came and landed on my head cuz of the hat, she's just looking at me like, "Wow, my mother is the best thing in the world." Um, and the miracle there is it's a week after I had septacmia. >> Yeah. >> Right. So that we can really draw hope in even some of the worst situations and conditions in the world. And when you draw on that hope, you can think of very different ways to solve it. That's a resource um that we have if we can find it. You just have to meander through to identify where it is. >> We'll find the photo. I've seen the photo. It's just beautiful and it's so transformative, which is obviously also just really evocative of just the butterflies, you know, as well and that and that transformation. >> Um, but I love what you're saying um about hope, you know, and also it's none of these, you know, >> I feel like emotions that you're describing are static either, you know, and that's kind of part of the journey as well. So even like the fear that you're describing or the hope and then you know there's that roller coaster right you go through surgeries you're feeling better but then you get a blood infection um I mean what's your I guess I know it's a loaded question but I just I want to appeal to your wisdom here I mean what would your advice you I think be for people and their families I think who are kind of going through these you know survivorships which are really journey ships right um so let me give that and then maybe I'll talk about the systemic message there, too. Um, and there's a piece of it in in the book. So, you know, >> when you're in the depth of chemotherapy and cancer treatment, any other major treatment, you don't feel well most of the time the way we do. I explain this. So, >> when there's a moment when you see something beautiful and you feel well, it really strikes you. In other words, when we're healthy, we don't appreciate it the same way. Most of the moments in our day, we feel good. We feel okay. And we go through our day. When most of your moments you don't feel well and you have one that's special, it really stands out. And I talk about in that in the book moments with my daughters, moments when I looked at a flower and thought that is just >> stunningly beautiful flower. The awe, but it's it's a moment in time. And you don't get that unless you've lost it >> and then you get it back. And now like I miss that kind of awe and I think ah I've got to have that awe because I don't have to feel horrible most of the hours in the day to think about the awe of something beautiful in front of me. >> Um and so what I try to do also in a lot of the work I do is think you know if you're living in a shanty town that is gray and cold and frightening and there's a lot of illness you deserve to have flowers. And one of my great mentors who wrote one of the fors of the book, Paul Farmer was always speaking about how to beautify and dignify the places that the poor live. >> So he would put, you know, koi koi into hospitals in, you know, remote poor areas of Haiti. We say why? Because the poor also deserve >> to have flowers and fish and something beautiful to see. It makes a huge difference in life to mark those moments and celebrate them and internalize them. And I think when we're healthy, we forget that. >> Right. When it's all around us, we forget how important that is. And then translating that just for a minute into sort of some of the work I do systemically as an economist, um, you know, it's kind of what's always called the dismal science, right? Everything is too expensive, particularly cancer care. Well, that's why I'm looking forward to the economy of hope of hope. >> So, title, >> but if you look over time, prices of some of the most important interventions have dropped significantly. The price of the HPV vaccine. >> Mhm. So what I usually try to say to policy makers is you would do yourself a huge disservice planning as though the price of that vaccine were going to stay high and that you were going to take three doses cuz today 10 years later it's one dose and it's cheap. >> Yes. >> It wasn't like that. >> No, it wasn't at all. So that's the economics of hope. Planning for a future that's better than today. >> I can't wait for the economy of hope. Are you thinking a a book, a movement, a series? So back to the economics of hope. So I was saying is if we had to cut that piece and go back to it. So >> the idea from for the policy maker is don't design your health system and your policy as though the prices are really high today >> because believe that it's going to come down. That's also going to help it to come down, right? Because if you expand demand, you're going to sort of produce should produce a drop in price, right? And that's what we're trying to convince the world to do. And it's HPV vaccin is not the only example. >> Oh, no. No. We have a lot of examples of that. I mean, I and I love this. I mean, I think that um it's incredibly hopeful. >> Yeah, it is incredibly hopeful. >> I mean, even things like, you know, modalities for for screening for for breast cancer, HPV. So, um that's wonderful. >> The HEP vaccine. So the economics of hope we're kind of building into this Lancet commission that we're doing on cancer and health systems that I'm really hoping will be submitted soon and published next year um here from UCLA. But one of the things that we're really speaking a lot about is we're calling it there an economics of value. >> Yes. >> That we have um underestimated the costs of not acting. Yes. >> And overestimated the cost of acting. >> Right. That's really the idea of the economics of hope. So we um have underestimated the benefits and that's like the more crucial part in a lot of ways. When I analyze and use costbenefit analysis, what does it mean to work on breast cancer? I think about only reducing the impact of breast cancer and breast cancer mortality. But if I think that that actually had an impact on women's access to healthcare more broadly and issues around equality and empowerment of women, I need to count all of those benefits as well as being a spillover effect of what we've done on breast cancer. >> That's right. >> And so when the benefits go up, which is the denominator, the cost benefit goes down and things become much more visibly affordable >> than they were when we do our initial analysis. And I don't think we've ever really thought carefully enough about measuring all of those spillover effects, right? Poverty, inequity, all the things that I believe we should be caring about are also going to improve as a result of one of the things we're doing in healthcare. And in this case, we're talking about breast cancer. >> No, it's a brilliant way of of of of framing it. And also the opportunity cost of not doing those things, >> right? Yeah. >> And the opportunity cost is all of the things you lose, not just >> so much loss, >> right? Yes. And so much psychological loss. >> So much psychological loss. So much effect on the family. The children who can't go to school the same way. There are all of those. But this like societal spillover is what we never measure. >> Um you've been so gracious with your time today and we I mean we look forward to having you back to talk about paliative care. I mean really I could talk to you forever. You're just been really gracing us with your time and and expertise. Um if I could ask you just a our from the rooftops question. Um uh what gives you what gives you hope? I mean I mean we've talked about um the economics of hope. Anything else give you hope? >> Um many things actually um give me hope. When I look at the sorts of improvements that we've had in so many aspects of healthcare, if you kind of take a step back and look at what does it mean to have seen child mortality drop as much as it have, what does it mean to have offered um ARVs to people with HIV all over the world and how important that's been? Um >> what does it mean to be able to see that? That's huge. Um but a lot of the hope probably comes freely when I work with children with cancer. >> Yeah. >> Um when I >> Do you mean when they have cancer themselves or their family members? Oh, okay. Either way. Either one. Right. Yes. >> But often children with cancer and the survivors. Um that gives me a tremendous amount of hope. The project that I did that I'm most proud of in my whole life that I hope we can talk about some other show is a project called Sigamon Hospital. We put schools into every hospital in Mexico that had children with cancer, transplants, burn victims. Um, and what I learned there is when you tell a child that they can still go to school, >> they have the hope that they're going to survive. And even if they don't survive, it becomes so important to them to be able to continue. That gave me huge hope. Watching watching those kids and seeing how that program took hold gave me an incredible amount of hope. I still hold on to that. It was in the early 2000s that we did that and it's still the project about which I'm um sort of you know most most um moved and convinced that um there are going to be very long-term benefits of a lot of what we do. I that's in incredible and again it just you know you always I think remind us I think what we can feel grateful about you know in let's say the states or a country that and and for people who have access right even within a big a country like ours right there's just the the disparities of access is a whole other conversation but I do think that education you know and I mean just sort of as as you're as you're telling me about this I'm thinking of sure children with cancer but children who might be in right you know in a hospital environment because their loved ones in the hospital, but just not only that lack of disruption, but just what a gift education >> Yeah. >> is. >> Yep. >> And the way that we've seen drops and so I'm we've worked with families where the parents would be functionally illiterate like they could not read the script that was being given to them to provide medication to their children. Um, and we also did an educational program for them so that you have your child with cancer but mom and dad are actually learning to read and write. I mean, what could be better than that? >> Um, and it is because of the cancer that this happened. Um, but then when you add it to the opportunities that we have today, to save children's lives with cancer, that's huge. >> That's huge. And just educating ourselves. I mean I mean you're educating me. That's that's its own gift. We're hopefully together educating, you know, our listeners and, you know, just going back even to the the simple point of just knowing your own body, educating yourself about your own body and how that makes a very material and meaningful difference in your life and maybe your lifespan and your quality of life. I mean, is incredibly um powerful and I I I know we have to conclude and I just I I really I can't thank you enough for sharing um all aspects of this journey. I mean again and whether you know it's the personal to you know to the public but I mean I'm just so inspired by um the work that you do the person you are I think I think bringing that all together is is is is what's so resonant um and meaningful and I just feel like everything that you're doing is just more just promoting talk about a health promoter but just a woman promoter a health promoter a a cancer treatment promoter you know giving you know especi women women but all people really this chance to um see themselves you know to see others and and and to really heal. Um I know that we keep talking about how hard it is to define advocacy perfectly, but I actually really think you have given just this incredible living talk about journey just just this living picture of um what advocacy means and how it can um take shape and even how these smallest it's not even just actions, smallest words, the smallest gestures, actions um even just listening um really gain momentum and change um outcomes you know for people and women around the world. Um, I don't know if there's any last words from you, but I'd love to hear them. I just can't thank you enough for being here. >> No, I can't thank you enough for doing a podcast like this. There aren't that many spaces like this. Um, you know, I know we're reaching out mostly to the community, but I just also want to do a shout out to our students. >> Um, I was, you know, just teaching about palative care this morning in our research group and I said, you know, what can we do about this, right? And we are trying to teach our students that through what they're learning, the skills they're getting, they can change the world around them, which is advocacy. Yes. >> Um and so we have this incredible opportunity to be able to help a very large group of people um to have the skills that are going to make our world a better place. And that's a blessing. >> So being here at any of our universities um is really important. And maybe you know that's kind of at the heart of building rebuilding the trust in universities that I know we need to do now. >> Absolutely. It it seems that and you're exactly emblematic and emblematic and personifying this that being an advocate is really being an agent of hope. >> Yeah. >> Um thank you so much for being here. um just incredible. And for our our listeners, our like I said, our readers, I always think people are reading everything. But um until next time, stay curious, stay kind, stay healthy. Um we'll have evidence-based resources um show notes summary, a picture of you and your daughter and the butterflies in um in the show notes um an episode description. And we'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. And Dr. Nuller, thanks for being here today. Thanks for doing Medically Speaking.