Hi, I'm Dr. Maggie Denome. I am the chief of breast surgery here at UCLA and welcome to our webinar. Um, if you have any questions throughout the talk, feel free to post them on YouTube live in the comment section or the chat room. Okay. So, I'm here today to talk to you about um our lymph nodes. So, my title is leave my lymph nodes alone when less is more. So, what exactly are our lymph nodes? What are they? And what do they have to do with breast cancer? So, um our lymph nodes are actually a part of our circulatory system. So, the lymphatic system is part of the whole blood circulation. So we have about 500 to 600 lymph nodes scattered throughout our entire body. Um so they're not in any one particular location. We have them in our abdomen, in our groins. And for breast cancer, the most important places are really under the armpits or in the axilla. The main role of our lymph system. So when you think about our blood system, our arteries take oxygen um rich blood with lots of healthy nutrients, delivers them throughout our body to all of our end organs. Our organs then use the blood and the nutrients in whichever way and then our venus system takes the blood back to our c back to the heart and back to the lungs to get oxygenated. At the very ends of these arteries um and veins, there are these small little veins called capillaries. When blood goes through the CLA capillaries, some of the blood leaks out or the fluid actually the blood cells themselves, but the fluid in the blood leaks out into our interstitium or the soft tissue and that's where it then gets picked up by our lymphatic channels and it gets taken back through our lymph nodes and then if you can see here there are a couple of places where the lymph system actually dumps back into our veins. So that happens in the abdomen that happens up here in the chest. So all of a sudden now our lymphatic uh system is attached to our blood system. So it's one big closed circuit uh so to speak. So the lymphatics are very much an important part of filtering blood from certain parts of our body and returning or excuse me filtering fluid and returning them back into our circulation. But the lymph nodes are also a part of our immune system. So our lymph nodes when um foreign particles or foreign pathogens get into our lymphatics um if they are viruses or bacteria our lymph nodes will then make antibodies against it. So the lymph nodes are very much also a part of our immune system. So why is it important in breast cancer? Well, as you might imagine, cancer cells can also enter into lymphatic channels. So this is the duct. This is a duct in the breast. All of these say these are cancer cells here. What makes a cancer invasive? Means it breaks out through the wall of the duct. And why is that important? It's important because this is where the lymphatic channels and the blood vessels live. They live outside of the duct in the support tissue around the duct. So when an invasive cancer breaks through the wall of the duct, all of a sudden now it has access into our lymphatics and into our blood and they can get then into your lymph nodes. So that's why lymph nodes are important when we talk about cancer. Again, if you look at the breast, these are the most important lymph nodes that drain the breast. The lymph nodes under the arm, we call those axillary nodes. And then secondarily, they'll go up over the collar bone and then into the neck. So if you see here these lymph nodes drain not only the breast but they also drain the arm on the same side and that becomes very important. And so why are lymph nodes important in terms of breast cancer is because they make up part of the breast cancer stage. So if you have lymph nodes involved with tumor cells um and depending on how many tumor cells or how how many lymph nodes are involved that actually determines your cancer stage. So you can see here if you have a very small amount of disease it's really the pathologists can tell us when you have as little as 200 cancer cells in the lymph node and up to 2 millimeters you will have what's called a micro metastasis. that really is a very small volume of disease that has gotten into your lymph nodes. So what do we actually see is if you have a micro metastasis, you're still staged as a stage one. So even though it goes to your lymph nodes, you do not increase the stage because the volume is so low. Higher stages um involve more lymph nodes. So if you have an N1, you have one to three lymph nodes that are involved. An N2, you have between four to nine. And if you have N3 disease, you really have 10 or more lymph nodes that are involved. So the importance of lymph nodes are that it helps us to know your stage which ultimately translates into prognosis. So why do we operate on your lymph nodes? Again, it's because it gives us prognostic information. It tells us how are you going to do if you have lymph nodes involved or if you don't. We also think it helps us to guide treatment recommendations. So if you have lymph node involvement and we know that the lymph system drains into the blood system, we have to assume then you now have tumor cells that are floating around in the blood as well. So then if that's the case, we may be a little bit more inclined to recommend chemotherapy, which is medical therapy that will actually target cancer cells that are floating around in the blood. So lymph node information also can help guide chem or help guide treatment recommendations which could include chemotherapy. And then we think of it as local regional control. Meaning if you have cancer cells in your lymph node, isn't it better to take the lymph node out to get those cancer cells out? Um and the idea behind that is that if you remove the cancer in the lymph nodes, then we will decrease the chance of the cancer coming back in the lymph nodes. So these are kind of the reasons why we started operating on lymph nodes when it came to breast cancer. So what is lymph node surgery? So you have a varying number of lymph nodes under the armpit, but we take out two levels of lymph nodes in what's called a standard axillary dissection and that can be up to 20 to 25 lymph nodes. But what do we find? We take out all of these lymph nodes. And in 60% of patients, they're all completely negative. And the risk of getting arm swelling in that arm when we take out that number of lymph nodes is significantly higher because, as you remember, the lymph system will drain fluid from the arm and return it into the central circulation. So, if you were missing those lymph nodes, your body is going to have a much harder time taking the fluid out of the arm and bringing it back into the blood. So, women can get what's called lympadeema. um this is a very difficult quality of life um complication of breast cancer treatment. So this we know can happen in up to a third of women who have lymph node dissections. So back in the '9s um the idea of doing less lymph node surgery to find out whether or not there's cancer in the lymph nodes was first introduced and this is called the sentininal lymph node biopsy. Sentinel really just means the first lymph node. If you think of a sentinel at at the gates, the guard at the gate. So, we don't want to know, we don't necessarily have to take out all of your lymph nodes. Then, if we just look at the first lymph node or group of nodes that drains the breast and if we can find uh out whether or not there's cancer cells in those lymph nodes, will that give us enough of a picture of what's going on in the rest of the lymph nodes that we don't have to do a complete lymph node dissection? And that's the premise behind the sentininal node biopsy. So we have different ways of finding those lymph nodes and it's generally called lymphatic mapping. We want to map the way your lymphatic system drains into your lymph nodes because your right breast is going to drain differently than your left breast and your drainage pattern is going to map differently than um somebody uh somebody else. So we want to know how does your uh lymphatic system drain. So we do a lymphatic mapping. You can either do it with um what we call radio lababeled technesium which is a small radioactive tracer that's injected into the breast and that will travel through the lymphatic channels in the breast tissue and it'll lodge into the first lymph node or group of nodes under the arm that drains the breast. You can also use various um colored dyes. Lymphosin uh which is the blue dye um is the one that's shown here. And as you can see how very nicely that dye travels through the lymphatics and it lodges into the lymph node and turns it a very nice bright blue. So those are two ways for us to determine the drainage pattern of the breast and to find those first really important lymph nodes to see whether or not cancer cell has gotten cells have gotten in there. So the studies have shown it's a very accurate way of assessing what's going on in the rest of the lymph nodes. the risk of lympadeema significantly lower because we are not removing all of the lymph nodes and we're not disturbing the lymphatics in the armpit as much as if you did a full lymph node dissection. So after this was first introduced studies were done and it showed that if you had negative sentininal nodes that is good enough you can assume the rest of the lymph nodes in the axilla are negative. So you can stop there and you don't have to touch the rest of those lymph nodes. But if the sentininal node was positive, then you still needed to go on and get a complete axillary dissection because we needed to know were other lymph nodes involved because our thinking was again lymph node surgery was important for local regional control. Meaning if there was disease in lymph nodes, we needed to take it out with surgery to improve a a patient's outcome and make sure it doesn't come back in the axilla. So at that time if you had a positive node you still needed a lymph node dissection. Now about nine ten years ago a very big study came out. It's called the Z11 study. That's basically how we refer to it. Now this I'm going to go through it with you because it's actually quite important and it's very it was uh it's very interesting data. So a phase three non-inferiority trial. So this was study the premise behind the study was asking the question if you had a positive sentininal node do you need to go on and have more lymph nodes taken out was that something you needed to do if we didn't do that were you worse off uh compared to if you did have it done so it's a non-inferiority trial trying to show that you wouldn't be worse off um it was done over 115 sites throughout America and the important thing was they only included women who underwent a lumpctomy. What does that mean? These women also had radiation after the lumpctomy. So that's important to keep in mind. It was really only done for women who had early stage disease, meaning your your um tumor had to be less than 5 cm in order for you to be uh a candidate or participant in this particular trial. You had to have clinically negative nodes. What do we mean by that? Meaning on all of your imaging and on exam, your lymph nodes looked and felt completely normal. So for all intents and purposes, it was a negative node based on our clinical assessment. But then you went to surgery, you had the sentininal lymph node biopsy done, and you ended up having one or two sentininal lymph nodes that had cancer in them. So those are the people who were eligible for participation. Now, this is where the randomization came in. So all patients who had positive sentininal nodes then half were randomized to getting a complete axillary dissection. So they went ahead and had the standard of care had the rest of their lymph nodes taken out. The other half no more surgery. They just went on to have their radiation as recommended and they went on to have whatever kind of systemic or whole body treatment was recommended. And that would be either chemotherapy or hormone blocking therapy or both. And it's important to see that almost everybody had some form of whole body therapy in addition to the surgery and the radiation. So what did we find for the group of patients that went on to get the rest of their lymph nodes taken out? 27% of them had more cancer in the other lymph nodes. So the important thing here is that it was a randomized study meaning they just uh without any criteria women were either sent to this group or sent to this group. So the women should in each group should be very equal. So you have to assume that the women who didn't have more lymph node surgery 27% of them we left cancer cells behind in those other lymph nodes. Okay. So what did we end up seeing? The risk of the cancer coming back in the lymph nodes that were left behind. So if you just did the sentininal node biopsy, you went on to radiation, you went on to systemic therapy, the risk of it coming back in the lymph nodes was only 1.5%. The group that had all of the lymph nodes taken out, the risk of it coming back in the lymph nodes was a half of percent. And this was not statistically significant, but even more important, the 10-year overall survival was exactly the same in these two groups. So the group that had their lymph nodes taken out did not do better than the group that had their lymph nodes left in place. So this was a key study. It made us question, well, do we really need to do surgery on lymph node disease that's left behind in the axilla? So, so this was the first big study that got published and shortly thereafter a trial um out of Milan in uh was undertaken and also reported on. It was also a multi- uh center trial. Multiple institutions were a part of it. The difference two differences main differences in this trial compared to the Z11. They only included micrometastic lymph node involvement. So as you recall on a previous slide, micrometastes means you had only very little lymph node involvement between 200 cells and 2 millimeters of cancer in the lymph node. So you had to have very small lymph node disease to qualify for this study. And the other important thing was that 10% of these patients had mastctomies. So because mastctomies in um a number of patients obiates the need for radiation, these patients likely did not have radiation. So that's important because sometimes when you um are looking at information we have to know well which kind of patients can we include in these studies. So their outcome was the same meaning the risk of axillary recurrence was not any better if you took out all of the lymph nodes versus if you left um the rest of the lymph nodes behind. And again the overall survival not at all different. So, we're learning more and more that maybe surgery to take out these other lymph nodes that have small volume of disease isn't necessarily um isn't something that's absolutely necessary. Now, the Amoros trial is a little bit different, but this actually looked at well, what about radiation? Is radiation as good as surgery in terms of controlling lymph node disease? So um this was over a thousand patients who had again positive lymph nodes that went on to have either more surgery, axillary dissection or axillary radiation. What this study found was that up to a third or 33% of patients who had their lymph nodes taken out had additional disease. So the assumption here is that 33% of patients in the radiation group had lymph node disease that was then treated with radiation and not with surgery. And again, the axillary recurrences, the rate of cancer coming back in the lymph nodes that are left behind was not any different whether or not you took out that disease or you treated it with radiation. So all of a sudden these this data had come out and it uh shed new light on our understanding of how do we manage the lymph nodes under the arm. Now, interestingly, this was new to us, but it wasn't new. Meaning, there was a study way back in the 70s that was designed by Dr. Bernard Fiser that um actually gave us a little glimpse into this whole concept that maybe you didn't need to remove these lymph nodes with surgery, but it was done in a really different way, but I think it's really important to discuss. So they took patients who either had clinically negative nodes, meaning on exam their lymph nodes seemed normal, and then they had a second group of patients who had clinically positive nodes, meaning on exam or on imaging they definitely had lymph node disease already upfront. So we're going to focus mostly on the clinically node negative because that's the the group that was included in these previous studies. So, a holstead mastctomy, we don't do that anymore, but what that was a really radical surgery that was done um that involved removing not only the skin and all of the breast tissue, but the underlying pectoralis muscle and all of the lymphatics, all of the lymph nodes uh in the regional chest wall area. A very disfiguring surgery, but that included taking out all of the lymph nodes. The second group of patients was treated with a mastctomy alone. So that is just taking off the breast with the breast skin leaving the muscle behind and leaving the lymph nodes behind and then they were treated with radiation and then the third group had just the mastctomy alone. In this day and age back in the 70s when they were starting to enroll we had no systemic therapy for breast cancer at the time. There was no chemotherapy for breast cancer. There was no hormone blocking therapy for breast cancer. So these patients didn't get any whole body therapy. So in the patients that had again clinically negative nodes but then they went to surgery and had all of their lymph nodes removed 40% of them had positive nodes. So again we have to assume in the group that was radiated 40% of them had positive nodes and the group that nothing was done to the armpit 40% of them had positive nodes. So what we see in that group of patients that underwent mastctomy alone only 18% developed a recurrence in their axilla um which then they went on to have their lymph nodes taken out. So 40% of them had presumably cancer in the lymph nodes that wasn't treated in any way but only 18% of them had the cancer in the lymph nodes grow to the point that it became a regional recurrence. So something is going on that we can't quite understand that happens to lymph node disease that that doesn't translate into worsened outcome. Because if you look here, this first group of lines, these are the women who had negative lymph nodes that had the three different treatment arms and their survival up to 25 years was exactly the same. So whether or not you took out their lymph nodes or you radiated them or you left them alone, their overall survival for these three groups was exactly the same. And this study just shows that if you had positive lymph nodes before surgery, you removed them with surgery or you radiated them because those with the two groups, the overall survival again was exactly the same. So this has given us more pause to think that surgery for lymph nodes with cancer is the answer. So I don't think then for local regional control we've really shown that lymph node surgery is necessary. Correct? Because radiation can keep the incidence of cancer coming back in the lymph nodes down just as much as surgery. So maybe we don't need surgery for that. Well, what about prognostic information? And as we talked about in the very beginning, nodal status is a part of your stage and stage helps us to determine your overall prognosis. And what about guiding treatment recommendations, right? If you have a positive lymph node, aren't you the one that we recommend for chemotherapy? Well, all these things are changing. So, what have we been learning over the last uh several years and decades about breast cancer? Not all breast cancers are the same. So if you look at the genes that are expressed in different breast cancers, you can actually group breast cancers based on their genetic expression into four basic groups. They're they're actually quite a larger number of that. But just in terms of the basics, the first time this was done, breast cancers were lumped into four groups, something that was called luminal. Well, you don't need to know that, but basically what it just means is that based on the cancer, the breast cancer type in and of itself, that helped us to have a little bit of information of overall prognosis. You could have just based on the kind of cancer, a really good outlook because you have a very favorable kind of cancer. On the flip side, there are certain breast cancers just by nature of the kind of breast cancer it is. It is more aggressive and uh perhaps a little bit more difficult to cure. So based on tumor biology alone, we have some information about prognosis. That information became so uh important and it became more and more clear that the biology of a person's tumor really did help us to dictate to understand prognosis better. So if you look at this chart here, the staging system for breast cancer was just updated um within the last uh well last year in 2018. So a new staging system came out and this staging system, it wasn't just based again on the size of your cancer, whether or not you had lymph node disease, and whether or not you had distant metastasis. All of a sudden, now the staging system is taking into consideration the kind of breast cancer you have. Is it a hormone-driven cancer? Does it express a protein called her to new? So all of a sudden if you had positive lymph nodes, so N1 disease, but you had a certain favorable biology of tumor, all of a sudden you're down stage. You're not stage two anymore. All of a sudden now you're being treated as a stage one because your prognosis is similar to a stage one. Now you will likely hear or you have heard of these molecular profiling tests that have come out that have become very much a part of breast cancer um care breast cancer treatment. These are it's called the ankatype DX or the mammrint. So basically these two tests are looking at a patient's specific tumor looking at cancer genes positive genes and negative genes. It's looking at the expression of each of these genes within the tumor and it's coming up with some kind of a score or it categorizes a patient based on the tumor biology into low risk or high risk. So anatype DX looks at 21 genes total, 16 cancer genes, five control genes. It comes up with a score. That score tells you whether or not you're at low risk, intermediate risk, or high risk for a recurrence in another part of the body. It also then predicts for us how much of a benefit you get from chemotherapy. The mammoprint looks at 70 genes and it just tells you whether you're low risk or high risk. And if you're low risk, you have a significantly better survival outcome. And if you're high risk, you have a little bit of a worse survival outcome. So all of a sudden there's more information that we can get from the tumor itself that tells us about survival and this doesn't take into consideration your lymph nodes. This is presuming that your lymph nodes are negative but based on the biology of your tumor that is giving us more information about your prognosis. Well, what about if you have positive lymph nodes? Can you still use this or does it go out the door? So um the mind trial was a really important trial that came out. So uh 1 1500 patients were evaluated who had what we call a high clinical risk meaning to us they look like they had a high risk of having distant disease and this was based on a um nomogram that they used. So patients who had positive lymph nodes or almost half of women had positive lymph nodes in this group or patients who were young about a third were less than age 50. So these were considered higher risk categories for distant disease. so that these patients were included. So patients were then um randomized that everybody got hormone blocking therapy and half were treated with chemotherapy um and half were not. What does this show us? uh in the low risk group, patients who had a mammaprint score that was low whether or not they had positive lymph nodes or regardless of their age, they were treated with hormone blocking therapy alone and their overall survival at 5 years was 95%. So this group of patients who were low risk didn't need chemotherapy even if they had a positive lymph node or even if they were young, they did not need chemotherapy to get that 95% survival. So based on the results of this study um ASCO which one of the national uh cancer organizations um approved for the use of mammoprint for women who have hormone positive cancers her two negative cancers if they have one to three positive lymph nodes that does not automatically mean you need chemotherapy anymore. You can look at the biology of the tumor and based on the biology of the tumor if you have low low biology of tumor even if you have a small amount of lymph node disease it's unlikely that chemotherapy is going to give you any benefit because these women without chemotherapy had a 95% survival. Ankotype also has a test for patients with one to three positive nodes as well. So these two tests may be used by your medical oncologist to help determine whether or not chemotherapy will be recommended for you if you do end up having positive lymph nodes at surgery. So to kind of summarize just a little bit, axillary dissection is not needed for local regional control. It did not improve the overall survival and it didn't improve the axillary recurrence risk. prognostic information. What are we learning? That the lymph node status, whether or not you have lymph nodes, is not the most important thing anymore in terms of how you're going to do and your overall prognosis. Like we saw, if you had a positive lymph node, but a favorable biology of tumor, you're going to be downstaged to a stage one. So all of a sudden, lymph node status isn't the most important predictor of how you're going to do. and also genomic profiling. These ankotype tests and mammoprint tests seem to trump whether or not you have lymph nodes involved in terms of whether or not you're going to need chemotherapy. You have a low score even if you have a positive lymph node, you're not going to be recommended for chemotherapy based on these tests. So all of a sudden our whole understanding our whole approach to how do what do we do with the lymph nodes from a surgical perspective is is completely changing because our rationale for doing surgery on the lymph nodes has been completely changing. So where are we heading? So what we've summarized is that if you have normal appearing lymph nodes um at the time of the diagnosis of breast cancer and you go to surgery, we will recommend what's called a sentininal node biopsy. If your sentininal node biopsy is negative, you don't need any more surgery. If your sentininal node biopsy is positive, but you've only had one to three positive nodes and you underwent a lumpctomy and are planning to get radiation, you do not need to go on and have more lymph nodes removed. So that's the good news. Where we stand right now is if you come in with a positive lymph node to start with though, you have a big lymph node, we biopsied it, we know there's cancer in there. currently the standard of care because the assumption is that the volume of disease in the axilla is a lot higher and that we need to go forward with surgery to take that out. So axillary dissection for women who have positive lymph nodes to start with is still recommended. But what if we treat patients with chemotherapy first because we're moving more in that way now. So for patients who come in with a positive lymph node, it is quite possible because we know you're going to get chemotherapy because of the size of the lymph node. We are treating a lot of women with chemotherapy first. And what we're finding is that the tumor in the lymph nodes is going away to the point that you take them to surgery, you take out all of their lymph nodes. 40 to 7 40 to 70% of women depending on the subtype of tumor you have are not going to have any cancer left in those lymph nodes anymore after chemotherapy. So now we're asking the question, can these patients forego an axillary dissection? If we downstage them with chemotherapy, can we avoid taking out all of their lymph nodes? There there is currently clinical trials going on across the country. The biggest one is the alliance trial that is randomizing patients who had big lymph nodes to start with. They get chemotherapy. Their lymph node shrinks on exam. they get randomized to either axillary uh dissection and radiation or axillary radiation alone. So this is currently enrolling um they started enrolling in 2014. They think it's going to take about 10 years to get the number of patients they need to really answer that question for us whether or not patients who have big lymph nodes that are successfully treated with chemo can forego axillary dissection. Now, we're doing an interesting um preliminary trial here at UCLA, which I wanted to talk to you about, and this is looking specifically at um not doing axillary dissections at all, but if we can downstage you, meaning with the chemotherapy, we can shrink your lymph node down, why not just look at the lymph node that we knew had cancer in it before, plus your sentininal nodes because uh in some instances, is the the lymph node that had the cancer wasn't going to be a sentininal node anyway. So, what if we just looked at that lymph node that we knew had cancer in it because it was biopsied plus your sentininal nodes at surgery to see how well you responded. So, instead of doing a complete lymph node dissection, can we do what we call a targeted lymph node dissection in order to see whether or not the chemotherapy worked to eradicate the lymph node disease? So um the decision then to go on for a complete lymph node dissection will be based on the results of the targeted dissection. So this is taking things in stepwise fashion. So rather than committing a patient to a complete lymph node dissection, it's actually looking at treatment response first. If you got no treat, if you didn't get any treatment response and you still had cancer cells in your lymph node, well, in that scenario, maybe we would still recommend a lymph node dissection because we know that the medical treatment didn't eradicate those cancer cells. So, in that scenario, we'd still do surgery. But one thing that we've been finding which is probably a good thing but if if this was the abnormal lymph node before surgery very big very obvious to see on ultrasound if this is then the lymph node after surgery because I mean excuse me after chemotherapy because it had shrunk and this is the clip that was left in place and this is a very real scenario. How do we find this at surgery? How do we find it when now we can't see it anymore? it's completely gone. So, we are using something called a Savvy Scout. Um, this is a technology that uses infrared. So, what we're doing is we are having um patients who are enrolling in the study. We're putting in this small teeny size size of a grain of rice device into the lymph node before chemotherapy. And this is this is the lymph node. I don't know if you can see it. This is the lymph node here. And this is the little device. So now that device is lodged in the lymph node. So when the patient gets chemotherapy, the lymph node shrinks completely so that now it's a normal lymph node. We can't find the lymph node, but aha, we can find the device. We have a probe in the operating room that emits a infrared wavelength signal that finds that device. So now we have a way of finding the lymph node that we know had cancer in it because we marked it before they got treatment. And now we're removing these lymph nodes plus the sentininal nodes to see whether or not we can get a a accurate assessment of how well a patient responded to the chemotherapy without having to go in and take out all of the lymph nodes as a first step. So this is something we're doing here here at UCLA. It's very exciting. Our initial several patients are doing very well, very easy to find the lymph node at the time of surgery after chemotherapy. So take-home messages um to wrap things up for certain patients with breast cancer that spread to your lymph node, axillary dissection can be safely omitted. Positive sentininal nodes, lumpctomy, radiation patients do not need to have additional lymph node surgery. We're also studying the omission of axillary dissection for patients who do have a positive lymph node to start with, but they're being treated first with chemotherapy and they're getting downstaged. So we're actively asking the question, can we avoid more lymph node surgery in these patients as well? Two last points that I want to really uh convey to patients is that a positive lymph node doesn't mean a worsened prognosis necessarily. You could have a favorable biology of tumor. It may just be that the tumor went undetected for a long period of time enough that cancer cells were able to get into your lymph system and into your lymph nodes, but that doesn't mean that it's necessarily a worst worsened overall prognosis. And finally, a positive lymph node in this day and age doesn't mean automatic chemotherapy. Um that might have been the case, you know, as recently as 5 to 10 years ago, but it's definitely not the case now. So, a lot of good news in terms of um our approach to the lymph nodes for breast cancer treatment. We're hearing you. We're trying to leave the lymph nodes alone if we know that it's it's oncologically safe for you. We understand completely the quality of life side effects that our treatment can cause. And so um uh you know there are ongoing studies across the country trying to answer these questions so that we can deliver more um uh limited but effective care to patients who have breast cancer. So thanks very much for tuning in. Again if you have any questions go ahead and post them on YouTube live and we appreciate you spending the time with us. Thanks.