Hi, my name is Mark Litwin. I'm the Chair of Urology at UCLA, I'm Co-Director of the UCLA Gender Health Program, my pronouns are he/him/his. Hi everybody, my name is Chris Mann, my pronouns are he/him/his, and I'm the Care Coordinator for UCLA Gender Health Program. We're here today to talk about LGBTQ+ community and what we can do and you can do to do community engagement in healthcare. We'd like to remind viewers that you can ask us questions by using the hashtag #UCLAMDChat on Twitter as well as commenting on Facebook. Before we begin, we'd like to clarify and define what LGBTQ+ means. LGBTQ+ means lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and the plus is often used to express inclusion of other sexual and gender identity communities, including intersex, asexual, gender non-binary, and two spirit. So, statistics out of the LGBTQ+. We'll start with LGB--lesbian, gay, and bisexual people. Well, we know from data that have been published is that there are physical health disparities between gay and lesbian people and the population in general. Much of this arises because of stigma, victimization, and even discrimination, and that can lead gay and lesbian people to have different and lower levels of mental health and physical health. In fact, even the fear of discrimination itself can cause gay and lesbian and bisexual individuals to avoid healthcare settings altogether and to even conceal their sexual orientation from their doctor or from their provider. The UCLA School of Law has an enterprise called the Williams Institute at the website you see here with some really terrific research, statistics, policy papers, and exciting information if you want to know more about the experience of LGBTQ people in healthcare and in society in general. Now, statistics about the T of LGBT, transgender. 23%, almost 1/4, reported not having seen a doctor in the prior year because of fear of being mistreated as a transgender person, mistreated by the healthcare system, and 1/3 of people who identify as transgender didn't see a doctor in the last year because they couldn't afford it. 1/3 of those who did see a doctor report having had at least one, if not more, negative experience related to their being transgender, and this was even more so for individuals of color and individuals with disabilities. 40% of transgender people have attempted suicide at one time or another in their lives. This is 9 times higher than the general population rate. So, there are many things that health systems can do to actively support the LGBTQ+ community. Here are just some examples of what we've done. We've created and implemented an LGBTQ Cultural Competency Training, which is available to all staff and employees across our health system. We've also made accommodations in our electronic medical record system, or EMR, that allows us to capture preferred name, preferred pronouns, as well as sexual orientation and gender identity. We find that these tools will allow providers to give a more affirming experience while in appointments as well as inform our entire health system who our patient population is. The UCLA Gender Health Program is a program designed specifically to address the needs of trans and gender-diverse identified patients. It's a comprehensive multidisciplinary network of providers that offer the A to Z when it comes to transition-related services. We've also created an internal referral system for trans patients who are already receiving care at UCLA to refer to our program if they choose. So, we've also launched the LGBTQ Health Initiative, which is a broad endeavor to ensure that LGBTQ patients are placed, centered within our health system. We're helping define the David Geffen School of Medicine curriculum as well as looking in our general overall health system. We've also allowed providers to get an LGBTQ champion designation. What this means is that when patients are going through the provider directory, they can see which providers are designated as champions. Champions are providers who have specific interest in working with LGBTQ folks or have expertise in working with this population. We've also gotten better at making gender-neutral bathrooms more accessible across our health system. The rainbow U badge clips and pronoun card holders are also an outward sign for our LGBTQ+ community, letting them know that we're a safe health system for them to discuss these issues with us as well as inform our health system of the pitfalls of making assumptions about how a person presents in health care. Here are some examples of what we're doing as a health system. On the top left, we have an example of a fake patient whose name on their insurance card is Roxanne but whose preferred name is John and preferred pronouns are he/him/his. This shows up across our health system, so when the patient comes in, we will always address them by their preferred name and their preferred pronouns. The rainbow U badge clips as well as pronoun card holders are also shown at the bottom left, and on the top right, we have our SO/GI data collection questionnaire. Patients can fill this out with the help of their providers during clinic appointments, but they can also fill it online via our patient portal. So, here we ask for sex assigned at birth, their current gender identity, and their current sexual orientation. On the bottom right, we have an example of our provider directory. So here we have, actually, the other Co-Director of our Gender Health Program, Amy Weimer, and as you can see, she has the rainbow U, LGBTQ champion designation. Chris, you mentioned the abbreviation SO/GI--what does that stand for, for those who don't know? Yeah, SO/GI, again, stands for Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity. And sexual orientation refers to if someone is gay or lesbian or bisexual and such, and gender identity refers to their internal sense of how they feel within their own body, which doesn't necessarily correspond to the sex that they were assigned at birth. Great things. Another big part of what we do here at UCLA Health is community engagement. We can have a phenomenal program that supports LGBTQ+ identified folks, but a lot of the work needs to be done within the community itself, so what we've done to do that is participate in LA Pride and other LGBTQ+ Pride events across Southern California. We've also participated in Trans Pride, which is hosted at the LA LGBT Center, and then here in Westwood, we've actually hosted tabling events that celebrate Trans Day of Visibility, Trans Day of Remembrance, and also June Pride Month kick-off. What we've also done is invite current patients of our Gender Health Program as well as trans and gender-diverse community members in Los Angeles into our health system to give us feedback on our Gender Health Program. That way, we know what we're doing good, what we can improve on, and what their direct community needs are. We've also partnered with Los Angeles professional sports teams in promoting LGBTQ+ visibility. It's a way for us to show our solidarity with the community across nationally, internationally, anybody who watches a sports game will see us there. And then also big plus of living and working in Los Angeles is that we're not the only people doing this work. So, we're actively networking with other service providers that are addressing the needs of the LGBTQ+ community. Great, it's a tremendous amount of work. Here are some examples of our social media campaigns. To stay up-to-date on what we're doing in the community, please feel free to follow us on all major social media platforms. On the left, we have Dr. Weimer at the Lakers' first LGBTQ Pride night, and on the right is a picture of one of our tabling events here in Westwood. Dr. Littman and I also want to take time to mention all the LGBTQ centered endeavors that we have going on here at UCLA. So, our Care Centers provide state-of-the-art medical care for people living with HIV and AIDS. The EMPWR Program promotes resiliency and well-being in LGBTQ+ identified youth through therapeutic interventions as well as support groups, and the Williams Institute at UCLA Law that Dr. Lewin mentioned earlier is a think-tank dedicated to ongoing research on lLGBTQ+ policy and law. Now, a bit about the UCLA Gender Health Program. A few years ago, a number of us who were involved in providing healthcare for different aspects of the transgender experience came together to form what we now call the UCLA Gender Health Program. You can find this online under that, and what you'll see there is examples of the really broad array of resources that we have put together. Of course, physicians form the core of the services that we provide, and this includes everything from primary care to behavioral health, urology, plastic surgery, head and neck surgery, dermatology, vocal coaching--what am I missing? OBGYN, fertility services, too many to even remember all at once, and then, of course, there are power professional services built around that as well as a bit of research that we are doing with the partnership of the community as well, and the General Health Program at UCLA is considered a center of excellence largely because we have pretty deep experience in not only the surgical, but the non-surgical, the medical, the mental health aspects of providing care for transgender individuals, but also because of the deep interest that we have in coordinating many different services and many different aspects of a support network for people who are transgender, either before transition, during transition, after transition, or in transgender individuals who choose not to have any particular part of transition. We're there to support individuals, like any patient population, for what their particular needs are, so here we have the LGBTQ Health Initiative website. Again, if you're looking to get involved, you can go to this website. Of particular note, we were given an HEI score of 100 by the Human Rights Campaign. HEI stands for Health Equality Index, so it just means that we're a leader in providing care to LGBTQ+ identified folks in a health care setting. A little bit about what you can do in terms of community support, some of the examples are based on what we've done, but there's nothing particularly special about what we've done--as Chris mentioned, we are fortunate to live in a very large, urban environment where there's lots of activity in this area of healthcare and in life in general, but there are things that you can do in small towns, as well. One of the most important things that I teach students is that when approaching, really, any patient, but particularly patients in the transgender community, one has to approach with a certain sense of what we call cultural humility. Cultural humility--what that means, really, is that I, as a physician who is cisgender, can never really fully understand the experience of what someone who is transgender has gone through in their life or is going through or may go through in the future, and so, whereas normally I, as a physician and in the role of teaching, of providing information, of giving resources, the idea of cultural humility says that I also can learn from my patient, and by putting the patient in the role of helping to teach me as a provider how to better care for the patient, everybody wins. Cultural humility. One of the other things that can be really beneficial for transgender individuals is when we, in the cisgender community particularly, introduce ourselves with our preferred pronouns, it may seem obvious that if I present as a cisgender male, that my preferred pronouns are he/him/his, but by putting them on my badge holder, by putting them in my signature block in my emails, and by introducing myself that way, in the right situation, it provides a more embracing and open environment, so that's super important and a really easy thing to do. Another is to be familiar with the many, many resources that are available. We'll talk in a moment about WPATH, but the World Professional Association for Transgender Health, WPATH, is a really, really terrific organization with a long list of online resources that are very helpful in learning about how to provide better care for transgender individuals. There are local and internet community-based resources in the LGBTQ+ community. On the internet, things can go worldwide, of course, but there are also lots of internet presence of local, regional, statewide, etc. organizations that do have resources as well crisis hotlines--you'll hear about those more in a sec as well, but those are particularly important for individuals in the LGBTQ+ community. We also think it's important to know a bit about PrEP, and PrEP refers to Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis, and PEP refers to Post-Exposure Prophylaxis, regarding HIV prevention, and we can talk more about that in the Q&A session. It's important also not just to do a big rollout of something like this, but to stay committed, to keep peddling, to maintain interest, engagement, embracing, to stay committed to continuing LGBTQ+ education and training. There are many, many more conferences now that can that offer services, that offer education for doctors at the entry level, at the more advanced level, as well. Advocacy groups are constantly putting out more resources and seeking involvement, particularly with healthcare, and of course online learning, which is so popular for so many things. It is a really terrific way to stay up-to-date on what's to be known about transgender health. You can also take a role as a patient advocate, whether you are a physician, whether you are a nurse, a social worker, a behavioral health worker, a vocal coach--anybody in the health care community providing services to transgender individuals can help be an advocate. Some patients need particular written documentation for their insurance and all in order to access the health care. You can also empower patients themselves by giving them a little nudge to get on the phone, on the 800 number, and call up and advocate for themselves for their insurance benefits. And then another thing that I think is particularly important is that because of the statistic I mentioned earlier about the negative experiences that many in the LGBTQ+ community have had with healthcare, we can introduce what I might call corrective experiences, meaning a warm, embracing, positive experience for someone who's gay or lesbian or bisexual or transgender. It can really correct a lot of past misdeeds by other people in the healthcare community who may have either knowingly or unknowingly committed aromasin in not being warm and embracing or made someone feel disempowered or even discriminated against, so because of that history of discrimination, over and unintentional, because of a history of harassment and even overt violence against LGBTQ people, those of us who are providers who serve as champions for this community, these individuals can really change the whole trajectory of healthcare and life experience for LGBTQ+ identified individuals a bit. Now, about WPATH. The World Professional Association for Transgender Health, WPATH-- here's a picture off the internet of one of their really terrific resource guides for physicians and for healthcare providers--but it creates a whole set of guidelines that provide for us not only clinical information, but also ethical guidance for healthcare providers on how to really maximize and optimize patient's overall well-being in terms of physical health, mental health, emotional well-being, self fulfillment, and the other things that we like to think that we promote as healthcare providers. They provide standards of care so that you don't have to reinvent the wheel, whether you're working in an area where there's a lot of experience in transgender health or where there's little or no experience in transgender health. It's all right there at WPATH. It's really aimed at primary care, but also includes information for those in gynecologic care, urologic care, reproductive options, voice and communication therapy, behavioral health services, counseling, psychotherapy, hormone management, various surgical managements, etc. Really terrific resource for people who are involved in providing care for transgender individuals. Just because a person is LGBTQ+ identified, it does not necessarily mean that they are mentally ill or that they are in need of these crisis hotlines. However, if an LGBTQ identified patient presents to you in crisis, it is important to note these crisis hotlines--specifically, the trans lifeline and the Trevor lifeline are specifically equipped to address the needs of LGBTQ folks who are in crisis. We talked before about sports teams, and Chris mentioned sports teams, whether you are in the city or an area that has sports teams or doesn't have sports teams, whether you're into sports yourself or not into sports yourself, it's a really terrific community builder, and it's a great equalizer. And one of the things that UCLA has done is to partner with both the LA Lakers and also the LA Dodgers in becoming the official healthcare providers for both of those teams and their families and staffs and administrators, etc. We also do a lot of events with the Lakers and with the Dodgers, and two events that we've done in the last few months include Pride Night. We have Lakers Pride night, and we have Dodgers--not long ago, Dodgers Pride Night at a game at Staples Center and then at Dodger Stadium, and one of the things that we did here at UCLA in preparation for Lakers Pride Night not long ago is to create this really awesome Laker Pride Night video we're going to play for you in a second, but you can also find it on our Gender Health website as well as the UCLA Health Gay and Lesbian website, as well as just go to YouTube and look for Laker Pride UCLA and it'll come up. Let's play the video. UCLA Health provides world-class care to all patients of all sexual orientations, of all genders, of all races and religions. It is our mission to deliver compassionate, inclusive, and equitable care to our LGBTQ patients and their families because everyone deserves respect, everyone deserves kindness. We support compassionate care, we support inclusive care, we support equitable care, we support, we support you. The Gay/Lesbian Support Services and Transgender Support Services are even better than the level of technology that we're experiencing today. I think here's the email address, our websites, and feel free to reach out to us on Twitter or using Facebook chat as well, and if we have some questions, you have some questions coming in, hot off the press--okay, let's see. All right, excellent, okay, all right. I have a question here from Alex Chris. I'm going to throw this one to you. It says, "I'm gay, and I'm a bearer of stroke and an HIV patient." Thank you. Okay, I guess that's just a comment. Okay, second question. "Why is sexual orientation and gender identity information important for us to collect?" So, like Dr. Lewin mentioned earlier, the statistics out there show that in healthcare, LGBTQ+ folks broadly just aren't seen. A lot of providers make the mistake of making assumptions about how a person identifies, who they're attracted to, what their family systems look like, so by collecting this information upfront from patients, the provider can make sure they have an affirming experience within a clinic appointment, but then it also helps us inform us as a health system about who our patient population is. That way, we can create patient education materials. We can maybe cater certain health interventions for certain subsets of community, and again, it's in no way required, but it is a way to let our patients help inform how we practice healthcare here at UCLA Health. It gives us insights into our patients. As you've said, it tells you who is another person sitting next to the patient during their visit--is it a friend, is it a spouse or a partner, etc., and it's maybe not unlike asking someone about their kids or their work or where they're from or what languages they speak. Exactly. And it also can help cancer screenings as well, right, so by knowing kind of what the sex assigned at birth was and how their gender identity is, providers can advocate with their patients to go get those cancer screenings. Although they can be somewhat dysphoric, they are needed for overall health, so there's ways to navigate that as well. It's just, again, to provide that whole comprehensive, well-rounded, informed, and affirming care. So, cancer screenings--someone who has a prostate gland may need prostate-related care regardless of how the individual identifies. Exactly, so people who have cervixes, regardless of gender, people who have prostates, you know, those need to get checked annually, or how regular depending on your family history, but again, that just helps providers know a little bit more about you. Okay, great, the next question. I'll take it. They want to know what's the difference in PEP and PrEP, and so you hear a lot about it, that PrEP, it's not exclusive to the trans community, certainly, or to the LGBTQ+ community exclusively, but although HIV is still common and AIDS is still not a curable disease, it is highly, highly manageable as a chronic condition, and one of the really great things about the advancement of HIV science is that it's largely preventable today, and PrEP, as I mentioned before, refers to Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis, and so it's a pill that people take once a day that is almost 100% effective at preventing seroconversion from HIV negative to HIV positive even if exposed to an individual who is HIV positive, so pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP. But it has to be taken every day, and it has to be administered with certain monitoring that are done usually in the primary care setting. PEP, which refers to post exposure prophylaxis, is medication also that is given after a high-risk exposure if the patient or the individual wasn't on prep, and it's also very, very highly effective in preventing a seroconversion even after having had a high risk exposure. That's a PEP and PrEP. That's a really, really nutshell version. There's a lot that's written about them, so check it out online or whatever your medical resources are. Okay, Chris, next question. The questioner wants to know about the term, about the Q in LGBTQ+, and the questioner says, "Isn't queer kind of a derogatory term, and what's the deal with that?" Yeah, so not necessarily. A lot of LGBTQ+ or queer identified people actually use that term with pride, as they feel it accurately captures their experience. For others, though, it's still negatively charged, so when in doubt, just follow your patient's lead, ask them, you know, how they identify and what terms they're comfortable with and whatnot, but again, it's kind of like a split. There's some people who see it as empowering, and there's others where it still holds very negative connotations, so just be mindful of that. So it's really probably more a term that someone might use to identify themselves and not a term that I as a provider would use to identify a patient unless I'm following the patient's lead, of course, and it's all about context too, like with any word. It's how it's conveyed and how it's, you know, used, right? So if a person, the patient comes in identifying as queer, we're honored that that's their patient experience, you know, but if someone says, you know, that word's very triggering for me, honor that as well. Great, very helpful, thank you. Next question, "What are some things that my organization can do to start and to start supporting trans and gender diverse individuals?" Yeah, so just a couple of things. There's a lot. The first I would recommend is hire trans folks if you're looking to support the community. Invite them in, let me create either opportunities for them or just make it really accessible for them, there's a lot of hardworking, really educated, and informed people who can, I think, impact your entire health system, so hire trans people. The second one would be to invite trans identified people or organizations to come in and do trainings. Like here in Los Angeles, we have a plethora of resources, we have the Trans Wellness Center, we have the TransLatin@ Coalition, we have the LA Gender Center the LA LGBT Center--our LGBT Campus Resource Center on UCLA campus also offers trans 101 classes, right? So here, we have presenters coming in and kind of just giving a breakdown between the difference of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, so inviting community members and to do that education is great. Focus groups are also another great tool, as well, yeah. So I think those are like probably the top two that I would recommend, and even if you live in a city where there is not such a deep volume of resources because, again, because of the internet, etc., today, we may be able to get some of these major centers, such as in a place like LA, in New York, San Francisco, Chicago, etc., to do electronic or online trainings for people through video links, etc. Definitely. There's also the Fenway Institute, there's also UCSF--they've got trainings that are available online for community members to go after, and yeah. You know, one of the other things that occurred to me while you were talking about inviting trans people to be part of patient representatives and organizations is that many of us, you know, at a place like the UCLA, we have a lot of photographers and videographers who can photograph our actual patients for our marketing materials and our websites, but many places don't have that that resource, and so they use clipart off the internet of sort of a typical middle-aged, you know, male, female, child, adult, etc. patient, and there is now a repository of clipart faces of transgender folks. Is that right? Oh yeah, totally, I mean, again, also clinic spaces, right? Make it more welcoming, put a trans pride flag in a cup holder on a desk. That's such a visible cue to the community, right? Similarly with the rainbow U badge clip colors, that's what we're trying to, you know, show as a health system, that we are a safe place to be to get your questions answered and give that affirming experience. Well, thank you very much for joining us for the last few minutes to hear about LGBTQ+ and what you can do to make your organization more engaging, more embracing, more warm and welcoming, and ultimately help heal humankind one patient at a time. Thank you so much.