Um, our next speaker is also near and dear to my heart. He's a new addition to both the pediatric arrhythmia program and the adult congenal heart disease program. Dr. Jeremy Moore joined us recently from Vanderbilt where he did his electrophysiology training. And in his short term here has already been become part of three multic-enter trials. He's won the teaching award from the fellows already um and has published several articles. He's going to be speaking to us about arrhythmia incidents in congenal heart disease. Thanks Kevin. Um so I've been given the topic of the lifetime risk for arhythmias and congenal heart disease. I have 15 minutes to do this so I'll do my best here. Um so there's over a million uh congenal heart disease patients in the North America currently and that stems from the fact that about 1% of all uh newborns are diagnosed with congenal heart disease and currently the majority are surviving to adulthood. Currently estimated numbers are 85%. due to improved surgical techniques and um better post-operative care. These patients are increased for arhythmia um just regardless of what their underlying anatomy is in comparison with the uh uh general population. But the anatomy that they the spec specific anatomy that they have determines their degree of risk. Uh and some estimates currently are about 15% of adults with congenal heart disease have some form of atrial arrhythmia. So this is a huge burden to society and to the health care system. So I'm going to talk about some of the more common uh defects uh that we see in clinical practice as well as some of the defects are really associated with a high burden for arhythmia. Uh we'll start we'll do ASD uh tetrology of fo transposition of the great arteries whether it's the uh repaired by an atrial baffle procedure or an arterial switch uh single ventricle uh really fontan patients and eisenger syndrome. So to start with uh ASDs uh really the literature sort of shows us that about uh 20% of patients uh that surve you know that reach the age of 40 without repair and ASDs will have an an atrial arhythmia. Um the breakdown of those arhythmias is that atrial flutter tends to predominate at younger ages whereas atrial fibrillation uh then exceeds that in older age. Uh one of the studies specifically looked at sort of breaking these uh year ages down into specific categories and they found that uh patients under the age of 40 tended to have atrial flutter. Uh the middle age 40 to 60 year range uh there was sort of equivalent you know estimates of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation and after in the more elderly population over the age of 60 atrial fibrillation predominated. Now when uh we look at the pediatric literature and the follow-up data from pediatric repair defined as you know repair performed before the age of 18 we do see that there's a significant reduction in future atrial rhythmas. Um the sort of follow-up period of about 30 to 35 years in many of these studies has shown that about five or 6% of these patients will still develop atrial rhythmas but it's significantly less less than the unrepaired adults. uh and unfortunately with late repair after the age of 40 we don't see as much benefit to ASD closure as we do with the younger patients um and uh gets uh the gatsulus from 1999 this is older older data but uh really showed that uh age of greater than 40 at the time of repair was um showed that you know showed that there was quite a bit of uh recurrence both recurrence of atriythmia and and an attrition of um of several percents ensuing years whereas patients under the age of 40 did not have that same problem. So although there's many other benefits to ASD closure, uh arrhythmia reduction is not as u as is one of was not as big of as a benefit. Uh as far as sudden cardiac death goes though, uh atrial septal defects do not have carry a big uh a big burden for sudden cardiac death. And if you look back at the Silka study from 1998, this one most people will quote for um sudden death. They didn't find any sudden deaths in their group after 7,000 almost 8,000 uh patient years of followup. Uh next category tetrology of F. Um initial focus was on sudden death in this patient population. Initially thought to be due to AB block and later was found to be really related to ventricular arhythmia. But in this in the decades that followed um we really realized that atroythmias was really the biggest burden that these patients faced on a daily basis. Uh some early studies showed uh you know prevalence rates of 12 to 34%. And um and not only was there a huge burden with with respect to symptoms, but also um event-free survival is worse with atrial uh tachi arhythmias and tetrology of flow whether it's congestive heart failure um hospitalization or mortality. And so these this is a a graph just showing the difference between those two groups arhythmapree versus atriotic arhythmias. More recently the Paul Kerry Paul carry and uh actually multiple centers including UCLA were involved in a study looking at um the arrhythmia burden and tetrology of full low. This was an adult study and um really looked very closely at all the different types of arhythmias that these patients experience and they found that the most common overall was atrial. Again not surprising from what we'd learned previously uh 20% of patients in this study had uh some form of atrial arhythmia and intraatrial re-entrant tacoc cardia was the most common followed by then atrial fibrillation and then other subtypes of atrial tachi arhythmias. Similar to the ASD group they also found that atrial fibrillation was more common than the re-entrant or flutter types of um macro re-entry after the age of 55. And this group also did a lot of catheter ablation. So we kind of we have a breakdown of the different subtypes. Intraatrial re-entry ticardia was the most common uh but things various other types like non-automatic focal atrial teicardia ectopic atrial teicardia accessory pathways and so forth were also seen. Uh but not a little bit surprising they found also that there's quite a bit of ventricular arhythmia in this group and more than we had probably appreciated previously. uh 15% as opposed to 20% with atrial arhythmias and almost all of these were sustained VT uh and it turned out that if you looked at the subtypes of atrial tacithmia sustained VT was actually the most common arhythmia subtype in this population so again sort of calling attention again to what we've focused on before that ventricular arhythmias is very important now it's important to note that they the 20% of this population had implanted devices so the very good detection rate for ventricular arhythmias uh but this is was one of the interesting findings from this recent study just in 2010. Um, as far as sudden cardiac death goes though, there's quite a few studies looking at this over the years. This is sort of a table I just put together that shows the um, incidents in various studies. A total of 2,000 patients uh, 44,000 years of patient uh, patient years of follow-up and 84 sudden deaths for an overall incidence about 2%. And you'll see anywhere from 0.1 to 0.25 really quoted in literature, but it seems to be about 0.2 two or so percent for a tetrology of FO and that's similar to what Mike Silka published back in 98. Next group is the drposition group with atrial baffle operations. Uh the original atrial baffle operation uh proposed was a singing operation in 1959. This includes multiple uh incisions and suture lines in the right atrium and actually the left atrium as well. Um and there is um uh the risk for sinus node dis uh sinus node damage and uh damage to the arterial supply to the sinus node with this operation. You know there's subsequent revisions and and modifications have been proposed but um as you can see this is original uh description. There's multiple incisions and suture lines in the in those in the atria near the sinus node. uh subsequently the mustard operation was uh introduced in 1964 5 years later and uh as opposed to using only native tissue. This operation included uh synthetic material for um rerouting of the um the the blood flow including a pantaloon shaped uh baffle um here which um redirected systemic venus flow to the left ventricle. But again there's multiple suture lines and this uh baffle it well the suture lines and this baffle both run in close proximity to the sinus node uh which would which would be expected to increase your risk for arhythmias and that's what we basic that's basically what we see if you look at the literature on atrial arhythmias in the sen mustard population uh we see a very high incidence of um of arhythmias um it's important to keep in mind what the population is when you're looking at these studies some are mustard uh patients, others are sending, some are mixed. Um, and there's different areas of surgery as well as different definitions of what atrial arhythmia really is. So, some some include um uh symptomatic uh tachi requiring treatment whereas others um incidental hure findings. So, it's really important to pay attention to that. But if you look at the overall uh long-term follow-up data, it looks like about 25% of these patients will have some form of atroythmia at 20 years. So it's a pretty high burden of arrhythmia in this population. This is the capamire curve for one of those studies um which will follow patients out to 20 years and you can see a steady decline in arhythmia free survival. Um uh then also sinus node dysfunction again because of because of the the the way these um are repaired by by necessity there's going to be some damage to the sinus node. And um studies here uh show even more pessimistic sort of over overview of uh sinus node dysfunction over time such that about 50 to 60% of patients will not be in sinus rhythm at 20 years. And if you see the the survival curve it looks considerably worse. So uh next category of arhythmia in this Asian population is sudden death. Um most people quote an incidence of about 0.5% per year. If you look across the board at different studies that have examined this issue, you see anywhere from 0.13 to 1.2% but pretty pretty consistent actually about 0.5% per year which is higher much higher actually double what we see in tetrology of flow. So this is a big um a big problem uh in this patient population. Uh this is the silka data reflecting the same thing. Risk factors for sudden death are variable. um not wasn't really going to go into that but uh atrial tachi arhythmias does turn out to be a risk factor um and then systemic RV function dysfunction and tricuspid regurgitation are the sort of the big ones that have been proposed over the years so the arterial switch operation came along really as a result of all this and um in 1976 and um so patients are currently about 35 36 years out some of their early ones from this operation and so what's the what's the data on arterial switch. Well, um there's only a few handful of studies really on on arhythmias, but uh of those studies, they show a very low incidence, which is what we all would probably expect. Uh this study from 2002 showed um a 3% uh incidence after 25 years of doing that operation. And most of what we see is similar to other congenal heart patients such as sinus node dysfunction, SVT, and flutter. Um unfortunately two patients in this study had ventricular fibrillation which is the one of the key issues to be aware of when you're talking about arterial switch operation. One of the risks that you you might face and this is their this is their survival curve. Um patient with SVT a patient with sinus node dysfunction requiring a pacemaker a VF arrest uh resulting in sudden death another VFS that was aborted and resulted in an ICD implantation and then a patient with flutter who had two prior surgeries. So not a lot of arrhythmia but the rhythmas that we see can be uh pretty devastating. Um a subsequent study from Japan 2006 essentially showed almost the same thing incidence of around 3% and similar arhythmia sinus node dysfunction AV block atrial fibrillation SVT and uh again they showed a patient with PF in their study as well. So important to pay attention to the coronaries obviously when you're talking about atri arterial switch operation. Um this is a patient with our institution that had coronary artery damage as a newborn. Ended up with a schemic dilated cardiammyopathy and had an ICD placed had recurrent shocks and then underwent a um an ablation procedure. And this is just a map of the uh the RV and the LV and there's a scar along the course of the left anterior descending artery uh that was responsible for the ventricular tacicardia. So um sort of re-emphasizing the importance of coronary profusion this in this population uh the fontan oper fontaine operation was first described in 1971 there were uh various modifications there's a classic fontan the modified fontan uh the lateral tunnel the extracardiac conduit and in some centers are performing extracardiac paricardial tube operations um as far as the um uh the subtypes the classic fontan I think somebody showed this earlier actually the cross your heart fontan uh modifications to that were all atrial pulmonary connections at least initially and um reports started you know emerging with um just alarming rates of arhythmias in this population. Um so that led to modifi the the first major modification the lateral tunnel um procedure in 1988 and that was followed two years later by the uh extracardiac conduit and then subsequent research. This is a a study looking at canine induced uh or canine um model of re-entry in lateral tunnel fontan uh suggesting that suture line along the cry terminalis uh is uh very arhythmogenic and so subsequent um modifications we try to avoid that area of the heart but we still see quite a bit of arhythmia and if you look at the overall studies on this there's um pretty consistent um and dramatic degrees of arhythmia after over time. The one study that I found that followed this out to 20 years showed an incidence of 50% and that was a relative recent relatively recent study in 2004. Um important again when you're when you're looking at studies to sort of um remember what patient population you're talking about. So um not all of these are either extracardiacs or lateral tunnel fontan. Some are the old atrial pulmonary connections. As time goes on, we start we're starting to see less and less of the atrial pulmonary connection and we might see that this arhythmia burden goes down but um that's still sort of to be seen. Um most of the studies are consistent have consistently shown a steady uh attrition of arhythmia over time anywhere from 2 to 6% per year. A recent study from Stevenson in Toronto showed um that the risk seems to be highest actually in the first few years and reaches a nater around five years and then progressively you know sort of steadily increases after that. And then lastly as far as the Fontaine goes people have looked at the different subtypes and tried to determine which ones are greatest risk for arhythmia. Um and really early on we found that the lateral tunnel was uh associated with less arhythmia than the um uh atrial pulmonary connection. uh and then more recently Stevenson uh in 2010 looked at the tried to tried to show a difference with the extracardiac conduits uh relative to lateral tunnels and the other subtypes and they did show that there it was a trend towards less arhythmia with extracardiac conduit fontans as well although it it did seem to be that they didn't they need a little bit more as far as power goes to to show a statistical difference finally I'm going to talk about Eisener syndrome really briefly uh first described in 1897 the Eisener complex um And then subsequently some other contributors to um Eisener syndrome were Richard Bing and Paul Wood in 1958. Um but um you know these patients are pretty high risk for mortal you know have high risk for mortality. Uh various mechanisms congestive heart failure, brain abscess, uh complications of pregnancy has been discussed already, pulmonary hemorrhage, massive hemoptasis, um stroke and arrhythmia. And it it is a little hard sometimes I think to tease out which of these are um arhythmic arhythmic risks or rhythmic deaths rather um because a lot of these are sudden and but you know looking at the data people have tried to do this and it does appear that sudden death and presumed arhythmic death does make up a sizable po proportion of these deaths anywhere from you know a third to a half of um deaths are attributed to arhythmia but again I think that you need to exercise a little bit of caution when you're talking about sudden death versus arhythmic death because there are multiple mechanisms in this population. Um also when we talk about sudden death this is came out this month in circulation. Um Eisener syndrome syndrome really leads the pack as far as um uh contributing to sudden death in the congenal heart population. So 19% of uh in this series 19% of of deaths were which equal that of uh the atrial baffle patients with congenal corrupted transposition. And then that was followed by tetrology of full well. So um you know in the grand scheme of things is syndrome is is a big one as far as sudden death goes. And this is just a graph showing um you sort of uh more you know medium um life expectancy of 52 years and um complex lesions are more uh likely to uh basically die than simple lesions. Um so that's all I have at this point but I think some of the next speakers are going to talk about what we can do about make this better. Okay.