Okay, so welcome to our webinar on kidney transplantation. My name is Anjay Ras Stoi and I'm a nefologist at UCLA. And before we get into the details of kidney transplantation, I just wanted to bring to your attention our core kidney program at UCLA. Core stands for these four things: clinical excellence, outreach, research, and education. And here we work as a team to provide the best care we can to our patients. And we have a website. So if you haven't already, please do visit. Uh that's the web address. We also have a direct email. If you have any questions uh after the program, you can email us at corekidney@mednet.us.edu. And also we have a direct phone line that you can call us at. Um at during the presentation, if you have any questions, feel free to um ask them. We'll try our best to answer as many questions as we can. If we don't have enough time, uh I will make sure that we do answer them at our next presentation. Now we the next webinar is going to be on October 16th. Uh this is going to be on transplantation as well. So so please do tune in for for this one uh as well. Now uh just want to go over some some key facts and points. Where do we stand as far as kidney care is concerned in the US? So number one fact 15% of the adult US population is at risk or has some form of kidney disease. And if you have seen my previous presentations our biggest challenge with kidney disease is it's a silent disease. So a lot of times you find out about kidney problems when when you go to your clinic or go to your physician and are getting a routine checkup and they find out that that either your creatine is up or you're spilling protein. So, so 15% of adult US population and about 120,000 new patients start from diialysis in the US every year and and what a startling fact is about one in three of these patients who are starting on diialysis which is endstage renal disease have never seen a nephologist and and we have plenty of data to show that when patients get get care or at least are referred to a nephologist early on the survival and outcomes are much better. Now when you start diialysis especially if you don't have didn't have any pre-diialysis care the mortality is pretty high especially in the first three months. So the 90 days are very critical and and the other factor that we have to keep in mind is the 5year survival of a lot of dialysis patients is actually much worse than than many cancer that we have. Cost is also a factor about $90,000 annual cost for diialysis patients. The other important point to keep in mind is if you're on diialysis, there are a lot of options and one of them is being on home diialysis. The penetration rate for home diialysis in the US is roughly 10%. And and it should be around 50%. And I will be doing a a talk on on on home diialysis in one of these webinars. So if you are on diialysis and you're not on home which is home hemorrho PD or patital diialysis you should ask your nephologist why why aren't you on on home diialysis now this is the key fact from today there was 18,000 transplants and the waiting list is 80,000 so the the the list is is getting longer and longer because of of quote unquote organ shortage that we have in the US at this Now the five stages of CKD chronic kidney disease in my previous presentation which is actually on our website uh I went over these five stages and just to go over them again stage one is is the earliest stage of kidney disease and stage five which we call kidney failure is the most advanced. This is also what we used to call endstage renal disease, ESRD. And patients who have ESRD are patients who will need what we call replacement therapy. And this replacement therapy could be either diialysis or transplant. And today we'll be going over transplant. So stage five patients have will need diialysis or transplant to survive long term. Now with that uh I would like to introduce my my colleague uh Miss Bethany Durban who is supervisor of the weight list uh at UCLA and welcome Bethany. Thank you so much for joining us. And we actually had a lot of questions from the audience and we will try to answer as much as we can today. So with that Bethany um do you have any any thoughts before I start asking questions? Thank you for having me. Um let's let's let's get started. Okay. So the first is when we talk about kidney transplantation there are two uh kinds one is deceased donation when when the donor is actually has passed away and the other one's a living donor. So today we'll be focusing more on the deceased kidney donation. So the first question is Bethany if you can just walk us through this whole so first of all what is a weight list and second thing is how does one get on this weight list? Okay. Um, the weight list for organ transplant is overseen by UNOS, the United Network for Organ Sharing. And that is the uh organization that is designated by Medicare, the government to oversee the weight list. And it's a very formal process. There's a lot it's very policydriven. It's a very it's a very well- reggulated system. And so in order to be part of a weight list, you have to go through a comprehensive evaluation to be selected as an appropriate candidate. meaning transplant has the opportunity to make you better and your nephologist or your primary care physician can help you get started with that. If you're already on dialysis, your diialysis unit social worker can help refer you to a transplant center knowing and understanding the insurance needs that you have to select an appropriate center for you. And then you are you come to the center and you're evaluated by the transplant team. testing is done that includes usually a history and physical and we test people for hepatitis for HIV things like that. We get cardiac testing. Depending on medical history, you may need other consults or specials specialties. And then the selection committee, it's called something different at every program, but it's essentially the selection committee determines if the needs of your workup are considered complete so that we have all of the information about you and your history that we need to be able to make a decision about whether transplant's the right treatment option for you. And then you'd be added to the weight list if the if the committee determines that that's the appropriate decision at that point. So once they're cleared by the committee. Yes. And we get the insurance off in order and things like that then you're actually added to the weight list. Very good. So Bethany just want to add a couple of points over here. So the the person who is going to refer you it it should be your nephologist but some insurance companies require your PCP and those are challenges I've had that so your primary care physician. So that's number one. So your your nephologist or your primary care physicians one of those. And if it's a diialysis unit, the social worker can work with the nefologist to refer you to to the transplant center that's closest to you. And we'll be going over different transplant centers. The other thing is at what point should you be referred and and for at least my patients as soon as a GFR hits 20 um they and if you don't know what a GFR is, you can go back to my previous presentation on our website and and see what what GFR and how do you calculate that. But for my patients automatically once they hit GFR of 20 they get get um referred to a transplant. So so Bethany uh if if there's a patient who because a lot of times you know patients are very eager to get listed. So what what if the GFR is 24 what what do you do with them? If there is a GFR in the history that has been 20 then they can qualify to be added to the weight list in a crew wait time. I see. If the GFR is historically above 20 and we've ne we don't have any documentation of that then they're too early. I see. Okay. Uh the the UNOS requirements are such that you can't acrue weight time without it hitting 20 or below. I see. So we do have to hit that trigger but early referral is okay if the patient's trending downward. Right. So I I think that's an important point because sometimes we get referred too early and and it might just be waste of time you know as far as wait time is concerned. So, so, so nefologists or or or your and if you're already on diialysis, then work with a social worker in your diialysis unit. They they can expedite stuff. Now, the next question is, how long will I wait for a transplant? The wait times in the Southern California area are extraordinarily long. Um, they are driven by blood type, whether or not you have a reactivity to the tissue of their humans. your di if you're already on diialysis, you acrew weight time from the initiation of your diialysis date. So you may be acrewing wait time even though you're not currently listed and if you have a living donor then you may not have to wait on the deceased donor list for transplant because we can time transplant as soon as that living donor is available. Very good. And just one more point that that I do want to mention. Um when we look at options available to an ESRD patient patient on on with advanced kidney disease transplant by far in majority of patients is the best option. Uh so I think that's really really important. Now there will be some cases and your nephologist can discuss that with you that you might not be the best candidate for transplant because it it is a major surgery. So there a lot of other things that go into that but overall transplantation. So we should always and and I push all my patients if they have have and and just going over the spectrum of disease we spoke about the sta five stages and at every stage they the goal is different if it's stage one or two the whole idea is to actually cure the disease if it's stage three and four sometimes our best option is to slow down the progression of the disease and in stage five is to get them the best options that includes home diialysis and kidney transplant especially living donation. So with that, let's look at some of the weight times in in Southern California. So blood group. So as as Bethany mentioned, blood group does does play a big role and and uh this is this is the most recent uh that we have. This is relative to the deceased donor weight list. So it doesn't apply to living donation or paired exchange or any of those other options. And these are averages across the blood types. We do have patients in our O blood group that are sometimes transplanted in the 8-year range depending on consent options and donor availability and things like that. But these are the average weight times across the blood groups. The O's wait about 10 years. The A's are in the 7 to 8year range and the B's are 8 to 10 years and the ABS wait about five years, five to six. And what's an active team? The active team is actually my group. We uh the the way that UCLA uh kidney trans kidney of pancreas transplant has divided up the work if you will of the of the patient structure is the evaluation team works with the group of patients that are seeking weight listing. The donor team works with the group of patients who want to be living donors and the weight list or active team actually works with the group of patients that are already on the list. So we manage everybody that is currently listed whether they're on hold or they're actively listed and to navigate them towards the transplant as the goal. So that brings to my next point. Uh the the most important person at the transplant center is Bethany or her counterpart and I think that's very very important. The first question I always ask my patients is who's your coordinator? And you know most of them go to UCLA and I know all the so so I know that but I always ask them. And the reason why I asked them is because they have to know their number and contact information. So if after today's presentation you can do one thing, your quarter name should be actually on your fridge. So you should know that person that that is your quarterback. So that's very important and they they do a tremendous and I know how busy you guys are. So so but we want to hear from our patients. We really do. Yes. Communication with your coordinator because a lot of times they think it's a neurologist or transplant surgeon or and they're all very important but once in the quarterback is is your coordinator. So I think please don't forget that. Now the other question that I always get asked is can I be listed at more than one transplant center and the short answer is yes. Your insurance may dictate what the rules are for that and where you may be allowed to go. But as a patient you do have the right to pursue listing at other programs. Your insurance may dictate where you go though. Some patients are allowed to travel out of state, some patients are not. it won't benefit you to be listed at a program in the same area that you're already listed in. So, for example, if you're listed at UCLA, it doesn't serve you well. You're sort of competing with yourself on the weight list if you're listed at another local program, USC or Cedars, for example. it benefits you but more to be listed at a program that shares a different area like San Diego or Arizona something like that because organs are allocated locally first and the weight times are not the same outside of the local areas good and I think that leads into our next question why would I want to have multiple listings and I think I think you mentioned those that um and this is a website the way to learn about that would really to be go go to the website www.srt srt.org. All of the transplant centers in the country have information and data about their programs there. There's a lot of information about how to select a program that might be another good option for you. So, I think this is about being proactive. So, so, so and as far as my patients are concerned, all of them get listed at UCLA, but I also give them options and and the key thing is like Bethany mentioned, you want to look at so why would you want to go to a different transplant program, right? and and USA obviously is one of the best in the world. So as far as as outcomes are concerned, but the waiting time sometimes is an issue and and you should look for a program that has a shorter waiting time than we have and and the same local will will not not make a difference. So if it's Cedars or or USC is the same same catchment area. Um so that's number one. Number two is once you want to go outside in a different area as long as your insurance company because we have patients in which the insurance company has not approved it. So it has to be run and your social worker as your dialysis unit or you can do it yourself too as well if if you're not on diialysis. Um get all the information and the things that we listed over here look at the outcomes and they are now required by law to to to show what the outcomes are. Yes. So so uh and weight times and stuff. So once [clears throat] again um how do we get listed there? your your nephologist or your primary care physician depending upon who is responsible would would would would send your information to the transplant program. Now the other big question that we always get asked is where am I on the list? And that's a loaded question because it's difficult to answer. Essentially uh it's a point system the way that patients acrewue and and priorit are prioritized on the list. And the gist of it is is that one year equates to one point. And so if a patient has been on dialysis for eight years and they become listed and they're a blood type O, they have eight points towards a usually 10 point weight 10 year weight. the there there are ways that you get priority on the list um that we're going to talk about I think going forward but essentially it is primarily weight time driven or point driven in that way and so if your average weight for a blood type kidney is 10 years and you have seven points then you're about 70% there and and the point you get years on diialysis not the years that you got cleared you got you you have years on dialysis if you were listed after you began dialysis. If you were listed prior to dialysis, your weight time occurs from your actual listing date. Listing date. Very good. So that's where am I on the list. Now, how often do I need to follow up with the transplant team while I'm listed or cleared? We really want to hear from our patients on a semi-regular basis. There are patients that we see annually because we know that transplant is a year or two away from them because they've accured a lot of time or priority on the list. If you're not in a position where we're not where we're seeing you every year, we'll send you an annual letter saying we really would like to hear from you if some things are going on with you. We would love for PE our patients to check in a couple of times a year, but if anything big happens, it's really important that we know. If you have an open heart surgery from having a heart attack and we don't know about it, then when it does come time for us to see you again, there's going to be a lot of catchup that we need to do. So, if you go in the hospital, get a blood transfusion, change insuranceances, those are the kinds of things that we want to know about on a regular basis. But, we'd really like you to just check in. I'm still out here. I'm still waiting. Are you still my coordinator? Good. And and so but once a year they should come in person or we see we see about the top 10 to 15% of our weight list every single year. Okay. We do not see the rest of the weight list and this yeah at that point in time. So so I think one once again the key point is to communicate with your coordinator. Um and especially if there's some changes uh in your health that might affect because what's going to happen is they if you're on the list and you get a call and you know people will go through them and they it will just be a no at the end. So it's going to be waste of time. So so what what's what's important is to to actually communicate and if if they anything the transplant team needs they will let you know so that get this clearance and get this clearance and so everything is is so you don't want to miss a transplant when you get the call. I think that's that's a key point. So communication with your coordinator once again the quarterback is critical. Uh I think that's I I can't stress on that enough. Now a lot of times uh medical records like if if it's my patient at UCLA they get most of the test done at UCLA. So you have them but if you they don't they should actually make sure that that that uh it gets transferred to the transplant program. Also we have this blood testing done too you know and and the dialysis team does that in we send the kid and they can send that. So those are also regular blood work. Yes. Some of our patients are tested four times a year and some of our patients are tested twice a year but it's really important that we receive that back. Yeah. All right. So wasteless follow-up. I think I think we we went over this in detail. Once again your coordinator is you know the name of your coordinator please. That's probably the single most important thing that once you have been weight listed. Okay. So, I'm weight listed. How do I maintain my health and weight listed status while I wait? I think the most important takeaway from this is to work with your nefologist and do what they need you to do. There's so many reasons why people aren't able to follow through or they don't understand, they can't afford their medications, they didn't have a ride or whatever. It's really really important to be able to navigate that process because that will keep the path towards transplant more clear and keeping your medications taking your medications keeping your phosphorus in order and your lab work in good order following a good diet so that you're not going to dialysis with too much fluid and and causing causing strain on on the rest of your body and staying active. We see a lot of patients that don't stay really active after they start dialysis or they've been on the weight list for several years and and you start to get weaker over time. So keeping up your strength and working with your medical team so that they can tell you what you can do safely is really important to staying strong [snorts] and I I think I you know running a pretty big I mean I run the dialysis program at UCIL as well and uh so and having a big dialysis publisher of my own. One thing that we do tell the patients is that that you know the the ultimate goal hopefully most of the patients is getting a transplant but you have to be ready for the transplant as well and the ready is what what Bethany you mentioned taking your your medications showing up for diialysis right um you know the mental health as well eating well you know so all those things so so you should look at this time because if you don't take care of yourself the transplant even if it happens might not have good outcomes because you might have significant vascular disease by the time you end up with with a transplant. So I think it's very very important and the other thing is that if a patient is non-compliant you know uh you know suppose they're missing diialysis sessions or you see them in the what what what do you do? We take issues with compliance really seriously. We've we've learned over time I think not just at UCLA but globally in transplant that people be they're the same people before transplant as they are after transplant. you don't turn into a different human. So if if you if you have a hard time following the advice and doing the things that your medical team asks of you before the transplant, it's going to be the same after and you're setting yourself up for things like rejection and those can be catastrophic kinds of complications in a transplant setting. Yeah. And I think that's once again because you have access to so so the transplant center will have access to the dialysis records as well. So, so I think it's it's very important to to and I've I've had patients who have been put on and we'll be discussing hold, you know, in in a couple of seconds, but I've had patients being put on hold uh by the transplant team because um they they looked at their records and they were issued with compliance. So, once again, I think for two reasons. Number one, and the most important reason is that you should be healthy and you should keep yourself as healthy as possible before you get the transplant. But the second thing is that if you are not compliant, you know, you could be put on hold and and and could be hold for three or six months or depending upon what what the transplant team decides. So, so once again, I think that period before transplant is very very critical. So, talking about holds, placing a person, so they're on the wait list, but but they've been put on hold. So, the question is why was I placed on hold on the weight list and what do I do? There's a lot of reasons why patients get put on hold. Um, people change jobs and change insuranceances, [clears throat] they get sick, they travel and aren't available. Uh, people in their support team that we met several years ago may not be available anymore. So any reason why a patient is not fully transplant ready. It means when a patient's put on hold, they're still listed. They're just not in a position to field offers at the time. So they get overseen and managed for whatever that issue is and we try to resolve that problem, set some goals, see what our timeline needs to be. And what what we really like to see is we want our patients to be proactive and we want to hear from you. If if if if you had open heart surgery and we know your recovery is going to be 6 months long, you don't have to call me every two weeks, right? But about every 30 to 45 days is a good idea. This is my progress. I'm out of rehab. This is how I'm doing. This is what's going on. Um, not following through with appointments is also a problem. There's patients that struggle with getting into their primary care doctor or they don't know how the referral process with their HMO works. They get a little lost in the system and they struggle. We can help with that. If they call me, I'm happy to call their their providers or their case manager and how can we get this patient going, right? And so once you're on hold, if if a patient doesn't quite understand how to what to do next, they call because we can help facilitate and and insurance lapses are one of the bigger things that we see that are really avoidable. Completing paperwork, opening mail, and making sure that the things with medical and things like that get turned in. All of those are reasons why people end up on hold and how to manage that to minimize how long you're on hold. I I really think so. So so there there are things that are preventable and the things that you probably don't have too much if you have a heart attack or if something so I think the preventable things because one thing that you don't want is your insurance lapses and you get a call for the transplant. You don't want that. Those are preventable things. So, so like Bethany mentioned these are things if there any so once again the communication with the transplant center is very and when I say transplant as the coordinator that we're talking about is very critical. So you you need to really if there's any changes in your life, changes in jobs, changes in insurance. There a couple of other things that you mentioned and one more thing I want to mention. I always tell my especially when they're high on the list, you said top 10%, right? Uh that always be accessible. Have your cell phone charged. I had a patient who got a call and her phone ran out of battery and and and and she missed the the transplant and and she was so upset and I said, "There's nothing you can do about this now." But those are small things that can go a long way. You know, be accessible, you know, have somebody else that. But one point you mentioned about the support system. So So can you just elaborate more about the support system that transplant patient? It's nearly impossible for someone to be a transplant recipient alone. They need a buddy. They need a they need a spouse or a child or someone an adult child, someone who can help them. We don't allow our patients to drive in the first few weeks after transplant, but you do have to be here on our campus for labs and follow-ups early in the morning, several times a week. So, you have to have someone that can help you with that, especially if you don't live down the street from our our program, which most people don't. And as you're recovering, you've had a major surgery, you've been on dialysis, and now your body's learning to make urine again, and you have new medications and things that can be kind of confusing process. So, you need help at home to manage all of those new medications and get those doses right and and recover well. So, we don't want our patients left alone really for any reason for at least 2 weeks. Mhm. And usually your family is the is the right person for that because that's you need a buddy to be a to be able to do that. So having adequate support if a person has great support at home but that person doesn't drive we need to know who's going to help with your transportation because we don't want you accessing public transportation in the early period after transplant. Right. So so what's maximum time or or average not maximum average time they would need to show support? Uh we at two to three weeks to weeks really they're starting to gain their independence more after some Yeah. But two to three weeks and and actually You want them when they come for their visit to bring that person in. Yes, we want to meet those people so that they understand what it is that's going to be asked of them so that they understand what they're going to be taking on as well. problem. So I think that's an important point to keep in mind and and once again if the waiting time is 6 to 10 years uh that support person might change right and I think the transplant once again your coordinator needs to be informed who this because if they don't have it the transplant might be declined yes okay so I think so once again key point uh having for at least two or three weeks post-rplant having somebody who can take care of you so important point to keep in mind now sensitized. So this term you used, you know, uh uh so I was told that I'm sensitized. What does that mean? So that's a question that that I think we were asked quite often uh in before the program. So So what is sensitization? Well, our bodies are designed to protect us against anything that's nonself. Mhm. And if you're exposed to human tissue that's not yours through transplant or blood transfusion or a previous transplant, then you may develop antibodies or a reaction to the human tissue that's not yours that you've been exposed to before and your body can develop memory cells. So such that we may need to avoid a transplant that contains that tissue for you in the future. So the the matching becomes more complex in some cases and you you if you're sensitized you don't become unsensitized but you can try to avoid becoming further [clears throat] sensitized. If if if you're becoming somewhat anemic you should try to work with your physicians to manage the anemia before you need a transfusion right um but if you need a transfusion you need to do that. That's the treatment that's that's necessary that's appropriate. Um, and then if you're if you're on imunosuppression and that imunosuppression is going to be changed, that can change your level of sensitization because your body can develop a response when the imunosuppression is weaned. So, not that you shouldn't be weaned if you need to be, but it's something that we should consider that we could that we could talk about that our team could talk to your managing neurologist about and and that's a question that a lot of my patients ask me why am I still on immune suppression? I'm on dialysis and the reason is once again so there there's three main ways I mean there there many ways but three main ways uh pregnancies you know and that's a good thing so so if you want to have um previous transplants which is also a good thing so there's there's something I mean that that's just it is what it is the third one is something that I always talk to my patients blood transfusions and um and and the reason why why I think it's very important is because a non-neologist looks at blood transfusion very differently than a nephologist ologist does and and and and the reason for that is because sometimes they treat a number rather than actually the disease. So you're coming with a low hemoglobin, let us transfuse them. So one take-h home message from today's presentation is going to be that that be very very cautious. Now as Bethany mentioned, if you need if you are losing blood or bleeding massively, you need blood period because you know your your cardiovascular system will not survive without blood transfusion. But those are are the only extreme cases in which you should be getting a transfusion. So minimize as much as you can blood transfusions and and and I think that should be when when you get it and most of the blood transfusion if is if it is given inappropriately is going to be in the inpatient setting you know in outpatient I don't think and hope not your nephologist will be sending you unless it's an absolute needed but in the hospital sometimes you go in and your hemoglobin is found low and and say oh I'll just give a couple of of units of blood that's not good so so when you get admitted into the hospital for whatever reason you should make sure that the team knows that the blood transfer should be only given and should be discussed with the nephrologist and only given if it's absolutely needed and I think that's very important because now we we won't be talking about desensitization because if there is a protocol to desensitize a patient today I I think we don't have that much time so but in our next presentation if you do have antibodies then how to desensitize our patients now this is important uh how are deceased donor kidneys classified And the and the thing that we can is the KDPI score which is a kidney donor profile index. So let's significant score. How do we calculate the score? When we're looking at a deceased donor, we have to have some sort of nomenclature to determine quality of a donor. So a 25year-old who crashed his motorcycle versus a 65-year-old diabetic who died of a stroke. Those are going to be different kinds of donors with different qualities. So we look at things like age, height, weight, ethnicity. Were they diabetic? Did they die of a stroke? What was their creatinin? Did they have hypertension? To quantify donor quality, if you will. And there's a num a number assigned from Z on a 0 to 100 scale that helps us understand that. And kidneys that have a lower score are expected to function longer than kidneys with a higher score. It doesn't mean that they can't or won't, but the numbers tell us that that's the likelihood. It's a better kidney if it's a lower score, right? So any kidney that's a 0 to 85 KDPI, we consider a standard kidney. It's a standard transplant. It's what we used to refer to as a standard criteria donor. And KDPI over 85, we consider we we used to call them ECDs, extended criteria donors. And we don't anticipate that those kidneys are going to last as long, but they might be great for a recipient who's not doing well on dialysis and really needs a transplant. It might be great for an older recipient that is not predicted to have a lot of life years. Um, so we use as many kidneys as we can to maximize utilization. But this helps us understand what in a predictive way how we think a a deceased donor organ is is going to perform once transplanted. Good. So, so that that was very informative, but that's a question that we get asked a lot. What and the KDPI once again that's a score that the transplant team will will will tell you. Um and and so the lower the better. That's that's the and and and um and if it's less than 85 is what we used to call standard recently actually. This is a recent change four years 2014. In my fellowship we used to call them standard and extended criteria donors. So anything below 85 minutes above that then it's case by case and you should you should should keep in mind that the risk and and benefits um and like you said if they're unstable on diialysis or or older patients then which you know they might not have that much waiting time um so I think I think so that that's important. So it so the KDPI score once again to talk to your to your nephrologist and see what what their thoughts are on that. Now let's talk about the increased risk donor and this is the other question that we get asked a lot. So what is this public health service PHS and well the CDC or Centers for Disease Control has criteria that they have determined as increased risk and that means that a person out in the community is has engaged in certain behaviors that may expose them to diseases of such as HIV or hepatitis C at a higher rate than someone who does not engage in such behaviors. And there's a lot of behaviors that are included in that list, but we look at retrospectively one year from when the donor died in in in their history to see if we can gather information about whether they were engaged in those kinds of things or not. All donors are tested in the same way in this local area for all of those diseases. We don't transplant organs that are that are positive to people who are negative for those things in any in any sense. But even if a donor does not meet this criteria, technically it doesn't necess doesn't always mean that they weren't right. It means we didn't have the information information. Yeah. Um the disease transmission in these types of donors is incredibly low. It's less than 1% but it's greater than zero. Zero. Yeah. So just something to keep in mind. Well, so those are risks that you take with getting a transplant. So all right. finances. So, how is transplant paid for? If you are Medicare eligible prior to your be prior to being transplanted and Medicare is already in play, then could be Medicare, medical and or Medicare and your private insurance that pays for transplant. Um, if you're not on Medicare prior to transplant, it becomes effective. You become eligible the day you're transplanted. So Medicare's paid for by private insurance, medical or Medicare depending upon what your eligibility is in the moment, but it it it doesn't cover medication co-pays, doctor visit co-pays after the fact, those kinds of things. Um, and so if patients are financially burdened, they're having a hard time with things, they need to prepare for that because there are going to be other medication co-pays that they're going to face after. Okay. Finances. And the other thing that that we get asked is about living donors. Uh who pays for that? And that should be covered by the recipients. Yes. The the the living donor workups are covered by Medicare and or the recipient's insurance. And so that includes the consults, the testing, the hospitalization, the surgery, and the immediate posttop care. Uh and then any travel expenses, things like that. Most insurance does not cover that. But there may be certain options available to get funds available taken care of for donors. Those are the hidden costs. So the living donor so so the the transplant and the because that's a question you know being you know the living donor director we get these questions a lot that that who pays it's the recipients not the donors but they're hidden costs and loss to wages sometimes um travel and all this hotel if they're coming from out of town and sometimes they have funds that might be available to to offset those sometimes they're not. So, so you have to go with the understanding that those are costs that you might have to just uh bear u and hopefully there will be some support available but but once again talk to your coordinator they might have resources and connections that might offset some of these costs. Yeah, the donor team has a lot of access to really good information that have donor options. So, so this so um I think uh just want to end with uh with once again if you have any questions I think we are over time now Bethany but Bethany thank you so much thank you everybody for joining and uh I think we'll have a lot more questions uh October 16th when we were discussing this so thank you very much for joining us today thank