

=== FILE: Behind the Counter, Beside the Bed： The Real World of Pharmacy [b9Upq7aeHyE].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone. Welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. Do you ever wonder how that medication your doctor prescribed seems to magically appear in your hospital room or appear right at your bedside in the ER hallway? Or what journey that pill took to get from your doctor's prescription pad all the way to your medicine cabinet? When you think about it, there are so many medications out there. Antibiotics, pain relievers, chemo-infusions, anesthesia, and then add in vitamins, supplements, herbs. It's honestly a miracle. We can keep them all straight. And knowing what to prescribe, what dose, what not to mix, it's a whole science in itself. Here's the truth. We doctors couldn't do it without the expertise of our pharmacist partners. And they might not always be in the spotlight, but without them, let me assure you, the entire healthcare system would grind to a halt. Joining me today to share what the world looks like from behind the counter and beyond is Dr. Melissa Denaltho. She's a board-certified oncology pharmacist, and she recently retired as director of pharmacy services at UCLA Health, and she's a dear, dear friend and mentor. Mel, thank you so much for being here today. Welcome to the pod. Thank you for having me. Mel, you worked as a pharmacist for 42 years. Correct. And you've did everything, right? From spending time behind the counter at a drug store, conducting research on life-saving cancer medications, and then running a very large pharmaceutical operation at UCLA Health. But I want to start at the beginning. What drew you to pharmacy in the first place? Throughout high school, well, my mom was a nurse, and my mom was emphatic that I should not be a nurse. And I had this vague inclination towards something medical. And about two weeks before I graduated from high school, a friend of mine was working behind the counter in Byrite Pharmacy in La Habra, California, and said that they needed somebody. So I went in, and this pharmacist interviewed me, and he's very buttoned down, very bright, very intense guy, and he threw a prescription pad on the counter, and he said, can you read this? And I said, yeah, that's Valium, which I could read. Is this suspicious? Well, I had helped my mom. She worked in a doctor's office. I'd done back office when I was in college. So anyway, he hired me. And after a year or two, I declared as a biology major, and I was at the local state college and or state university. And after a year or two, I thought, I could do this. I can do this. Whereupon he said, Melissa, women don't belong in pharmacy. You should be a dental hygienist. And that was all it took. I was like, I don't think you need a Y chromosome to count pills. So I believe I can do this. And that was what it took to kind of cut through all the BS and realize that I was eminently capable of doing it. And so I kind of put my head down and bowled through and miraculously got into pharmacy school two years later, and that was it. Well, besides knowing that you were obviously incredibly capable, what appealed to you about sort of the pharmacy? There's a very, there's an intimacy in even in a retail setting between a pharmacist and the patient. Many patients utilize their pharmacist as an interim. They certainly do. How messed up am I? Do I need to move on? So your job is to point them in the proper direction. And if they're in trouble and they need to go to the ER or whatever, then that's what you tell them. But if you can, I've always been very comfortable recommending over the counter things. That's kind of the zone in retail. So I would go behind the counter and tell them what I thought they should use. And I enjoyed that role and I enjoyed the responsibility and I liked helping people. I always have. Yeah. And you could feel that even then, as you were embarking. That's awesome. What did you need to then kind of get started in terms of going through the pharmacy school route? It's besides the sense of humor. That was rare. And moxie. Probably how I got in. Because the year that I applied, they were looking for communicators. Because they realized that all these pharmacists know all this stuff, but they can't communicate anything. They're all kind of locked in, kind of robotic. I'm impressed that they recognize that as a criterion. Well, that was my, the school that I ended up by the grace of God getting into happened to be very innovative. And they were looking, they're the ones who coined the term clinical pharmacy, which is what I became. So in the early 70s, late 60s, they thought to themselves, we'd like to put pharmacists at the bedside. We'd like to incorporate them into the medical teams. So I fell into this just completely serendipitously. You're like serendipitously and serendipitously. It wasn't sneaky. It was lucky. No, but that's so interesting. So clinical pharmacists was like a new term at the time. Big time. I just want to break down for everyone kind of what clinical pharmacists means because I'm a total language nerd, but also it's like, it's a great barrier. But like, so clinical isn't just about science. Interestingly, because you mentioned it was at the bedside, and it comes from that Greek root, clinique, which is at the sick bed. And then clinical, I think people, again, this isn't just about the science. This is about presence, right? Like being present. So like when someone really sees you, wait, makes recommendations, whether it's in a retail farmer, but then kind of tailor's treatments to who you are. And so when I think of you as saying clinical pharmacists, I didn't realize that the school was also kind of espousing that. That really means then a pharmacist who is attending to patients like next to them at their bedside, like right next to them. And that's really neat that that term came about, but that actually was kind of the cornerstone of how you were educated. When I got into school, before I started, they sent this letter. It was almost like a consent form. And it basically said, you need to know if you go here that you may be required to get up at five o'clock in the morning to attend rounds. And you may be working extended hours. And it was so electrifying. I read that letter and I was like, oh my God, this is where I belong. That's amazing. This is exactly what I want to do. I could have lived behind a counter. I could have worked in retail my whole life. But the idea that I could be inserted into a team that managed patient care at a more dynamic and challenging level was thrilling. So I got up there. I just had stars in my eyes. It was great. Oh my gosh, that's so great. Wait, so then tell me then. So after then pharmacy school, where did you kind of first start working? Well, the first thing that they started, by the time I graduated in 81, they were doing what are now called PGY, pharmacy graduate year residencies. I think that's what it stands for. So after I got my doctorate, I did one year at UCSF as a resident. And that was really fascinating because you go from being a student and overnight you've become like a shock caller. So in my residency, I spent three months on an orthopedic surgery, pain management service, and in pain management, you want someone who is always, you want one decision maker in terms of handling narcotics. And so on the team, the pharmacist was the decision maker. So I had designed tapers and I would order things and if people had it. Like a taper is when you gradually decrease their medication. And if somebody, I remember a patient who was an amputee, they hit him when they were moving him and they called me. It was very interesting, but it also really boosted my confidence and my sense of what I could contribute. So after that year, then I moved down to Southern California and I got my first job in a hospital. Nothing spectacular. I can remember the first few weeks going, this is ridiculous, but I'll go back to school in September and then realize I couldn't. I was never going back to school. I was stuck in the workplace. So I wasn't a big fan of this place, but December of that year, I saw this ad in the LA Times and it was for just the dream job. It was be the first clinical pharmacist, St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica. So I applied even though I'd only been at other hospitals for five months. I loved that it was an ad in the Times. It was. Yeah. And everybody, my entire residency class, we all applied. Oh my gosh. And I'm like Bambi, I go, you guys, there's this great job and half of them applied and not said anything to anybody. I was like, you guys. So then when I like how you're curbing your language right now, I know you. I'm trying really hard. This is a massive effort on my part. Don't worry. We appreciate it. But so anyway, I got the gig, which was fascinating. And so I transferred to, I went to started at St. John's and pretty much my entire career unspooled from there. So I was the first quote unquote clinical pharmacist that they had hired. So the rest of the pharmacy team was buried in the basement, which is always where they put us. Why? Mostly because of security. Really? Yeah. Because most people know that's where the narcotics are. So there's, there's no signage typically to get to the hospital pharmacy. There's bulletproof glass. There's security doors. Oh my gosh. And we're all kind of, you know, like laboring down there, like, like trolls under the bridge. For your own safety. Yeah. It was a little, at least there was light, but it was a little grim. Right. But one of the things that my school had espoused was something called decentralized pharmacy where you put satellite pharmacy locations throughout the hospital. So I opened the first one at St. John's, which abutted, I think it was the CCU and possibly MedServe. Those are all like the cardiac care unit. Yes. Different parts of the hospital. And people realize that there's pharmacists, you know, all over. And I think obviously, because we're hiding you, but obviously, but also because, right, but they're, but they accompany and often on the same floors catering, especially to different clinical teams. Like you mentioned, orthopedics. And, you know, I want to talk about how you, you know, went into oncology. But I think it's, it's interesting that people probably don't even realize that there's pharmacists in often in the emergency room. Yeah. Right. And is that so that people can get like medication, like more directly to people or what's the point of having the satellites, like that they're all over a distributed all over, let's say a hospital. Well, to your point that you made earlier about the massive number of medications and the decisions that need to be made. When you're embedded in the place where those decisions are being made, you can be impactful in a timely manner. You're not calling somebody two hours later and saying, Dr, the dose you ordered for this patient is a little high because their renal function is poor. You have an opportunity to be part of that while decisions are being made. Right. And also in the hospital setting, we have some responsibility to make sure drugs are available and there could be 10 or 12 or 15 drugs in one class. And we don't typically carry 10 or 12 or 15. We might carry four or five and we find justifications for caring for choosing the ones we carry. So sometimes just being able to say, we don't have that here. The equivalent is X, Y, or Z. Right. I don't think people understand how much kind of dialogue there is with pharmacists. So for example, you mentioned taking into account someone's renal function and that's fancy for how well someone's kidneys are working. Exactly. I mean, I cannot tell you how many times pharmacists saved my bacon. I want to say mostly when I was a resident, but even today, I get calls from retail pharmacy or calls from our pharmacist at UCLA who were like, did you make sure that you took into account this person's kidney function because the way patients metabolized, you can say this much better than I can, but metabolized certain drugs, then if it's slower, faster, or weirder, that then informs how much or how little of the medication. I always rely on pharmacists to help me prescribe. And my goodness, when I was a resident, I mean, the amount of times I was patient said, in the nicest way possible, someone say Dr. Glazier, did you mean like 10 or 100? And I'm not saying this to scare people or in the hospital, but it's just really to say we have these expert safeguards who are really, really contributing to this clinical care. And it gives us great joy to do that. I mean, we did want to, you know, just to be able to be impactful in a positive way and be able to direct care and be able to prevent problems as opposed to trying to solve them on the back end. Oh my gosh, yeah. So pivotal to my role. So I really enjoyed that very much. But translate oncology research for our listeners. So basically any drug that you have ever received in a prescriber setting has been intensively reviewed by research. It started in a lab where that compound was created, and then frequently it enjoyed kind of a foray into animal testing. It enjoyed. Yeah. The dogs and cats might matter. The animals may not have enjoyed it, but it's always done humanely. And it's very hard to justify introducing a novel compound into a human being if something else that's living hasn't already received it. So a compound starts in a lab, then it moves into the animal setting, and then there's something called first in human. And there are three phases to drug development. Phase one is when the drug moves from the lab slash animal setting into the human beings. And I have stood at a bedside and watched the first human ever take something. Oh my God. It's an incredible experience. And he did well, actually, thank God. But I mean, how long did you stand there? About a while. Oh, wow. It was amazing. Yeah, it is amazing. It's amazing. So phase one is first in human. And then phase two, all compounds don't go on. Sometimes there's a problem in phase one. Sometimes there's a side effect that we didn't know we would see or whatever. But if a compound goes on to phase two, it typically has found to be safe. And phase two is to look at how effective it is. So if it makes it through phase two, then it goes to phase three, where they prove that it is as good minimally or better than the existing treatments. And this is a very robust area in oncology. When I went to pharmacy school in the 70s, there were like four chemotherapy drugs. Oh, wow. There are now 300. So it's a phenomenon to be part of that. And the different categories of drugs, and all of those came up. While I mean, I have almost a parental relationship with some of these drugs, because I was like, oh, I knew you. You were phase one, I know. So anyway, so I decided that I would go into that. And because a friend of mine was an oncologist and his practice was looking for a part-time pharmacist who could be their research pharmacist. And I was like, oh, OK, I can do that. It was really hard. So anyway, so I got the gig, because no one else wanted it. And after about three weeks, I found out why. But that's where I met Dr. Rosen, who ended up, Lee Rosen, who was running the phase one program for this private practice. You see a health oncologist. Yes. Well, he wasn't at that time. Not that time to happen now. Yeah. So I started working with Lee, and I was part of the phase one team. And we ended up going out into private practice. And I stayed with him throughout that. And then UCLA acquired our practice probably 14 years ago. So I had been an oncology pharmacist, let's see, 22, 24 years, I think. But I loved it. And I loved the, it has a lot of meaning. And when something bad happens to someone to be able to have a positive impact is incredibly comforting, and especially if it's someone you know. So I've worked, I don't even consider it work. I have given to people that I care for a respite and a place to be terrified and to work through what's going on with them medically. And I consider that to be an incredible honor. It's an honor for you, but it's an incredible gift for everyone else. And I've seen that play out with so many of your patients. Thank you. So with the oncology pharmacy, I mean, I want to say that's a pharmacy, because you had a very large management role in managing what we call oncology pharmacy, which is all of the medications for the cancer care, right, at UCLA. So, did you work in the hospital setting kind of that you were describing before during training, or is this in an outpatient, or what we say ambulatory, meaning like a clinic or an office setting? Right. So it's basically pre and post. Before I had my kids, I was only in the hospital setting once I graduated. So I worked at St. John's. I did a brief stint at UCLA. And then when I came back into the workplace, I moved into ambulatory care. Now ambulatory care in California particularly, but has gotten very sophisticated. The goal is to be able to deliver care that historically patients may have required being hospitalized to get. But to create a system that is robust enough and flexible enough and safe enough that you can use compounds and treat people, and then they get to go home. Yeah. They don't have to sit in the hospital for three more days. So when I went back to work, I went back into the ambulatory setting. And all of the practices that I worked in through there were all oncology based, except, well, UCLA got a broader role. But the oncology based practices, we would bring patients in to the clinic. And we would treat them there. Right. And I only bring this up because I think lots of times I think there's an assumption that pharmacists are only existing behind the counter in a retail pharmacy. But there's pharmacists all over the healthcare system. There are pharmacists that are supporting prisons, rest homes, SNFs. Right. Skilled nursing facilities. Yeah. Skilled nursing facilities. We're everywhere. You just don't typically have there. We're everywhere. You know, you talk about what it's an honor to us for you to be part of someone's care. I've known you a long time. And so I think kind of you have many, many superpowers, but it's true. But one of the, you know, one of the biggest ones I think is your, your just incredible skill at communicating and not just communicating, but communicating with so much compassion. And then, you know, obviously then interweaving kind of your, your, your expertise. But I would love to hear about how, you know, and you mentioned that the communication was actually a thing. Thankfully, you know, a required or at least, you know, encouraged skill when you were a applying to pharmacy school. But I'd love to hear from you how it's, how it's kind of manifested in your role as, as a pharmacist. Like where do you sort of kind of wield that beautiful sword? Wield is a, is a good word. So one of the things that I've discovered, probably the, the most impactful example is patients with a cancer diagnosis come in and they've been imprinted by whatever horrible thing happened to somebody in their family 20 years before. And they come in terrified as I would be expecting to suffer. And when they enter, and also if they're going into the research setting, they think that it's hopeless and they're only doing it for the greater good. So there's a lot of learning that people need to be encouraged to do. Myself and kind of the other mid-level practitioners, the nurse practitioners, some practices use physician assistants, kind of where we dwell, at least my role that I believe, is to help patients unpack their history and not, not combine it with their pet, with their current situation. Not re, and realize that what most patients won't tell you, won't tell their doctor what they're feeling. They don't want them to take their eye off of focusing on the care, taking care of the cancer so they'll conceal the most minor, you know, all these little things they're struggling with. They have, you know, splitting fingers, you know, their fingers and toes are broken. They have sores in their mouths. They're nauseated all the time. They're constipated. They, they, they don't confess all that to the doctor because they don't want to distract them. What are they worried about? Like that? Mostly I think, well, in the research setting, patients are concerned that if they tell you about a side effect that they may no longer be able to continue on the trial. It's a terrible calculus. It is. It is. It's really difficult. So part of my role is to kind of, I basically told people that my role is to fix everything I can and that, and I, because I kind of dwell in symptom management and that if you ignore these little things, it becomes the death of a thousand cuts and you need to, you, let me address them with you. Let me teach you how to manage them. And I've made deals with patients where I've said, do it my way for two days. If you don't feel better, we'll stop. But I really think you should try this. So my role, I think pretty much in, in my mind, the physician, you know, designs the strategy and I close. I remove any barriers towards somebody receiving something. They can be logistical. They can be financial. They can be, you know, the side effects were allergic reactions. From my team, our goal was to just remove everything we could so people could get the care they needed. And it didn't matter whether or not it was pharmacy. I mean, if they can't afford something, that's my problem. And I'll fix that problem. And we used to. We did. Yeah. No, I saw you do it a million, a million times. And it's not, my goodness, it's not nothing. It's everything because exactly it's the emotional barriers. And then it's, I mean, it's not just like there's a static barrier. It's like one day it's a side effect. The other day it's an authorization. Right? Like, I mean, how did you, I've seen you, but tell us how you even, gosh, how you've addressed those and challenged those barriers to even just getting the medications, you know, that patients have needed and, you know, that have been denied at first. Well, and that's one thing I do want to reiterate for our listeners, which is don't ever take this kind of stuff laying down. If you're told by somebody that you can't get something, you need to find somebody who can override that. Don't just take that and walk away. A lot of the insurance companies will deny something and they know full well that people will get discouraged. But especially in the oncology setting, we don't mess around like that. So my team, we were very determined that everybody should have, that we should get whatever they needed. So we had very active fundraising and we had an authorization department where we would just basically escalate. Okay, you said I couldn't do this. Can I speak to your supervisor? Okay. Can I speak to this supervisor? And we would escalate things up the chain at the insurance company and we would file appeals and we would do everything we needed to do. And it was, it's phenomenally rewarding. And it also kind of helps you like vent your aggression because I have no difficulty like coming down like the hammer of God on somebody who's going to try and take my patients medication away from me. And I mean, by the way, of course, don't take anything lying down. I mean, easier for us not to take it lying down. Very hard to say that to someone who's like already feeling like crap on chemotherapy and exhausted and terrified. So you're really like that ultimate advocate. Yeah. You are really that pharmacist. You need a cape. I know. There. I'll do the head toss. Do that. That's incredible. Yes. And I'm guessing, I mean, we're talking about just like prior authorizations, but what about like costs of medications and even just access to medications? Well, that's was the second arm of what we would do. So the way insurance companies sleep at night, do I believe they should? No, not really, but I won't go any further. But they have what they term patient assistance. Now in oncology, remember the process I described phase one, two and three? It can take hundreds of millions of dollars to get a drug from phase one into the world. So part of what pricing is about is recouping that because for every compound you get through, there are dozens that didn't. So part of it is they can sleep at night because they're charging $24,000 for one bottle of this stuff that lasts for 28 days. Sorry, it's lost my breath. I know. Is that they, they offer like copay cards and different things. Where the rubber hits the road is typically they don't offer those to the elderly. So our most vulnerable patients are Medicare and MediCal patients. There's not, the pharmaceutical companies don't have a venue for them typically. Now there are some that we have developed by dint of like threatening and cajoling and doing our part. But if you are a Medicare patient until very recently, the donut hole would just chew your leg off. The idea that you could afford to pay $5,000 out of pocket every month for some kind of medication. So what the insurance companies do to save this part of the healthcare community that they've completely abandoned is they donate money to nonprofits and they say to themselves, well yeah, we don't help the Medicare patients but they can apply to Lymphoma and Leukemia Society or they can apply to the Rare Drugs Foundation. So we, we would just, we, my whole team should have worn capes. Yeah. You know, we raise millions of dollars for people. Right. And by just not taking no for an answer and by saying partner with me, trust me, I'm going to help you fill out all this ridiculous paperwork where you have to put down the license plate of your first car and your kid's middle name and what kind of treatment you're going to do. I'll help you navigate all that and we're not going to stop until we can get you what you need. So that's pretty much what we did. Yeah. You're relentless in the best possible way. Yeah. And it was, it's so gratifying. Yeah. I remember one of my texts. But it also, I mean, I'll just say it's not just gratifying. I mean, it's not just like, oh, I'm grateful for your help. I mean, this is actually informs and impacts outcomes for how the patients actually do. Big time. Right. Big time. Yeah. So I'm going to go ahead and say, I'm going to go ahead and say, I'm going to go ahead and say, I'm going to go ahead and say, I'm going to go ahead and say, I'm going to go ahead and say, big time. Yeah. No. It's, it's a wonderful thing. One of my, one of my star persons on the team is a woman named Tamela Risher and Tammy and I, Tammy was trying to get a drug for a woman who was off label, which is another place where insurance companies are like, Oh no, it's off label. We can't approve it. Can you define off label? Yes. I can use that. So the, when you research something, you develop it for one indication and typically you'll test it for one thing. But that doesn't mean it won't work. And the FDA will approve it for that one thing. That does not mean that it won't work for other things. And oncology is stuffed with outliers. Because we're looking at the cellular biology of tumors and how they communicate and how they spread and how they become mutated or whatever, one drug can work for multiple types of tumors, but typically the way that the FDA approves them is for one type. So we often will have somebody who has the biological target that we're looking for. And you hear people talking about targeted therapies all the time. And I could talk about that for hours. But just know that multiple different kinds of cells can express a given target. So any drug that was identified in the research as working on that target for this particular kind of cancer can work on it for other kinds. But the insurance companies can hide behind the labeling. They can say, well, this isn't indicated for your kind of cancer. So Tammy and I got on the phone with some pharmacist. I can't remember. We were trying to get a drug for a young woman. And she was like in her 30s. And she had the proper target. But we had blown through all these different levels with the insurance company. And I finally got on the phone with the pharmacist. And I walked her through, Tammy was in my office. I walked her through what the target, what my patient's cancer's biology was and why I knew this would work. And got her to approve two months. She said, let's do two months. Then we'll scan her again. But I agree with you. I know that this will work. We're upon Tammy.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected It's great. I'm having trouble not doing it, so I'm doing other things. This is why we're talking about it. Well, yeah, and I do want to encourage people to ask more from their careers. You know, to expect more. Not to just go, if you can get out, I hired multiple people who had worked like in a CVS setting, and to a man, they would say, you rescued me, you saved my career. I was so miserable because some of these big box pharmacies are just, they have a certain quota they need to maintain, and so the pharmacists are expected to manifest all of these wonderful communication behaviors, but meanwhile they have no time. So to be able to look for parts of your career, look for jobs in pharmacy where you can do what gives you joy and use your strengths, and don't take no for an answer. Ever. Yeah. It's funny though that you say that too about just even, you know, it's interesting when I go to our local pharmacy, I love hearing the pharmacists come out around, talk to the patient, honestly, sometimes, to my shame, asking them more questions than I ask my own patient, right, and like really getting into, you know, side effects, how are you taking it, you know, with what food. It reminds me too because I love geeking out on, you know, history that I mean, I think historically, pharmacists were like the original medical providers, right, and they would like walk around and go to people's bedside with little like wooden chests of medication, you know, I love the word apothecary, you know what I mean, they were like the original providers and in other countries, right, like, they still are, especially in poorer countries. I think that's so, so fascinating, but I mean, speaking of that relationship, I mean, I think a lot of people, if I was listening to this, I'd be like, why can't, why isn't my pharmacist like Mel? And I think some people have these relationships, but what would you say about kind of forming a relationship with just your, again, we're not in the hospital now, but just your local pharmacist? Well, one thing I would encourage people to do is, is if you have an option in your community that is not a big box, that is a more of a mom and pop thing, you will find more opportunities to build a relationship in that setting, then you will in a CVS or a Walgreens. So, you know, those guys, God bless them. But if you have a mom and pop pharmacy, wander in there one day. Yeah, I mean, it's a relationship like any other, right? It's a big time relationship. And I frequent those little stands alone. Sometimes they'll call themselves compounding, because that is one thing that means I always wonder, okay, so back in the day, before we had really sophisticated dosage forms, pharmacists literally prepared medication from scratch. Like in a mortar and pestle? Pretty much. Yeah, I can remember like, Like was this stirring? You remember this? Oh my God. Yeah, I can remember spreading ointments on a marble slab and then putting them into containers. Very romantic. Okay. That's one word for it. So, so those things are still sometimes required. It's a little bit of a niche thing, but like, let's say you want, there are some products for chronic pain that neurologists want compounded that can combine a nerve thing with an with an anesthetic thing with something else. And you have to create a compound out of that. So compound pharmacies have special licensure, and they have special materials and they are they make many compound pharmacies, for example, make allergy serums, which are incredibly complex. Yes. So they're a necessary part of pharmacy practice. They're like mixing on the spot. The yeah, yeah, no, they're basically creating things that that need to that need to be in a different dosage form or combined. No, it's done incredibly necessary. Yeah. Speaking of pain management, and I will say to everyone, Mel has helped me out in numerous times when I've had patients and I mean, listen, I've run out of ideas. I'm quite honest about it. I'm like, I don't know. They've already taken Tylenol or Advil and they're having this kind of pain. And every time I call you, you always are so helpful. You're like, you know, this for this particular type of bone pain, you know, this particular class of medication works. So I anyways, but I and I know pain and pain management is a big part of what you've, you know, what you've done, especially as a as an oncology pharmacist. And instead of saving it for our asking for a friend segment, I'm just going to throw it out now. Well, why I do say this to my patients, but why do we always say we don't you chasing pain, right? Like we want to get ahead of it. Tell us why. Oh, OK. Well, I have an analogy for that. I actually have two analogies for that that I've worked with with patients. And this is one of the things that I had experienced firsthand about how people expect to suffer with a cancer diagnosis. And they don't even, they lose hope and they want to keep their eye on the ball towards a cure and they're willing to pay the piper. They're willing to suffer. But typically, especially now with the advent of all of these different drugs that support symptoms, you really don't need to do that, but you have to be encouraged. You don't need to suffer. You shouldn't. Right. You know, you, you will ultimately want, you know, every once in a while, you're not going to be comfortable 100 percent of the time. You might have procedures that cause discomfort. You might have to sit in an MRI, which you're claustrophobic and you don't want to do that. There will be moments in time where you're uncomfortable, but you shouldn't be in agony. Right. No way. Exactly. So one of the things I would meet patients who would say, well, I just wait until I can't stand it anymore and then I'll take one person. And so, and I don't want to get too gender bound, but a lot of my patients were older. And so if it was an older woman, I would say, do you remember when your kids were little and they would start to misbehave and to a, to a woman, the mom would go, yeah, absolutely. And I'd say, would you wait? And they were just, till they were just climbing the walls before you did anything. And, and they would say, no, of course not. And I said, pain is the most badly behaved kid in the room. Go get it and kind of empower them and make them under. Right. And, and then so just basically incentivizing and encouraging them to, to get ahead of their pain, but also the science is that if you maintain pain, you will use less narcotics than if you do the spiky agony relief, agony relief cycle, because getting you out of agony is going to take more medication. And so much energy. It's so much more exhausting as a patient. And, and the apprehension about something like that makes, makes control that much more daunting. You can't. If you're, if you're terrified and the emotion about pain or like anticipating it, right? So it's, it's, you know, in most patients, if you get them to kind of, like I said, the one guy where I said, just do a my way for two days. If you, if you empower them, this is a learning thing, just like anything else. And I get that we don't want to, my heart goes out to people who come into an oncology diagnosis and go, I don't like medications. And I'll be like, okay, dude. Yeah. You know, new day, you don't get to do that anymore. Right. You know, this is, this is your problem. And risk the magic. Yeah. We're going to lean in. Yes. You know, and we're not going to, you can draw lines in the sand, but that isn't going to work yet. You know, let's, let's be practical. Right. Yes. Ben, I know you're saying that and you are, and though I've seen you have so many conversations where it's a conversation and it's a dialogue and we try something and then we try something else and, but also then address the concerns. Like you say, people come to the table with all of these other life events and emotions and, you know, we ask people to uncouple them a little bit so that we can make it about them, but we can't ignore the fact that they've had like, you know, experiences or they've seen family members suffer too. And people have different feelings about medications in general. I mean, even not just oncology medications, right? Yeah. I have so many patients who are like, you know, my cholesterol is high, but, you know, I don't want to take a medication. Yeah. Right. I possibly was one of those people. Oh, sorry, I was asking for a friend. I do whatever she says. So I guess that was interesting, but as a pharmacist and a patient, what's, what, what gets you there in terms of taking medications? What are questions you like to know before you take a medication? Well, like, I, um, basically, I understand if I am eligible for something that I need it. Yeah. So that's not difficult for me particularly. I'm not going to try and, um, you know, do it without what I understand. You know, it's better living through pharmacy as far as I'm concerned. So, yeah. So I would far rather not have, you know, like I have a strong history of cardiac issues in my family. I'm not going down that way. Right. You know, so it made perfect sense to me that I needed to take a statin. I'm looking at both my kids and knowing they will need to. A statin is a cholesterol lowering drug. Yes, it is. But, but I, but I also don't want to undermine people having concerns with, um, their concerns, you know, people are like, I don't want to have to take a pill. So it's just interesting to kind of, from your kind of professional perspective, you know, how do we get people to take what they need? And if they need it, we had a prior conversation around shared decision making, which was, and I don't know if you employ kind of that approach. A little bit. Yeah. Sure. How would you? Well, so basically we get all this training, all this kind of stuff, which I've just basically been doing. You've been doing exactly intuitively. Right. So I mean, I, it's shared decision making, but my goal is you do what I tell you to do. An Evelyn dictator. Because I'm in your corner and I know better. So let me help you. And you feel better. Let me get you there. You're in the describing. Yeah. Let me get you there. Let me, let me walk with you until you're comfortable. Yeah. And, and, and make this, make this. And I've seen you. You don't leave their side. No. Yeah. So anyway. So basically the idea that we would partner with people is something I've been doing my entire career. Yes. And, and I think the other thing we haven't talked about is cultural stuff. Tell me. Yeah. Oh my gosh. We did a clinical trial when I was in private practice with Dr. Rosen with this drug that had come out of Japan. And we started giving it to our patients and to a man, the patients would come back and complain about mouse sores. This really hurts. Did it, did it, did it. And we had heard nothing. What do you mean? So who do they were complaining? They were coming back and telling like a male doctor. No, they were telling their physicians, what the side effects were from this, from the study drug. Okay. So my, so Dr. Rosen went back to the company was called Tyho, went back to Tyho and said, we're getting a lot of feedback on this drug. And Tyho was like, well, nobody here said anything. So they went to their patients in Japan and had them open their mouths and they all had the mouse sores, but they hadn't said anything. Cause they don't complain. Interesting. So you have to consider also kind of the cultural sense of the background of your, of your, of your patient and how liable they are. And, and just be aware of that because that's a very tough. That's first of all, it's tough as a non-Japanese person for me to appreciate that, but it's even tougher once I realized it. How do I bridge that? Yes. So there's a whole myriad of, of things that contribute to what, whether people are going to be their own advocates and whether they're going to trust you and the process enough to do what you think is the best. So it's just, there's a lot of grace and there's a lot of reflection and there's a lot of dent of effort and you just keep pushing along until you get stuff where it needs to be. Okay. I have some asking for a friend. Okay. You know, these aren't my questions. Okay. Question. Heaven for Fendt. I picked up a course of antibiotics for strep throat the other day and it felt like the pharmacist handed me a novel's worth of information with my bottle of meds. Do I actually have to read all of it? So in a lot of, no, no, you don't. Audrey's call. Okay. For people who aren't going to call you, what should I do? I mean, some of the, some of these, oh boy. Okay. What should I need on the label? Answering for a friend. Yeah, thanks. So basically that information, if you understand it, is helpful. Even if it's written in language that purportedly somebody who's not medical can, can get. Yes. At the end of whatever they hand you is probably a single page that says, here's this, here's that. Don't go through the whole, go to the end where it talks about the practical stuff. Okay. What you need to know. Yeah. What's the practical stuff? What you need to know when you start a new medication is, what can I expect to feel? When do you want to hear from me? Right. And how will I know it's working? So focus on those things. So if I'm going to give you something and I say to you, like there's an antibiotic that we use sometimes in, for H-pylori infections that has a horrible reaction with alcohol. So if I'm going to say to you, you may not drink alcohol while taking this, your question is going to be why? And I'm going to say because it will make you profoundly ill. Right. Right. That's an actual deterrent. Yeah. As I told one patient, you won't die, but you'll wish you could. So, you know, ask what you can expect to feel. Yes. Ask when, one thing that I, especially in oncology, one, and we haven't even talked about caregivers who are so dear to my heart, but in oncology, you don't know what you don't know. Yes. And so you don't know if this is significant and if your doctor needs to know. It's a tendon upon your health care provider to say to you, here's what I need to hear from you. Yes. Yeah. If you have a fever greater than 101. Right. If you have shaking chills, if you have any kind of drainage or foul smelling urine or anything that doesn't look right. Yeah. Or if you have a gut feeling that something's not right. Exactly. But don't, but give them parameters. Yes. So that they can go forth with confidence. Otherwise they're just going to. Because if they expect, like, listen, you might have a little diarrhea. Okay, great. It's all that expectation. Yeah. But instead of saying that, you might have a little diarrhea saying, notify me if you're having more than four loose stools a day. Very specific. Send me photos on text. Okay. Yeah. Well, maybe not a photo, but I think. We have slightly different careers. I get those photos. I know you do. Okay. That's really helpful. And I'm trying to think of what else is on the label. Sometimes it says things like whether to eat, have a medication with food. That's important. Okay. So that's important. But that'll be on the bottom. Right. So the bottle is like, there's a blitz of, right, of labeling on the bottle, which now the automatic ordering labeling device kind of spits all this out and you just tap it all on the bottle. Um, you know, so those are probably more important and accessible to patients than reading a handout. Agree. Especially when it lists like every single, are you kidding? Sometimes it has even the organic compound, the molecular structure is on that. It's on that handout. Yeah. Oh, one thing though, that is interesting. If you ever have one thing I value is on the, on these labels on the very bottom, it tells you what the pill inside should look like. Oh, it'll say oval scored H 25 on one side. If you've ever got a patient who's calling you and you're having an unexpected problem with something, have them read that to you and line it up with what's in their bottle. Oh, interesting. Maybe one out of a thousand times. The wrong thing is in that bottle. Maybe one out of 10,000 times if you're in a really good setting, but, but that descriptor is there for your protection. Right. And it seems pointless. It, unless you need to know that what you are taking is what the label says you're getting. No, that seems like an, like critical part of verification. Pretty important. Okay. Break down this for me. Okay. Does it matter if my drug is generic or brand? There are some, okay. So there's the old school thinking and then there's the newer school thinking. There are some compounds where I encourage people, historically, people are encouraged to stay with one brand. One of them is thyroid supplements. Okay. Yes. So, so you basically, you, you're regulating somebody on a supplement and a generic may have a slightly different composition. There's a difference is allowed in the generic. It could be 5% or there's a range. So a compound is, it has the same ingredients must have the same ingredient, but it could have a slightly different, um, absorbability or maybe the other stuff they added is slightly different. So in testing, the generic has proven to have the same drug and to deliver it within the range. So the more acute management of something is the more precise it is, the more patient driven or drug level driven it is, the more important it is to stick with one product. Okay. So for patients on lethal thyroxine, for example, which is, yeah, which is, was known as Synthroid, find whatever brand you're using and stay with it and request it when you request prescription refills. Okay. And you can request it. Yeah. That's the patient. Yeah. For stuff that is a little more general, um, I don't have a difficulty with generics. Having said that, there have been many, many recalls the last four or five years from generics that are produced, um, kind of offshore, if you will. So I think in America, people are, are being a little more circumspect in terms of choosing what generics that they employ, but most generics are not produced here. And so there might be more variability than we would find acceptable, which is not to say you stop into the pharmacy and demand brand drug all the time, because really, for the most part, that isn't necessary. But this is another opportunity where you partner with your pharmacist. Yeah. Have that conversation. Yeah. We say, you know, a couple of years ago I was on this and it got recalled and it made me a little apprehensive. Can you tell me how I can know this is okay? Right. And like I said, we are yearning for somebody to ask us something. You know, the only pharmacist. We don't just want to sit back there with a little white smock with the collar and count by fives. No, we don't. We want somebody to use all that stuff we spent all that time acquiring. Speaking, wait, I want to go back to the label though for a second, because it does say, I just want to say when I'm thinking about a label on one of my prescription bottles, it says like take something twice a day. Right. I do want to remind people those instructions are important. Yes. Yeah. So don't ignore those. Like those are important. And also take it for as long as it says. Certainly. Okay. Especially with antibiotics, something that's treating a disease or there are there groups of things you shouldn't stop abruptly. You shouldn't go off an anticoagulant. An anticoagulant is like a blood thinner. A blood thinner. Unless you're expressly told to stop the dose. Yes. You shouldn't be willy-nilly with that. A lot of these kind of mood stabilizers and medications for anxiety and depression. Yeah. You'll be very circumspect. Make sure you have backup on that kind of stuff. Yeah. But you just call your provider because you can go on nice little regimens to gradually go off, go off, etc. Right. Okay. Our number one asking for a friend. Okay. Friends. Is it actually true that you can't drink alcohol while you're on antibiotics or is that something just my mom told me in college? Do you notice I'm not making eye contact with anyone in the room? We had the same mom, didn't we? There are some antibiotics you can't drink alcohol with. Right. So as I said, metronidazole fragile. Yeah, just fragile, yeah. You'll be sorry. So there are some for which that's a legitimate concern. Having said that, I treat the whole patient and I believe that things in moderation that add to your joy and your appreciation of your life and better equip you to manage the bumps in your health management are okay. But I am, I'm not recommending anybody get blind drunk and do tequila shots while they're on an antibiotic. Or on anything. On anything. Exactly. But if you want to have a glass of wine with dinner and you're on augmentin, I'm not feeling that that's problematic. If there's a specific prohibition about or a contraindication, you will know. Yes. You know, the rest of it is just kind of verbiage. And it points to me more as a practical person and a human being. It points to me more to good decision making. Right. Just live your life. Live it. Live it with elegance in class and grace and try not to do anything stupid. This conversation is about so much more than medications. Isn't everything? Yes. But try not to take and try not to abuse your body in any way, shape or form, but also find joy. Yeah. You know, I mean, a lot of patients with an oncology diagnosis come in and they're going to go off all suites and all this and all that. And I'm like, dude, you've got to, you know, you've got to find a place where you can still feel joy. Right. And sometimes the finding joy also means finding relief from suffering so that you can find and feel the joy. Yeah. I mean, kind of the overarching thing I said about careers and about patient cares, expect more. Yeah. Expect more, ask for more, look for more. You deserve more. I love that, obviously. Okay. Couple of just quick questions. There's so much, as you know, conflicting information on the internet, social feet. I kind of really want to ask you this in particular, especially about supplements and herbs. Oh God. One minute I'm supposed to like, I think people feel like it's very binary. Like I should be like that there's a real difference between taking an FDA approved cholesterol drug versus like, and I should ditch those and I'll take my, my, my supplement. And I'm not even saying it has to be either or, but what's the best way even just to assess this sort of kind of like a lot of this landscape where there's a lot kind of hitting us in the face? Well, you've mentioned a couple of different things. The internet is a dangerous place. Always. And people need to understand, particularly if you've gotten a bad diagnosis that you have to be, it's a discipline. You can go on the internet and you can terrify yourself and undermine your care in two minutes. Yeah. So you have to discipline yourself to step back from that precipice and not cross. Right. Because so find, there are a lot of reputable websites in different places where you can find that, you know, vetted and validated information about your question. Chat rooms and any kind of advertisements and all these woohoo kind of supplements and smoke and mirrors. I would encourage people to be very discerning with that and to avoid it if at all possible. And again, you can talk about this with Mel as your pharmacy. You can talk about this with your doctor, with your nurse. I mean, it's hard to tell people to not to go on the internet or not to kind of access social media, but with a judicious lens and also just partnering, right? Like don't just go down the hole. Like invite a friend to look at it with you, bounce it off, audit it, self audit it. So, but it's helpful. Yeah. Ask somebody what websites can I trust? Because there's a lot. And I'll tell you. Yeah. Mayo Clinic has one. The American Cancer Society has one. There's a lot of reputable websites where you can learn about your disease. Yes. Things that don't have that kind of gravitas, don't have that kind of label of legitimacy. Yeah. I would avoid those. Yes. And know that they're selling you something. Know that very few people with a positive outcome go on and post about it. Right. You're hearing from people who had trouble. Right. And you have no idea what the backstory is and it will demoralize you, make you frightened and not advance your care in any positive way. Because we're in California, one thing I see is people who want to treat their disease with only supplements and who will turn their backs on validated and effective therapies and try to treat with just supplements. In our world, especially in research, we would encourage patients to hold off on that until we have established their tolerance to their care. Supplements are not benign. They can change blood sugar. What's an example of a supplement, I guess? Okay. Magnesium. St. John's wort. Okay. St. John's wort. So St. John's wort is a mild kind of anti-anxiety med, kind of mildly bumped serotonin levels, but it also interacts with other drugs. There's all these pathways through the liver that drugs get metabolized by and drug interactions are when those pathways get turned off and on. Right. So you can either like close the 405 freeway and everything backs up, which is what a drug that inhibits a pathway does, or suddenly it's open and you're shooting down the carpool lane and you never thought you would get there. And that's a drug that encourages the breakdown of the drug you're taking. So all of these drugs have drug interactions and supplements are no exception. When I am asked about patients to use supplements, some of them are time honored, like Chinese herbs and stuff. A lot of those are helpful, but you can't go into this in a vacuum. Right. You have to know what you're doing. Right. And I also say, you know, because this came up with when Ashley Boosetel was on, when she was talking about being a hospitalist, you show up to the emergency room. You show up to meet, you know, Dr. DeNolfo to talk about your chemotherapy regimen. You have to tell us everything that you're on. So whether you got it at a pharmacy or supplement, it all, it's so important to tell us because all of these medications interact. Yes, they do. And they can also, there are, there are, there are supplements that can cause bleeding. Yeah. Absolutely. There are supplements that can raise your blood sugar. Right. So I'm not saying you can't have supplements. Right. I'm saying supplements are one piece of your treatment. I agree. And it's a, it's a piece that needs to be wielded by experts. And it's another place where the internet will get you in a heck of a lot of trouble. So be judicious, be cautious. But don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. Right. You know, most of my patients need, need something that actually deters the cancer. Right. If they want to take a supplement because it gives them more energy or helps them sleep at night, I have no objection to that. Of course. Right. As long as it's safe. Right. I think so. This is the last kind of question I'm going to ask you is because I think you especially have this expertise. You know, you're talking about kind of starting with compounds. I think sometimes I encounter a reluctance to take, let's say a medication, let's say for high blood pressure, high cholesterol and patients might object because they feel like it's not quote natural. Right. And so they're more comfortable taking an herbal supplement, feeling like that's more natural because it more resembles like a plant or an herb. Am I the only one that encounters this? So I just like to remind people that, that compound that you are starting with in that research lab, right? It's all natural. Right. And just because it's gone through being studied, right? And, you know, experiment, gone through experiments and, you know, just rigorous, you know, sort of testing and validation. It doesn't mean it's not natural. And even if it's, you know, scaled and fabricated and sold in a store, it can, it's just as natural as that unregulated supplement. And I'm only bringing that up to say that have a conversation with us. Like to your point, like, don't they know to a chemotherapy drug because it's not quote natural, right? I don't know if you kind of encounter this. Well, no, I think you're absolutely right because there are a lot of things people use to treat disease. Yes. You know, Foxglove is a flower from which we derive digitalism. That's right. So there's, there are things that were out there in the world that people were grinding in their mortar and pestle and giving to people long before they were available in a bottle as a product. So, and a lot of these compounds are a springboard. Now we have a lot of incredibly innovative labs that can look at a compound and go, oh, this is very interesting. What would happen if we added a fluoride here? What would happen if we did this and that? And they kind of altered the chemistry of it. But the baseline was there and was, there's a chemotherapy drug that we, that what started about 10, 12 years ago, that was from sea snail slime, I think. And I had to write up something about how to prepare it. And I said, it has to be a normal saline. It can't be endectros. Know that sea snails love saltwater. That was how I taught the teens to treat it properly. So yes, many of them have it.  is their origins, something organic and natural. We're organisms. Yeah, and it's all part of a whole. Yeah, it's all part of the whole. Anyway, it started to go down that tangent, but I just think it's interesting. But also just want to remind people, this is where the conversation is so helpful. You know what I mean? Come bring the conversation just so we can talk about it. But it also reminds me, with all due respect, that medications are incredibly complex. Like the things that you're talking about that are going over my head. That is. It's true. It's ridiculous. It's very complex. It's not true. OK, Mal, we're almost done. But from the rooftops, you get a rooftops question, because you are always sort of sounding your barbaric yop. That's a Whitman quote. If you could shout one message from the rooftops, what would it be? She's like just one. Yeah, no kidding. Be brave. Be brave. Being sick is not easy. It's not. But don't give up on yourself. And know that there are people who have devoted their lives to being able to help you and to getting you to the best outcome possible. Well, what I want to add to that is that you are one of those people. Thank you. I see you live your life like this every single day. Anything keeping you up at night? About? Nothing. Health care? OK, just one, just one. Wow. OK, the fact that a lot of the pressure in our country is on providers to cut corners and save money, and there does not appear to be a lot of accountability in pharma or in insurance. And that troubles me a great deal, and probably contributed to the fact that we became fairly vigilante in how we advocated for people. And that does really trouble me. It's also a very important pressure point. We can be impactful. And so from one standpoint, I'm glad I can have some role to play, although the role is super annoying and shouldn't be necessary. But I'll go there. Good. I'll do that. I know you will. OK, tell me what gives you hope. I was at a conference two weekends ago from for the UCLA kind of oncology research physicians. And all my friends, all these doctors that I know and love, got up and presented their research. And I was blown away. How far we've come when I thought about our understanding of the biology of cancer and how we're impacting it has gotten so intimate and so personalized. And the targets are their game changers. So yeah, I was not only hopeful, I was elated. It's just thrilling, which brings me back to this is not your mother's breast cancer. This is not your father's lung cancer. This is something different. Ask for more. Yeah, you've been part of it. Yeah. I hope you're as proud of yourself as I am of you. I'll try. I'm very glad we finally had a chance to shine a light on the incredible work that you and all of your pharmacist colleagues do. Thank you. Every day. And I will say that on behalf of myself, every provider I know, thank you from the bottom of our hearts. Thank you. From our audience, I just want to say thanks for leaving us with so many valuable insights and sharing practical tips that everyone can start using right away. But honestly, more than anything, I just can't thank you enough for who you are. You bring so much passion, wisdom, and empathy to everything you do, and especially how you care for patients. And I think of it every day when I'm in my own clinic, I say, what would Mel do? It really means, it does. It means how would Mel treat this patient? And how would Mel advocate for them? I'm honored. Thank you. The truth. And what really stands out, though, to me is how much the work you do really just depends on trust between the patients, the doctors, the care teams, the pharmacists. And that partnership is really, I think, what good medicine is built on. I agree. For our audience, you can find links to evidence-based resources in today's show notes in the episode in our description. For our listeners, until next time, stay curious and stay healthy. And we'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. And to Mel, I love you. Thank you so much for being here. I love you, too. Thank you.

=== FILE: Decoding the Female Heart： What Women Should Know [XdG80XdRqv0].txt ===

 subjected to ser查查查查查查查查查查查 Welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. If you hear heart attack, a lot of us still picture the Hollywood version. Dramatic chest clutching instant collapse. But in real life, and especially for women, the warning signs aren't always so loud or obvious. They can be different, and they can also be subtle. Fatigue that feels weirdly heavy, shortness of breath you can't explain, nausea, a pressure that doesn't register as pain. Even symptoms that sound like reflux, like burping or indigestion, vague, or even just a, this isn't sitting right feeling. And here's the issue. When the story doesn't match the stereotype, people wait. They downplay it or explain it away, and that's when things get missed. So today we're talking about women's heart health. What's different, what gets missed, and what every woman should know. And we're gonna get really practical. We're gonna talk about symptom patterns that deserve a second look, how risk changes across our life stages, including perimenopause and menopause, and what prevention and screening for heart disease actually looks like. We're also gonna spotlight valvular heart disease. I am joined by my esteemed colleague, Dr. Marcella Kalfin-Press. She's an interventional cardiologist at UCLA Health, and she's co-director of the UCLA Women's Cardiovascular Health Center. Marcy, welcome, thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much, Eve. Pleasure. Will you explain to our audience kind of the, there's obviously the study of cardiology, the study of the heart and how it works. But for people who don't really know what interventional cardiology means, do you mind kind of breaking that down for us? Yeah, so I'm basically the plumber or the carpenter of the heart. So the heart has three systems. There's the pump system, then there's the circulatory system, and then there's the electrical system. And the reason that I love cardiology is because it's really so simple, so much easier than so many other specialists that I'm sure you talk to. And I think about every patient in those three systems, pump, rhythm and coronary circulation. And so I'm in the circulatory and sort of the pump aspect of the heart, not the electric. So the circulatory aspect of the heart are the, basically the heart is fed oxygen through coronary arteries where the blood gets pumped out of the heart and into these arteries. And the heart basically can't survive without its own circulatory system. And so with age and time and other risk factors, which I'm sure we'll discuss, plaque can form and then when plaque forms and if it ruptures and a clot forms, you can have a heart attack. And so you need a plumber like me to come in right away and sort of clear that blockage. And I will come in and put stents in patients that are having heart attacks. The wonderful thing about intervention, which means we intervene in the heart, we have lots of really exciting technology and tips and things that we use, not just stents now, we're doing a lot of valvular procedures. Again, we're acting more like carpenters in terms of treating different aspects of the anatomy of the heart. Whereas surgeons used to, and 15, 20 years ago, everything we do now is open heart. I would say the majority of things we do now is what we do through percutaneous or less invasive treatments. And so yeah, it's wonderful. You do these incredible techniques like going through the skin. Yeah, everything is done through the skin, everything. You alluded to this, but I want to get into it a little bit more, which is that why does women's heart health even just deserve its own conversation? So I knew we were gonna ask me this. And so I actually really started thinking, obviously I can give you the standard answer of what I've been saying for years, but as I really was thinking about this conversation, I thought the heart is actually different in a male and a female. It's smaller. So there's so many things. You can go from basically anatomy to physiology to like lifespan, right? And so men and women are just not the same. We're not just different. We don't just have different body parts. We have different systems. And we have different lives and different things happen to us throughout our life. And so if you go from the most basic anatomic difference, the heart is smaller. Heart disease in the heart, the vessels are smaller. And plaque forms differently in males and females. And we don't really know why, but men tend to have more sort of focal lesions and women can have more diffuse lesions, for example. When I say lesions, it means plaque, how plaque builds up in the heart. And focal is like one spot versus throughout. One spot versus the whole thing. And women have higher resistance in the small vessels or the micro circulation. And then there are other differences in terms of talking about size. The valves are different. The valves are smaller in women, right? So that's really is a huge, it's important factor when we talk about treatment because the things that we designed to treat like the stents and the valves have to fit a female heart, right? So that's from the basic part when we think about just anatomically, but then you think about physiologically, right? So the heart doesn't exist on its own. It's in a body and it's reacts to everything around it, right? Hormones, age, time, blood pressure, lifestyles. And so again, women tend to have different hormonal changes in life, right? So we go through pregnancy, some of us do. We all really have face menopause. So these are differences in the hormones that are present between differences in male and female hormones. And those impact the heart. There are diseases that you may see in pregnancy or in menopause that men may not, won't experience. And then finally, I would say the lifestyles. We have different lifestyles. Being if you happen to be a mother or have children, you're going to face different potential stressors. And we know that women experience a lot of stress and that itself can affect the heart. And women more commonly have diseases like stress, cardiomyopathy or broken heart syndrome that we see that women experience. We internalize a lot of that stress and our heart feels it. And I think one of the most important differences is also that we may not always present with typical symptoms of a heart attack. And though chest pain, the Hollywood heart attack, gripping your heart, pain in the heart, it's still the most common symptom in women. We're not going to say that it doesn't happen. If you're feeling pain or chest pain in your heart, that's very well possible that you're having a heart attack. We say anything that you feel from, you basically nose to belly button, could be a heart attack, right? Honestly, anything in this area if you're feeling uncomfortable in that area. But women present more commonly with atypical symptoms like you mentioned, not feeling well, burping. When you said that, I chuggled a bit because I'm like, I have seen burping. And then I've been with medical students and like, that's not a heart attack. I'm like, their symptom is burping and they're really, and they're very sick. They may not look, but they feel indigestion or a gas sensation and that's a serious, can be a serious symptom. So, we also don't look like our typical male having a heart attack, right? Middle-aged male. We can have younger women are having cardiac events. And that's actually something that's, we're realizing that in the past decade or decade and a half we've really worked to try to raise awareness. I think many different sort of organizations have seen this discrepancies and realized that there's time is now, right? We need to do something about this, raise awareness. We need to make sure women are being cared for. And so we're starting to see some improvement in terms of the trends where women, even though heart disease is still the number one cause of death, we're starting to see some improvement in that, which is wonderful. The downside is that older women may be having less likely to die of heart attacks because we're aware now of their atypical presentation or maybe other risk factors that we're addressing. But younger women are having more increased cardiac events. And so even though we think we're making impact with awareness and sort of education and addressing risk factors, there's still a lot of heart disease out there. And we're becoming more aware of these, again, these rare or less common causes of heart disease that occur in women. Yeah, I mean, I just wanna emphasize one of the points you're making, because I do think that even though you're completely immersed in this area and it's astonishing to me that the women's cardiovascular center is only 10 years old, right? I mean, right? But I do think a lot of still, people still think of heart disease as a men's issue. And as you mentioned, at least in the United States, I can't speak for elsewhere, but heart disease is the leading cause of death in women. Right? So I mean, there really is this gap between sort of perception and reality. I guess I'm wondering too, as you're saying that there's younger women presenting an atypical, meaning not these kind of typical ways, is that because we are though finally tracking and collecting more data? Is that part of it at all? Yeah, I think these diseases are, again, we're talking about things that are your standard cause of heart attack that happen in women. So for example, we mentioned microvascular disease or even during pregnancy, women can have heart attacks from small tears in the heart cause spontaneous coronary dissections, which we call the SCAD. This is kind of a relatively, we've been aware of it, but we're starting to actually collect data and registries and we're diagnosing it more often. I don't think that we necessarily knew what it was years ago, but now we give it a name, we start to classify it, we're starting to do trials and research and how to treat it. Right, and look for it. So I don't think that these are new diseases. I think we're just discovering them because we're paying attention to them. Which is great, because not only is it, then you know what to do and how to treat, but hopefully then what to prevent or scream for. And I know where I really wanna get into kind of women presenting differently. So maybe I'll just drop actually a couple of like snapshots in cause these are how people I think recognize themselves and you can kind of tell me if this resonates with you or kind of this is what you're seeing as well in terms of how people come to your clinic or in your case, especially the emergency room. Here's an example, someone who used to walk the dog without thinking, now they're pausing, now when they're kind of going up a small hill and they're not having chest pain, but they're feeling a little winded. And they're like, oh, you know, I'm just like stressed out. I'm a lot of shape, I'm getting older. What do you want us to hear in that story? So I would say listen to your body and tell your doctor these things. I don't think it's your, we expect the patient to diagnose themselves right, because you don't know. Maybe it is just that you're tired or stressed or maybe you are getting a little older, but maybe it's something else. And so I think our jobs as patients is to just describe those symptoms, not ignore them, and talk to your doctor about that. And be open-minded about what it could be, right? And not to just blame it on something else, because what we, you know, we as doctors see all of these things and we can really, by taking a history, we're like investigators. We will investigate, we'll look at every little thing, we'll ask you thousands of questions, and maybe we'll do some tests. And you may discover things that you didn't know, that you were at risk for, maybe you're doing really well and things that, and all of the answers, just exercise more, which is always a wonderful thing to hear. But I think that you, that's part of having a good relationship with your doctor. And I think that, you know, women, as you get older, I do feel like everybody, when they, right around menopause is a wonderful time, I think, to seek out a cardiologist. I really think that that's the time where women start to catch up to our male counterparts. We're sort of protected by estrogen until we hit menopause, and then suddenly, our estrogen levels drop, and then our blood pressure goes up, our cholesterol's changed, or, you know, we start having higher issues with cholesterol. We have more stress in our lives, we're maybe not exercising as much, we're getting older, and maybe we're talking about starting hormone replacement therapy, things like this. And so, that is the time to see a cardiologist, I think, as a female patient, and talk about anything you're feeling. Yeah, I think that's such good advice, and also, it's such a good reminder, like your job as a patient, you just come in and tell us how you're feeling, let us do the diagnosis, you don't have to diagnose yourself. And also, I mean, at least when I hear this story too, if it's different, you know, if you're noticing a difference in how you, just don't dismiss it. Right. Come on in, we love talking to you. You know what we really love, telling you you're okay. Yeah, and if you are feeling something that you notice isn't necessarily right, that's when you need to talk to your doctor about it. Exactly, and here's another one, a busy caregiver exhausted, because of course she is, but now the exhaustion is like extra profound, it's heavy, and then also feeling some nausea, and she just keeps on powering through. Yeah, not a good idea. Right. I think that nausea, sadly, it can be a lot of things, but it is a presenting symptom of a heart attack. And so, if you're under a lot of stress, and you're feeling not well, and you're starting to experience nausea, and that is a time where you need to talk to your doctor. Either go to the ER, call 911 if you're really, there's no other reason why you'd be, it's not like you're ahead of gastritis, you've been sick for days, and this is out of the blue, you're new for you, you don't usually get nauseous, you're under stress. And with these other symptoms too, exhaustion. With these other symptoms, then this is the time to go to the ER, call 911, call your doctor, and get some help. I'm glad you're saying that though, you're really raising the stakes on the urgency too though, like call 911. Oh yeah, don't be, I'd rather, I'd rather a patient go to the ER 10 times and be told 10 times to a home, than miss one time and not make it to the ER. You're never bothering us. And for me, being an interventionalist, I should just, I don't know, for those who you don't know, if you have a heart attack, what that is, is that the vessel basically suddenly occludes, and you form a clot by a plaque, a plaque, basically the plaque gets irritated and gets blocked up, and then you don't have oxygen to your heart, and the heart cells die. And if you wait, each minute that you wait, the chances of recovering heart function go down precipitously, and the chance that you won't survive goes up. And so, just like a stroke, yes, it's very similar. You cannot miss it, and you have to come in right away. No, it's incredibly important advice. I think while we're talking about this particular example, how does stress affect the heart? Yeah, so great question. I think stress is a very under-recognized risk factor. We talk always about obesity, smoking, diabetes, high blood pressure, family history, high cholesterol, the big seven kind of risk factors. But stress is one that I think we overlook. And one thing that our Women's Cardiovascular Center is focused on is stress reduction, because stress releases these catecholamines, and these catecholamines are basically a fight-or-flight response. Stress is, evolutionarily, we experience stress as a form to protect against, we feel like we're in danger. When we experience stress, our blood pressure goes up so that our brain gets more oxygen, our heart rate increases so that we can, if we feel threatened, we can run. The blood goes more into the muscles. We're basically, but that state is not a state we should live in. It's a state that we should use when we're in a dangerous situation. We want to be able to increase our blood pressure in danger, but that stress that's there all the time is not good for the heart. It raises blood pressure, it can cause arrhythmia, it can have abnormal heart rhythms, and it can cause direct injury to the plaque. Oftentimes, when patients come in with a heart attack, they can pinpoint, I'll always ask them, what's going on after we treat the heart and they're feeling better, and we've put the stent in, we stored flow, and then I get to know them, I'll ask them, what was going on? And it's something, it's like most times, it's something that happened, a job issue, a relationship, something, God forbid, a death of a family member, these things have real impacts in the heart, and the heart can get inflamed and stress out and cause a heart attack. The other thing that stress can do is actually cause what we talked about, broken heart syndrome, which is again, through this release of catecholamines, the heart sort of gets stunned, and instead of pumping, we talked about the three, the three asks with the heart, the pump fails, and you can actually end up in heart failure or have arrhythmia or an abnormal heart rhythm from this broken heart syndrome. And so a lot of times, it can look just like a heart attack. You can experience chest pain, you come in, it looks just like a heart attack, that you have blood work that shows that your heart's been being damaged, but then we do an angiogram or a procedure to look at the arteries and we find no blockage. And we know it's not from circulatory issue, it's from stress. The great news is that most of broken heart syndrome patients do recover heart function within a few months, but they're at risk of having a second event, and that's why we sort of treat stress very, very seriously at our women's center. In fact, we actually had a donor basically provide us with full-time access to both a life coach and a psychologist. And every time I screen for stress on my patients and then I say, you know what, is there someone, do you wanna talk to someone? I would say the majority of women jump and they're like, oh my God, yes. And it's a wonderful resource, right? Cause I don't have to keep saying, you know what? Just deep breaths and get over it. Stress is everywhere, there's actually a way to treat it. Well, I think that's what's especially, like not only validating, but then it's instructive and actionable because I would hate for people, I wanna feel validated that stress is absolutely having this physiologic meaning effect on my actual body and contributing to these symptoms. I definitely don't want people to be like, oh, you couldn't handle it or you're, I don't want anyone to have shame about their stress. Stress is a part of life. I don't think you'll find one person who hasn't experienced stress. I think it's an impossible, right, it would be impossible to handle it, right? It's absolutely not. But the nice thing about it is if once you recognize it, you can treat it just like you would treat your blood pressure or cholesterol. Or your cholesterol, there's treatment for stress. And so I think that's a really important message to get out to women. It is so important. And just to clarify, what exactly are catecholamines? So catecholamines are like, think of them as hormones that your brain sort of secretes. And basically those are the things that the messengers that ask the heart to like pump a little faster or ask your arteries to tense up a little bit to increase blood flow to your brain, for example, as we talked about. Okay, no, that's perfect. So going back to another scenario, I think people sometimes call these atypical symptoms, which I obviously don't love, and I'm sure you don't either, because then it implies that these patients are outliers when really it's a completely outdated stereotype. I mean, it sounds like women also presented this classic Hollywood symptoms as well. But as you were saying, like there are other common symptom patterns in women, right? There aren't necessarily exceptions. Yeah, so we've gone away from even using the word atypical in the new guidelines that have been sort of discussed, that women, we've recognized that we really would just, the way that we describe it now, we usually say a patient with so-and-so symptoms, likely cardiac and etiology, right? It doesn't have to be typical or atypical. We just think that this is cardiac or non-cardiac. And so those are the terms we started using, and I don't like to really use the word atypical. I may say symptoms with typical features, but if it happens to be like the chest pressure or the symptom, but you're right, like I don't really like to use the word atypical because it sort of means that, it's less likely or something, but in fact, it's just a different way of experiencing a heart attack, a different symptom. And I think if people think it's less likely, or it's less typical, then they're gonna come up with alternative explanations, which is what we don't want them to do. Exactly. You know, and speaking of stress too, I know, because you and I've talked about this, that you saw a lot of women during and after COVID. Oh yeah. And I'd love to hear kind of what you noticed about what shifted in terms of women's heart health. So we actually did a study through our emergency room with our ER colleagues at UCLA and looked at the effect of COVID pandemic on patients presenting to the ER with cardiac symptoms and heart attack symptoms. And women were less likely to come to the ER during those COVID years. And they had worse outcomes. They actually have consistently had worse outcomes, but those worse outcomes were sort of exacerbated by a pandemic. And I think that, and there are probably many potential reasons for that, but, you know, again, being caregivers or, you know, sometimes not recognizing those symptoms or even being afraid to come to the hospital during COVID, right, people didn't wanna come. They were being told not to come because they didn't wanna get COVID, right? So there was, it was a really, it sort of highlighted the differences in presentation and outcomes in women and men. And then we know, you know, we'll probably face another pandemic again, hopefully not, but I mean, the chances are possible, right? And so we need to be prepared to kind of again, you know, encourage women who have symptoms to make sure they still come if they need treatment. I would love if you could too, because we've mentioned outcomes a couple of times, you know, not, could you just share a little bit about how you define outcomes? You know, it's really how people end up doing. But I thought if you could. Yeah, so, right, so outcomes in the cardiology world really mean, you know, if you're actually having a heart attack or not, or if you survive a heart attack or not, or if you suffer the consequences of a heart attack, like develop an arrhythmia or have heart failure. So basically, the effect of having heart disease is your outcome, right? So your outcome could be that you would live if you were treated and you took care of yourself and you were on the right medication, you have a good outcome. But if you didn't come to the hospital, God forbid, and you had a bad outcome, that means that maybe you died before getting to the hospital, right, so that would be a bad outcome. And it's just important to talk about too, because I mean, so much of what we're talking about is getting the best outcome for yourself often means often, right? Trusting your own body, knowing your own body, and coming in right away. Yep. And listening to yourself. So we're gonna get really specific, I think. We mentioned some of the symptoms, but I really wanna get very, very granular with some of the symptoms that commonly just get missed or are minimized in women when they're presenting with, what ends up being a cardiac event. Go ahead, yeah. So I think one of the ones that you had opened up with, so anything feeling fatigue, feeling generally not well, not being able to even verbalize it, right? Sometimes it's like, I just don't feel right. Anything, again, from nose to navel is basically a warning sign. It could be anything, back pain, jaw pain, neck pain. The jaw pain one comes up, and I think I really like to mention that, because that's not one that a lot of people remember. I remember a patient years ago who just kept going to the dentist, and it was like not her teeth. So again, yeah, jaw pain is also, they can radiate to your jaw. The heart is innervated by the nerves that then basically backtrack to the spine, and then those nerves are sort of get confused and jumbled, and so anything, again, from nose to belly button could be your heart. And here's the thing, I think just to make it really practical for everyone, you might be having, you're like, I don't know, I have this new indigestion. Maybe it is indigestion, but it could also be your heart. So come on in, especially if it's new, and it's different. Because it's true, I think some people are like, oh, is there an elephant on my chest, right? But really, any sort of chest pressure discomfort, I imagine, you would encourage to go get checked out. Yeah, it's funny, sometimes you'll say chest pain, and people are like, it's not pain. And then I have to remember, okay, pressure. That's right, because we use the doctor words. We use the doctor words, and it gets pain, but it's actually not pain, really. It could be just a feeling. So what have been kind of words that women have said to you that has kind of raised your... You know, again, fatigue. Yeah, like profound fatigue, or you're just saying low-lying fatigue? Particularly an inability to do the things they normally do. It's not sleeping. So fatigue is a vague term. I know. And I always kind of try to really clarify what a patient means when they say fatigue. Because if you're not sleeping well, you're gonna be tired, right? That's sleepy. It's different than not having the energy to get up and go for a walk, right? Feeling short of breath. Feeling like you can't get your body to do what it was doing yesterday. And, or you're seeing a pretty rapid decline. So, you know, again, you mentioned indigestion, shoulder pain. Could be the right shoulder, not always the left shoulder. So we're talking about is your left arm, it's could be the right. I've seen it on the right. Okay, that's really important to know. Yeah, and it lasts usually at least a few minutes. Sometimes, you know, people get really worried. It's like I have a pain for a second. Like, no, no, no. When I hear a second, I'm usually very happy. Yeah, I'm very reassured by that as well. It's usually nerve-fining. Yes, exactly. So again, and it's not meant, we don't want everyone to panic about every single thing they feel in their body. So I do think it's important that you understand that these symptoms, you know, they can be pretty general, but they're usually lasts at least a few minutes. Sometimes they happen, a lot of times they happen with exertion. So when you walk, if you get that symptom, that's to me a warning sign, that you have to stop for it to go away, right? That's to me a clear concern, and I'll just, and then there's very few things it could be, honestly. If anything happens with exertion, then that's really concerning. Exertion also, I know I use that word all the time. Effort. Effort, activity. I know, I just remind me too. And it could be anything. I'm like walking up the hill. Exactly what you mean. Going for a walk, going up a flight of stairs. That takes energy, right. That takes energy. It's different from your normal. I also want to just pause, because I think we're circling this a lot, because it's just, it's more human than medical maybe, but I guess what I get worried about is that, it's not just that often women's symptoms have gotten dismissed, right, in the system, but that women often dismiss their own symptoms first. And I do get worried that it's so ingrained, right? And we've had wonderful colleagues of ours, talking about endometriosis, and where there's this big normalization of like, no, I'm just gonna like suck it up, don't complain. I'm not gonna complain. I don't want to be a burden. I mean, not to mention how inconvenient, honestly, it is to like go to the doctor, let alone the ER and sit there, you know, maybe for hours. So I think it is easier for a lot of us to say, you know, it's nothing, or I'll deal with it, right? Like later in the week. And especially at this like, oh my God, I don't want to be dramatic, which I feel like, I feel like, I feel like a misogynist just even like pretending to say that, like don't be dramatic. So I do want to kind of emphasize what I think you're reframing, which is noticing symptoms and getting them checked, you know, isn't indulgent, right? And it's like not selfish. No, no, no, it's so funny you say that, because there's actually a video and the American Heart Association has a video and we show it, we have an annual event called Let's Talk where we talk to our community about heart disease in women. And we would play this for years as the beginning of our video. And it'd be this woman who's on the phone, you know, she's mid-aged, so maybe again, maybe 40 year old, not like a 78 year old male, right? So this is a woman that doesn't look like she potentially could have heart disease. You know, she's talking about picking up her kids from school and then she's like doing something with like her, you know, she's a parent volunteer. So she's like, and she keeps, and she's sweating and she's like crushing on her chest. She's like, oh I'm fine, I'm fine. She just keeps going on and on and on and it's just getting worse and worse and worse. And she just keeps pushing through, you know, okay, I'm just gonna go pick up my kids, I'll be fine. I just need to get through, like as if going to the ER is an inconvenience, right? And so, you know, the sad truth is that, you know, because we care about our families and we're often caretakers, you know, it's like put on your own face mask first, right? Whenever you're on the plane and you hear, you know, God forbid, you know, I always hear that on the plane. It's like put on your own face. I was like, no, the reaction is to like, put your face mask on your, the oxygen mask on your child first, but really if you are not able to take care of yourself, you know, then you can't even take care of it, everyone else, whether it's your spouse or partner or whoever it is, parent or children. So I just, you know, kind of remind patients that it's not being selfish, it's actually the most giving someone a little bit of a sense of responsibility.  alfalfilisact is to actually put your health first so that your family doesn't need to, or your friends, or your close people who love you don't have to ever experience not having you. Right. And just for yourself is a good reason to. Yeah. And for yourself, obviously, yeah. But it does. It does. Even when I picture this video, it really does connect me to, like, we do really picture heart disease, right? As you said, as this men's issue, and when the symptoms don't match, we're just like, we definitely just have this disconnect of, like, oh, no, I'm just going to, like, power through. Yeah. So it's, like, really about all of us updating also this mental model. Right. Right. Is there a sentence, like, that you wish women would say to themselves, like, in the moment? Like, I feel like sometimes we all, like, need some scripting, like, kind of, in order to, like, make sure they don't talk themselves out of getting checked. Like, I'm feeling something, like, what should I say to myself? You should say, I, you should, you know, you should just say, you should tell, remind yourself that you love your heart. Wait, I love that. Yeah. Remember that you love your heart. More than anything, right? It's the, it's the most important, I would say, you know, maybe the brain. I always have that, you know, with neurologists, we always talk about that. But I would say that, you know, it is the most important life source, right? It's a precious thing and you got to care for it. You're only given one. Yeah, there's a whole metaphor of it, too. Yeah, I think, gosh, I know so many people who are so worried about not being low maintenance, too. I just want to be like, no, remember, like, this is not your normal. That's all you have to say. Yeah. Or you know your, or I love hearing you say, too, like, you know your own body, like, even like an expert, like, truly an expert clinician like yourself, to, for us all to differ and be like, yeah, but you know your own body. You know, you know yourself. And you advocate for yourself. And you have to advocate for yourself. Yeah, I think a lot of people. If something's not really being understood or maybe being, you know, it's okay. Get a second opinion if you need to. Come back to the ER if it happens again. Like you just need to keep advocating for yourself. I mean, I love that example, too, that you said, like, if you came 10 times and got checked out 10 times, so much better that you came every 10 times than staying home once. Oh, this is the one that comes up a lot. I'm not the kind of person who gets heart disease. So you know, I exercise, I eat well, I don't smoke. Yeah. No. So unfortunately, though heart disease is more frequent in patients who have risk factors, we see heart disease in very otherwise healthy individuals. And so, you know, I've seen patients that go to the gym every day and still have heart disease. So we know that there's more at play here. There's genetics. There's family history. And then there's just age, right? Like you can do everything you can to be healthy, but unless you can turn back time, we're all aging, right? And so I think aging is a big thing to remember is that heart disease is a disease of aging. It's basically aging of the vessels. And so, you know, you can take as much care of you can be as healthy as you can. That doesn't mean that you failed because you have heart disease. And it also, again, it's sort of like you might be doing everything and though we really are reluctant to say you're doing everything right because we're all just doing the best that we can, but you are probably eating right. You might be doing all of these things and you might still have a symptom. And so don't talk yourself out of it. Right. Right. And I'm just going to talk about really quickly on the other side. Please. The flip side of this is that if you have risk factors, okay, say you are obese or you're overweight, say you haven't had the healthiest lifestyle on your youth, say you do have a strong family history or you happen to have a familial hypercholesterolemia, you were born with high cholesterol, you're not doomed. Okay. So that's the other group of people that I feel like, you know, I just have, you know, it's like runs of my family and, you know, like I've been, you know, I used to smoke and, you know, I'm overweight and I'm just going to die of heart and they just get overwhelmed. And it's like, you know, studies have shown that patients who are increased risk with lifestyle intervention with just diet and exercise can reduce their cardiovascular risk back to the general population. So if you can get to a healthy weight, if you can, you know, reduce the stress in your life, if you can stop smoking, if you can treat that high cholesterol or address the risk factor, your cardiovascular risk goes down. That's so encouraging. I think that's so encouraging. I mean, why don't we actually just talk about risk factors while we're talking about them? Because I think some risk factors, right, are mutable, that's the word I like to use, meaning like we can change them, right? And then some of them, right, you might have less control over like familial, you know, hypercholestering, I mean, just high cholesterol and family. So I think that when anyone would be, I think listening to us are going to say, okay, so like tell me what I should be, you know, paying attention to. So I think, you know, for anyone listening, if someone wants a simple starting point, you know, kind of like what numbers should I know? What would you sort of say would be good things to track? Blood pressure. So that's a big one, you know. You don't know what your blood pressure is until you check it. And going to the doctor once a year is not enough. Yes. It's tracking it like you track your weight, you know, knowing what your blood pressure is. It doesn't mean you have to check it every single day and be obsessed with it, but to check it more frequently than once a year, right? Couple times a month if you're at, you know, if you've been told maybe of high blood pressure, maybe a couple times a week, know what it is, know how to check it, know your cholesterol. I just want to do my primary care plug. You can get a very good blood pressure cuff at the pharmacy, their electronics, you don't have to do anything fancy. Or Amazon or Costco. Amazon, Costco, any of them. And what's great is that you just sit comfortably for five minutes, right? We want it like as Marcy was saying, your blood pressure does go up and down, right? Depending on your situation. We're not computers. We're not computers. It's supposed to go up and down, but we want you relaxed. I'm waiting for you to school me, which I would totally appreciate. We want to relax for at least five minutes. Take your blood pressure, just jot it down. And don't worry about it. And don't worry about it. And just show it to me, your primary care. Exactly. I always tell people if there's one thing that we can treat, it's blood pressure. I love it. If you have high blood pressure, great. Let's treat it. It's nothing to hopeful. Just get stressed out about it because then people who have high blood pressure get stressed about high blood pressure and then their blood pressure goes up. That's right. They look at the constant and goes up. And then they end up in the ER with high blood pressure. And then they just take a few breaths. It comes down. Yeah. So, yes, you got this. It's treatable. Just know what it is. Write it down. Don't worry. We'll treat it. So again, know your cholesterol. Stay within a healthy weight range in terms of your BMI. I would say cholesterol now is obvious, but there are some other markers now. And again, I think you've talked about this in some of the other podcasts. That's okay. A lot of people just want to hear you, so they're not listening to anything else. I don't want to repeat what I just said. But newer markers like lipoprotein, little A is important. I think most people should know their LP, little A. Honestly, I think. The lipoprotein. The lipoprotein, little A. I think it's important. That's like a cholesterol particle. It basically binds to the LDL and it's a marker, a risk factor for developing heart disease and can run in families. So that's a new one. And then I would say know your numbers. Again, the blood pressure, cholesterol, your weight. And then have a visit with your primary care doctor that is just to talk about your heart cardiac risk. I think that when you see your primary care doctor, you're focusing maybe on a lot of different things in a short period of time. As a primary care, you see so many patients and you don't have that much time. We wish we had more time with our patients, but oftentimes our visits are shortened or we're focused on other things. Schedule a visit where you just talk about your cardiovascular risk. And if there's any high risk features, your primary care doctor can always refer you to a cardiologist. Or if you'd like, you can go directly to the cardiologist. No, I think that makes perfect sense. And then anything else risk factor-wise that are especially germane or important to women, like things that I think that the general public might not realize as part of the heart story. And I guess you mentioned what about if someone had, I guess as an example, preeclampsia during pregnancy. Is that something you want to know as a cardiologist? Absolutely. I mean, there's one other thing that we didn't talk about, which is diabetes. So women, for some reason, they have three or four times the risk of heart attack when they're diabetic. So diabetes specifically puts women at increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared to men. So that's important to know if you're diabetic and female. But yes, so we were tied, and I alluded this earlier about the lifespan is different. So hormonal changes, which can occur, and we talked already about menopause a little bit, but they actually also occur in pregnancy. And so if you've had a pregnancy that's been complicated by gestational hypertension or diabetes or preeclampsia, these patients later in life are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease and events. And so we do identify now, I'd say that that's also one of the newer things that's sort of been happening in women's heart diseases that we're starting to really focus on that history is actually quite important in our cardiac world. We're paying attention to preeclampsia because of the increased risk of hypertension, gestational diabetes again because of the increased risk of developing diabetes later, and hypertension in pregnancy, absolutely. I am thinking about our listeners who are listening to every single episode. So I do want to remind people too that I'm sure you're noticing a trend that the risk factors that we're talking about here with the heart are very similar, if not identical to the ones that we talked about during our stroke episode. Yes. Right? So when we're talking about the heart and the vessels, it's the same vessels that go up to the brain. And just like heart disease in women is very common, so is stroke in women. So I don't know if you've had somebody from the stroke world talk about women. So that's also important. So we mentioned diabetes smoking obviously as a risk factor, which I think we talked about. Have you alcohol use? Yes. So basically, there is really no healthy amount of alcohol. I mean, we used to talk about the Mediterranean diet, right? And one of the things that the Mediterranean diet is, is diet low in saturated fats, low rich in vegetables and legumes and nuts, and using olive oil instead of butter. These are sort of, that's like the Mediterranean fish and not animal fat. But wine is kind of part of the Mediterranean diet. But so you'd think that Mediterranean diet may be a glass of wine, but really there is, it can only be harmful honestly. You should really try to stay away from alcohol. And there isn't really an amount of alcohol that's ever good for your heart. And certainly drinking more than what you should, which we say seven drinks a week for women and 14 for men. And it may be less than that for men. You probably know from a primary care is it 10 or 14. I thought it was 14. Watch me show. I'm kidding. I think it was 10 to 14. So if you're drinking more than that, certainly alcohol can have directly negative effects on the heart. It can actually cause what's called an alcoholic cardiomyopathy, which actually it's directly in the pump again. We're talking about the pump. So the muscle gets weak. And it's very weak. You know, it's obviously kind of terrible. The liver can fail and all sorts of things in the body can fail. But definitely I would say there's no healthy amount to truly just try to avoid it. And then family history, any risk factors? We talked about high cholesterol. Sometimes there is a family component to that. But anything else that are risk factors for cardiac events for women? So a family history is usually a first degree family member. Probably either a female less than the age of 65 who's had a cardiac event or a male less than the age of 55. So that's a strong risk factor for you. So if you have that risk factor, it's important that you get screened early on. Again, because even though you may have every number is good, you still may have a risk factor for family history. So I would say that specifically would be what I would just alert people is that if you really have a first degree relative that's had an event at a young age, that's an alert. And when you say come in and get screened, what's entailed in screening? Screening your risk factors, making sure that you're basically meeting all healthy points, right? You're not smoking, you're at a good weight, your blood pressure is good, your cholesterol. And you may even, we may even talk about doing some of those secondary screens like a calcium score or again, we always do the LP LA. And even sometimes just a 12-litre EKG. Yes. Like in the office where we just see, you know, and that can be a clue as well. Okay, great. And then sometimes people are asked about CRP, which is cardio reactive protein. Can you talk a little bit about that? So that's a marker of inflammation. I see. So we talked about inflammation being the mechanism behind development of plaque and calcium. And so CRP is basically a marker of inflammation and it can be elevated in many different states. Right. But the high sensitivity, which is the one that we look at for cardiovascular disease, it can be an indicator that you have a slightly higher risk of developing cardiovascular ailments because you have your pro-inflammatory. Okay. Should patients ask for that to be part of their screening? Yeah, they can certainly ask. Even with me as a primary care doctor. Absolutely, absolutely, yeah. I'd love to get back into, if it's okay, return to the perimenopause and menopause, like risk shift. Because you're right. I mean, I think many, many women notice changes in their bodies in 40s and 50s, right? In addition to the night sweats, hot flashes, et cetera, but sure, the sleep disruption, the stress, weight distribution, blood pressure and cholesterol elevating as well. So cardio vascular wise, I mean, do you want to just kind of talk to me through again what's happening during these kind of like hormonal shifts as well and on the heart? So I've thought about this a lot. The reason I'm a smile a little bit. I'm like, why are you laughing? Because first of all, UCLA has a menopause program. I don't know if you've spoken to them. They did. They came on and they were amazing. And then they told me to call you. Yeah. So we see a lot of patients together. Yes. And one of the things that I think has shifted in our sort of views about menopause or our kind of approach to menopause, I won't say view, but our approach to menopause is that we're again, we're starting to look at more precision medicine. It's not, it's just like, you know, avoid hormone replacement therapy at all costs anymore. And I think that what we're recognizing is that menopause is a shift. As you mentioned, your body is changing because your estrogen levels have basically dropped and you've been, you know, had this protection up until menopause. And then after your estrogen level drops, you sort of have again those shifts, the weight distribution, the blood pressure, the cholesterol, and then, then hence the higher risk of coronary events, you know, post-menopausal. But you know, and I'm sure you may remember this because we're similar in age, but you know, back when we started, we're training, we would always quote like that huge study in women that basically showed that, you know, all hormone replacement is just bad, right? Because we, you know, they were giving it to a large group of people that were over generally older, over 65, and they were using, you know, horse estrogen, right? So they were using like equine estrogen, which we don't use anymore. So the formulations of these hormones have changed. And the patient population that basically drew alarm was an older patient population that had risk factors that today were, if we've addressed many of our patients. So back, and I'll under summarize, it was a large study looking at women that were on hormone replacement therapy, giving it to all women, thinking that, okay, we're going to treat osteoporosis and all these women, we're going to treat symptoms and they're going to feel so much better and, you know, they're all going to live longer because we're giving them hormones. They saw actually an increased risk of cardiovascular events, heart attacks and strokes. So then the pendulum swung to, we're not going to give it to anyone. Right, big black box morning. Big black box morning for everyone. I think what we're starting to understand is that, you know, estrogen still could be protective. We don't have any trials now looking at what the effects of estrogen or hormones are in a woman under 65 who has no significant risk factors, no coronary calcium is otherwise very healthy. Does hormone replacement therapy is a good thing? And we really cannot say. We just don't have any data. And we're using, again, lower formulations of estrogen given in different ways, transdermal, creams, things that, again, it's like a new world in the menopause. And again, I'm sure you learned that from that podcast. Yeah, so interesting. And so we're adapting as cardiologists to that. And so, you know, I basically, when I see a woman in menopause, I take a very detailed history and we talk about risk factors. There are certain, you know, kind of red lights where I say, I really counsel against this. And that would be over 65 or more than 10 years from menopause. Or any known history of a heart attack or stroke, these are kind of generally knows because of that study where we know that there are patient populations that clearly, if you've already had an event, you're going to be very high risk of having a secondary event. So we usually say, you know, we try to avoid hormone replacement in those patient populations. But we try to get more information in general. So we'll do calcium scores, we'll do lipoprotein-lilazone, we'll get a very detailed cardiovascular risk assessment. And generally, if your risk is very, very low for cardiovascular disease, we sort of, you know, we recognize that hormone replacement therapy can make you feel better and make, you know, the vasomotor symptoms that people have, the hot flashes, the night sweats and ability to concentrate, memory issues, these things do get better with hormones. And I don't think it's fair to just withdraw all treatment for women who are really struggling with menopause. And so I think that's a shift where we're using more precision medicine to talk about what are the risks, what are the benefits, is it right for you as opposed to a blanket, like, never give it? I mean, I think that's the way it should be, right? I mean, it's precision. I mean, obviously based on like very expert recommendations and evidence, but by precision, right, we are really just meaning, you know, personalized. Yes, it was very important, I think, during any sort of aging menopause conversation that, you know, menopause getting older isn't a disease. And when there is a drop or decline in estrogen, it is accompanied, though, by risk factors, you know, increasing in certain areas. So again, it's just this awareness, right? And especially in the cardiovascular realm that, yeah, you are at a higher risk just for just with less estrogen on board of having a hard event. And I think what I would love to see is a trial that's updated that somebody would do is looking at current state of hormone replacement therapy in low risk individuals. And how does that impact, you know, is estrogen a good thing? And some people are not. We really just don't know. Yes, yeah. More research, more research involving women. That's why we need to support research in women's cardiovascular health. You heard it here. We talked about the risk factors, and I just want to make sure that we're translating that directly into then prevention. So even though it's hopefully when people hear about risk factors, then, you know, then how do we couple that with preventative tools? Because I do think that preventative advice can get overwhelming very quickly. So core habits, health checks that matter most, in your opinion. So we say to exercise at least 30 minutes a day, at least modern intensity, aerobic exercise, stay moving, right? Just move, right? Like you don't have to necessarily go to the gym and spend, you know, hundreds of dollars a month and, you know, and have a trainer and go to orange theory. It can literally be walk your dog up a hill for 30 minutes every day and make sure you're moving. Yes. Watch what you eat. Right. So I think having a healthy diet is extremely important. And so, you know, if you need help seeing a nutritionist, get the counseling you need. Again, there are a lot of resources out there. So and avoid all the bad things, right? Don't smoke. Yeah. Don't drink. OK. And and live a balanced, healthy lifestyle, you know, seek, you know, you don't have to aim for perfection, right? But just but healthy, right? Balanced. Yes. I love it. And I also think just you mentioned some like more, you know, you don't have to join a gym, but you do need to get outside. You need to move your body. Yep. Right. OK. Valves. Oh, great. The overlooked, often, heart story. Let's shift to valvular heart disease. And you mentioned being a plumber and a carpenter. What was the third thing? An electrician. An electrician. Most common cause of heart disease, most common valve that's affected is actually the mitral valve. And that's worldwide. And still, the most common worldwide cause of heart disease is rheumatic heart disease worldwide. And, you know, rheumatic heart disease is caused by basically a bacteria called strep that people have as a child. And if it's not treated, it can lead to these systemic immunological responses that can then cause these sort of valvular changes later in life. OK. And so rheumatic heart disease worldwide is the most common. It's not as common in the United States because we've we treat heavily with antibiotics, these, you know, strep. We sort of we're more likely to treat strep. So, you know, we've seen a decline in rheumatic heart disease here in terms of the second most common cause would be age related valve disease or aortic stenosis. That's a very, very common. So what that is is when the aortic valve starts to calcify over time and then it becomes stenotic. So it just doesn't open. The third most common cause would be the tricuspid valve. So we went from the mitral valve. We went to the aortic valve and then we go to the tricuspid valve. The tricuspid valve has been sort of the ignored valve for years and years and years and years. And we've focused a lot on the mitral and the aortic valve. The aortic valve, you know, it's it's it's kind of an easy valve to treat because we just replace it. We can either replace it surgically or we can replace it through the groin with a new valve and that's called a TAVR transcutaneous aortic valve replacement. But the mitral valve over the past, you know, maybe decade or so, we've developed multiple really neat strategies to treat regurgitation of the mitral valve where we can do it through the leg and something called edge to edge repair, which is something that I love to do. And most gratifying procedure, I think that I do where patients don't need to go to open heart surgery and can have their mitral valve treated again, percutaneously. So you just literally go in through through the leg through the leg into a vessel. Yep. And then bring a catheter in the heart, feed a wire and a catheter into the heart and then develop and then basically deliver devices to the valve and treat either a regurgitant valve or a synotic valve. Can you just explain quickly what regurgitation is when the valve is leaking? I'm sorry. So basically the chambers, for example, if you live in the left ventricle, your back door is a mitral valve and your front door is a aortic valve. So if your back door is open all the time, blood instead of moving to the front door will just go through the path of least resistant and go backwards. And that's called regurgitation. Which we do not want. And one of the most common forms in women is mitral valve prolapse, which many women say they've had and they were diagnosed like 20, 30 years ago because we used to diagnose mitral valve prolapse with with basically one de-echo, which was an old, old technology and it overcalled prolapse and a lot of people. And so they were told they had a collapse of the valve. Prolapse valve is when the valve, instead of closing in the right plane, it starts to go. It basically it's like a think of mitral prolapse as a double joint. And you know how people who are like the valve is like a joint. So it's a little flexible. It's a flexible valve. Instead of closing tightly, it goes backwards and it's like it's too flexible. And so sometimes it can be one leaflet that goes backwards or it can be all leaflets. If women tend to have a higher incidence of multiple leaflet prolapse and their disease can happen actually younger and can be more aggressive. And the issue is that, and we talked about this earlier, the valve disease, valves and women are smaller. And again, they present later. They're often not diagnosed until too late. And then they're denied for surgery maybe because they're older and they have, they have smaller valves. They have a tendency to have more calcium and more complex anatomy. They're more likely to be replaced than repaired, which is not a good thing. And they have worse outcomes. So that's a field that I'm very interested in and trying to raise awareness for valve disease in women and to be seen earlier and diagnosed earlier. Again, if you have a murmur, if you have a history of rheumatic heart disease, if you're feeling short of breath, again, valve disease, symptoms, our shortness of breath, fatigue, swelling in your legs, trouble breathing at night, these are symptoms of valve heart disease. Don't just say I've had a murmur my whole life. Like let's figure out why you have a murmur. I have to say that I'm astonished, right? But what I love is that we're still learning so much more about our bodies. Yes. I really did not expect you to say that now that tricuspid, tri-meaning three is now actually have five leaflets. Can it's very, it's actually majority people may have four or five leaflets. That's incredible. But it's again, it has these, it has these implications, especially as you're saying, because then the more, and I love that innovation and technologies than pushing us to not be better clinicians, but just to actually know more about the heart, right? And it challenges us. But again, it's the awareness. So I appreciate the awareness that you're bringing because I do think that again, carpenter, plumber, electrician, that it's important to know that our hearts do all of these things. And again, any of these symptoms, right? I mean, shortness of breath. We talked about fatigue. It can be a little bit general. But again, just come get checked out. And I do agree with you because you're right. I think someone told me I had mitral valve prolapse when I was like a teenager. Who knows. But the point is, is that like, don't just, you know, keep that diagnosis and be like it's nothing or it's benign, which is, you know, medicine for it's fine. No, like it's, you're feeling something. Come on in. Yeah. And don't wait. Don't wait. Just like heart disease, valve disease can present too late and it can, and it can really cause major issues. Well, yeah. And like I'm picturing, you know, someone who's coming in who waited, who waited too long, right? And then it's more complex. It's a more complex case, meaning, you know, more complex intervention, right? Or you're not able to even get the intervention because the rest of you isn't like healthy enough to even, right? I mean, I've seen, I've, I mean, I've seen young women present with acute shortness of breath, acute meaning like sudden and come in and in cardiogenic shock, which is basically when your body's shutting down from a ruptured cord. So it can happen when you have prolapse, prolapse we talked about when the leaflets kind of come back. But what happens is that the cords, you know, the valves are attached to the heart through cords, which are shoelaces. So when your shoelace is loose, right, you get prolapse. So that cord is not tight. So instead of the leaflets coming in together, your shoelace is loose. And so it can kind of brew for years. And then the more pressure over time on that loose shoelace can cause it to snap and untie completely. And that usually presents with a sudden onset, shortness of breath. And we had, we had someone who basically drove themself from halfway across the country, you know, basically came into our ER and it was just would not have survived. It wasn't a surgical candidate because she was so sick. And this is, you know, somebody who's a young woman and who we were able to save through these, again, transcutaneous therapies that basically we went in and put some clips on the valve. She didn't need open heart surgery and she, you know, walked out three, four days later and she's still my patient years later. And so, you know, these, these technologies 10 years ago, you know, patients would just die because they would not be able to make it to surgery. And so the, the, the, the technology has just keeps evolving to kind of allow, give patients, you know, even in, you know, life-saving situations, give them options. Yeah. And if it's someone has told you that it's nothing or you're telling yourself it's nothing, um, I think you do start kind of doubting, you know, your own body, you know, you're minimizing and dismissing. Um, so I just want to say for everyone, you know, advocacy isn't, you know, a personality trait. It's really a safety scale. Yes. Um, we talked about, you know, stress on the heart, which was so helpful. Um, uh, I would love to go into asking for our friends. This is our segment where, um, our audience submits questions or maybe it's just me, um, asking for a friend. My mom had a heart attack. What prevents  n-initiv-care, should I be thinking about, and where should I start? And maybe we can just kind of specify for our audience too, when we say my mom had a heart attack, let's do both, like my mom had a heart attack when she was 80, and my mom had a heart attack under the age of 60. 65. So, I think that's a really important distinction because many people, eventually when they get older, die of a heart attack, okay? So, again, we talked about heart disease being a disease of aging, and in the end, when you die, your heart stops. So everyone eventually has some type of either, it's very common to have a cardiac event or a life, right? So, if your mom died at the age of 99 of a heart attack, that's actually a long life, average lifespan. But you kind of want to look a little bit more deeper into, like, did you have anything young when she was younger? I wouldn't focus so much on the fact that she was 99 and had a heart attack, but I would focus more on the, when she was younger, did you have any cardiac events or cardiac symptoms, right? Did anyone in the family die of an unknown cause at a young age, right? And maybe there was a cousin that also had an event at a young age, and there's unexplained, right? So, I think delving into family history, not just one relative, but really looking at the whole family and really looking at what are the ages of onset. I mean, maybe she died of 99, but her first heart attack was at 50. That's different, right? So again, I think getting a detailed family history is really important. But certainly, if your friend's mom died at a young age, right? Again, we talked about less than 65, then I think that you're talking about more intense screening, so that, again, everybody should have their number, know their numbers and be healthy, right? Blood pressure, cholesterol, we talked about, everybody should have their lipoprotein, little A check, know all that. But if you have a first degree family member that is very high risk presentation, died young, died suddenly, unknown cause, again, first degree family members, you may need more additional testing, right? Like we talked about a calcium score to really look and see if you are the same age or you're approaching the same age that your mother passed away, that we really would want to take a look and see what's going on. The calcium scores, I think, are really easy tools for us to utilize in these patients. I know these cats can take like five minutes. And remember, when in doubt, you don't have to figure this out. I'm saying this for our audience. Come in, we'll figure out what screening tests or additional screening tests that you need. But I think the detailed history is, in getting all that additional information is really, really key. Okay, quickly. I'm in my late 40s. I'm in perimenopause. I feel like my body's changed overnight. Do I need a cardiologist or can I start with my primary care doctor? Oh, you can always start with your primary care doctor. Obviously, you're a wonderful doctor and it really depends a little bit on your primary care doctor. There are some primary care doctors that really feel very comfortable treating menopause. And so it just really depends on the relationship you have with your primary care. And I don't think that there's a real right or wrong answer for this. I think that it's certainly, I would ask your primary care doctor about your cardiovascular risk and ask whether or not it would be appropriate for you to be referred. Your primary care may have an opinion about it. But I do think that you should have a low threshold to, again, either have an entire visit with your primary care doctor to talk about your heart or just get referred so that your cardiologist can spend that time and maybe have your primary care doctor spend time and other more, you know, other important things. I love this advice because I like it both as a doctor and as a patient myself. Yeah. My blood pressure is only a little high. How much does that really matter? It does matter because hypertension, again, we talked about the fact that unless you check your blood pressure, you don't know what it is. That's right. And it's silent. You may not know you have high blood pressure. You may feel fine and have high blood pressure. Sometimes people say they can feel when their blood pressure is high and I do believe that, you know, a little headache or feeling just a little off. That can be, you know, a sign that maybe your blood pressure is high. But generally it's a silent number. And even mild hypertension or pre-hypertension, right, we're talking about, you know, normal blood pressure between 130, less than 130 over 80, but even blood pressures between 120 and 130, like, are so mildly elevated and we want to track that over time. I'm not saying you need to be treated for a blood pressure 125, but it's something that you want to look at. Certainly when you're between 130 and 140, we start to kind of think the top number being between 130 and 140 and the bottom number kind of being over 90. These are numbers that we, or 80, sorry, the bottom number being over 80. We want to really talk about the long-term effects of these kind of low-grade early hypertension. We know that these patients are at increased risk of cardiovascular events later. So I would say be aggressive, Rebecca, and your blood pressure at less than 130 over 80 and knowing what it is is the first step. And then showing it to your doctors and looking at the average. Again, what we talked about, blood pressure is not a one, it's not, it doesn't sit like this. It needs to, you need to average it and you need to look at your highs and your lows and sort of look at that average number over time. Yeah. I mean, I have to say, I don't know how you feel, but I very rarely make a clinical decision. So as a doctor, I very rarely prescribe like a blood pressure medication based on one value. Like you come in after you've been like running late, parking, aggravated, and then I see your blood pressure is elevated. I do not make a decision on that. It's a terrible time to check blood pressure in the office. People have white-coat hypertension because they like their blood pressure is just being in there. They're just being in there. They're looking at you. But, you know, if it keeps happening, right, multiple visits, then maybe I do. So three or more hospital visits, you know, office visits with high blood pressure. People always say, it's only high when it's in the office. And then I always say, okay, well, show me the show me your numbers. Prove it to me. Yes. I'm still going to, you know, white-coat hypertension is just means that you're under stress and you have a very reactive blood pressure to stress. But I'm sure other things in life cause stress. Yeah. And it's not a judgment. And we want to know what your blood pressure is. Right. Exactly. And as you said, there's so many things we can do about it. Oh yeah. I love that. Okay. This is such good advice. Okay. We're going to just make this. Everything has been so usable and so practical. So I just want to kind of wrap this up with some takeaways. So if someone's listening and thinking, okay, tell me what to do with all of this. What's just one, the top takeaways for you that you want our audience to remember? Live a healthy lifestyle. I mean, it's not like obviously an easy thing to, you know, to hear, but really take a look at your lifestyle. Take it, you know, do some, do some digging, you know, try to track, you know, are you exercising? You may think you are, but, you know, do you prioritize? Do you prioritize that? Talk to your, about your heart health to your doctor. Make it a point to address the risk factors that we know we can address. Like again, obesity, diabetes, smoking, high blood pressure, family history, cholesterol. Go through those risk factors in detail with your primary care doctor. And then if you feel anything again between your nose and your belly button, it doesn't feel right. Feels unusual. Tell your doctor. Don't ignore it. No, that's perfect. That was exactly my second one, which was what's the symptom takeaway that don't talk yourself out of this message. Yeah. Right. Okay. So remember, your symptoms might not match whatever stereotype is out there, although we're really moving away from that. Well, I've heard you say a lot, which is trust, you know, this isn't my normal. Okay. And I'm just going to add one more too, which is, you know, if you're not being heard, don't stop. Don't stop advocating. Right. Advocate. Tell us, tell us. Anything else you want to add to that though? Um, I think that, um, yeah, just communicate. Yeah. Communicate with your doctor. And I mean, I think, you know, you should feel comfortable talking to your doctor about how you feel. Yes. And if you don't fire your doctor and get one, you're like, I mean, it's like a relationship. Right. You want to feel comfortable with the person who's taking care of you and you want to be able to, and you don't need to stress out about every little thing, right? There are things that you may not be, you may not have heart disease and that's going to be a wonderful thing to hear, but it's, it's not for you or us as patients to decide. Right. And we even say, even as a doctor, I'm not my own daughter. I mean, I'm a patient before I'm a doctor. So I'll trust my doctors and have that conversation with the ones that I feel comfortable with and then, you know, assess your, you know, um, have that conversation and communicate, I would say. Yeah. And it is a relationship. And I think with the communication, I mean, I do acknowledge that sometimes it is hard to communicate and advocate for yourself. And so, I mean, I certainly like to encourage my friends, my family, my patients, like, you know what, then have your friend come with you and help advocate for you. Oh yeah. And that's great too. Yes. Absolutely. A lot of wonderful friends and neighbors, like, like unbelievable, the community spirit, right? I mean, I have patients who's like neighbors bring them and I'm like, what a great neighbor. It is. And especially when you don't feel good, you know, it's hard to sort of like really talk about how you're feeling. I'm like, bring me along, put me on the phone. I can't thank you enough. First of all, I can't believe how brilliant you are and how lucky your patients are. But I really, really appreciate your time and your expertise, you know, not even just for your, you know, clinical knowledge, but just the clarity, the empowerment, you know, and the advocacy for women's heart health that you bring to this incredible topic, which I can't believe how exciting it is that it's been evolving, but it really, I think it has admittedly been underappreciated. Yeah. I think you, Eve, just because also it's heart month and you're highlighting this. Yes. And, you know, I'm just really grateful to have me here. It's just been wonderful to talk to you. I am so glad. I'm so glad. I really think that like us having these conversations, and I know they're chock full of like great information, but I do think that they encourage women to, you know, trust what they're feeling and inspire them to seek care sooner. And I really want them to hear us say that. And what you've really made very clear is that being heard, being evaluated early really does influence outcomes. So how you actually end up doing even when something goes wrong. Prevention works and partnerships between patients and clinicians. So for everyone listening, if today gave you some language for something you've been minimizing or permission to take a symptom seriously, please take that with you. And remember, as we've talked about advocating for your health is not indulgent. It's responsible. Risk isn't a moral score. And symptoms are not a referendum on how you're living. You deserve care. Thanks for listening to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. Stay curious and stay healthy and take good care. Thank you so much, Marcy. Thank you.

=== FILE: Endometriosis Uncovered： Pain That Is Often Overlooked and Underdiagnosed [qyoq6QYG43A].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone. Welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glacier. Women have suffered from endometriosis for thousands of years, and yet, even in an age of extraordinary medical progress, endometriosis remains a little bit elusive, challenging to diagnose, poorly understood, and frankly emblematic of how women's pain is often underestimated or dismissed. I think most people have heard of endometriosis, and they certainly know someone who might be living with it, but few understand what it is to live with that kind of pain and how profoundly it can impact a woman's daily life. Fact is, endometriosis affects about one in 10 women, many whom struggle for years to get diagnosed, and many who suffer before finding relief. So today we're asking, what exactly is endometriosis? What causes it? How is it diagnosed and treated? And why has it been overlooked for so long, and how can we do better for women everywhere? To answer these questions and more, our two remarkable UCLA Health Physicians, my colleagues, Dr. Daniel Ginn and Dr. Maya Zapata. Dr. Daniel Ginn is an OBGYN who specializes in minimally invasive surgery. Daniel, welcome. Thank you. And Dr. Zapata is also an OBGYN. She's a regular on this podcast. She's shared her expertise with us on everything from pap smears to menopause to sexual health, and today marks her fifth appearance on the podcast. Welcome back. Thanks for having me. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. So before we get actually into the details about endometriosis, I'd love for our listeners to briefly hear what drew you each to women's health. And Maya, maybe we'll just start with you. In your practice, you see patients of all state of their reproductive lives all the way from the beginning with pap smears to menopause. But can you briefly remind us what drew you to OBGYN? Because if I remember correctly, there was some ice skating before. There was ice skating before OBGYN. And I thought I wanted to go to orthopedic surgery because that was my exposure in athletics. And then it took me to other directions. But still doing some surgery, but still being a primary health provider and taking mostly just care of women. Yeah. And you women's body. We all know how amazing you are. No, we're so appreciative that you're here. And Daniel, you focus on minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, also known as MEGS. That's true. That's very top gun to me. Can you explain exactly what that is and how you got into that kind of specific area? It's interesting that it's very timely. I'm freshly back from the American, formerly known as the American Association of Gynecologic Laperoscopy or AGL. Our annual conference was this past weekend, some little growly from flying. But the name MEGS now is actually being transitioned to complex benign gynecology. It's going to be a slow process to get there. Really recognizing that the standard of care in surgery is a minimally invasive approach overall. And so that doesn't really define the specialty anymore. Instead it's a sub specialty that has adopted in terms of diagnoses, complex fibroid care, endometriosis, chronic pelvic pain in a broader context. So I was drawn to that really, you know, as a resident, we're sort of taught to fear by proxy taught to fear patients who come in with pelvic pain. They're complicated. They take a lot longer than they're scheduled for if they're scheduled just as a routine visit. You can do a pap smear or a vaginitis exam much faster than you can do a workup for chronic pelvic pain. And I found that to be just so disappointing that we just accepted we couldn't take care of 10% of patients. And then when I was pursuing fellowship training in mental invasive surgery, the scope of what we did has to include chronic pelvic pain. It's not all surgical and it's longitudinal. It's not just take you to an operating room, fix you and you're good forever. And so the more I did it, the more I liked it because it was hard, but you as any hard thing you do it and you get better at it and it gets a little easier and you actually see people improve. You get people a version of their life back. They thought they'd lost. So when you say it's amazing, I mean, and it's incredible to me that you lean into, I mean, this isn't in just the fields of, you know, gynecology. I think a lot of people run screaming from things that seem complex and actively avoid it, actively avoid it. Absolutely. But you're like, have leaned into that, right? Can you explain a little bit about what, because I think for a lot of people, the distinction between what minimally invasive means versus just like basic surgery. Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah. I mean, it's all, yeah, it's all surgery. Yeah. Minimally invasive surgery is we generally do laparoscopy or you can also do a robot it, robot assisted laparoscopy. Some people draw this distinction as though the robot itself is a separate thing. It's not, it's all laparoscopy. And this is, this is surgery that's done through keyhole incisions, really small, half, half centimeter to a centimeter size incision, anywhere from three to five incisions, depending on what's being done. The benefits of that are faster recovery, lower risk, you know, they're tremendous benefits to that. We've transitioned, I tell patients a lot, this is not your mom's hysterectomy. Your mom used to spend a week in the hospital. Yes. For a hysterectomy that was done through a large open incision called a laparotomy. And now with the minimally invasive approach, you go home the same day. It's about two weeks of recovery at home. Most people at two weeks are about 80, 85% better and then another month or so of getting back to whatever new normal is going to be. Wow. Okay. And then tell me a little bit about how your roles, I think, you know, both, I'm going to just say like kind of a generalist OBGYN and then you as the specializing in this minimally invasive surgery, how do your roles kind of intersect? How do you work together? Well, as a general OBGYN, I might see people for their annual visit for their contraceptive needs for some new pain that they have or pain that they've been having that perhaps hasn't been addressed and then try to sort of figure out what might be causing this discomfort, what's happening, what's new for that patient, what can I address or take care of? Is it something we can do work up like imaging and ultrasound is whatever complaint they came to me with? Is it something that I can address in my office? Is it something that needs specialty care? And so for example, pelvic pain or if I think someone has endometriosis or would benefit from surgery or more complex management of it, then I would send them to my colleague, Dr. Ginn and say, hey, we've done all the initial things already. Here's the workup we've done and we, I feel that she needs this next level of more complex care and then she would see someone like him. Okay. Awesome. That makes total sense. So this actually leads into just some basics. What's the endometrium? Which one of you want to answer that? Go ahead, Maya. The lining of the uterus, it's the cells, the uterus is a muscle. It's a cute little thing that sits in your body. Only an OBGYN would say that. It's a cute little muscle. It's a cute little muscle. Almost someone without a problem with it would call it huge. It's true. It's true. But it's a powerful muscle. It's an incredible organ. Size of your fist. I think people assume it's like a tiny catalepsy. Yep. Yep. That can grow to hold a pregnancy, shrink back, do that multiple times, expel a human out of a body sometimes. Can grow all kinds of things from it, fibroids, little growths, tumors that can be benign. And then in the lining of it, the inner part of the uterus, it has a lining of cells and that's what is shed every month when someone has a period. Okay. So, we're going to endometriosis with all the sort of Greek etymology of osis and disease and et cetera. It sounds like endometrious would be a disease of the lining of the uterus, but... You would be wrong. I would be wrong. Yeah. So, the... Spoiler. I know. Spoiler alert. That's not correct. So, I mean, for many years, we taught, we're taught taught and it was mostly theoretical that the way that endometriosis formed in the first place was ectopic or misplaced endometrium in other parts of the body. Nearly everybody has some form of what we call retrograde menstruation where when you have a period, if your tubes are normal, some of that blood can leak out through the tubes into the abdominal cavity. And then we assumed that that implanted and then grows into endometriosis, but nearly everybody has that and not nearly everybody has endometriosis. My menstruation is in retrograde. That's right. Yeah. Your mercury and your menstruation. It explains everything. It really does. Yeah. Both are terrible. And so, we know that's not true because not everybody has endometriosis. And so, we've got genetic studies actually now that do show us that the endometriosis tissue, so this is endometrial-like tissue, so it responds to hormones the same way that the endometrium does. It's growing implanted and growing outside of, basically just outside of the uterus or even in the wrong layer of the uterus. We call that condition adenomyosis. That's maybe a separate topic, but the tissue is hormonally responsive and so it can be conflated as being part of the normal uterus, but it's not. And so, does it also bleed then sometimes? It can't. So, it can bleed, it swells, it causes inflammation to the surrounding tissue and then all of those processes also lead to adhesions and scar tissue. I mean, I think that's a very helpful visual, but it also to me explains why the pain could really be that severe. I mean, and also, you're also mentioning like this inflammation and the swelling. And this is where I have to say I recently had a patient with that was diagnosed with endometriosis and I was truly mortified. I mean, I graduated from medical school in 2004. I don't think that's like that long ago. I couldn't believe how little I knew about endometriosis and the inflammatory component really kind of surprised me because then I had to say, well, my goodness, there's inflammation certainly all over the abdomen, but elsewhere. So it kind of leads me to the larger question. Do we know what causes endometriosis? Yeah, we don't. So we think that the, again, you know, forever we thought it was this retrograde administration. Now we think maybe more along the lines of salomic metaplasia, which is a fancy way of saying these cells are changing from the right kind of cells to the wrong kind of cells in the wrong place, that there's some genetic link to that that we don't fully understand that. And then there's also more of a overall environmental inflammatory cytokines. These hormones and hormone entities, I start describing cytokines, that cause inflammation to these tissues like the peritoneum, which is the lining of the inside of the abdomen. And then it's how common is it? I mean, and this is, I think, I mean, I'm sure we'll get to symptoms in just a second and I'll ask you, Maya, but like how common is endometriosis? And I'm guessing since it's, I'm guessing pretty underdiagnosed, what's the number? I mean, I kind of mentioned in the intro about one in 10, but is that... I mean, we say one in 10. Yeah. I mean, obviously I'm biased because I see nearly every patient I'm seeing comes in with endometriosis or at least very convincing symptoms for it. I think it's got to be higher than that. One of the ways that I screen and sort of initial, like in an initial history gathering with a patient is ask them, how do you start having a period? When did your period pain start? Did it start when you started having periods or later? Our studies show us it could start in any decade of life, but it very commonly starts at menarchi, which is when you start having a period. If it started happening at menarchi, did it disrupt school? Right. Did you have to miss school? Have you had to miss work? Have you had to cancel soccer practice or dinner or other things that you had planned for yourself and feels like an interferes with your life? If it did and it was that bad, that is not normal. And so there are so many patients who have experienced that for decades and maybe they were part of a family where everybody had that same experience and so it was normalized. And so they thought, well, just everyone in our period, in our family has bad periods. So that goes to genetic, possibly then, like a genetic. There certainly is a hereditary pattern, even though we don't fully understand the genetics yet. Interesting. Okay. And then kind of I mean, so recognizing that you're seeing people at a certain point, right, like after Maya has seen them and then she's kind of referring them to you as a specialist, what symptoms are you seeing then like when people come to your office, right, for, you know, to start their pap smears or just kind of start family planning? Well, I think I'm going to ask them the same things that Daniel had mentioned. I want to tease out a little bit. I generally want to ask about their gynecologic history, what age did your period start? Do you have cramps? But just do you have cramps or not is really vague and unhelpful. And often people will say, yeah, they're terrible. But then when I ask them about it, they're like, oh, well, actually it's just for like 30 minutes on the first day. And so then when you get into it, you're like, okay, so it's really mild. Does it ever impact schools? You take medicines? Oh, no, I never even take anything for it. Or are you able to treat it, right? If you can treat your period successfully, your period pain successfully with an NSAID, ibuprofen, that's probably fine. Okay, so that's a pretty good thing. But if those connections are not working, then we should be looking deeper. And not everyone always asks exactly what you're doing for it. So wanting to know, okay, well, they'll say they're not that bad. Oh, well, tell me what do you do for them? Is it something that you take ibuprofen, do you take Tylenol, mitral? And they'll say, oh, yeah, I take like every day, I take four doses of ibuprofen and I use a heating pad. And I can't get off my couch. And I have some misdiastasis, so it also misdiast work. But then they might have said that they weren't that bad to me. So you really have to ask some more details about it to then say, that's not, that's more than- You contextualize a lot. Yeah, I mean, it sounds like you have to probe a little bit. And also you're asking a question and we know how fantastic of a doctor you are. But how many patients, I guess I'm wondering, self-report, right? Because if they're taught for years, like, no, this is just part of, you know, normal, a normal period. You have to prompt them. I think a lot of the time- You have to prompt them. My favorite things to teach are residents. So obviously we have an educational mission too. And I was in private practice before I was at UCLA. And one of the reasons that I came back was because I wanted to try to see this improve overall. Oh, I love it. Yeah. And so I teach the residents on a basic annual exam. You don't have to be a chronic pain specialist. Just a basic annual exam. This should not evade you. These are very easy questions to find out. And it's okay if it's too much to talk about in that appointment. I have never had a patient who I've said, hey, we have too much to talk about today. We need to split this into more than one appointment. They would much rather you spend the quality time with them to actually get them to a place of improvement than to rush through it so they're out in 15 or 20 minutes. That is such a good teaching message. I mean, because I really want to pause here because I mean, I know people, you know, we talk about gaslighting, a lot of women getting dismissed. But I mean, I think especially around, you know, normal cramps, that kind of comes up constantly, you know what I mean? And I think there's a real danger, obviously, which you're actually addressing, which is normalizing pain. Yeah. And then just in the gynecologic history. So all I've told you is I've gotten to your period where your period's painful, but then asking things like, well, when you have sex, do you have any concerns about sex? Is sex painful? And so many women are like, well, yeah, but it always has been. And it's not normal. That's not normal. Just asking the question. Just asking the question. I think queries like wait. And then that makes me want to know, okay, well, what's painful about it? Is it the skin at the opening? Is it with deeper penetration? Is it only position dependent? Is it during or after? If it's after, is it for minutes, hours or days? Like I've gotten to a diagnosis of a pelvic floor dysfunction, two questions. Wow. It's not that hard. But we're not taught to do it. We're not taught to do it. I don't want this to be remarkable that you're answering this. Exactly. I want this to be the norm. So and I think this goes to, again, this is part of our educational mission too, that luckily we have it, you know, UCL and Health. And the patients can share this. Exactly. So I mean, for everyone listening, make sure that you're asked these questions and if you're not asked, make sure that you're asking yourself and telling. That's right. And telling. And more severe things, just going back to what you're like, when do you go to your general gynecologist? Sometimes they come to like just their general OBGYN because it's become so painful. Like it's been something they've been dealing with. And then they come in saying like it's a lot of pain now. And then sometimes people laser focus in on this one new pain and don't always get to all the stuff that's associated with it. Yeah, that's right. And like at the bottom of it always is asking lots of questions to understand what had been going on. I usually at some point during an initial consult say, okay, you came to me with one problem. We've gone through the whole thing. I hear six problems. And so now we have to come up with a plan for each of those six problems in order to actually see you improve because there's not a silver bullet for all of it. Oh my gosh. It just must be such a relief to be heard and like to have, you know what I mean, just be acknowledged. Be like, oh, let's just call them out, characterize, itemize them and even again, whatever, even if you have to come back, we'll address them one by one. We cry together a lot in pelvic pain clinic. It's really overwhelming because people have been carrying this sometimes for decades have seen tremendous, you know, loss of quality of life or loss of opportunities or relationships or what have you and been told the whole time that it was normal and it was never normal. I'm going to cry with you in this clinic too. I mean, I just, I just can't overestimate like how important this message is. I think that there's like this ridiculous absurd heroism. I think that women are expected to show as well, whether it's just sort of normal or just like, no, no, no, you endure, you know, pain is sort of like a badge of strength. But like, I'm guessing too, then just sort of not only like silence, but just not even thinking about mentioning it really then delays diagnosis. For sure. I mean, the average, the average time to diagnosis for endometriosis specifically in literature is seven to nine years. It's crazy, right? It's not seven to nine years of onset of symptoms. Right. It's seven to nine years of workup. And I, to be fair, I operate in life from a belief that most people are trying to do the right thing all the time. And so I don't think that it's people are, are not paying attention or that it's intentional gaslighting. The gaslighting is very real and sometimes it's very overt, but it is appropriate when someone has painful periods to start with medical management. And so you can go through several rounds of medical management to determine that's not working. And the problem for a lot of patients, especially when they're not at a specialty center or seeing a specialist or seeing someone like Dr. Zapata, who is thinking about this and is going to send them to a specialist that she has access to, is that they continue to try failing medical management or continue to try other failing options or, or not exploring what are the other contributors to this overall picture of pelvic pain and they never make any improvement with it. Right. I started something on birth control. You should see some improvement in three to six months. And if you don't, we either change to something different or we need to explore what the next step is going to be. Okay. So let's, yeah, okay. This is great. So let's back up a little bit. I think kind of both of you mentioned, you know, these screening questions. I mean, so then how do we then diagnose? Or once you have a suspicion, what do we, how do we kind of explore if you actually have the diagnosis of endometriosis? Well, on my end, if I'm seeing someone say I saw them for their annual and I'm uncovering some of this, I would start with some imaging. If they're having pain with their periods or if they're having pain outside of their periods are telling me that they're having pain, pelvic pain or cramping and it's not just what their periods at some other time. I want to understand, is there a structural thing in their pelvis that is causing that related to their uterus, to their ovaries, assist? And so I might start with just an ultrasound. An ultrasound of the, of their pelvis. So usually that means that they, for women, if they can tolerate it, be able to use a, it's a little wand that goes in the vagina and it's able to look more closely at the uterus, take measurements of it, see if it looks and appears normal. Look at the ovaries on both sides. Look at if there's any cysts or any structures that maybe shouldn't be there, a cyst that is not part of the normal function. Cis, just to be fair, to say this out loud, almost every reproductive age woman has some cysts on her ovaries. That's their, that's what they do. They make this. Form one every time you have a really. Yes, it's their job. Yeah. I think you're the one that said that. It's their job. It's their job. It's their job. To be able to release an egg, even when people are taking medicines to sort of suppress that like a birth control pill, but cysts are common. We're trying to see is there a cyst that's abnormal, has characteristics that look abnormal, like in the setting of endometriosis. If I feel really suspicious that a person might have endometriosis based on the things that they told me where I have a high suspicion, I can order a special kind of ultrasound. It's not always available at all places that do ultrasound. With an endometriosis protocol where they look at tissue sliding and it helps us to know because a person doesn't always have a big endometriosis cyst called an endometrioma. They might have endometriosis and on ultrasound, you actually can't see it most of the time. The common refrain is people who had air quotes, normal ultrasound that showed normal uterus, normal ovaries with no cyst. On a routine scan, that's kind of all they're looking for. They measure the uterus, they measure the ovaries, if there's a cyst, they measure that and that's it. That's the end of it. If you've ever had a transvaginal ultrasound, it's like 10 minutes and it's over. You cannot diagnose endometriosis that quickly unless it's just a big cyst on the ovary. Endometriosis cyst is a very characteristic appearance to it. It should not be confused with a simple cyst or physiologic cyst. It can be conflated sometimes with a hemorrhagic cyst, which is just a physiologic cyst that has blood in it, but those resolve. Endometriomas usually don't. But these specialty protocols that Maya is talking about are particularly important and they are not available in most places. It is, unfortunately, it does often fall to patients if they have any access to this knowledge, which awesome advances with social media has made it so much more clear to patients that there's a higher level of care that can be sought. The endometriosis protocol, ultrasound takes about 30 to 45 minutes. But you're looking. We're looking. Because I'm guessing that not looking is also contributes. Absolutely. And so the sliding sign that Maya talked about is by far and away the single most important thing. So you can do a full, we call it mapping ultrasound. It really takes 45 minutes. You have to be very trained for it. Either the sonographer or surgeon has to do it. We don't get any training for that in residency. We didn't really get any training for it in fellowship. It's an evolving area of research in the last like five to 10 years. It's really tremendous. And they're unfortunately for us in the U.S. like in Australia and Brazil and Europe, there are people who are light years ahead in terms of that being closer to standard of care. But we're getting there. But you look to see, do these organs slide against each other the way that they're supposed to? Meaning your uterus and your rectum are not anatomically connected to each other. And so if we put a probe in and we push the probe up and the uterus moves with the rectum, they're probably stuck together and they're not supposed to be. But if they move in opposite directions because you're putting pressure on one and not the other, then that's probably normal. And that gives me then as a surgeon, an idea of what am I likely to find? Which is irresponsible to take a patient to an operating room outside of an emergent scenario without imaging to give you a roadmap for what you're expecting to find? So I might get that ultrasound back and it says if it's totally normal, normal tissue sliding, no evidence of endometriosis implants and they're having some pain, then I might delve a little bit more into what's causing that. Is there something in the muscles of their pelvic floor? Is there something gastrointestinal? I might have a lower suspicion. I might not push as much for further workup of endometriosis. But if there's any suggestion or their story even just still really seems like this sounds like endometriosis, I might order them an MRI to really get a better sense. MRI, you can tell us a little bit more. Does the MRI also have a specialized protocol? We also want a specialized protocol for endometriosis. Not always something that's standard. And so when patients, I've had patients where I ordered it, they got it done because maybe they live far at a radiology imaging place near them. We got the results and it really wasn't very informative and then I had them repeat it at UCLA through radiology where I knew we had someone who could read it and perform the MRI in this special protocol to be informative. I was telling patients, I'm not a radiologist but I can tell you there are some fine tuning settings to the MRI machine itself that makes it more possible to see certain kinds of tissues versus other kinds of tissues and you have to make a choice because it's ultimately a photograph of which thing are we going to look for and if they're not looking for it, they're going to miss it. Yeah, I can't help though feeling lucky if people are able to come and have these specialized protocols at places like ours. But logically speaking, if that's not accessible, if the person doesn't want to do it, some patients are like, I don't want to get an MRI. What's called a right? It doesn't make me feel better. There's also the approach of clinically trying to rule out. So I might offer them, let's use our first line agents. Do treat endometriosis and happen to treat painful periods that maybe aren't endometriosis. Okay, awesome. So even without the training, you might have a suspicion that there's endometriosis for whatever reason, whether it's not access, not availability. They can't do these specialized protocols with imaging because I think it's out there and so correct me if I'm wrong but I think there's a prevailing notion that endometriosis is so hard to diagnose. So I think when we sit around the table, I'm like, yeah, but just get an MRI because I'm a doctor too. So I'm like imaging, but you're right. I mean, an MRI can feel very overwhelming and a huge hurdle for a lot of people. Yeah, I think the to interject to, I think the overarching theme as well is that patients frequently getting told that their imaging is completely normal. Even in the setting of an endometriosis protocol, ultrasound or MRI, I tell patients, this does not mean there's nothing there. So we very frequently get, we call it a negative scan. I have all normal findings. It's reported this beautiful normal anatomy. Okay, great. What that tells me. So I go, okay, let's contextualize this because they think, oh, this is going to be really fast physics. I'm just going to say your MRI and show anything. We still go through. Okay. What does that tell us? I can say we know that there is not an impact on your ureter, which is the tube that connects your kidney to your bladder. I don't see evidence that there's a large volume of endometriosis or assist on your ovary or a large implant on your rectum. I don't see evidence that there is adhesive disease that's so severe that it could actually be damaging the organs that are surrounding it. So there's a lot of things we can get from that. You still could have endometriosis. Superficial or low stage endometriosis historically has been very difficult to see on ultrasound. The most recent research is showing us that it's not, but you have to know what you're looking for. It has to be the right setting. Patients anatomy has to be somewhat cooperative or more favorable to be able to see it. Some people can't even get that ultrasound. And many people can't do it at all. Yeah, many people can't. You mean you just don't have access to it? No, actually. You can't tolerate it. So it's 30 minutes of that problem. Tolerate is such a doctor word. It is. It is when we're like, we can't tolerate it. Right. It's true. It's uncomfortable. It's painful. They can't do it. It's exquisitely, ridiculously painful. Yeah. A 10 minute ultrasound is hard for some people. Yeah. And at 30 or 45 minute where they're really using a lot more pressure in order to make those diagnoses, they just are like, I can't do this. Right. There's no man on earth who could tolerate a transrectal for sound for 30 minutes. No. Yeah. Think about that. Yeah. It's a version. What version could everybody associate to? That you're asking a person to do so that we can get this information. Right. It's a big ask. Yeah. It is. But honestly, it's great to hear you say that. I mean, I think it's just not dismissing that the workups are work and they're painful and they're arduous, I think, is in itself. Yeah. Because sometimes patients might say, well, they ordered it, but I couldn't get it done or it didn't work. I went and it didn't work. I scheduled it for the one you ordered, but then they couldn't do it that day. So they did this other one. So now I have to go back another time. And then the doctor team saying, well, you didn't get the things they asked. Right. And oh my gosh, it really shifts the blame too. Yeah. Right. That's awful. Okay. So I want to go back to then sort of, let's say, just first line of treatment. So suspected, maybe we saw it on this specialized imaging or not. But if you suspect it, I guess, Maya, from your perspective, what are the first medication treatment options? Actually it's something hormonal. So some kind of hormonal modulating medicine, whether that is a hormone like a birth control pill, a hormonal IUD, a birth control pill may have estrogen and progesterone in it together or a progesterone only type of medication that sometimes is one that prevents pregnancy. Sometimes it's one that doesn't, but both work to sort of quiet down endometriosis if we're suspicious that it's there. And sometimes that changes the person's periods, meaning they don't get periods or it makes their periods less intense. And then we'll see how that works. Like Daniel was saying, usually in three to six months, they're going to feel better. And so sometimes people don't want to alter their periods and their cycling too much. So they might, it might sound acceptable to try a birth control pill, a typical birth control pill, because that sounds familiar to them. Maybe they took it for a short while in the past, but didn't love it when they tried it. Now we're having a different approach. Like we really want to make this painful period better. They might try it, period pill packs or the pill packs are set up so you get a period usually once a month. And so they might tell me, my periods were less intense or I felt good on that pill, but when my period came, it was still kind of really painful. So then I might try, let's, if that pill wasn't really bothersome, let's have you take that same pill, skip your period, just keep taking the active pills. And then let's see what happens. This is the hill I'll die on. Yeah, go ahead, die on a hill. Well, I mean, so this is a hill. This is a hill. I'm sorry. This is a hill I'm willing to die on. So every week we blow minds about the reality that if you're on a hormonal contraceptive that is suppressing your cycle, it is not physiologically necessary for you to have a period. And so taking birth control when tolerated, when from a symptoms. So translation on your birth control pack, you can skip the placebo week. Skip the placebo pill. The placebo pills are really a sugar pill. I have a tiny, tiny amount of hormone that's not enough. It's a patriarchal holdover that said a woman has to know that she's not pregnant or otherwise you can't, I mean, come on. But I like how you say it. Or that women aren't smart enough. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, but or that women aren't smart enough, which is also ridiculous, right? Unless it's done.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected Tell me how you took them. Did you get a period? Did you bleed each month? Did you skip those pills and then when they're like, well, no, I never I never tried that I was like, well, let's try this first to see that was an option. I like how I was like bringing us away from like our patriarchal Yes, of course, okay, but this is really helpful So any other medications then and again like I'm just gonna see if I got this right But the endometrial tissue or endometrium adjacent tissue ish It's hormone It responds to the cycling of hormones in a person's period So when you take a hormonal medication like a birth control pill that same goes for a ring or hormonal IUD Or just an oral progesterone hormone even a shot or an implant all of these things will help in these cases a lot of the time You're really partnering. I mean again, I love hearing this like you're partnering like you were saying like let's try this, right? Let's see how it goes Then let's try the more the longer extended one less There's lots of different formulations. You're the patient if it's not framed correctly It sounds very willy-nilly where they're like well, you're just trying stuff like you don't even know what's gonna help So I it is helpful to frame it is not clear. Everyone's body is different Everyone's body responds differently and so what works for one person with endometriosis or painful periods Does not work for the other or maybe it works well for you, but you hate how you feel on it Then that was not gonna be good for you. We're gonna have to try something else I mean about tolerance too. It's not just that you are okay to take a pill every day It's does it affect your mood? Does it affect your weight? Does it affect your gut? Your guy health? Some people have terrible nausea The the problem or the challenge is that for every type of birth control and every symptom that someone can have on it There are people on both ends of that spectrum. Yes, my mood is great. My mood is terrible. My hair is falling out My hair is great. I'm losing weight. I'm gaining weight. My GI is better It's worse, you know, and so it always comes back to an individualized tailored approach for that particular patient What works best for them sounds like one of our favorite Themes on the show shared decision-making. Yes, what it is Okay, so if medications don't help already it do I skip any other medications? Well, there are stronger medications called GNRH agonists and antagonists and these are not first-line medications I would argue they're more like third or fourth-line medications And so the brand names for those I'm not for allowed to say brand names That people hear most often or Lyssa and Lupron is an injection The what are they mimicking I think so the Modulating I want to know am I taking an actual hormone? It's not like actually taking estrogen or progesterone into your body Okay, but it's a medicine that Modulates or affects how your body sees or makes those hormones and so it really can change tissues that are affected by those hormones So I just put it because I don't want to put hormones in my body Maybe those hormones didn't work. Yeah, or they couldn't really take them Something like this we're gonna modulate hormones in your body and that because it's confusing sometimes the de way that the receptors work In your brain is the agonist is an antigenist So in the end they work similarly in that they're working on the hormone from the brain that ultimately stimulates the hormones from the ovary They are really really effective because what they do is they grossly down regulate the ovarian production of estrogen and progesterone but we're talking about going to technically in in Really tedious, you know Descriptions of it more of like a pre-menarcal or pre-period like pre-pubescent It's like shutting down But it's basically menopause if you're 25 years old and you take a GnRH agonist or antagonist You're gonna fill menopausal and that's what I describe it's you're gonna close everything like a menopausal nine-year-old I describe it as jumping off a hormonal cliff Okay, it sounds so fun. It's not a small thing, right? It's not a small thing It's not a good first time I'm saying that but again like again, I'm who knows how painful what measure you'll take for a horrible It is life altering to be able to get a medication like this now the biggest reason that Lupron especially it's been around for a lot longer It's an injection you can do it at one month or three months The biggest reason that Lupron has had a terrible reputation among patients is because it comes with they all come with a lot of side effects So basically you're 25 years old You take all the all the side effects that would have been experienced in menopause where you had a natural slow over years decline of estrogen production Hot flashes nights wets, you know brain fog like all of those symptoms And you're gonna have them much more dramatically because you were starting at a higher level of estrogen in the first place That's rough, but it also sounds but it's an option and it sounds like it would be life-changing But again, you can mitigate the side effects with estrogen to perfect Just a little bit of estrogen will take the edge off those symptoms without losing all of the effect of it And a lot of people This conversation though sometimes patients will tell me they tried that for a short one It was awful and I might ask a little bit Did someone give you some ad-bac therapy or a medication like a progesterone type medicine? Yeah, kind of gives your body enough hormones so you don't feel as terrible But can still allow you to use that medicine to quiet down the endometriosis and the effects that's happening on your body So a lot of still modulate and tinker with and again to bring relief and informed decision-making about what are those symptoms gonna be like you mentioned Wow Why would you say yes that if your symptoms are so severe and these other things either didn't work for you or you can't take them sometimes There's medical reasons why a person couldn't take a birth control pill or a ring or something like that or they tried them And they had terrible side effects They might be working their way to things that are helpful and often these are also Motivated by a lot of people don't want to have a surgery We haven't quite said the words that the gold standard of the way to actually diagnose endometriosis with 100% certainty If it's a surgeon who is familiar with endometriosis is actually look into biopsy it right that that narrative is Shifting a bit while what since we've gotten into the new era of endometriosis protocol imaging that maybe we can get a diagnosis Fairly certainly that diagnosis is not treatment right there's a difference in that regard for sure And one other thing I was gonna say Someone could look in someone's pelvis and it was before that is before that Because people have surgery I'm just gonna I'm gonna talk it'll come back to you Yeah, it's gonna come back to you Sometimes people will have had a surgery and they're like why even had someone do surgery and look and they told me I didn't have endometriosis So the biggest thing about the medical management part of this is that it often also brings us to a fork in the road and realizing There are other diagnoses at work for someone's overall chronic pelvic pain and I just want to say for a list of medical management means we use Medications, yes, okay. Yeah, but okay, so there's a right, but there's other conflated there can be there can be other Overlying overlapping overlying things if we successfully suppress your period and we know that because you don't bleed right you don't bleed You don't have cyclic symptoms anymore that would prompt be prompted by ovulation or by the period itself If that part of it is gone and you still have pain we should be looking for something else That's actually contributing to this which is the longer conversation that it much longer But you know only the two you know you especially are willing to have yeah And I just want to say too with the kind of individualized, you know the shared decision-making I just want to remind everyone too that you can make a decision And then you're allowed to evolve and just your decision-making is allowed to grow and evolve over time right with every piece of Additional information your own experiences. So I just I think it's so wonderful that You're taking an individual's goals, right and their You know own objectives in mind when we're making these decisions because they're not small early in the first consult I ask a patient where are you on family planning? Okay, because that impacts the whole conversation sure if they say to me Oh, I'm family complete. I've had my kids. I don't want any more. I hate kids and never wanted one in the first place Whatever we have a host of different options available to us than someone who says I'm trying to get pregnant I've been trying to get pregnant for years already right and so like let's just talk about that now then I think a lot of women think and worry about fertility Tell me how endometriosis affects or has an impact on fertility spoiler alert as we don't yeah Yeah, I mean there's a more it's a more complex answer than that But in the end we don't completely know it comes down to me to in sort of environment or or overall causes and then structural Okay, if you have endometriosis that's on the fallopian tubes The tubes are a hallway between the uterus and the ovary if the tubes are damaged to the point where they're blocked You cannot get pregnant Period the egg has to be able to get from the ovary into the tube or the in the uterus for the sperm to find it Right, so if the hallway is blocked can't get pregnant It's the same as having had a tubal ligation and so if that's the problem that's we have a whole path toward that Okay, the only way someone who has tubal blockage is going to get pregnant if the tubes cannot be repaired, which is not common Not commonly possible is going to be IVF. So that's a whole conversation to be having early on Say the tubes are normal then it's a less clear conversation So sometimes this endometriosis is affecting the uterus itself, which is called adenomyosis There is a very clear relationship between endometri between infertility and adenomyosis in the same context We think that both of these conditions are just creating an overall inflammatory environment. That's just not good for early pregnancy It's bad for sperm. It's bad for the egg It's bad for the very fragile early pregnancy that's developing and can lead to miscarriage And so that we think that's kind of where that where that is in settings of adenomyosis IVF is often recommended because you're skipping the most vulnerable part of that pregnancy at the very beginning outside of the body Implanting a growing embryo and they see better success rates with that. Yeah, but that's not where you start No, it's not where you start and I think then you know, I think thank you I just wanted to talk about that for a moment too because I'm sure there's other You know impacts as well. But so so going back to the medications Let's say we've reached a point where the medications aren't helping symptoms are controlled someone is still suffering What's the next step? Can we talk about kind of you know surgeries or other next lines of treatment? Well, I would want to know yeah a little bit more about what's not helping okay good We haven't said you mentioned a little bit about we talked about the pelvic floor a little bit But often people who have this chronic inflammatory response inside their pelvis or pain sometimes not related to endometriosis That's happening regularly for example even patients with inflammatory bowel disease will sometimes have Also dysfunction of the muscles of their pelvic floor, right? And so someone who maybe we did improve their symptoms on whatever hormonal thing we decided to try together Maybe a birth control pill, but they're still having some other pain I would do an exam to understand is there actual some of the source of the pain in your muscles of the pelvic floor? And so I would do a specialized exam to touch those muscles see how much how tight they are Are they tender and painful because even though a pelvic exam isn't necessarily a comfortable exam? It shouldn't be painful and I should be able to touch on those muscles Just like I should be able to touch on Daniel's shoulder here and he's like that I feel you touching its pressure But it's not painful if he had a stiff neck and I went and smashed on his shoulder muscle He would be like oh don't do that and that's sort of how the pelvic floor is if those muscles are acting or behaving abnormally Have some dysfunction and how they're able to relax and contract then they become tender and painful it that's part of what can make sex Uncomfortable you're more painful and can be contributing It's not always all of it that can be contributing or worsening their pain So then I can offer another intervention like pelvic floor physical therapy great to make that better And that might be something I can do in addition and then I might also refer them to Daniel to say Is there a role for surgery to see if we can take this to another level of getting you less pain? So it's almost there's also like not an either or right so I mean you could write so this is helpful I mean I'm we're layering things in and it's gonna be driven by the paint the patient because sometimes patients are like I don't want that referral because I absolutely don't want surgery I want to continue to try to change my diet and take care of myself to exhaust every option Sure, they go like other people have been through this they have been told they have been gaslit They are living with it and seeing no improvement. They are ready to go to the operating room in the end You should be getting improvement with what you're doing if you're not getting improvement with what you're doing You should be being offered surgery So then it comes into a question of diagnostic surgery versus treatment surgery, right? So in my hands diagnostic surgery has the capability of being treatment surgery because I'm prepared to deal with what I find Okay, so someone who's in a smaller community where there's not an endometriosis specialist Maybe they finally get to a point where either by suggestion from their doctor. I hope or by the patient just You know sheer force of will I want the laparoscopy. I need an answer. Okay, fine Diagnostic laparoscopy on its own in terms of just the placebo effect. It's not really gonna do anything, right? It's not treating anything But it can get us some answers and so does an answer make you feel better? Sure, because you at least have a direction to where you go, but it's not gonna relieve your symptoms But it could say hey, I have worse disease than what I thought that I had or than what they thought I had and I need a specialist Who's not in my community? So diagnostic laparoscopy where we put those small incisions like we talked about at the beginning and they put a camera inside and they only Look, okay If you're a patient who's in a small community doesn't have access to a specialized to specialized care for endometriosis And your doctor is going to take you for in for a diagnostic laparoscopy You should ask them for two things one you should ask them Please document every single thing that you found with photographs and give me a copy So that you can bring that copy to your consult with me so I can look at it because it's not typical practice So people will see with their eyes surgeons and this is nothing wrong But it's just that's depending on the age of that surgeon and yeah, and their style or that community They might look and write a very detailed beautiful report saying I saw Lesions in the posterior cul-de-sac, but if they then come to Daniel He's gonna want to know more information and what were they seeing what they thought they were seeing when you have a picture Yeah, that is very clear. I can interpret what that photo looked like I get told all the time I was told I had the worst disease someone had ever seen Okay, and then I take them to the operating room and it's like stage 2 disease That's very approachable from a surgical standpoint in the hands of specialists, right? Right so the first thing is ask for photographs, okay? If they label them even better I label I send my every single patient I operate on I send home with photographs that are labeled uterus Arrow endometriosis arrow no more endometriosis arrow so that they see and know exactly what was there one for the validation of that and to Their own records if they end up in the care of someone else who's not me So they can show them what they had the second thing They should be asking for is if you find endometriosis and you don't feel comfortable taking care of it at a minimum Please biopsy a suspicious lesion that's in a lawyer there in there Yeah, to get me a secured pathology diagnosis so that we're not guessing going forward. Yes Okay, now tell me what you do that was diagnostic. Yeah, okay, and so if it's you who's doing the diagnostic meaning while you're You know doing your diagnosis and you're doing definitely doing the biopsy tell me what you do then so obviously we've gone through The the full work up sure have imaging that's given us a roadmap to what we're expecting to find I do not expect in the absence of completely normal endometriosis protocol imaging to get in and find a giant ball lesion That we've not been prepared for I still tell patients There's a possibility that something has evaded detection Okay, that we might find and we're not set up to be able to take care of it a big lesion on their diaphragm that I need a Cardiothoracic surgeon to help me with or a general surgeon who's not available Some of those things are not safe to do without the right team assembled and the lesions let's the tissue All the time Legion lesion nodule disease or interchangeable I just like to share these words. I mean I have lesions are in a changeable Yeah, so all these implants nodules lesions the same okay, and the meat all the way up on the diaphragm I just want to say that again like you're teaching me so much But like the idea that like you would have way down here from the uterus endometrium Endometrium adjacent tissue all the way up in your diaphragm. So there's a few things I mean we have as a quick aside to that We have case reports of endometriosis in virtually every organ of the body including the brain We see it in the lungs like not the brain rarely There are case reports of endometriosis in male patients. There is something more here than just you have a period that leaks out of your tubes Right doesn't make sense the so from a surgical standpoint that The traditional approach to endometriosis in laparoscopy was ablation or burning these lesions so ablation surgery When I talk about ablation surgery versus excision surgery, which is what we do UCLA okay ablation surgery When you think of the endometriosis lesion on the surface of the peritoneum peritoneum is the stretchy lining of our of our insides The lesion is kind of like an iceberg you see the top of it You do not know how big it is underneath you don't know how widespread it goes You know how deep it goes so these lesions on the peritoneum might be only one or two millimeters on the peritoneum That doesn't sound like much but on a cellular level That's quite deep and if it goes much further than that then the question is a what's on the other side of it And is that lesion even so big that you couldn't burn it if you needed to so if we just put head-to-head excision versus ablation of stage one disease It's probably similar outcomes because these are small superficial lesions It probably can be successfully treated like that Ablation causes a lot of fibrosis though that I certainly can tell you as the person coming back to do that excision surgery later on I wish I'm worried it's so even more scarring even more scarring than that's already been there And so our goal then is to try to excise that tissue because when I excise the tissue I know I've got the whole iceberg but you're cutting it all out. What I'm leaving underneath it is absolutely normal tissue Okay, and Once you've had surgery are then you endometriosis free I have to say like I can't imagine given the fact of like everything we're talking about and it could be all these places and icebergs Yeah, so no, but not it's I mean certainly hopes So yeah, so we have to on from the very beginning of a consult about endometriosis have a real conversation This is a chronic disease. This is not a thing that I can cure you of It's not a thing that you will ever ever get to a point where you don't have to think about it at all Yeah, we hope with menopause that maybe because your estrogen levels are so much lower that you will probably see that improve Sometimes people go on really high doses of hormone replacement therapy or menopausal hormone replacement therapy They actually reactivate so there's a nuanced conversation in setting of people who have endometriosis who need menopause treatment They should not be denied menopause treatment, but we should have a nuanced conversation about what the goals are I mean, I'm just really Stunned by just how chronic the disease is and just how it sounds like just how global it affects, you know our bodies, but I mean I kind of think about dealing in coping with any chronic disease that Patients need support and community. I mean, what are what are you know, you mentioned pelvic? I think Therapy is like as a man. That's kind of like a modality of relief and treatment But what about like I mean what are other other I guess kind of overlapping diagnoses or conditions? I mean, I can't imagine people feeling great, you know mentally. I would my well-being would definitely be affected I mean it's variable, right? Yes Some people are pretty resilient with this and seem to be able to to handle it The impact that it has on their life and they feel like they're having a pretty full existence Otherwise all that subjective. Yes, if you feel like this is impacting your life, it's impacting it enough I tell patients all the time. This is not a contest of awful if it's bad for you. It's bad for you It doesn't have to be as bad as what somebody else had for it to merit treatment or merit attention There there's so much more support online than there ever used to be before We're looking at group models doctors of Pada as a champion for centering. Yes Education in patient care. I don't know if you guys have talked about we have but no let's talk about it again We haven't it's a centering health care is a type of group-based approach. It's patient-centered and it's facilitated Visit where the patients actually learned from one another we bring topics and they are the ones that are guiding the Conversation with an expert who then can educate them But it's based on adult learning theory Which we know that adults if you give them a lecture and even just in your amazing visit with patients You say this much they make take out this much because only so much can sink into an adult brain when you are trying to absorb All this information and it's evidence-based that when you do these different modules and activities They're based on adult learning theory patients retain much more. They feel validated They get the peer support so it's this way of building in peer support education the medical care They need in a patient-centered way, so we've got that going for pregnancy at UCLA. We have it going for menopause It's just we're getting started with it for a nutrition standpoint Yes So the nutrition component of endometriosis care and chronic pelvic pain is really also an evolving I feel like unfortunately everything is evolving still but it's a it's a currently evolving area of inquiry and interest and because we if you're dealing with Some spectrum of an inflammatory bowel problem or just a dietary intolerance That leads to inflammation in the gut people call it endobelida Swelling that the experience with your period that can be really profound Part of what we need to be focusing in on is is there a dietary component that's triggering some of these symptoms as well We're listening sure right there was a there was a survey study that was done Pretty recently that was asking patients with endometriosis of all the things that you try to change with nutrition What actually helped and so and it included all kinds of stuff supplements and all these everything you read about online And the only things that it showed that actually made a difference seemed to make a difference across this survey was reduction of alcohol caffeine Gluten and dairy mm-hmm, and so we start there and we start there with me because I'm gonna usually refer this patient if they have Severe bloating they need to probably seek Astroenterologists We have to build a team right yeah, and so there's some preemptive things that we can go ahead and start doing so we talk about We talk about It's a colony customer Exclusion like yes, that's not what it's called elimination elimination. Yes We talk about elimination diets and an elimination diet is where you take one thing out of the diet So you there's a couple of ways you can do it You can take everything out and slowly add one thing back in at a time or you can take one thing out at a time and see What what impact it has obviously one is severely more restrictive than the other But it can help somebody notice a huge difference I have so many patients that come back and they go oh, yeah, I cut x thing out of my diet I feel you know 50% better than I did already great and then they shared it and then they shared it groups And yes, you were saying there's not a lot there you you said this very logical like of course people would probably need support for this But healthcare is not set up. That's turn ice healthcare not set up for that type of Humans for the whole person support. So Daniel also like we're having to break out of the the historic paradigm of Pain is shameful. Mm-hmm women's pain means you're weak That it was not a thing that people talked about it's just like generations of our mothers that suffered with terrible menopause Yeah, they didn't have to quiet just that's why it because you know when you talk about it The more you hear that when you hear someone else's story and you're like I You're I thought I was the only one that had to do that like being able to share those stories being able to be witnessed That way is really powerful So we're trying to make this happen the centering for chronic pelvic pain endometriosis where patients They're still you can't get surgery in a group But the rest of the care that can support you in that journey because as we've described exactly a journey This is not like I go for one visit a consultation and then I'm done I get this one treatment and I'm done you need tools to help support you in your journey for Managing this healing from this and then how do I integrate this into my life when I want to have a baby? And how do I manage this when I don't want to have a baby when I? Are I'm having symptoms that are worse. I'm having stressors in life It's impacting some my relationship you need a different approach that is not just a one-on-one visit right you need the community I mean, let's just I mean and let's just talk about it. I mean why has this condition this chronic disease this I mean debilitating you know disease it's been around for thousands of years obviously since the beginning of human time Greek records of people within Dometriosis, I mean that's incredible and of course right we didn't have a label for it But that's what it was exactly and I mean I think that the naming the label all of these things are critical right to you know feeling recognized to Voice you know to getting relief But like why like why the silence? Why has it been overlooked for for for so long? I mean, you know, I think you we've talked about right that I mean it hasn't been a big part of our training I'm guessing it hasn't been a big part of research. I hear you using the words evolving It's never too late to evolve so but like why do you what do you both think like wise because it happens to women? Yeah People don't care about women, but you care. I mean like listen you're here both of you are here with dedicated our whole lives Yeah, yeah, first we do but we're still not perfect either Yes, I it's it's such a bigger question. Yeah, so chronic pelvic pain of any chronic pain chronic anything Yes, I mean you're an internist right? Yeah, so chronic anything is challenging. It takes a lot of time We operate in a healthcare system that says you should be able to do all this in 15 minutes That's impossible. I had to tell my old manager at my job before I came here one time I cannot do a chronic pelvic pain consult in 15 minute visit like I can't turn myself into a horse She's oh Like you really can't do it like it took such an extreme example I understand that I can't do something No, and no one would want you to no one wants to have a 15 minute conversation about that's a lot of it I think there's research too though. I mean there's obviously been a big gap in it was like 50 years ago We didn't include women in research at all. Yeah, and that's definitely still evolving I think it's really important to to think too about people with endometriosis. There's such a wide spectrum some people have Pretty severe endometriosis that's managed quite well with first-line agents. It gets better They're treated well, and they don't have a lot of symptoms. It doesn't affect their life much They just take this medicine every day, and they're great And then there's on this other side of the spectrum There are patients that either the medicines don't work for them the pelvic for PT the surgery They still have because of endometriosis Severe pain that is impacting them on a daily basis those people need to be handled and get resources They're different. It's not a one-size-fits-all thing and so I think part of what also has led to it over time being Maybe not focused on or given so much attention because sometimes People dismiss the ones that are on the the farther end of it They're more affected and assume that maybe that's just something about them and not the actual disease And so I think being able to really encompass like include everyone that that has that disease and be able to still address Even the most severe cases in a way that's appropriate for them I mean but even for you know such a you know difficult to diagnose Historically overlooked maybe challenging to treat but I have to say I mean I listen. I'm like, okay There's so much to do. I mean tell me how you feel about I guess then the chronic pelvic pain Have you been gratified as a physician in caring for patients and with this kind of? Yeah, that's why I mean I didn't go into OBGYN to do chronic pelvic pain things I think just by accident when I had worked at one of my old jobs I was next door to people that did chronic pain and they would get into my clinic because it was on the same day as the People who did the chronic pelvic pain so I would get them and then I would go ask my friends in the chronic pelvic pain clinic What do how to teach me something? Yeah, that's how I ended up doing a lot more of it But when you can say yes, we did this management of your endometriosis But this residual pain is maybe the muscles or you would qualify for an injection of something that could help those muscles to Soften whether that's Botox or or a light a keen and trigger point injection And then or or they just get sent to physical therapy that no one had sent them for before most people have never heard Most most people are like what someone's gonna put a finger in my vagina. Are you sure that's gonna help me again? Your colleague is coming on a show to discuss this Expectation like we are dealing with muscles that have been working in a dysfunctional way because of your condition for years When you start spousums and contract gonna be painful Contracted. Yeah, sometimes like well. I went once it hurt so bad that didn't work for me Can I say okay, so I send nearly everybody? I know I get real excited about this because I so for starters on a personal level I don't have a problem sharing. I have been to a pelvic floor physical therapist I've had a terrible pelvic floor spasm problem that was developed truly debilitating I think I did a pretty good job of taking care of patients before that happened to me It definitely altered my appreciation for what they're experiencing So when I tell a patient about going to pelvic PT I go there's a couple things you need to know one This is an internal exam. This is not a massage. It is not gonna feel good the first two to three appointments You're gonna probably have more pain after the appointment than you had before and if you don't know that you go to that first appointment You at home. You're like that's something happened. I am not going back to that We have to get through that It's the same as if you're not a runner and you go out and you run really hard Then you're gonna not be able to run again for you know a period of time But as you continue to do that that will get easier So usually after the second or third pelvic PT appointment if if you're doing internal work or internal exams And and manual therapy on these muscles You'll get to a place where you're maybe like a little sore when you leave the appointment But you're better later. Yes, and that's where you start really doing Improving really set that expectation. Yeah, that's important. Right. The expectation upfront and then I'm gonna also add Most physical therapist will also help patients with breath breathing breath breathing that relates on the outside Mindfulness and how you use your breath. Yeah, which then relates to chronic stress management Even if sometimes patients like but I'm not really stressed I have a job that I like and I might if my family's good. I'm good, but but integrated I mean even when we're bringing in, you know, Gia, you know, gastrointestinal  intestinal, IBS, all these symptoms, while I think everyone forgets, but while things aren't supposed to be stuck together, these organs are right next to each other. Correct. Right? And so, oh my gosh, I think about when you have a little sore in your mouth, I'm like, why does it feel so big? I mean, you think about inflammation around your uterus, your ovaries, and then right there is your bowels, your intestines, your rectum. It all is very, very connective. Inflammation in one is going to probably cause inflammation in the other. Exactly. And what you eat and how you feel. Stress, chronic stressors, well, worse than all those things. Yeah, we haven't gone quite as far as saying it. What Maya was just talking about is the element of pain psychology that is so important because so many of these patients have either been just flat out told or been made to think that they were crazy, which is just so egregious because you're not crazy, but you have this real problem that someone else doesn't understand. Which is its own psychological assault. Their own psychological assault, for sure, but the mindfulness component of that is so important. Patients aren't going to just learn that on their own. They have to be instructed in how to do it. And this is this other tool. And have an expectation. And have an expectation. Just all of a sudden doing a meditation app for five minutes isn't going to make your pain go away, but we have evidence about how that might change, how you perceive it, how you're able to manage it while you're waiting for whatever treatments to slowly improve things because it's not going to just like a light switch. Right. But it's also this whole toolkit. And again, it's not like. That's exactly right. So, you know, it's not just the control pill or, you know, the GRNH hormone modulator. Look at that. It slipped off the tongue. You know what I mean? Or, you know, and or surgery, but it's also sure it's the mindfulness. It's the nutrition. So I just really commend you for thinking about it in this because we're human beings. We're not just like one organ. Okay. We're going to go to our asking for a friend. Yes. Okay. I have bad cramps and I've been watching a lot of videos on social. Should I get tested for endometriosis? That's such a such a great question. Yeah. But that often will come to me when they come for their annual. And I'll tell them there is no test. There's just no simple test for endometriosis. And so I would ask them some more questions to say, tell me more about your painful cramps like we talked about earlier. What's happening? When are you having discomfort? What have you tried for it? Is it better when you try those things? And then are you open or willing to an ultrasound? So an ultrasound is a pretty easy way to just get a sense. Just a regular ultrasound. Is there a big old endometriosis cyst that we're like, wow, yes, seems like you might have that or is it more than on other investigation afterward. But yes, yes, it's a start. And so that's something that's available to most people. And you know, some gynecologist might be a little bit resistant when a person goes into their annual exam. Like you don't need it. I don't, I did your exam or your, I mean, I don't think you have endometriosis, but it's something that you can ask for and they should be able to say yes today. So maybe the question too is like, not only should I get tested, but should I talk about this? You should talk about it. And after talking about it, the person might not even want an ultrasound after talking about it or feeling reassured about what their symptoms are or what they do or don't have. But I think that starting with an ultrasound is a great place with the understanding that it is not a screening test. There is no screening test for it and that there's so much more to understanding about the symptoms or happen. But even if it, even if it happened as a screening test, right, we don't just routinely screen just like we don't routinely screen with ultrasound for a variant cancer, right? You're going to find cysts that are nothing that lead to surgery that didn't accomplish anything and hurt somebody. So you, you wouldn't just start doing an endometriosis ultrasound on every single person who has no symptoms. All of the management that we have in the context of endometriosis and chronic pelvic pain is symptom driven. Okay. That's really helpful to know because I mean, it kind of goes into the next question, which is I'm 28. I want to have kids someday, right? I'm hearing, definitely listening to us, right? You know, concerns about fertility. What if I have endometriosis? I think a lot of women are going to feel this way. This is probably the one of the most common. Right? What if I have endometriosis and I don't know it? And again, I think this speaks to your spectrum of symptoms, right? Like maybe I don't have debilitating periods, but is there a silent part of the condition? I mean, it definitely can be. I always tell patients like one person stage one disease is someone else's stage four symptoms and vice versa. So you definitely can have, have that be there and have had no, no reason to know about it. I think it's especially difficult for people who are not considering pregnancy until later in the reproductive years, right? What is, what does that consider? So I mean, we consider anything after 35 to be advanced maternal age, which is horrible. You're advanced maternal age 36 or so. You're just conveying the name that it's given. I know. It's what it's called. I didn't invent it, but they got, yeah. But they, you know, any, anytime we're like getting to that range. So what I, I tell patients in their 20s, so I forget how old this example was. We'll say she's 28. It's a perfect age, right? So you're a long way from where we were worried about that. Where, what do you foresee is what your ideal timeline would be. If she says it's in five years, I go, go live your life. When you get to the point, if you're having, this is presupposing no symptoms, right? Presupposing no symptoms. There were symptoms, we're working that up. But if there were no symptoms, is it go live your life? You do not have infertility until you have infertility because I have never told a patient with endometriosis or PCOS that just because they had that diagnosis, they cannot get pregnant. That's how people have an unintended pregnancy when they, they were. That's a very important message. It happens all the time. If you don't have absolute confirmation that you truly cannot get pregnant strictly based off of a diagnosis, you need to be using contraception if you're sexually active and you're not trying to be pregnant. Yeah. No, it's a blurry line because I think I appreciate that people want to be proactive, but at the same time, right? We don't want you to have unnecessary. And that's along the lines. This same type of patient might come in and also say they're not trying to get pregnant yet, but maybe soon. And then they would like some kind of workup, or might they hurt, my tubes could be blocked, but I want to know if they're blocked. And so we really wouldn't just order that exam. Number one, it's invasive. It's painful. It's a very painful exam to see if the tubes are open. And just because I prove that your tubes are open does not prove that you're going to get pregnant on your own. That is one among many factors. One many factors. And so I would still say the exact same thing. You don't have infertility. You have infertility. So I might change some of the workup. So if I have this person who's like, I was told that endometriosis, maybe this, the history they give me seems pretty consistent with how they had symptoms. They were put on the birth control pill. This 28 year old, it works great. I feel great. I love how things are. But then when I go to get pregnant, let's see. So I might say, we have, we have pretty sure you have endometriosis. You're off your pill. If you're not getting pregnant, maybe I shorten. Yeah. Maybe I short your 28. You should have pretty good ovarian reserve and be able to get pregnant pretty quickly. So then I might say, we're going to start the workup. We're not going to use the same definition of what we count as infertility for you because I have this other suspicion. We might start that workup with seeing if your tubes are open, with doing some other imaging, with sending you to reproductive endocrinologist sooner because that's individualized based on what I know about you. Again, there's still no one test for your fertility, but I'm going to have a higher suspicion and I'm going to advise you differently. Speaking of ovarian reserve, maybe we could define that because our next question is, as I heard, endometriosis could impact my ovarian reserve. It depends. Okay. If you have endometriosis that's not affecting your ovaries, probably not. If the endometriosis is an endometrioma, which is just the name for an endometriosis cyst on the ovary, then it is for sure going to damage your ovarian reserve. So now we automatically have to go back to what are our goals, what's our timeline. So say someone has an endometrioma, it's of a small to moderate size that in and of itself may or may not be causing really bad symptoms compared to one that's like the size of a volleyball or a cantaloupe or a grapefruit that is certainly going to be very symptomatic, it's going to be painful from a pressure standpoint, et cetera. The first question that we want to know is what's the goal here? First what's the symptom, then what's the goal? So if the symptom is pain, it needs to be treated period, full stop. If the goal then is, I'm in the middle of a fertility workup already and we've discovered that I have an endometrioma. Well that's where we have to start making some team discussions here with your infertility specialists about what do they recommend because they could check a test called an anti-malarian hormone or an AMH that can give you as best an estimation as we have, relatively nonspecific, but it's a better estimator than even an ultrasound looking at your antral follicle count of what your ovarian reserve is and your likelihood to have good quality eggs that could lead to a pregnancy. If we know that someone has a low ovarian reserve already and they have an endometrioma, we probably need to be more conservative in the way that we approach treating that endometrioma compared to someone who has a very high ovarian reserve. Their ovary could quote take a hit a little bit more, you could maybe completely remove that cyst, get them sufficient or not sufficient significant symptomatic relief, probably going to experience some decrease in your AMH level or your ovarian reserve overall, but if you're starting at very high level, maybe that's okay and we see it rebound a little bit afterward, but if it was really bad to start with, it's going to be even worse afterward. You're describing treatment just to be really clear, meaning take out that endometrioma that's on the cyst, one could imagine that an expert surgeon could just gently peel that away and leave the ovary untouched, but that's not what that really looks like. That's why you're talking about a hit, to really remove that abnormal tissue that's adjacent and connected to the ovary usually means damaging the ovary a certain amount that most ovaries, many ovaries rebound from just fine, but in this scenario when we're really focused on fertility, that might not be something that that person's body could handle. In the question of fertility, we talk about subfertility, which is maybe you don't have like an outright cause of infertility, but we have subfertility where just the overall milieu of what would create a successful pursuit of pregnancy is suboptimal. The question of how you approach this, endometrioma on an ovary compared to a physiologic cyst, a simple cyst that has fluid in it or one that has blood in it, those separate really easy from an ovary, from a surgical standpoint. Endometrioma is like dense velcro. As you start pulling dense velcro apart, if one side of that was normal tissue, it is stripping that normal tissue off, it's stripping those follicles also. It's not just a simple question of, hey, you have an endometrioma, I should take you to surgery and take it out. Yeah. That's what you're describing is so difficult to really say without the context of one person because it can be so different. People have surprise endometriomas and get pregnant no problem. We diagnose them on the first ultrasound and I'm like, oh, hey, by the way, there's this cyst. I mean, first ultrasound for their pregnancy. For their pregnancy. No, because when you confirm a pregnancy, I'm also looking around at your ovaries. Do you have fibroids? People have surprise fibroids. People have surprise endometriomas and they're like, I have no pain. My periods aren't even painful. Like I had no idea. We would manage it. We don't do anything to it. So that's what I was saying. The spectrum can be so wide that not everyone would need an endometrioma taken out. They might be managed in a way that means we just watch it. We use medications in the setting of getting pregnant. There are people that know it's there. We've managed it and watched it. And then they just get pregnant on their own. And then there's people that just can't get pregnant. And then we're trying to decide what's the best way to manage your fertility and your endometriosis. Yeah. I mean, the last point on the endometriomas question too is in shared decision making and counseling with their infertility doctor for someone who already has poor ovarian reserve or low ovarian reserve. The answer may not be that we only just watch it. Say this is like an 8, 10 centimeter grapefruit size endometrioma. It's causing a lot of pain. The recommendation may be just drain the cyst. We don't routinely drain ovarian cysts. If it's a cancer, that's the wrong thing to do. But we should have a very high degree of certainty that we talk about sensitivity and specificity when we talk about tests. And the higher the sensitivity is, the more likely it's going to be the thing you thought it was. The higher the specificity is, the higher the chance that the thing you didn't think it was is not what it was. So if we know that an endometrioma that has this very characteristic appearance on an ovary has an exceptionally low but not zero chance of being a cancer, could possibly be drained. We get you symptomatic improvement from that. The problem, of course, is that an endometrioma that's drained can recur. But again, we come back to what are our goals. If we're in the middle of trying to get pregnant, that might get you relief, not retain most of your ovarian function or your ovarian reserve that's already there so you can pursue forward toward pregnancy. Most patients during pregnancy with endometriosis are going to have really good control of their symptoms. It's actually kind of quiet down. Yes. But it's not treatment. No. On the list of insane things that people have said to women for many, many decades has been just get pregnant. That kid has to go to high school and be a part of your life forever. That's not a treatment for a thing that happens every month. After pregnancy, so sometimes patients, it gets so much better that then after their pregnancy, then they'll say, well, I don't want to go back on anything because I'm feeling great. I'll warn them. It's going to come back. Let's talk about year to year. We might need to use those treatments. Have a low bar to restart therapy. I know I have to get you guys back to your real lives. I just need to ask this though because this just sparked a question for me. Is that okay if I keep asking some questions? You mentioned the pregnancy quiet down. That's going to remind me as a general internist that people say the same thing to me about autoimmune conditions. Is there an idea that there's any autoimmune component caused to endometriosis? Again, I was just at this conference this past week and that's a newer topic that we're talking about. Are you saying I'm on the cutting edge? You are. I'm on the spear. Are you a deep cutting edge doctor? Your question is on the cutting edge though for sure. We don't have the research to show it. People make some wild claims about what we know or don't know. We make a lot of assumptions. We certainly have some very basic science evidence that on a cytokine level, these really small enzymes that we see, maybe there's a difference in patients with their enzymes with microbiome. The cytokines, for our audience, people probably remember these. These came a lot up during COVID. I don't know, the cytokines and inflammation. It's interesting because you have pregnancy. Chemical messengers. Because we have this high estrogen state but a low inflammatory environment. Those chemical messengers get released in inflammation. When there's tissue that is inflammatory, whether that's from some other autoimmune disease or inflammation from some other chronic condition, those little messengers wreak havoc in different places. Some of those cytokines, just to get nerdy over the research part of it for a second, we do have studies that have shown that people have a decrease in their inflammatory cytokines after excision surgery. Great. We're going to move on to from the rooftops because I have to say that it seems to be that the other tool is awareness. If you could shout just one message, you can say as much as you want, from the rooftops to anyone suffering or wondering about endometriosis, what would it be? Make sure that they've had a conversation and they feel like the person is listening to them. They've been able to talk about different options and really feel like options have been explored and explained to them. We're real good as doctors about giving you a bunch of information but that doesn't mean it was explained well. Someone might have been given options that didn't make any sense to them. What that feels like if you're the patient is you didn't get any options. It still has to make sense and understand the rationale of why we would start this approach. For example, with the physical therapy, if it doesn't make any sense, why would you go do it? You have to understand how that might be a helpful tool while you're doing these other things so all the pieces need to feel like they make sense and have some of the physiology explained which is not intuitive. Great. Amazing, obviously. There are two. One is to a younger person or to a parent of a younger person. If your period is interfering with school, you should be investigating it. If you are not making progress on any particular treatment modality, progress means I'm getting quality of life back. I can go do the day I had planned for myself. You should be investigating this further and that might require a referral to a specialty center. Was that two? I think so. I was going to say, I'm just so riveted. Young people with bad periods that are impairing their quality of life should be investigating. I like that you're also bringing in a parent or guardian. It's the advocacy as well. Oh, man. This should be for our friends too and especially younger people. I see a lot of parents that come in with their younger adult or adolescent, even patient for a console and they are carrying a tremendous amount of guilt because they've seen this devolve over time into worse and worse quality of life. Sometimes these kids are not able to go to school at all. They're on a study from home program because they're missing so much school they can't go. That translates then 10 years later as an adult into someone who can't keep a job because they keep getting better. Yes. Horrenda's like that. But often fear too because especially when we just said that most of the treatments are hormonal based. A lot of people, like my child is too young, I don't want them to be on hormones. When symptoms are that severe, there has to be a real conversation understanding what the different treatment options look like and then the implications or the impact of that disorder that's happening in their body on their long term health and well being. It's not one size fits all but it requires a conversation to see is there something we can do to make them feel better even if it's not our first line treatment. Maybe that's not an acceptable option to that person or that family but is there something else we can be doing to make them feel better? There is always something else. It sounds like there's a fear of diagnosis but it's always just reminding everyone to balance out if not eclipse that fear of diagnosis if that's there with just the relief. The relief that's a huge, huge option. Okay, those were great. Wait, I just realized why don't I get a rooftop? Bear with me. I'm new to podcasting. Maya is like you and your pain deserve attention. Yes. Okay, Maya, Daniel, I could really talk to you forever. I can't thank you enough. This is not only just so informative. This is obviously such a critical conversation. I look forward to having you both come on but I think just even just there's so much to demystify but even just explain and explore. There's still a lot. I know that they're evolving. Go. Another thought. Ask for support in your life like adult people and children in school who are young adults in school or people that they just know they're managing it their best but they can't go to work during those days because of how they're managing it or what their symptoms are. You can get like FMLA, you can get a note from your doctor. Family medical leave, yeah. You can talk to your job and we can ask for an accommodation. And find a community. Find a community of people and there are ways to accommodate around. Even if you're doing all the things sometimes you still need that and people don't feel like that's an option to ask for. Don't know that that's an option. If you don't need it you can be the one to provide it. That's right. Don't be alone because you're not. It's beyond encouraging. I mean it just to me is transformative. Both of you, who you are as people and as physicians and what you offer your patients. It's not nothing. I want to say it's the norm. I can't wait to normalize you and your approach. As genotour listeners I hope that everyone you all feel empowered to listen to your bodies, partner with your providers, keep asking questions until you're heard. And my goodness I think to anyone living with endometriosis you can both speak as well. But I would say while we don't have a cure, I mean I think it's very clear that there's medications, there's therapies, there's minimally invasive surgery that can really bring relief. And just as important clinicians like Dr. Zapata, Dr. Genhu, really take your pain seriously and advocate for you. Thank you both so much for sharing your expertise and your compassion. For our listeners there's links to trusted resources in the episode description and for everyone. Until next time, stay curious and healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. Thanks.

=== FILE: Frenemies： Understanding Infectious Diseases and Outbreaks [afcwJCgofM0].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone. Welcome back to UCLA Health's medically speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Today we are welcoming someone I deeply admire, my colleague and dear friend, Dr. Dan Uslin, infectious disease specialist and chief of infection prevention here at UCLA Health. Today's topic is germs, also known as microbes, pathogens, bugs, those tiny troublemakers that hijack our sinuses, take down kindergarten classrooms, and occasionally audition for the next global pandemic. Full disclosure, I am fascinated by microbes. I have actually mad respect for them. I see them. I give them space because they seem like villains, I think, often of the human story when really they're the reason we're here at all. I'm going to nerd out. They've built the first ecosystem. They actually invented oxygen. They've been ruling the planet for about 3.5 billion years while we humans basically, in some ways, just occupy them like we're the fancy Airbnb's that they occupy. Some of them help us digest food, strengthen our immune system, and literally keep us alive. Then others take us out and make us question our life choices. I'm looking at you, oysters. So thank God Dr. Yuselin is here to break down microbial basics, share what actually works to prevent infection, tell us the truth about antibiotics, and give us practical steps to stay healthy without becoming that person who wipes down individual Dorito bags. Dan, welcome to Medically Speaking. Thank you. Delighted to be here. Okay. Let's just start very simply for everyone. What is an infectious disease doctor? Well, quite simply, we're doctors that specialize in infectious diseases, but of course, most patients with infections don't need a specialist in infectious diseases. In fact, the vast majority of infections are treated by primary care physicians, urgent carers, emergency rooms, and you don't need an expert in infectious diseases to treat those infections. So we usually get brought in when there's one of three possible issues. One is they need our expertise in diagnosing something. So maybe somebody has possible meningitis or has had a fever for several weeks and nobody can figure out why, or they're being treated with antibiotics and not responding appropriately. So they need our expertise in diagnosis. The second reason is that they need our expertise in treating an infection. While most infections like garden variety, urinary tract infections, or sinus infections, like you mentioned, are fairly straightforward, occasionally they become infections that are difficult to treat. Perhaps the bacteria are resistant to usual antibiotics and we need to use something a little bit more complicated. Or perhaps it's a patient that has multiple allergies to medications or their difficulties with dosing it for something like that. So that might be the second reason is our expertise in treating an infection. And then I guess probably a third reason and a smaller reason why we might get involved is that they look for our expertise in transmission of infection. So is there a risk to family members, to healthcare workers? Can this person work? Can they go back to school? So occasionally we'll get involved in some of those discussions as well. I mean, I have called on your expertise many times as a primary care provider, as a resident. So okay, thank you for that definition. I'd love to now ask you if you could explain to our listeners what you do as your chief of infection prevention. Sure. So infection prevention is exactly what it sounds like. It's essentially trying to prevent infections from spreading from person to person, which in healthcare is quite complex because really virtually everything we do in healthcare has infection implications. And I have honestly yet to find an example of something we do in healthcare that doesn't have potential infection implications. Let's think through some examples. So there's the obvious stuff. Like when our surgeons operate on patients, how do we make sure that that surgical equipment is properly cleaned, disinfected and sterilized so that we can't spread infections from patient to patient by the surgeries that we do? When we are feeding our patients in healthcare, we're essentially running a restaurant. So just like you think about, you go to our local sushi place, you hopefully have a letter A in the window. We're serving food in our hospital systems. We want to make sure that that is also a letter A. The construction that we do, anytime you're opening walls or ceilings or doing some major renovations, there's dust and dust plus time can equal microbes and that can be dangerous. So virtually everything we do in healthcare has infection implications in some shape. Sometimes you'll hear what I do called infection control. I prefer the term infection prevention. Control implies to me that the infection's already happened and we're just trying to control it. Whereas I like the idea that we're trying to prevent it from happening to begin with. I'm actually, I didn't even think of how complex that is. Yes, I hope we have a letter grade A. I know we do in our cafeteria. But it's delicious. It is. The omelet bar. Okay, well I'm going to, you know, on that note then, let's get into your origin story. I hope it's a villain origin story. What pulled you into medicine in the first place? And then specifically, I guess, ID, which is infectious disease. Sure. Yeah, I wish I had a cool origin story like I was bitten by a radioactive microbe or something like that. But unfortunately no. But I can actually trace my interest back to when I was a child. And I took classes with my father at what is now I think called the Los Angeles Science Center, but back in those days with the Museum of Science and Industry. And we took this class that was called It's a Small World and it's essentially was about microbes and in particular how they can affect the food that we eat. So we looked into things like fermenting. We made sourdough bread. We made sauerkraut, all of which require microbes to make. We did not make wine or beer because I was six. Yeah. And kombucha was not a thing yet. But certainly bread and sauerkraut were. And I was fascinated by this idea that there were microscopic things that you could not see with your eye that had such dramatic impacts on the world around us. And as I move forward in my career and continue to be interested in medicine, I always kept coming back to this idea that there are invisible things that can have such wide range and consequences in human disease. So you also have the mad respect. Oh, absolutely. In fact, I find it so humbling working in this field because I'm constantly learning new things and microbes consistently surprise us. I love it. So let's do a quick germs for humans crash course, if you will. I mean, I think we use all these names interchangeably, but what are we really talking about? I guess when we say bug, microbe or even infection. Yeah. So generally, we're talking about microscopic organisms and we mostly divide them into four buckets. Those are bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. A lot of these terms are used interchangeably. So some people say germs, some people say microbes. I prefer not to use the term bug because of course that has implications like insects. And sometimes I find that if you say like we're treating this bug, people may misunderstand that and you mean to say you're treating a microbe, but people might interpret it differently. So I don't like the term bug. But often these terms are used interchangeably. Yeah. We don't need the creepy crawly either. There's enough of that. There's enough of that. You know, and it's interesting because I think I was even already making a distinction between an organism and an actual infection. So I think what I'm trying to get at is that we coexist, I'm guessing, with many microbes because we do have something called the microbiome. And I was wondering if you could kind of explain that. Yeah. So microbes are ubiquitous. They're around us. They're our skin in our mouth, our nose. They're in our digestive system. In fact, they're critical as you hinted at in your introduction. They're an important part of us being alive. And we have what's called a symbiotic relationship with those microbes. Symbiotic means that we both benefit from that relationship. So we give them a place to live. We give them nutrition, for example, in our gut multiple times a day that helps them nourish and grow. And in exchange for us giving that to them, they help us digest food. They make certain vitamins for us, like vitamin K and vitamin B12. They're an incredibly important part of us being alive. So rather than viewing them as kind of an enemy to be conquered, there's a mutual benefit there. And without our microbes, we could not exist. We are a community. We are absolutely a community. Okay, let's talk transmission. And you mentioned transmission in terms of what you do in infection prevention. So how do microbes actually spread? I think that it'd be great to focus on what happens in actual real life versus your basic Hollywood depiction like contagion, which haunts me every day. So there's lots of different ways that microbes can spread because they all have different parts of the body that they infect. They have different ways that they cause infection. So we generally think of a couple ways. So the most obvious perhaps just because it's been on everybody's mind so much over the last few years is respiratory, right? So you can imagine you're sitting in the waiting room of, you know, the DMV, someone next to you's got COVID, they're coughing, sneezing, you're sitting right there, you're inhaling that that's a potential route of transmission is inhalation or respiratory. There's also things that are spread through contact. So by touch. So things like COVID are spread mostly through inhalation, but other types of infections are spread through contact. So a great example of that is what's called norovirus, which you've probably heard about. I'm sure your listeners have as well. That's the one that tends to cause so many issues with cruise ships. And that tends to be spread through contact. So it's on a surface somehow. I touch that surface and then I touch my mouth, I rub my nose, whatever, and now it gets into me. So that's a great sort of mechanism. Then there are microbes that spread through sexual contact. And your guest, Dr. Landovitz, recently went into a lot of detail about sexual transmission of infections. And then there are some things that spread through blood. So HIV, hepatitis viruses are a good example. So there's lots of different ways that things can spread and really depends on the nature of the organism and the particular route in which it's transmitted. Okay, great. And I think it's really helpful to hear sort of the different microbes because then I'm guessing that then informs that there's different tools, whether it's treatments or ways to prevent them from infecting you. And if we could just one more time just emphasize the difference between colonization of a micro versus infection. Because again, we have this community of organisms that live with us symbiotically, but that doesn't necessarily mean that you're infected. Correct. So yes, as I said, we carry microbes all over us, they're ubiquitous in pretty much every part of our body on the skin and the nose, etc. They're not causing problems. Microbes are there and normal to be there. They're essentially what we call, as you said, colonizing organisms, which essentially means that they're present in a particular part of the body, but not causing an infection. And we distinguish that between infection, which is the presence of an organism, and it's causing an immune response, which is causing symptoms. So sinus inflammation, urinary tract symptoms, diarrhea, whatever it is. So it's not just the presence of the organism, it's there plus the immune response to that particular organism. And that's what distinguishes colonization versus infection. Perfect. I could never explain that so beautifully, just FYI. Okay, so we obviously can't really talk about infectious diseases without talking antibiotics, which obviously one of medicine's greatest breakthroughs. I personally, and I guess you agree, really feel like antibiotics have changed the world. It blows my mind. I mean, when was penicillin, do you think, invented, like 30s? It was late 40s, mid 40s, and then really commercialized after that until the early 50s. Yeah. I mean, it hasn't even been 100 years. I personally wouldn't be alive without antibiotics today. So let's start with basics. What do antibiotics do, but then also maybe we could go into what they don't do. So antibiotics, and just to clarify some of the terminology, we talked about the four different types of microorganisms that we think about. So bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites. When we use the term antibiotics, we're generally referring specifically to things that kill bacteria. So we distinguish that from antivirals or antifungals or antiparasitics. And of course, because those types of infections tend to be less common, antibiotics are the ones that we by far use the most. And antibiotics kill bacteria. And that's an important thing to keep in mind. It seems so obvious. But what that means is that antibiotics, for example, don't fix holes in things. So when we see patients, for example, who have chronic diabetic foot infections where they have bone that's infected, antibiotics will kill the bacteria. But if there's a hole in somebody's foot from an untreated infection, the antibiotics aren't really going to fix that hole. If someone has a perforation in their bowel, perhaps from God forbid a gunshot or some sort of trauma, antibiotics will kill the bacteria that are present. But they're not going to fix that hole. And so antibiotics have a role. And it's important to sometimes think about what they can and can't do. And that's why we often will have to work so closely with our surgical colleagues trying to understand the best way to treat something like a complicated infection. And that's complicated. Antibiotics also don't cure the flu or the common cold. Correct. So antibiotics have different types of bacteria that they cover. So we call that in our world the spectrum of activity. Some treat different types of infections. And this gets complicated. But what antibiotics don't do is only kill the one specific bacteria that's causing an infection. So antibiotics have a spectrum of activity. They don't kill every single bacteria, but they don't kill only one type either. That becomes important when we think about the healthy microbiome like we discussed earlier and whether that antibiotic is going to have potentially untoward consequences that might have risks to an individual beyond just curing the infection. Right. A great example for that to me is when a young woman might be taking antibiotics for a bacterial, let's say respiratory infection and then ends up getting a yeast infection in her vagina because you can explain it better. Right. But the yeast overgrows in that environment. Right. That's a great example. So exactly right. The vagina is one of those body parts that normally has bacteria in it, completely normal, expected part of being alive. So when I take antibiotics to treat a sinus infection, I'm going to treat other things as well. And so yes, in women you can cause a yeast infection by essentially wiping out the normal, good, healthy bacteria that are supposed to be there, which now in some ways almost kind of creates a vacuum where there's an opportunity for yeast to overgrow and cause an infection as well. Okay. Great. What does it mean when we say bacteria are becoming resistant? So bacteria over time develop genetic ways to counter the antibiotics that we prescribe. In fact, literally within a few years of the development of penicillin, we started to see bacteria that were resistant to penicillin. In fact, Alexander Fleming, who discovered penicillin, wrote about this in a New York Times editorial, I think it was probably 1953 or so, warning of the dangers of overuse of penicillin that we would indeed see resistant bacteria to penicillin. And we did and we continue to do so. Because they're just trying to survive. It is an evolutionary thing. In fact, Nobel laureate Joshua Letterberg famously said that the future of our relationship with microbes would evolve as a battle of our wits versus their genes. It's amazing. And unfortunately, their genes are going to continue to win out because they're just trying to survive, as you said. And so over time, with continued exposure to antibiotics, they evolve ways to escape them and become resistant. Well, I'm guessing too they replicate a lot faster than we do. They sure do. Don't be nervous, everyone. Can you give us an example of an infection that used to be easier to treat but now is harder because of resistance? Yeah, so I think kind of the easiest example that many of your listeners might be familiar with is a bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus, where back in the 1950s, that was one of the first bacteria we saw becoming resistant to penicillin. So nowadays, virtually all Staph aureus is penicillin resistant. In fact, we kind of get surprised and wonder if it's actually correct when we see that it's susceptible to penicillin. That's not very common anymore. But over the last few decades, we've also seen emergence of Staphylococcus aureus that is resistant to an antibiotic called methicillin. And we call that methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA. Some people call that MRSA. And that particular bacteria, which is a very common cause of, for example, skin and soft tissue infections, becomes more complicated to treat when you have now lost a certain category of antibiotics that no longer are effective for treating it. And just for our listeners, Staphylococcus aureus, sounds so fancy. A PCP like myself, we call that Staph. You've probably heard it in the everyday lexicon, Staph. Indeed. I care immensely about this. And obviously, you do as well. Why should the everyday person care deeply about this? So I think there's a couple of reasons. One is that, obviously, on an individual level, we want to make sure that if and when we get an infection that we have antibiotics available to treat that infection. And we've already seen, I'm sure you've seen as a primary care doctor, people who are not individuals you would expect to see a resistant bacteria in, young, healthy women with a year of urinary tract infection, where all of a sudden we're now having to go to a third or a fourth line antibiotic because the ones that we would normally use to treat it, perhaps are not effective. And that makes things much more complicated for that individual and often adds days to their suffering with symptoms until we find the antibiotic that's effective. But then I think the bigger picture is on a societal level, whereas it's not just us and our symptoms. It's our loved ones. It's our communities around us. It's those individuals who perhaps have weakened immune systems, invasive medical devices like catheters in their bladder or IVs for chemotherapy, in whom are at higher risk for acquisition of bacteria and becomes much more difficult to treat than if it's resistant. So it's really part of being part of a global community. It's not just about, can I treat my infection, those around us as well. Exactly. So besides overuse of antibiotics, which again, I just think that's, we're using them a lot, are there other reasons why bacteria are becoming resistant? So overuse is certainly the most common reason. And another big thing that your listeners may not be aware of is the use of antibiotics in agriculture, and in particular in the meat industry, where antibiotics are used not to treat sick animals, but to prevent them from getting sick, essentially as growth promoters. And in fact, around 80% of antibiotics used in this country are used in agriculture, not in humans. And often they are the same antibiotics that we would use in humans. In fact, you can go, if you drive through Minnesota or something on your way somewhere, you can stop at a animal supply store and get a giant bottle of Cipro that's labeled not for human consumption, but Cipro is Cipro. So these are the same antibiotics that we would use in humans that are often being used in animals. And that then helps promote the issue of antibiotic resistance. Okay, what about, because this is, maybe I'm incorrectly telling my patients, so feel free to school and schooled me, I always tell my patients to take the antibiotics for their full course. And I usually use the word resistance, if they, you know, if you're only doing it for five days because you already feel better, that might lead to antibiotic resistance. Tell me I'm wrong. Yes, so you're not wrong. However, I think one of the least understood aspects about treating infections is how long to treat them for. I remember I had a professor back when I was first training, so this is 25 years ago, who said to me that duration of antibiotics should be football scores and safeties are not allowed. That was a direct quote. So what did he mean by that? He meant seven days. 10, 14, 21. Well, those are football scores, right? So multiples of seven. And the bacteria don't care that it's a multiple of seven, right? The bacteria are just being killed off by the antibiotic. So what has really started to be something our field has paid a lot of attention to in the last 10 or 15 years is really a mantra that we say shorter is better, that we want to give as little of that antibiotic as is necessary to treat that infection without over treating it. So if there's an infection that I could cure, like a urinary tract infection in three days, giving that patient 14 days of antibiotics becomes overkill, and that's what we start to worry about with promotion of antibiotics. So there needs to be a lot more research, and there has been quite a bit already in how to optimally treat some of these infections. And it doesn't just have to be a multiple of seven just because. I love it. Yeah. So the overkill is a version of overuse, too. Right. But your field, right? You're always looking at this, optimal doses, et cetera. Yeah. And the other thing I'll say is that stopping the antibiotic course before you've completed it also results in someone then having leftover antibiotics in their medicine cabinet. And next time, all of a sudden it's, hey, I've got a runny nose and I've got a big trip coming up. Oh, I've got a couple days left from that time. I had a urinary tract infection two years ago. People are often. Inappropriately using. And either they don't truly need an antibiotic or it may not be the correct antibiotic. Maybe you gave them something for a urinary tract infection. Now they're trying to treat sinusitis. So that becomes problematic as well. You know that's the number one asking for a friend. Yes. I've got some antibiotics just hanging around. Absolutely. Okay. Let's talk infection prevention, which you have a very important work that you do for St. L.A. health. What are the biggest infection risks in hospitals today? I mean, it was great to hear. Honestly, I hadn't even heard, had even occurred to me sort of all the spaces where you are preventing infection. But what are the biggest infection risks that you're kind of dealing with? Yeah. So I think obviously our biggest concern is transmission of what we call MDROs, which stands for multi-drug resistant organisms. And back to our earlier discussion, those are essentially bacteria that are resistant to lots of different antibiotics. Patients who are hospitalized, especially for a prolonged period of time, are at very high risk for picking up infections because often they have compromised immune systems. Maybe they've had an organ transplant or chemotherapy. They also have invasive devices like what we call a central venous catheter, which is a type of IV that is used to give certain types of medications. Or they have a catheter in their bladder or they're on a ventilator. And all of those types of devices bypass the body's normal defenses at getting an infection. So you have a combination of weak immune system and then bypassing of normal defenses puts those individuals at very high risk for getting infections while they're hospitalized. And now if the types of infections they're getting are extremely difficult to treat, that now results in not only obviously risk to that individual, but now they have to stay longer. When a three-day hospital stay now becomes a 10-day hospital stay or complicates other medical problems, like perhaps if they have asthma, now you catch pneumonia on top of that, that makes things much more complicated for that individual. So those multi-drug resistant organisms are a big focus. And when we think about how infections are transmitted in the hospital, there's basically three main ways. So the first is like the example I used earlier of someone sitting in the waiting room catching a respiratory virus. So directly from person to person. The second way is through healthcare workers as the intermediary. So patient A has an infection, healthcare worker takes care of them and then spreads it to patient B. And so you know the reason that healthcare workers spread infections from patient to patient is of course hands and lack of hand washing. So that's a major focus. And we've known since the time of Dr. Ignace Semmelweis, who is a Hungarian physician practicing in Vienna in the 1840s that hand washing is a critical way to stop the transmission of infections in healthcare. And then the third way, which I actually find the most interesting because I think it's the least well understood, is through the environment and equipment. So not hands, not directly, but through things like a bed, sinks, blood pressure cuffs, stethoscopes, these things contribute to spreading of infections from patient to patient. And more importantly, what do we do to prevent that from happening? Do they? Do they contribute? Absolutely. And I think under appreciated ways. I completely agree. So we're coming up with tools then. For example, I remember when I was a resident and I was more practicing in the inpatient setting, if there was a patient who had tuberculosis, I think for everyone listening, there are many, many precautions. We don't have to go into every detail, but there are many precautions that we take as providers to not transmit infections from patient to patient, room to room to room. But it's interesting to know that that's still evolving, especially in this kind of the surfaces and I guess contact transmission. Exactly. For example, an area that has been getting a lot of attention in the last decade has been the role of water in healthcare as a way of transmitting infection. So I'm talking about sinks and ice machines and showers and things like that, which you're like, well, those things are critically important and absolutely they are. But it's not hard to envision how, let's say hypothetically, you've got a sink that is contaminated with a particularly nasty strain of a bacteria, the one we often worry about is something called pseudomonas. And if it's living in that sink, it gets very difficult to eradicate that because this particular bacteria can form what are called biofilms, which are essentially kind of a type of slime that can stick to surfaces and metal in particular, but other surfaces as well. And now that can become very difficult to eradicate from that sink drain and now people could do things like splash that water somewhere it shouldn't be and spread that bacteria around to other surfaces, which then potentially could infect patients. So how do you prevent that from happening? People aren't totally terrified. What are we doing to prevent that? I mean, besides geniuses like you behind the scenes. So we have incredible teams that spend a lot of time doing work to prevent this from happening. Because I can say, as someone who works in administration, we aren't rife with infections in the hospital. So you guys are doing everything. Absolutely. Right. But immense efforts. Incredible teams in environmental services that help us ensure that our environment stays clean and spotless, which is not just emptying trash. It's wiping. How do you wipe? What types of disinfectants? For how long? How do we clean our sinks and showers and ice machines? We've got incredible colleagues in our facilities department that ensure that we are maintaining things appropriately. There's always new technology evolving in how we disinfect, how we clean, how do we enhance the cleaning that we do to make sure that we minimize those risks. And monitor. Absolutely. Right. Yes. It's amazing. It's amazing. Right. I mean, I think you should feel very proud of all these teams that you work with because we have a very low infection rate. We do. I mean, that's incredible. I have to say, I don't think everyone appreciates all that work that's behind the scene. Yeah. And it really does take a village. There's so many people who are involved in daily operations. Quite frankly, the environmental services workers, that's probably the hardest job in the hospital. And I say that without reservation. Right? That's not a job most people would want. And they work very hard. And a big part of the reason they do what they do is to help prevent infections from spreading and make sure our patients are safe. It's incredible. Yeah. I'd love to, if it's okay with you, I'd love to kind of talk about some of the emerging infectious diseases. What we hear about Ebola is one of them. And I feel like as a health system, we prepare to kind of care for highly contagious patients. We'll see in like L.A. Times or like patients are coming in. Someone got off at LAX with Ebola. What do you do in leading our teams to prepare for a patient that has?  anemerging infectious disease coming to one of our clinics or to one of our hospitals. Yeah, so it's a really fascinating topic. And I guess I would say another way to frame this would be how do you prepare to care for a patient with a highly contagious disease that you'll probably never see? But if you do see it, you really, really don't want to mess that up. So you remember in 2014 when that first Ebola patient came to the hospital in Texas, it was not recognized for several days, and it led to quite a disaster for that hospital because of the number of people that were exposed and actually some nurses were infected as well. Nobody wants to be that hospital, but at the same time, it's extraordinarily unlikely that you're going to see a case of something like that. So you're preparing for something unlikely to happen but with dire consequences. So we have an incredible team. We work very closely with our Office of Emergency Preparedness and multiple stakeholders, nursing, our emergency department, administration, all sorts of different stakeholders to make sure that we're prepared. So there's a couple different parts to it. One, of course, is just awareness. So knowing what's going on in the world globally. So for example, there is a outbreak of a viral hemorrhagic fever called Marburg, which is very similar to Ebola ongoing right now in rural Southwest Ethiopia. We don't get a lot of people from rural Southwest Ethiopia coming to Los Angeles. So that's probably less of a concern for us. But back in January, February of 2020, when we have a lot of people flying from China to Los Angeles, that was a very different concern. So just understanding where these things are happening in the world and staying aware. A big part of what we've done is travel screening, which is, for most of these infections, there is still a geographic component to them. If there is an Ebola outbreak going on in the DRC, well, it makes sense if someone's coming into the emergency department, we can ask them, have you recently been to the Democratic Republic of the Congo? But that has to be within reason, right? If we were going to ask everyone who's coming into their primary care doctor for an annual physical, hey, have you recently been in contact with anybody who has Ebola, it would be ludicrous. So trying to think of ways to do that in a thoughtful way that's not overly burdensome. And targeted. Yeah. And then really thinking through how somebody could get into our system with something like that. How would we respond? What would that first hour look like? Where would we put them? Who do you call? Where do you house them in the hospital? What supplies do we need? How are we going to test them? And then I think the next part that we've had to think a lot about is what does clinical care look like for a patient like this? This is not going to be business as usual. You're not going to send a third year medical student and, you know, into the room and say, okay, go take your history and examine and come back and present this case. Let me know what's happening. Exactly. And a lot of the incredible healthcare delivery that we do involves ancillary services, right? It's not just the doctors and nurses, but it's the physical therapists and chaplains and dietitians. Well, it's pretty obvious to say we're not going to have those people going into that room. We'll have them do perhaps what they do through telemedicine, which we've learned a lot about through COVID. But some of the other stuff becomes thoughtful too. Like what about imaging? We rely so much on x-rays and CAT scans and such for what we do in healthcare. How are we going to navigate that if we had a patient with something like Ebola? Because usually just for everyone to know, like you could be like on the third floor of, you know, the hospital in your bed, you might have to go down four floors and six hallways to get to the CAT scan machine. Right. And we're certainly not going to take a patient with Ebola through the corridors of the hospital to do that. Right. Just my office. Yes. Yeah. Just your office. Exactly. What about surgery? Are we going to do that? What does that look like? So thinking through a lot of that stuff. A lot of thinking on your feet. Well, or with your brain. I think the idea is to do a lot of that thinking before it happens so that you don't have to make it up as you go along. Did you, I mean, I'm just going to say this, and for our listeners, you know, Dan and I really, I like to think we went through COVID together. And do you think though of COVID as now is, I mean, right now we're saying, for example, we're categorizing like Ebola as an example as unlikely to happen. So from where we're sitting now, does COVID, did COVID feel unlikely to happen? I think we were all aware that a pandemic of a coronavirus was in the realm of possibilities. In fact, likely this was not the first time that's happened. Of course, there was the original SARS back 25 years ago. So I don't think that was unexpected. I don't think we were quite expecting to have it happen as quickly as it did as overwhelming as it did and to be as disruptive as it was that quickly. And we felt very confident that we could care for a patient with Ebola. And so when we first got a patient with COVID, like, yeah, we got this, et cetera. But then all the stuff around it, what about exposed healthcare workers and their developing symptoms? How are we going to care for our healthcare workers? When can they come back to work? We're still having that conversation. Exactly. All of those types of things, I think needed to be developed on the spot. And as you remember, public health guidance was changing so rapidly. I mean, everyone was doing the best they could. Everyone was doing the best they could. But stuff that seemed like an absolute truth day one, now on day 21, it's like, well, wait a minute, we don't think that way anymore. And that was very challenging. So challenging. I mean, I will say it to everyone. I mean, you were so heroic during that time and always, I mean, you really got us through it. Are there lessons just top of mind learned that inform now yet, you know, your approach to infection prevention? Yeah, I think really understanding who the individuals in the organization are that can help us do a lot of these things. And we worked so closely with individuals that I had not had a lot of interaction with prior to that. A great example of that is our materials management department. So they're the ones who keep all of our stock rooms stocked and our supplies up to date. And all of a sudden it was like, hey, we need 10,000 and 95 respirators. How many do we have? Well, we have 5000. And when are we supposed to get more? Not for another couple weeks. Well, that's a problem. So being able to work with a lot of those different groups to understand how to best care for patients, I think was really an important lesson learned for all of us and for those groups as well. Yes, so much as infrastructure. My heart rate is literally going up as disgusting COVID right now. I mean, just this kind of the how we coped, you know what I mean, and how we approached it. Well, you know, speaking then of kind of a little bit more of a more fun topic, but you know, our hospitals are incredibly well cared for. Thanks to you and your team. We do have like this fabulous animal assisted therapy. So what is that like from an infection standpoint point of view? It's called PAC, the PAC Connection, the people animal connection. It's the best animals come in, including a little donkey, you know, and visit some of our patients from an infection standpoint, prevention standpoint. How do you approach that? Yeah, so this is really fascinating. So we can think of animals and healthcare in several different ways, right? Of course, there's service animals. And there's emotional support animals. But what we're specific talking about is animals when used as therapy. So these are not seeing eye dogs. These are not emotional support animals. These are animals where their purpose is to bring joy to the people who are interacting with them. And so much comfort, so much comfort. And I've said several times like, yeah, they are great for the patients, but they're really great for the healthcare workers. And when you see some of these animals walk through the lobby, it's like, you know, everyone swarms around them because immediately they just bring so much joy. But how do you do that safely? Well, obvious things like where can they or can't they go? And it makes sense to say, okay, well, they're not going to go in an operating room, right? That's obvious. We're not going to bring them into a newborn nursery. That's obvious. But it gets a little bit more complex and nuanced and making sure we think through some of that kind of stuff. But then the other parts are, well, are we going to require them to see a vet? And what vaccines do they need to have received before they can safely come into our healthcare environment? Do they need a bath? How soon before? And we've worked closely with our PAC program to make sure that we can have those animals come visit and do it in a safe manner so that they can bring all the joy that they bring to our healthcare patients, visitors and employees, but do it in a safe manner. I mean, it is challenging. I mean, you're just talking about like sinks and surfaces, right? I mean, animals are, you know, covered in fur, right? They are their leashes. But so far, we haven't had any issue. We haven't. And I think that's really a testament to how incredibly well run our program is that it's done so safely. And just a great example of that is hand hygiene. So if you ever interact with the animals, I'm sure you've seen them in the lobby, their handlers carry around hand sanitizer with them and like, hold on, clean your hands first, see the animal, then you clean them again afterwards. And they're very almost religious about that, which I think is wonderful. It is. It reminds me of being at birthday parties when my kids were little, when there was always like a turtle and someone's making you wash your hands afterwards, right? Yes, exactly. We're worried about salmonella and turtles. We are. Correct. I'm glad I remembered that. Impressive. Yes. I think kind of, so this is real, so, I mean, obviously, this is incredibly illuminating. It's so complex. It is such a testament to the teams and keeping our patients and health workers safe. I guess I would say like in, I kind of think of hospital as a very, not rarefied, but as a very particular context. But, you know, again, we have tons of patients, people who work in clinics, right? And in offices. And I guess just an everyday life. I mean, you know, I want everyone to feel permission, you know, not to be overwhelmed by, you know, thinking about all these like invisible microbes infecting them. But I mean, I personally feel very much at, you know, very comfortable living my life knowing that these microbes are living symbiotically with me. Sometimes they might be causing an infection. I mean, just in a practical everyday, let's just talk about schools and daycares, for example. I mean, are they really driving infections? I mean, what's fair to say? And how do we kind of keep ourselves safe day to day? Yeah. So I think schools and daycares are unique. Yeah. And what's the word? Example, because any parent knows, like, you know, you send your kid back to school, like a week later, they're all getting money. It's like the Obonac those years. Exactly. And daycares in particular, right? Because what do little kids crawling around on the floor do? They pick stuff up, they put it in their mouth. Someone else picks it up and puts it in their mouth. So those are certainly areas where we do see a lot of transmission. But also a lot of that is building healthy immune systems, too, right? And what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. And those kids are being exposed to those germs and generally getting immune experience from doing that. Who knew Nietzsche was an infectious specialist? Do you feel like it's safe to travel internationally right now? I do. I think it's important to be aware. And there are lots of resources for an average traveler to identify potential threats. And the CDC does have great information. If you go to CDC.gov, you can look up every single country, you're going to be by destination, you can I'm going to Botswana, what do I need to be concerned about? And it's got good advice, including some maps. And then I'll always advise people who are concerned or in particular, if they have any high risk medical conditions, to discuss that with their primary care doctor or see a travel medicine specialist, because there may be a need for vaccines to catch up on or unique ones for the destination that they're going to like typhoid, for example, or medications they may need to take like malaria prophylaxis. And so having a discussion like that can be helpful, especially if you have any unique medical situations that may make travel a little bit more risky. But you know, the number one risk to travelers is not infectious disease. It's often personal safety. All of a sudden people are renting moped and cruising around in Bali on a moped. And that's a much higher risk thing than just the risk of infection. So that's really important to put into context because I do think people are instantly like, what again, what bug am I going to get? What about, you know, again, not all of us are traveling internationally, Dan? What's my biggest everyday infection risk, you know, just out and about? I mean, right now, it's still respiratory viruses, right? We all get multiple times a year. And despite all people's best efforts to wash their hands and such, we still really get a lot of respiratory viruses. I think the thing though that keeps me, I don't know if I would say up at night, but certainly keeps me concerned is measles. And what we're seeing with measles in the US, and I certainly don't want your listeners to be afraid or scared because it's still extraordinarily rare. But when we're seeing resurgence of measles, especially when, in fact, people are traveling through very dense places like you mentioned LAX earlier, especially now during the holidays. Right. So measles is really perhaps the most contagious infectious disease that there is. And when someone with measles walks into a room, they can transmit it to somewhere around 15 to 18 unvaccinated individuals, which is a lot. And measles is not just a cold. It's not just a cold. It has very severe consequences, especially for people who are perhaps young, have underlying health conditions, etc. And what worries me is somebody with something like measles walking into our emergency department and potentially infecting. Right. Or clinic and just being in the waiting room. Exactly. Right. And I will say, I mean, this is where I think being part of a really fantastic health system like ours, I mean, you'll send out emails and say, if someone comes in with suspected measles with X, Y and Z symptoms, right, rash, fever, runny nose, let's say, you know, we have protocols of saying like put them in a room, isolate them, you know, etc. But no, it's, I mean, it's a really important point. This is a potentially fatal disease that you don't have to have. We talk all the time about what we call the three eyes. So that is identify. So recognize that a patient might have something. Yes. Isolate. So somebody like measles, you're going to put them in an exam room and close the door. You're not going to have them sitting in a waiting room for an hour until they can see the doctor. So that's the second eye. And then the third one is inform. So picking up the phone and calling someone who would be somebody like me. I was like, call Dan starts at the C. But yes. Call Dan starts at the C. But yes. So identify, isolate and inform. And then we will essentially provide advice and take it from there. Yeah. Okay, this kind of this goes transitions great into our asking for a friend because we have a lot for you. Virus versus bacterial. Can symptoms alone tell does a fever mean it's bacterial? Not necessarily. None of those types of symptoms are to use the medical term, we talk about sensitive versus specific meaning whether something is good at ruling something in or out. And fever alone doesn't necessarily imply that it's bacterial. There's plenty of viruses that cause fever like influenza. So that's not particularly helpful. Another question we get a lot is about color of mucus or sputum. Yes. So green, yellow, does that necessarily mean and the answer again is not necessarily it can perhaps suggest that there's a bacterial infection but not with nearly enough accuracy to really make you as the physician be able to make a comfortable decision about should I give this person antibiotics or not for example. So sometimes the mucus sitting around makes it kind of turn yellowish. Absolutely. And for sinusitis for example, it's not particularly helpful knowing that the mucus is green versus clear. So these things are perhaps diagnostic clues but not anything you would ever hang your hat on. Right and come in and talk to us about them. Right. As I always say, don't Google alone. Right. Don't Google alone. Google with us. I like that. We already kind of touched on this but I think it's worth repeating. If I have left over antibiotics in my cabinet, can I just take them the next time I'm sick? No, because they might be the wrong antibiotic. Right and then you'll be and also like, can I just say this too? I think sometimes yes, most of the time when antibiotics are warranted, they are well tolerated meaning you take them, you don't feel terrible but sometimes like they can cause you to have diarrhea. Sometimes they don't make you feel well, let alone causing a yeast infection as an example. Exactly. So it might be the wrong antibiotic. More likely you probably don't need an antibiotic at all and then you run the risk of causing side effects. Now there are a couple exceptions to that. A common one that some of your listeners might be aware of is occasionally women who have recurrent urinary tract infections, especially for example after sexual activity, their primary care doctor may give them an antibiotic to have on hand. So as soon as you get the symptoms, you start it. Don't wait miserably. Exactly. So there are certainly exceptions to that but certainly as a general principle, having left over antibiotics to take is not good medicine. Right. Actually, and this reminds, sometimes this comes up a lot with my patients, they begin with what seems like a cold, let's say a low grade fever, stuffy nose sore throat and they say, well can I take a Z-Pak now so it doesn't turn into something? Thoughts? So that's unlikely to happen. It's unlikely to help. What I'll say is if you do nothing, you'll get better in seven days. If you take a Z-Pak, you'll get better in a week. I love it. I'm asking for my kid, do we really need to sing happy birthday twice while washing our hands? So it's so funny because there was a lot of attention paid to this of course in early COVID days and there is absolutely data suggesting that the longer you wash your hands, the cleaner they get and with what? To a maximum of about 20 seconds. And after that, you don't get much benefit. So unless you're a surgeon scrubbing into the operating room, you don't need to be sitting there scrubbing for a minute or two minutes or 10 minutes. But certainly 20 seconds is better than one second. So how do you count 20 seconds? Well, you certainly could sit there and count 1, 1,000, 2, 1,000. That's kind of boring. Singing the happy birthday song twice ends up about 20 seconds. I'm ready for another song. There's a lot of other songs. So depends on what you're into or your genre. So Love on Top by Beyonce, the chorus of that is about 20 seconds. Not my particular genre. You heard it here folks, Dr. Eustlund. Not my particular genre. More my particular genre is The Chorus to Africa by Toto. If I get bitten by a mosquito, should I panic and web-md myself into a West Nile virus? I mean diagnosis. Yes, I definitely would not panic. Fortunately, these things are still extraordinarily rare. There has been exactly one death from West Nile virus in Los Angeles County this year. So mosquitoes are very interesting and complicated. So there's really two kinds we see in LA County. And I'm sure you and your listeners have experienced both of these. So the ones that we've had for decades here are what are called Kulex mosquitoes. That's C-U-L-E-X. Those are the ones that kind of classically bite it in the evening dusk. So you're sitting out having a glass of wine and you're patio or something. You get a mosquito bite. They usually tend to bite once. They actually prefer not biting humans. They prefer other animals, birds in particular. And so those are the ones that can spread West Nile. What we've seen in the last few years though are different kind of mosquitoes called anopheles. And those are different. So they tend to bite during the day. They fly very low and tend to bite ankles. They can bite through clothing. And they often take multiple bites. Whereas the Kulex mosquitoes just do it once. So all of a sudden you walk into the house after being outside gardening for an hour and you're like, oh my god, I have like eight mosquito bites on my ankle. How did that happen? So that's those newer anopheles mosquitoes. And the concern about those is that they can spread some of these other viruses, Dengue in particular, is one that we get concerned about. So the best protection is just not to get bit. So rather than being worried about what happens if I get bit, let's talk about how you prevent getting bitten. So the first thing to do is not have mosquitoes in your backyard. Mosquitoes can breed in some very small amounts of water as small as a bottle cap. So going around, especially after we get rain, like we recently did here in Southern California, and making sure that you don't have any watering cans that have an inch of water in them or a pool cover or a bottle cap or something where there's standing water where mosquitoes can lay their eggs and breed. Second is to cover up. So if you don't have exposed skin, it's harder for mosquitoes to bite you. So if you're out gardening or spending a lot of time outside wearing long sleeves, wearing long pants, trying to cover up as much as possible. And then lastly is using insect repellent. And most of the ones that are available contain deet, which does work quite well. And that's the one we certainly recommend that people use. And it has to be reapplied. So it's not like you put it on once in the morning, and then you're good for the whole day. We recommend reapplying it throughout the day, just like you would with sunscreen, which also brings me to if you're outside gardening, you're going to be using sunscreen, hopefully, and you're going to be using insect repellent. So which do you put on first? Tommy. Okay, so people don't think about this. So right. Sunscreen goes on first. Okay, you want it directly on top of your skin. Insect repellent goes on afterwards. I like to use the analogy because this may date me a little bit. But do you remember the old Peanuts comic strip with Charlie Brown? Do you remember the character pigpen? Yes. So pigpen always had this like cloud of dirt around him. You would see him in every panel, he just had a cloud of dirt. So that's kind of what insect repellent is trying to do. We want a cloud of insect repellent around us. So if you put your insect repellent on your skin first and then put the sunscreen over it, you're essentially negating that. So sunscreen first, insect repellent on the outside. I will never forget this. Especially the pigpen. I will. Exactly. Okay, let's go back to measles. If I got my childhood shots, am I still protected or do I need that measles booster? So if you have documentation of two childhood immunizations, that is considered sufficient evidence of immunity and you are essentially done. And those immunizations work extraordinarily well. Where it gets tricky is if somebody perhaps doesn't recall. That's insane. The tricky part is people don't know. I think I did. I grew up in the United States. I don't have it anymore. That was 40 years ago. It was 50 years ago. And generally the measles vaccine is extraordinarily safe. There are some contraindications like pregnant women or people with weakened immune systems. But if there's a doubt, it's not dangerous to get a booster from your primary care doctor. That's very reasonable to do. But generally, if you know that you got two vaccines as a kid, you're good. This one's my favorite question. I feel like it comes up in my Google field whenever I say can I? It comes up as the first option. Can I drink alcohol while taking antibiotics? That's actually a fairly interesting question. You would think it would be relatively straightforward, yes or no. And the answer is it depends. It depends on what kind of alcohol it is. Yes. The gronies are great enough. So it depends on the antibiotic. But backing up a little bit. So what would be the concern theoretically about taking an antibiotic and alcohol at the same time? So there's a couple. One is perhaps that the antibiotic wouldn't work as well. So it might be less effective. And I think in general, there's not a lot of data to support that that actually can happen. So that it won't work as well to treat my infection because I drank alcohol with it. The bigger concern is really side effects and toxicity. So could I cause some sort of adverse reaction? Somehow could it damage my liver, etc.? So there are a couple antibiotics where it's pretty clear that drinking alcohol and taking them could potentially be toxic. So many of these are antibiotics we don't prescribe all that often. So for example, there's an older antifungal called ketoconazole that we really never prescribe anymore. There's another one called grizzio-fulvan. We almost never prescribe anymore. So those are less common. When you actually start to go back and look at some of the medical studies looking at alcohol and antibiotics, it's usually either a study that was done in laboratory animals where they gave rats an antibiotic and then I'm picturing like a drink with a little umbrella. I don't know how they give the rats alcohol to drink, but in some of those studies were done in the 50s, 60s, and 70s, or it'll be one or two patients in a case series where they'll say, okay, this is a patient who took this antibiotic and by the way, they were alcoholic and they had this side effect and we think it was from the antibiotic. It's really hard to know how to interpret that, especially 50 years later. That's not how we would perhaps do a clinical study these days. There was a paper I remember reviewing a few years ago where they looked at different chain pharmacies, CVS, Walgreens, Rite Aid, and compared their stickers that they put on prescription bottles of antibiotics and found that there were actually a lot of inconsistencies. So there would be certain antibiotics where Walgreens would put a warning label, don't drink alcohol, and CVS would not or vice versa. So if the big pharmaceutical chains haven't really any consensus about some of these, the reason is probably because there just isn't much consensus. So what I generally say is it's probably okay to have alcohol in moderation, which is good advice not just for taking antibiotics, but life in general. A single drink is unlikely to cause any problems. There is an antibiotic called metronidazole or flagell, which has a lot of concern about potentially taking antibiotics, but that's one of those antibiotics, sorry, potentially drinking alcohol. That's one of those antibiotics that when you actually start to go back and look at the studies that were done, it's probably not as strong an association as people would have you believe. And then there's another antibiotic, a newer one called linazolid that can have potentially concerns if you ingest a lot of food with tyramine, which can be found in red wine or like craft brew or certain types of cheeses, but the amount of those things you would have to ingest to cause problems while you are on that antibiotic is so high that it's probably pretty unlikely to cause a problem. That really is a it depends answer. It is and it's along with the answer. I wish I could say yes, it's totally fine. Trip off your tongue. Yes. Okay, no, no, that's actually very, very helpful. And by the way, you know, if you have questions, you can ask your doctor. You don't have to Google or WebMD this. Yeah, the pharmacist, the wealth of information. We had a pharmacist on, we had Dr. Melissa Denathall on. Awesome. Okay, as an infectious disease specialist, what are three things that you would never do? Well, I certainly would not drink raw milk or unpasteurized dairy. We've known since Louis Pasteur's time that that pasteurization is incredibly important to reduce the risk of transmission of microbes through ingestion. So that's certainly something I would stay very far away from. Three things I would never do. That one was a really good one. Actually, that's a good one. I'm always up to date on my vaccines. I think that's important. Should we never skip a vaccine? Correct. And certainly a informed discussion with shared decision making with one's primary care doctor about vaccines and risks and benefits is always a good idea. It's a big theme on the show is partnering with your provider, you know, discussing your goals, concerns, deciding this together. Absolutely. And then I guess the last thing is I would not take antibiotics that I don't need, which again is a discussion with your prescribing doctor. And I think part of the way we are going to get ourselves out of this antibiotic resistance crisis is for there to be a shift in consumer approaches to antibiotics. Right now you still hear a lot of, can you believe it? I went to see my doctor and she did not prescribe me an antibiotic. I was just going to say that. And what I would love to see is a shift to, can you believe it? I went to see my doctor and she tried to prescribe me an antibiotic and I don't even think I need one, etc. Well, exactly. Getting away from kind of this transactional approach, which is that if you don't feel good, Dan, you come to see me, that actually the sometimes good medicine is not prescribing something. More often than not. Exactly. And also, things can change and evolve. You could come see me on day one or day two of a cold or an upper respiratory infection. Right now, I don't think you have a, you know, you worn an antibiotic. But the whole point is that if things change, evolve, get worse, come back and then we might make a different decision. But it doesn't mean that it wasn't worth your money or your time if you didn't walk out with this prescription. Absolutely. In fact, there's a lot of non-antibiotic things that your doctor may recommend for you. There were new guidelines that came out this summer from the Academy of Odolaryngology, essentially head and neck ENT specialist, that recommended for acute sinusitis that there's a period of 10 days of observation before antibiotics are even considered. And that's an important discussion to have. A lot of patients are like, Oh, stay three. I'm not feeling better. I need my antibiotic. Yeah. And it's hard because they might feel really crappy. Yeah. But there are other things that one could do other than taking antibiotics.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected is, have been doing incredible innovations over the last 15, 20 years on rapid diagnostics, which if you can get an answer to a particular question about an infectious disease quickly can help you with a lot of this decision making. So a great example that you probably use every day in your practice is rapid strep testing. So you and I have been around a while practicing for a while. 15 years ago when someone would come to you with a concern about strep throat, I have a sore throat, I have a fever, I might have strep throat, how would you handle that? Right, in the past we had to get a big long Q-tip and scrape the back of someone's throat and it would be gone for three days, cooking in a lab. And what would happen in that three day period? Oh, I mean, the person would feel worse, not better, or we would prophylactically say, well, I see white spots on the back of your throat, let me just give you penicillin or a Z-pack. And now you can do a rapid strep test and get an answer to that in 10 minutes, 15 minutes, while the patient's there in the office and make that decision on the spot. So think about applying that type of technology to so many other things. Obviously, everyone, your listeners are aware of rapid COVID testing and how that was incredibly important. And the combo with flu now. Right, but a great example from the hospital is blood cultures, which we often do to diagnose whether a patient has a bacteria in their blood. Blood poisoning, septicemia can be very serious. It used to take us three or four days to get an answer what the bacteria is, what antibiotics will work or not. Now we can get that answer in as little as a day. There's rapid tests that the microbiologists are able to run on those samples that can inform our antibiotic choices and give us an answer. We get a two day head start on better treatment for that infection. Incredible. The second thing is there's been a lot of incredible advances in ways that we conduct infection prevention, especially related to environmental cleaning and disinfection. So for example, we come back to our environmental services workers. We talked about them before, hardest job in the hospital. At the end of the day, you're relying on humans to do behavior and people get overworked, people get stressed. There's a lot of competing priorities. What if there were ways to clean a room that were perhaps more, I don't know if I want to use the word foolproof, but can guarantee that the room is essentially cleaned and disinfected in better ways. And so there are technologies now like UV disinfection where they're these little, literally robots, they kind of look like R2D2 from Star Wars. You push them into the room, you hit a button, you close the door and then they basically fry the nuke the room with ultraviolet light, which helps to eradicate pathogens and make sure that that room is clean and ready for the next patient to come in and take over. So there's stuff like that that's happening that's really exciting. And that decreases exposure to the environmental worker and health care workers. Exactly. And then I guess the third thing is I'm very optimistic about the role that artificial intelligence is going to play in infection control and prevention. In particular, detecting outbreaks. So right now a lot of what we do is still old fashioned detective work, a lot of pouring through charts, making Excel spreadsheets, standing there with clipboards, checking things. There's a lot of exciting work being done on AI as a way to detect those sorts of things earlier quicker so that I can say, oh my God, we've had two patients with this particular infection. We're going to jump on that whereas before it might have taken us a week or two weeks to investigate to try and figure out what's going on, I can now get a head start. So better identification of clusters or threats, especially globally because we are this global society. That's fascinating. What do you think the horizon is for these breakthroughs? I think we're seeing this happening in real time. There's a group in Pittsburgh, for example, that's been publishing a lot on AI tools for detecting outbreaks. And it essentially runs in the background in the medical record and runs up flags and says, okay, you should check this out and then the team investigates. There's a lot of exciting stuff that's developing quickly. That's incredible. Okay, from the rooftops, if you could shout one message from the rooftops, what would it be besides getting the measles vaccine? Which you can say again, honestly. I think I would say that antibiotics are incredibly important. I love antibiotics. I prescribe them all the time. It's a big part of what I do. But we need to be thoughtful about how we use them and not careless, which by the way, you would say the same thing about almost any medication. Don't take an anticholesterol medication that you don't need because it could cause side effects. You certainly don't want to give someone a blood pressure medication they don't need. So we need to be really thoughtful about how we use antibiotics. They are an incredibly powerful tool. And when you're playing with powerful tools, you don't want to be reckless. Yeah, really respect the tools. Respect the microbes, respect the tools. Exactly. Anything I didn't ask you that you want to touch on? I don't think so. I mean, you're just incredible. I can't thank you enough for leading us through this. I feel like you're this apogee of science and sanity at the same time. And our health system is so, so lucky to have you. I feel very lucky as your colleague. I mean, you always take my elementary calls, which I really appreciate. To our listeners, you have to feel. I can't even say I hope you. You must be feeling much smarter, a lot safer, and a lot more motivated to wash hands. Be thoughtful about your antibiotic use. Partner with your providers in these conversations. Stay up to date on your vaccines. And I mean, I think it's what you said. I mean, infections happen. Microbes are everywhere. And then there's this incredibly, incredible solutions. And then the teams behind these solutions. And thought leaders like you, vaccines, good hygiene, smart antibiotic use, and especially science are on our side. Thanks to our evidence-based resources and show notes are in the episode description. As always, stay curious and healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. And Dr. Yuslin, all of our thanks for all of your expertise and just amazing kindness and just grace to the profession. You're welcome. This was really fun.

=== FILE: One Size Fits One： Transforming the Patient Experience [ZMOvKqBOoc0].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to exhausted or even worried about someone they love. Families are trying to listen, remember details, ask the right questions and advocate all while managing their own fear and uncertainty. And yet, in the midst of all of this, we ask people to trust us, to understand complex information, to make decisions that feel overwhelming or life-altering. So when we talk about patient experience in healthcare, we're not just talking about run-of-the-mill, straightforward customer service. We're talking about what it feels like to be vulnerable and how that vulnerability is met in exam rooms, clinics and hospital hallways by healthcare clinicians and staff. And creating that thoughtful, compassionate experience in moments, if not minutes, hours, days, this is not easy. It's incredibly humbling work. It requires empathy, systems thinking, and a deep respect for the human beings on both sides of care. Joining me today is UCLA Health's Chief Patient Experience Officer, Julia Gaviria. Julia oversees everything from language services and volunteers to service recovery and culture. Work that touches patients, families, and staff across all our clinics and hospitals, and often at the most intense moment of their lives. Julia, this is not a rule for the faint of heart. I really, truly already tip my hat to you. Thanks for being here and welcome. Thank you so much for having me. I'm thrilled to be here. I have so many questions. Before we get into the specifics of your role, let's start broadly. So when someone asks you what you do, let's say you're at a dinner party, how do you explain what a Chief Patient Experience Officer actually is? Oh, sure. I don't go to many dinner parties, but... Because you're busy experiencing. So when someone asks me that question, the answer that I would give or what I think about is really thinking about any kind of consumer experience. We all are consumers of some degree and have experiences, but when we enter the healthcare landscape, we become this incredibly vulnerable human or family member. And my job, my team's job is really to understand, assess, measure, and respond to that experience that the patient has across the entire care journey for their care. And when does patient experience matter most, I mean, in your experience and for your team, sort of when care is going, I guess, smoothly or when things are in these more vulnerable moments? Oh, great question. It's everywhere. It's in every moment. You know, if you think about patient experience and or any kind of experience, I think oftentimes we think about the catastrophic events that happen. We, of course, will respond to those. That's a really big deal. It requires a lot of teams and system thinking. But patient experience happens way before the patient even enters the hospital or way before the patient even arrives at the clinic. It's when they're deciding that they want to go to UCLA, when they want to get an appointment or have an appointment or thinking about the fact that they need to think about their healthcare. Just the entrance point of someone going online and experiencing what it feels like to get an appointment, that is an experience in and of itself. And so the experience starts when we think about getting care all the way through every milestone that happens in between that and then all the way until they get billed three months, two months later, that's an experience. I mean, did we educate them properly on their billing? Did they know that they were going to get a bill? All of that is part of the patient experience. And so I think every single moment is a reaction to the patient experience journey. And informs each other. I think about this all the time because when I'm in clinic as a primary care doc, the experience that my patients have when they're getting roomed, when they're getting their blood pressure taken, their interaction with our front desk staff, all of those things then inform. It doesn't what happened. I'm only kind of in these four walls in an exam clinic, right? But it's all part of that experience. Even those things that aren't even in our control, I think about this when my patients go to a pharmacy. They might not go to a pharmacy that's owned by UCLA Health where I work, right? But their experience in obtaining that medication still becomes part of that overall healthcare journey. And I do, I feel like we're all responsible for it. Like when people are like, healthcare is broken and they're yelling at me. I'm like, I feel like I broke it. It's really hard. I think physicians especially, or maybe we should say care providers have a really hard job. There's statistics that show that anybody, so a consumer will take a patient out of this for a second, but a consumer, when they experience one to two errors relating to their experience, they're 62% less likely to go back or they're 62% less satisfied. So all of a sudden, you know, yet the patient gets to the front desk, the front desk person is mad at them, maybe the parking was expensive, they didn't realize they were gonna have to pay for parking for this appointment. Then they get to the provider and now already the provider has a really hard job climbing uphill. And so it's really challenging. However, the provider can also win them back, we can win them back, the front desk person can win them back when we look them in the eye, when we make them feel seen, when we say thank you so much for coming to our clinic. Ugh, I know the traffic was so hard today. And so it's just validating, it's validating in their experience. And again, people are vulnerable. Nobody wants to go to the doctor. Nobody wants to navigate an illness or an injury, but when they are doing that, we have a responsibility as all healthcare workers to ensure that we're at least acknowledging that they've chosen us to take care of them. But I also like that this is a team approach too. I mean, it acknowledges that, look, I might be seeing you in the clinic and examining your belly or we're talking about something, but all of it is this entire approach. And I just want to clarify something too, because when we say that there's two errors, we're not necessarily saying a medical error, right? No, but like, it's just like any sort of misstep. Right, misstep, misstep, or just something that doesn't feel great. But what I like, what you're also saying is, because I commit, quote errors all the time, is that they can be recovered even in these small moments. But these small moments matter. They do, and they add up. And so we have to think about, okay, how do we recover these moments and what might that recovery look like? And everybody's recovery might look really different. So to your point, the person working at the front desk, just acknowledging looking in the eye of somebody is recovery. Yes. If someone had a stressful morning, or the parking was difficult. Yes, which I'm sure it was. Yeah, let's acknowledge it. And let's own what we can in the moment. Let's have the accountability. And then all of a sudden, the patient builds trust between us and them, and the encounters continuously go well. That's an incredible link though, that the looking in the eye, or just the acknowledgement, the validation, that that's that bridge to trust. Yes, yes. When patient experience breaks down, like what is it usually about? Would you sort of usually seeing other patterns? Totally, major patterns. I think 9.9 times out of 10, it's always about communication. We have dropped the ball in communication to some degree. And it might not be that we didn't tell them about their illness, or we didn't tell them what the next step might be from our vantage point. But communication between handoffs, healthcare is so complicated. And now we've gotten to this point where you're not even seeing a specialist, you're seeing a subspecialist. And then your subspecialist knows another subspecialist, and there's communication between them. Patients are navigating things that are very novel, I think, to them. But they might be everyday occurrences for a given provider. Because that's our place, that's what we know. But I think we have to figure out how do we communicate not only what we know, but what the patient needs to know to feel informed enough and educated enough so that they feel safe, so that they do feel like they can trust us. In these moments of breakdown, or in these continuous, whether they're grievances or the complaints that we get, again, it's constantly about the communication. We didn't explain it well enough, or we didn't explain it in a way that made the patient feel like they were safe, like they could trust us. And it might have not been the provider. It might have been the person from one clinic to another, or one hospital to another, or one provider to another. And so it's about that handoff. And I think we really need to think about what does that look like for the patient? It's very challenging because, I mean, communication alone is challenging, and often so important in the language that we use and how we say it. And then you add these contexts of, so then you add on all of the medical jargon, right? And then on top of it, these layers of often uncertainty, right? Or patients are, as I said, patients are coming, they might be in pain, or they're afraid. So I mean, it's just this level and acuity of communication that I just, I feel like is unmatched. Oh my gosh, I'll give you an example. Recently, a patient sent in a complaint saying that he was incredibly upset that we are charging him every time a nurse came into his room. And we thought, what does that mean? Like, how did that occur? So he said, well, every time somebody came into her room, they scanned my band. And I imagine that you're billing me. Oh wow. And so in the hospital, everybody is wearing an ID band, and we scan it to make sure that we are appropriately scanning the right patient, administering the right correct meds to this patient, et cetera. Patients transfer beds all the time and move around, so we need to make sure that we have the right patient in front of us. And the nurses were doing their job. We have to do that. That's a safety mechanism. The patient thought it was a billing mechanism. Nowhere did we explain, hey, I'm gonna scan your band now. When I scan it, I'm just making sure that you are Bob Smith, or whoever it was. It wasn't Bob Smith, but you are this person. And so I think, and can you imagine just like, every time that the nurse did that though, it's just like the fear, if not resentment, and then additive and a creative. Oh my gosh. So, and you can imagine that, you know, patients are vulnerable, they're scared, they're sitting in their hospital bed, they have no idea what's going on oftentimes. They don't know when the next procedure is. And neither do we sometimes, but I think when we communicate, or overtly communicate and say, hi Bob, again, I'm just scanning your band, here's why I'm scanning it. I'm just making sure you're the right Bob today. Right, not any assumptions. It is so critical. It really reminds me too. I mean, my dad was a doctor, and so I just actually feel very comfortable in hospitals, but most people do not feel comfortable walking into, you know, any sort of medical space. And so I just, I always have to remember that. It's such a novel space for people. I mean, people walk into the hospital, and instantly I think, even parking, people come to park before they get into the hospital, and there is a sense of fear, there's a sense of unknown, they don't know what's gonna happen. Oh my gosh, just trying to find your way into the building. It's really challenging. I mean, that's part of the experience. Yes, that's part of experience. It's interesting. So I mean, there's like the, were you, I really wanted to know how you got into this, right, because there's the patient experience, right, and the customer experience, right, and then you're, I, going back to my business school days of like the customer journey. I mean, were you always thinking about experience in terms of patients? Is that your background? My background is in hospitality. I mean, my background is in healthcare, and then before healthcare, hospitality. I started a career in hospitality, and then entered into fine dining, and focused really on service, and what it really meant to create an experience for somebody in drostanolone. And I was working at a restaurant that was a top 100 restaurant in the world. I mean, every single detail mattered from the moment we called the patient, or they called us to make a reservation to the moment. Yeah, I just love it. You said the patient. No, I love it, I love it. Were you at the bar? Were you at the guest? Yes, I was at the bar. You know, and so every detail mattered. Every detail, and how you made somebody feel, and what they were experiencing. I mean, those few hours that they were there, they were supposed to experience this amazing life-changing moment of this meal. And what I really kind of gleaned from that was, you can create and craft experiences because you, by way of really understanding how somebody is feeling, and engaging with them, and understanding what they might want or dislike, and you know, in fine dining, it's incredibly specific. You're thinking about your voice, and where your hands are, and how you're serving, and it's so detailed. But it's really also really, it's a human experience because you're relating to humans all the time. So I worked in fine dining for quite some time, a handful of years, and then actually one night, somebody had a stroke in the middle of the dining room, and I was the service director at the time, and the person who had a stroke got of course taken away by the ambulance, and it was a whole scene, and this is, you know, you're working in fine dining, so it's very quiet and very proper, and it was quite a, quote, disruption. And the chef had directed me saying, we need to apologize to every guest, and let's do champagne for everybody. So I was going around apologizing for this disruption that had just happened, and in my head I'm thinking, disruption, like this person just had a stroke, I need to make sure that they're okay. And I think at that moment, I thought, I'm in the wrong industry. I really wish that I was the paramedic that took this person away, let alone, you know, serving champagne to these people, apologizing. And so I really got such a wonderful experience learning about how to craft experience in hospitality, but what I knew, and since being a child, I mean, I was pre-med, and my whole thought was that I was gonna be a physician. I thought, you know what, I need to go back to healthcare. And so I went back and sort of started my career in healthcare at the very bottom, but, you know, in the last- In a career where all the customers are disrupted. Yes, everything is disrupted. Yeah. I love it, because you obviously just wanna be in it. I do, yeah, I love it. I think healthcare is so, it's such a unique experience because nowhere else in any industry that I can think of, you are this vulnerable. And the person entering healthcare is that nervous or that fearful. And- It's a very specific customer. It's very specific. I mean, I can't compare it to anything. Somebody compared it the other day to, unless you are in jail calling a lawyer, that's the only maybe suitable comparison that you can make to a patient. In terms of like stakes. In terms of stakes, yeah. And how nerve-wracking it might be for somebody. So I really love the idea of thinking about, well, how do we make an experience feel good and right, not just for the patient, but for the entire system. It has to feel good for the employees too. As they're moving through these systems. Absolutely, yeah. I mean, I always, I talk, I think it's, you talk about the healthcare journey. I sometimes use this word care continuum. And what I'm trying to say is that, care continuum means like sort of time from like, sure, sure, birth to palliative care, but it also means like physically the care continuum. As you're saying, from like the moment I'm researching, coming to a healthcare system, to being seen in clinic, getting medications, getting equipment, you know, medical equipment and that journey through, you know, different conditions and chronic diseases, whatever they are, but you know, having a baby. So there's just all these different spaces. And so I also, though, I mean, again, that just to me, I mean, fine dining seems very challenging. But again, I mean, there's so many different spaces that you're kind of overseeing. This is like it's life. Right, you're overseeing like life. And then, but really touched by, you know, again, these very, very high stakes. Yeah, I mean, every moment to your point that the continuum is ongoing, but every moment you have these sort of time bound encounters that I think it's really important for people to understand that each in each moment, there is an experience that you're having. And then that experience is so multifaceted within that time bound encounter. So it's just so layered. And like you're saying too, I mean, it's, you know, physically how you're feeling emotionally, but right then it's economic, right? Absolutely. You know, billing is a big part of this too. And then it's just logistics, right? I need to go and get meds. I would love to kind of talk about some of the areas that you oversee through the Office of Patient Experience. I think that many people probably don't immediately associate, you know, with quote experience. But language services is one of them. Tell us about what that includes. Language services is so amazing. So we have a department, within the department, we have a team of language service team members and they are in-person interpreters. And what we offer is an in-person interpretation right now, we offer Spanish. So we have such a diverse patient population, many of whom don't speak English. And one of the things that is really important for us when a patient enters our system is asking them, what is your preferred language? What is the language spoken in your home? And then they can share that with us. And if they decide that they need an interpreter, we can offer that to them either in-person or through video or telephone, depending on what the needs are and depending on what the needs are of the team, et cetera. It's such an amazing thing to witness, somebody who doesn't speak English, having an encounter with a provider who maybe doesn't speak that language, that native language of the patient, and then having this third person there as that sort of triangular support, it is a magical experience to witness. I mean, I can tell you as a provider, it's really, it's quite magical and essential, you know? You know, to have an interpreter with you during an encounter because nothing is worse than feeling like, oh my gosh, I'm butchering a language, and then also I'm not getting the accurate information, but also too, and then are like, whatever, I might be using Google translate. It's very hard for me to make eye contact, right? To your point earlier with my patient, and also like, it's very hard to build trust without just that basic communication. It's interesting to me how you said, and again, this is language, which isn't essential, but like, what's your preference? And it just makes me think of your fine dining experience when you're like paying attention to people's preferences, but again, that preference ends up being, I'm guessing, right? Like their truth, I mean, it's very important. It's interesting, you know, I think there's an equity piece in this too, around language, and ensuring that we are being as equitable as possible. Saying to somebody, I think I'm actually saying it wrong, when we say to somebody, what's your preference? Somebody might say, you know, given the times that we live in, somebody might say, oh, it's English, but if we say, what's the language spoken at home? Then we're actually digging in a little bit further, and somebody might say Spanish. Now, that allows us to say, okay, how comfortable are you hearing your healthcare, or learning about your healthcare in English? And then it sort of brings the narrative a little bit closer to the truth of what we need to provide for that patient. Absolutely. So it's really, again, it's very nuanced, how we encounter and how we interact with these patients is so critical from the very jump of even them just filling out the forms, because those are the types of questions that then engage us in different ways. Yeah, which is already overwhelming. Medical and what we call medical literacy, it's hard enough in your own language, let alone in another language. Yes, yes. And as you said, we're in Los Angeles together, and we care for patients from all over the world, but you mentioned Spanish, but what does it take to support the level of diversity that we have? Great question. So within the language services, we have these interpreters who are speaking Spanish in person at UCLA, but we also offer any other language needed across the spectrum of languages through video interpretation or telephone. So say somebody walks in through our ED, they speak Russian. ED's emergency department. Sorry, emergency department. It's my job. You know, insert a language, we can offer interpretation pretty much on the spot through video interpretation or phone call, and that is critical, again, to your point, so that we are offering the same quality care as to every single patient. Yeah, I mean, it reminds me that health equity, right, is quality of care. I mean, you know, while you take care of someone, it has a lot to. Absolutely. You also oversee volunteer services. You do a lot. Tell us why volunteers matter so much. Oh my gosh, the volunteers, they have such a special place in my heart. So at UCLA, we have over 1,000 volunteers, and these are folks who are retired. Maybe they've worked at UCLA for many, many decades. They all have different interests, and they all do different things across the whole system. We have folks who come and volunteer, and their job is to hold babies, their baby holders, and they come in and just hold the babies that need a little bit of extra touch and love when their parents can't be there. We have volunteers who come in with their animals and do our People Animal Connection Volunteer Program, where we allow for animals to come in and visit with patients and employees and just bring joy to the floor. It's such an important part. They bring joy. Yeah, they bring everybody joy. I mean, who doesn't want to pet a dog when you're sitting in the hospital? And we have volunteers who work at our front desk and answer phones and offer snacks to employees. Our volunteers are such an essential part of our system. They run the kindness cards. They run the kindness cards. I mean, they do so much, and I think really are part of the heartbeat of, I think, our system in a way that doesn't always get acknowledged. And then there's also programs like the Three Wishes Program, which is just this incredible program at the intersection of experience, dignity, end of life care. Tell us why that work is so important. I didn't know that was under you as well. Yes, so Dr. Novel does an amazing job running this program. She started it at UCLA. So this is a program that focuses on patients who are at the end of their life and where death is really imminent. And we offer them various wishes that they might want to kind of navigate through or experience, honestly. And it can be as little as recording the patient's heartbeat and putting it in a teddy bear for the family. It can be as big as a luau. We had a patient the other day who, he has a home in Hawaii and he really wanted to experience his home in Hawaii, and we obviously couldn't get him there. And so we created this luau for him. And Dr. Novel and her team do such a sensational job, really bringing joy and life to a patient who's at the end of their life and the family is involved. And it's really what they want to see happen, really comes to fruition. And it's really unique to UCLA. I think it's providing not only dignity, but I think peace of mind and honestly joy in such a sorrowful time. I can't think of something that is more unique and special. It's so meaningful and so special. I was looking on the Three Wishes Instagram page. It's so nice. Yeah, I know it's just so amazing. And Kay, who's part of our team, helped make the luau happen, which is amazing. But one of the patients really missed their Irish whiskey. So they put the Irish whiskey in the IV push for the last push. But to me, the common thread of a lot of what you've been saying though is just really acknowledging, sure it's the humanity, but it's the individual wishes. And again, I'm just going back to, it's not just the preferences, can sometimes just sort of feel like, right, I'm at a hotel with my preferences, but no, it's really like the acknowledgement and seeing people for who they are. Absolutely. I mean, we're not putting chocolate on people's pillows. We are really thinking about what is a one size fits one experience for each patient. And it is different. Every patient is different because every patient is a human. And so humans are different. And I think we have to remember that. That's why we need to get to know them. We need to build trust. We need to look them in the eye. We need to get to know their families. It's so important. I couldn't agree more. That sounds very, very hard at scale. So tell me how you, I mean, how do you even just kind of start even thinking about doing it? I think when I think about patient experience, it's two things. Patient experience to me is it's a signal and it's an outcome. So the signal is what's going on? What are the things happening? What are we hearing? What are we hearing from our patients? What are we hearing from our employees? That's a huge one. What are we hearing from the families? The outcome are the metrics that are tied to patient experience. And they're very intricate and sort of detailed. If you look at what that is really measuring. So you can measure, I mean, we have metrics. You can measure. You can measure. Absolutely, yeah. If you measure it, then you can improve it or build on it. Exactly. And so when I think about the measurement of it, we can dive into that. But what that is and then what's being signaled before it gets measured, that kind of helps me and the team organize around, okay, what are the initiatives? What do we really need to think about and change? And where are we doing well? And where are we seeing some improvement? So what are some of the signals? So I think the biggest one that I think is most important to listen to is employees. What are employees saying? When employees are flagging that something is difficult, we have to listen to that. If it's difficult for them, it is a poor patient experience. For example, something so simple as when a computer is broken, when a nurse's computer is broken inside the room, they might say, oh yeah, that's been broken for a couple weeks or a couple months, I just use the one next door. Well, if they're using the next door, maybe somebody is already using that one and now they are delayed. And now what's being delayed? Medication that's being sent up or a consult that needs to be, that needs to visit the patient, somebody coming in in addition or an extra person on the team. And so we have to think about what are our frontline workers telling us. And if they're telling us something, let's listen, because that guaranteed is affecting the patient experience, satisfaction, and just overall sentiment. All right, that's so interesting. I mean, it makes total sense. I just, it just wasn't the first thing that came to mind. But right, and especially too, because patients listen to us too. So I even remember when we first started doing a lot of work on the computers, it was very helpful to be reminded, don't be complaining about the computer while you're talking to the patient. Because then the patient's like, why is this person so irritated? Patients pick up on that too and bringing it in. So all of this has that trickle effect too. Absolutely. I mean, other signals throughout the hospital or even throughout our clinics, like within our system, employees share a lot of really good information of what's going on, what's difficult, what's not working. And they care about their patients. And they care about their patients. I think one of the things that's the biggest, one of the biggest goals for patient experience is I think reducing friction for the system and reducing suffering for the patient. So it's an individual focus, and then there's a systematic focus. And figuring out how those two work together can I think be at odds. But I think most times they really go in tandem. No, you're beautifully describing how these things connect. That's amazing. I mean, I think going to then kind of, so about signals, but talking about then outcomes, I think that people do associate, I think, customer service. I mean, probably thinking about fine dining and hospitality about scores and reviews. What do we do in health care? I mean, what are we measuring or trying to measure? So when we think about measurement of satisfaction, in the early 2010s, maybe 2008, CMS Center for Medicare Services came out and said, we're going to start measuring satisfaction. Now, before satisfaction was being measured, what was being looked at as a measurement for the hospital or for the health care system were clinical outcomes. Did we do a good job on the surgery? Did the patient survive? Yeah, exactly. Did somebody die? Now it was, did somebody die? And how did they feel about their experience? And that feeling got tied to this metric called HCAPS. And that stands for health care consumer assessment of providers and systems. And so this was an assessment of how did we do? And that assessment is then broken down further on, how is the communication with the nurses? How is the communication with the doctors? Was it clean? Was it noisy? What would you overall rate this system? Would you come back? What's your likelihood of coming back? And so if you dig into those individual metrics, those submetrics under HCAPS, that's really where we can kind of dig in and think, ooh, we have some work to do on some communication. We can think about, well, how are we communicating? Are we looking at people in the eye? And are we sitting down when we're talking to them? Are we making them feel heard? So that is the scoring system that really allows hospitals to engage with the satisfaction in a way that is really measurable. And actionable. And actionable, absolutely. That's extraordinary too, because happiness is just, to me, a very kind of empty word. It's just, I mean, and also even before you even have the scoring system, were you happy? Is nothing compared to, by the way, the challenge of, did you trust everyone? But trust, it reminds me too, that trust is, when you have it, is much more sticky. And it's going to survive and withstand a lot of the trials and tribulations that come along any health care journey. But the things that you're then scoring make total sense to me, right? Because those are things that we can measure. Obviously, I think, I don't know what you tell me, but it seems like even from a customer, from a patient, if someone's even just querying or surveying me, again, I know we're not trying to over-survey people. But even just someone asking me is a gesture to me of, we care about you. Totally. And we do care. I mean, we want to know, how was the communication? Is it clean? What do you feel about this system? And rate us on all these things. And we listen to that, and we look at that, and we dig into it, and then we find areas of opportunity that we can really dive in deeply and improve upon those. I mean, do you ever get any pushback kind of about measuring or kind of the things that you're emphasizing? From the patient or from the system? Both, or even family. Oh, yeah. I mean, I think people have an expectation, especially in today's world. We all are consumers. We all have an expectation that we want things to go well. If we're going to choose to be in a specific space or choose to consume a specific product, we want that product to work. We want that experience to go well. Healthcare is no different. The difference is, healthcare is a lot stickier and a lot more friction forward. And there are so many moments in the journey or in the experience that are just challenging, because it's so convoluted and messy. And so figuring out how to now.  amlodipine, naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin,

=== FILE: Sharing Life： Inside Living Kidney Donation and the CORE Kidney Program [jyW6Fs1lnjM].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone, and welcome back to UCLA Health, medically speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Many of us associate organ donation with loss, one life in exchange for another to continue. But there are also many stories that are about sharing life, when a healthy person chooses to donate an organ to someone in urgent need. Today's story is about exactly that, living kidney donation and the extraordinary intersection where science, trust, and humanity meet. Joining me today are three people who have lived and are living this story from three very different places. First, we have Dr. Anjay Rastogi, a nephrologist here at UCLA Health, and the medical director of the core kidney program, which is a comprehensive approach to kidney care, spanning prevention, treatment, and transplant. We're also joined by Nanette Zumwalt, who has lived with polycystic kidney disease for years before she received a life-changing kidney transplant. She's a passionate advocate for kidney health, bringing both her professional expertise and personal experience to advancing compassionate community-based care, as she's also president and CEO of Hired Power, a leading concierge behavioral health and recovery support organization. And finally, Phillip Palmer, longtime news anchor with ABC7 Los Angeles, community leader and living kidney donor, who in 2007 donated a kidney to his friend Dale. And Phillip's experience as a donor has inspired him to support others and raise awareness about kidney disease, connecting deeply with the work of Dr. Rastogi. Thank you all for being here. I'm deeply honored to have this conversation with you. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for having us. It's our honor, congratulations. Thank you so much. Anjay, let's just start with some basics. And for those who haven't listened to it already, Anjay did join this podcast before talking about the basics of the kidneys. But why don't we start out this conversation? Remind us what the kidneys are, what they do. So we have two kidneys and they're in the back, right below your ribs. And I do want to stress we have two of them. So we'll come back with that. Yes. Next question. Because at least one of the people here has this one kidney. So we'll talk. It's a complex organ that, among other things, purifies blood. And it comes out as urine, those waste products. But it does a lot more than that. It's what we call endocrine organ. It's involved in hemoglobin, the red blood cell production, vitamin D activation, blood pressure regulation, and a lot of other metabolic factors. So it's a very important vital and vital meaning that you can't live without. But as you sort of hinted, maybe we don't need to live with two. And I think that surprises a lot of people that you can live with just one kidney and live well. I guess just backing up, why do we even have two kidneys to start with? So that's a nature's question in my opinion. But in our system, as you know, in physiology, we have a lot of redundancy. We have extra things that are backups. So I do want to say that you can live with one organ if you're healthy. That's a key thing. If you're unhealthy, then you really need both of your organs. So helpful. People who don't know a lot about kidney disease, why don't we just start with why kidney failure, or if the kidneys aren't working well, why is that so life-threatening and why do we have to do something about that? So I think I'm glad you asked that because, first of all, kidney disease in majority of patients is asymptomatic. Meaning no symptoms. No symptoms. They don't feel anything. Actually, it's maladaptive. They feel things, but it's so slowly progressive that your body maladjusts to it. But the other important things are one in three are at risk. And I've seen that said that before, one in three adults are at risk. And we can see a number of people in this room, right? One in seven have kidney disease, but only one in 10 know it. So nine out of 10 people who have kidney disease do not know they have kidney disease. And this is even people who have advanced kidney disease. These are people who are going on dialysis, and they walk into my room and say, well, why are you telling me dialysis? I feel just fine. So testing, testing, testing. I think that's really the key thing. We talked about that a lot too, which was the screening. So in the absence of having kind of overt or really blatant symptoms, we talked about coming to Miami Primary Care Provider for you, Nanette and Phillip. It was about getting screening tests, having a urine analysis done every year, and really kind of even just the awareness about kidney disease in the first place. But so just knowing this though that you can donate a kidney if you're healthy, that your reality alone makes living donation possible. I think that there's a lot of confusion, and I'm so glad that the three of you are here today. And I do want to just sort of ask very briefly before we kind of start and hear the stories from both of you, what do you want people to understand quickly with what it's like to live with one kidney and why that's possible? Yeah. So, well, you know, there are patients who have just one kidney. They don't know that. To start with. Yes. But if you're healthy, you know, and we'll be going over some of those factors as well, then you can live a healthy life with one kidney. The important thing is that you keep maintaining that healthy lifestyle post donation as well. And I think that's a very important thing that people need to know. Okay, great. Well, we'll definitely get into that. Yeah. Nanette, maybe we could start with you. You lived with polycystic kidney disease. This is a genetic condition that, and I saw you nodding, can quietly progress for years. Could you take us back when you first kind of learned that you had polycystic kidney disease or PKD? Sure. Well, I was aware of polycystic kidneys as a child. My grandfather, my uncle, my mother all suffered with polycystic kidney disease. So it wasn't a general topic because back then it wasn't a general topic. So we knew my grandfather went to the hospital. We knew my uncle got a kidney transplant, but we didn't really put any weight in that. It wasn't really discussed as a family. It was something that just happened. So it wasn't really until my mother got very sick that the doctor said, you should all get tested. And it was, you know, we were in our teens. So the pattern wasn't even kind of discussed before then or no? No. Oh, interesting. No, no one, it wasn't talked about. It wasn't discussed. It wasn't acknowledged as a genetic disorder until my mother got very sick. And my youngest sister was the first one identified with polycystic kidney disease. And it went right along the lines of 50-50 each egg has A-50-50 chance genetically and out of four children, two of us, and two of us did and two of us didn't. Can you tell us what it was like kind of to, I guess when your sister got diagnosed or how you got kind of diagnosed or what were your first symptoms? I mean, it sounds like they were slow and kind of slow to progress, but what we first noticed, it was like to kind of live with that, knowing that your mom had had it as well. It was really knowing with living with the knowledge. When I was first diagnosed, I went to be tested, the urine and the blood test, because my mother's doctor instructed us to, but I didn't have any symptoms at that time. So it really, again, I was an adolescent. So what did you think? Like was it just so abstract? Yeah, it didn't really mean much. You know, and we got the lecture of the genetics. So it wasn't really till my mother got sick and was facing dialysis. And again, never an option of transplant, never a discussion of transplant, even though her father was and her brother were transplanted, which is such a weird family system experience that I hear happens more and more. You know, like someone else in the family could have a transplant, yet this person is now facing it and has no knowledge. So for her, it was it was a knowledge thing of not having a transplant accessible to her. Yeah, just not being offered, just being told to go directly to dialysis. And so she never went through that transplant process. And maybe I could ask you just to time in here and kind of just explain to our audience, you know, what dialysis here kind of versus transplant, if you don't mind. Right, absolutely. So dialysis is a machine. I mean, it also is exactly a biochemical procedure, but it dialyzes your blood. That's where the term dialysis comes from. And, you know, it is a life saving measure. I want to put it out there and there's a lot of pictures. There are more than a half a million adults in the U.S. who are on dialysis and it serves a purpose. But at the same time, you know, a lot of people think that dialysis is a replacement of the kidneys. It's not all the function that I mentioned that kidneys do. It does only one of them and that just get rid of the waste products from from the and that too, the amount of dialysis we provide or can provide replace only 10 to 15 percent of what the kidneys do for just for purification. The other thing it cannot do. So it's it's it's stress on the body. You can go for in center three times a week. You can do it home. And that's at UCLA. We've set up a very big home dialysis program. But at the same time, it's it's it's it's it's a stress burden. And for for me and at UCLA Health, it's if we can get a preemptive transplant, that means bypass dialysis completely. But at the same time, I will see dialysis as a bridge if they have to go on dialysis to transplant your ultimate goal. If you can is to get a transplant. OK, and I mean, you did mention preemptive transplant. And it sounds like I'd love to hear kind of how you got to a preemptive transplant. But maybe we should explain right. I mean, sometimes a transplant is preemptive, which sounds like what it is. But I'd love to know how you kind of progress to the preemptive transplant. So were you ever on dialysis then? I was not. OK. By the grace of God. And like Dr. Stoggy said, I don't look down at dialysis. A lot of people are saved by dialysis. I don't want to discourage that or make that be something that is a positive. But for me, a preemptive transplant is really what we wanted. My husband is the one that took a very proactive research and found Dr. Stoggy at UCLA about 15 years ago. OK, I did want this origin story. I'm so glad to finally hear it. So I entered into a research study for Tolvapden. My sister and I both entered in and got to know Dr. Stoggy, and that's how we got connected with CORE and UCLA and have been big advocates since then. So where were you in kind of the kidney journey when you met Dr. Stoggy? Like were you having symptoms of the polycystic kidney disease at the time? Where were you kind of symptomatically or not when you met him? Sure. So blood pressure. High blood pressure was a symptom. You know, since a teenage year and then pain, flank pain. I was an athlete. I was a high school athlete as a college athlete. So of course, I was encouraged not to play sports, which I don't think depending on the contact sports, not really discourage that anymore. But so I was very aware of the disease around the pain and the high blood pressure, but didn't have, you know, I was running 100 miles an hour as a college athlete. I was, you know, and then I started a company and became a mom. And so, you know, you like Dr. Stoggy said, as your kidney function goes down, you just adapt. So I wasn't cognizant of how exhausted I thought everyone was exhausted. Right. You're like, I'm a mom. I'm working. Right. Yeah. In America, we all run exhausted. Right. Right. So that was normal. And then, you know, I got to the age of metapause and I was like, well, it's this, well, it's that. So it was always, I thought something other than my kidney disease. And so at what point did kind of transplant become part of the conversation for you? I think we came into UCLA research. Knowing, you know, my mother had already passed at that point, knowing that that was the lane we wanted to go in, but obviously looking for how to postpone that through research study, through medication, through Dr. Stoggy and his team's support and guidance. So transplant was always the way we wanted to go. And it was always preemptive, meaning before dialysis. Yes. So, but it came faster than I wanted it to. Oh, yeah. I mean, needing it. Yes. Yes, needing it. I mean, and so, I mean, let's just go right into, I mean, your transplant story, which is amazing, you know, just this really, the story of fate and family is just incredible. I mean, from what I know about it, and I want you to tell all of us, I mean, your transplant story really was very unpredictable. Can you tell us about, you know, a family trip to Barcelona that ended up kind of changing the course of your life? Sure. Even before I knew I needed, you know, I was still outrunning my transplant at that point. And literally, my younger son had graduated from UCLA and was going to do a boys trip to Europe, which is kind of a big thing they do. And so my youngest daughter and I went along and said, we'll go the first couple of weeks and then you can go with your boys. And so I wanted to go to Budapest and Prague and they wanted to go to Barcelona. So we landed in Barcelona and the first night we went out, my son met this young girl, very sweet young girl. And the first thing she says to me is I know you. And I, that's what I said. No, honey, you don't know me. I just got here and she said, no, I know you. You're in my dreams and we walk on the beach. And then I went, that's what I said. Okay, you met my son in a bar. You're making all these crazy things, right? And she stuck with that. I've known, I've always known you. And she stuck with that. And then seven years later, she's in the US, her and my son are married. I need a kidney transplant. And she says, my mother is your match. And I said, well, does your mother want to be my match? And she said, yes. And she's your match. And so we got connected with Dr. Restobi and she got tested. And lo and behold, she was my perfect match. That is incredible. It is. I've goosebumps everywhere. I mean, even saying this every time. Yeah. Can you believe it? No, it's like, if you don't believe that there's a power greater. You tell that without crying. I know. I don't very well. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, and just that she rushed through it, you know, as I know that. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, you know, the fact that this, you know, woman from across the world is my perfect match. And seven years earlier, we happened to meet her daughter who says she's always known me and here I am with her mother's kidney by the grace of God, having a good life. Oh my gosh. That's just incredible. And she never faltered. You know, my donor, I was going to ask you, you know, Phillips going to be able to share that. But, you know, first, for me, it was a very difficult ask. You know, how do you ask someone for it's not like, Hey, will you cut your hair? Or could you give me a pint of your blood? It's like, Hi, can I have your organ? It was, you know, and I had a very difficult time asking. I actually forbid my family to put it on social media. I am an employer. I was responsible for a lot of people's paychecks. I was very concerned that if people knew I was sick, that would change their response to utilizing our services. And so there was a lot kind of in my head that was at stake with being known I was sick, aside from the fact of not wanting to be seen as vulnerable. Were those the things that went into though? How difficult was to ask her? Or is this just on top of it? On ask it all. Yes. Yeah. Just ask it all. Ask it all. And so it wasn't until one of the court kidney members, you know, I'm like, my family can't put it on Instagram and I'm not talking to my best friends if they tell people and he just looked at me because you need to get over yourself if you want to live. Andre said this. No, the court. One of the court. Yeah. And, and, you know, my husband tried to say that and Dr. Stoge very respectfully as my physician tried to say that, but it wasn't until another recipient right who had gone through the journey was like, what are you talking about? Like you have to ask you have to talk about Mrs. Swerve and it was just really hard to do. Yeah. And then so when she came, I kept thinking, ah, she's going to change her mind or, you know, this isn't going to, it's not going to happen. What's your donor's name? Diana Diana. And she's an angel. Of course. Angel. I mean, they really are like earth angels. Like, if you could go back and tell yourself something different, you know, what would you tell yourself, you know, in terms of trying to get over. And I'm always saying that for people who might be in your place. Now, and who don't want to ask for that help, like, what would you, what would you say? Whatever, you know, what I would say, um, being that I'm a person, you know, my family's always been in service and law enforcement, medical, you know, social service. So, um, is that if I couldn't do it for myself, I need to do it for those who need to hear it, right? Cause I could have done it for someone else. But at that time it was like, how do you ask someone? You know, it was just a really hard and truth bottom line is I was afraid. Yeah. You know, I was very, very afraid. Afraid of all of it. Of all of it. Yeah. Yeah. I've actually needing the transplant. I'm actually acknowledging that I needed it, actually asking for it. And then what, you know, what would life look like after, you know, what kind of quality of life was I going to have? And if I only knew now I'd be like, run girl. Well, that's why it's so helpful. I mean, that's why I'm so grateful you're talking to us. I mean, because people are listening, you know, and I think that's what's so helpful. And even if it's your younger self. Yeah. I mean, so much too. I mean, and I think we all, you know, there's the miracle that is obviously Diana, right? And then, but also just how grateful we are to have the core kidney program. And maybe we could kind of get a little bit of information before Philip. I get your story, which is how lucky we are, right? When we find the right care and the care team. So it seems like a good moment to kind of get introduced to the core kidney program, if you could tell us a little bit about it. Yes, please. Is there anything out there like core? Yes. You know, I mean, I work in healthcare. I work with providers across the country. My company goes national. There's nothing like core that does the research, the education, the advocacy that has people like Philip committed to the cause who continue to show up to talk to someone else who's might possibly be a donor or myself talking to another patient who has to go through, you know, where we've been. There's just nothing like core. It's so special. It is. So it is so special. So special. I'd love to hear what you did with core. It was core. Core already existed when you and Annette met. It was, it exists. It was pre-core. Okay. I would say because it's the, the, um, she always operated. Yeah. Right. Yeah. That's the right. In that framework. Yeah. It was always his philosophy. Yeah. And, uh, and Christina and I, and she was one of the founding, you know, members of core along with, with Philip. Um, and the whole idea core, it was stands for clinical excellence with that C because I always say the patients. We can, you can do all the research and education. What matters to her and her family is the care that she gets. And she's going to talk about her care at UCLA health. He lived in Orange County, which I don't think he mentioned. She drives all the way from there for all our care. She has a very deep connection with UCLA beyond core. I mean, her kids went to, you know, played football and national, you know. Um, so, but the whole light of core, which outreach, research and, and education is about patient support. Um, and very early on, you know, and I was born and raised in India. Uh, uh, there's a place called Jabra was just there. And when I came to here, you know, right after medical school, one thing that, that, that occurred to me is it's always reactive and proactive, right? Medicine. Yes. Yes. Often and fragmented care, right? And then the support system. And I also always say that I know about kidney disease. I know about PKD. I, I know about, you know, dialysis and transplant, but I'm not on dialysis or transplant. I still remember we, our first kidney fair that we did as Santa Monica Beach. There's a guy who flew in with PKD flew in from Australia. And I said, and he came to me afterward and he says, I've spoken to all physicians, but the biggest support that I've gotten is speaking to other PKD patients that I will be okay. And that was a genesis and, uh, things have grown, uh, quite exponentially. And I'm very grateful to people, you know, leadership, um, are, uh, you still have leadership, Dr. Masiota and Joanie, especially, I mean, you guys have been so supportive. So core is doing well. We are trying to do a lot more, but it would not be possible without a healthier system like you see. And, and Joanie said, Dr. Masiota, who are very, very supportive and involved. Yes. You know, I mean, involved. You have an event and there's the CEO and there's Dr. I mean, the fact that they show up and are interested and supported is, is very, very special. No, it's really emblematic of, you know, this patient centered care. And, you know, you're talking about patient support. I'm hearing you, Nanette talk a lot about it. Sounds like there's support for your family too. I mean, I, if you could expand on that a little bit, but it sounds like your husband is even the one that even identified, you know, on day in the first place. Yes. Yes. I have a very proactive husband who did not let me remain with my head in the sand. Good. Good. But it really was the, the core members. Yes. Brian Gillam, who is one of our lead ambassadors, he was the first to have a conversation. My husband called him. They met for coffee and, you know, because we're high school sweethearts. Oh, so, you know, when I got sick, he was like, well, you know, your family too, right? Yeah. Yes. I mean, yeah, he's, he's been part of all of it. Yes. Yeah. You know, Brian walking him through was so powerful for him then to help me. Yes. You know, because I needed him to guide me and push me. Yes. You know, there's not a lot of people that can push me. I'm kind of stubborn, but to have him, but also have other members of core could push me in a way that my husband or my position or my sister couldn't. Yeah. It's really the beauty of this, this multidisciplinary team that you know, that you've grown and again, talking to people, I think, and meeting them where they are. Philip, I really, you know, Andre has described this incredible program and now that I just, I'm still getting over everything that you've shared just about Diana and receiving this. There's so much more to ask you. I do want to ask you, Philip, you know, you, you've been living inside this, you know, system that has been set up and years before you ever donated a kidney. You know, I've, you can tell me, but I, my impression is that you heard a story about an athlete. Oh yeah. Alonzo morning. Um, and that transplant made, you know, his life possible for him. I'm curious what was the moment for you that planted a seed about, um, donating your own kidney? Um, well, yeah, I was, uh, and this is, I think one of the reasons why it's important to be a part of core. It's because you never know what words, uh, will ring true with someone, someone, um, what the effect you might have. I always liken it to a pebble in the water. Um, you, you throw it in there and you don't know the ripple effect. Um, I have since met Rick Riley, the guy who wrote the article in sports illustrated and, um, played golf with him and told him he saved a guy's life that he didn't know. Just by writing a story. Yeah. And I mean, I can still picture the room where I read the article. Um, and, uh, I, you, you, you talk about the emotion. Uh, I, I, I called my mom and I said, you know, mom, uh, this is, this is, this is kind of crazy. You know, when I, I, I prayed about it. Um, and, and, um, my prayer was not that a friend would get sick. Um, but I said, you know, God, um, I know how I am that I get inspired to do something and then I forget about it. And I said, I just don't want to forget about this. And, um, I bring up my mom because, um, his mom's rock. Well, that's, that's the one that gets me emotionally, because, um, when this all happened and Dale got sick, I, I, I called my mom and I, I, I was like, okay, this is going to be a tough conversation cause she's not going to, she's not going to like this. And, um, she, she was like, okay. And I went, wow, okay. Well, um, all right. Good. And I said, I got to admit, I'm, I'm a little, little surprised that, you know, you're, you're just all on board. And, uh, she said, don't you remember the phone call? And I went, uh, I said, um, I, um, no, and, and she said, you called me and she said, if you prayed about this, who am I to say no? And I was like, okay, well, here we go. I will say, I've talked to Anjaye about this. I said, I do think the transplant coordinators need to come up with a different language though. Cause when they called me and said, you're the most negative. And I said, well, I said, I do know I'm most negative. And I was kind of bummed that I wasn't going to be the one to do it. She goes, well, what do you want to do? And I'm like, well, you just told me I was the most negative. I'm not going to do it. And she goes, no, no, no, that means. I'm going to can I like, oh, okay. Well, let's, let's go. But yeah. So, uh, so I had written an article. I read an article and I didn't forget about it. And I will say that when I was listening to that story, uh, and I would say to anybody that's listening, it is so incredibly common for the person who is sick to, um, foxhole themselves to pull the blanket over their head and say, I'm going to do this on my own and I'm not going to, uh, ask for help. And, um, Dale, um, didn't even call me. Um, I found out, gosh, all of this, all of this gets really so crazy. But, um, my friend Rob Pugazaki, um, uh, I also works at channel seven and he's the one that called me. And, uh, I remember I was in my truck driving along and he says, Dale's in the hospital and I'm like, what, what do you mean? Cause Dale said the same thing you said, um, after the fact, he says, I just never understood how we could all go play flag football and everybody wanted to go do something and I just wanted to go home and go to sleep. And, uh, so yeah, he, he would do the same thing, just adjust and normalize it. Yeah. And, and, um, Rob called me up and said, um, he's in the hospital. He was having these headaches. So, you know, I called him up and he goes, yeah, I need a kidney transplant. Just like that. Yeah. And apparently, um, he was about to have stroke. And, um, it was an eye doctor that figured it out. Uh, that said, you, you've got to go to the, you got to go to the hospital. Um, but I said, well, you know, it's going to be me. And he goes, what do you mean? I said, where do I go? And he goes, no, no, just don't worry about it. I'm going to figure this out. And I said, Dale, this is going to be me. I know it's going to be me. I'm ready. And, um, so he goes, well, you can go get tested. And, and go to this is go to St. Vincent's. This is where you go. And, um, we were in the same blood type and yet I ended up being enough of a match, thankfully due to the medicines and everything that, that you can take. Um, we, you know, we were able to do it. And, uh, I always say that I got a lot more than he did, you know, cause I got to help a friend. I mean, it's just incredible. I mean, I think a lot of, I think people describe donors as selfless, um, which obviously is true, but I mean, it just seems like the experience is myriad, you know, details even more. I mean, it's, it's just incredible. And this was by no means impulsive. I mean, it just is amazing that story of you calling your mom. I still get, uh, I mean, for sure. That's how powerful it is. It's, so it really is. Yeah. Because it's every, it's every day purpose and you're like, connect to it every single time. Well, but understand there's 7,000 people just like me every year, um, that, that, that are living donors and, um, I will, I will, to, to, to our point about talking about it, um, and one of the things about core that's so important, um, when I donated, there was another person, uh, who had donated roughly the same time, Sara Faden. She's an LAPD officer who had given to her husband and her and I met through different organizations in this wonderful opportunity. And she told me one time, cause you know, I, at some point I just, it's so nice that Anjaye and the net think of this, you know, think of me in certain ways, but it's, it becomes, you know, it's like, you know, I told Dale one day, I said, you've got to stop calling me and saying, thank you every day. I said, we didn't talk every day. So I said, you know, this is, I'm glad we were able to do this, but you know, say bad things about me on occasion, cause you're used to, um, but Sara told me one time, she goes, you have to talk. She goes, and I have to talk. She goes, because nobody knows. Yes. Says you look at her and you look at me. Nobody knows I did anything. You can't tell. She goes, so where is anybody going to come from? How's anybody going to know it's okay? How does anybody know this is a doable thing? If you don't tell your story. And that much like you talk about with people at core who will tell you things and would tell me things. And then I can tell, but I like to talk to people who are donors. About what they will expect after surgery. And, and who do they turn to if we're not willing to tell our story. Right. So that's, Sara, Sara was a very powerful voice for me, um, to say, Hey, you know, you got to stop it.  and you gotta be willing to talk about it. What other questions come up during the story? Do people have questions about... You obviously felt very resolved to do this. Did you have any misgivings or concerns or fears or family? Well, faith was a very big thing for me. And it was a prayerful experience. That's not the way... And it's not for everybody, but it was mine. And there was... It wasn't like I was gonna back out, but the girl who's now my wife was my fiance at the time. And I was... Great girl. Yeah, she's pretty cool. We were sitting in the hospital and I had already gotten the IV and I was sitting there and Dale was in the hospital room. They had a curtain between us just on the other side. And he was in there with Rob Fugizaki. And this one always is really hard. Now you guys have heard this one, but I got scared a little bit at that point. I was like, whoof, here it comes. And I told my wife, I said, you know, I need a prayer. And so we kind of held hands a little bit and I just asked God for some strength. You know, I said, you know, just a little strength to get through this. And it was right in that moment. Then on the other side of that curtain, I heard Dale and Rob start to laugh. And they were just laughing. And I opened my eyes and I looked at her and I said, there's your message. I'm ready. And because that's why we do this, you know, the reason I do it is so that he could watch his daughter get married and now he's a granddad. You needed help and you found somebody to help and she wanted what she wanted for you. But it's just an opportunity to provide some normalcy, you know, because we talked about dialysis and Dale was lucky enough to only temporarily be on dialysis because we were able to very quickly get through the process and get to the donation. And as Anjaye said, dialysis, while it's life saving is brutal on the body. The living donor element also makes for a more successful transplant because while deceased donors are also angels, just transplanting a viable living organ is just generally more successful. And it's just, I didn't want Dale on the machine. You know, the machine would have saved him. It did save him. It gave us that bridge. But that was one of the things for me. And so for that little prayer to be answered in that moment with that laughter on the other side of that curtain, I was ready. It was like, yeah. So he could keep laughing. I remember that pre-surgery. I had a similar, but again, being in that stage of denial, right? I was washed. I was gowned up. Dr. Sotni is on one side. You know, this is on the transplant day. Yeah. And I'm laying in the bed and these two nurses come in and they've got their scrubs on in their hats and they say, what music do you want playing in the OR? And I looked at that one. The OR? And I said, yes, what music can I go, what do you mean? What are? And the doctor went, and I was out. But I hear you're on the down drop playing Dr. Stoge is there. The anesthesiologist is there. What do you mean OR? I will say, to your point, I think, to some of the things that we do need to share in Mars, those are our stories of operating days. I think one of the things that's always funny to me is how one minute you're awake and the next minute it's like eight hours later and you're awake. I woke up feeling like a champ. Well, that's the funny thing. She wakes up feeling great and I felt like I was in a car wreck. So it is a slightly different experience. However, the questions that people ask, and this is one of the reasons Cora is so great, it's like from the patient experience, from the transplant recipient, from the donor. For me, one of the things I would tell people is like, hey, walking is your friend. He's sudden motions. And some of that, God bless the doctors because they have dedicated a life to getting us healthy. But they don't know post-operative. I felt good enough that when I went back for one of my follow-ups, the doctor asked me, so how do you feel? I said, fine, I'm already back. I'm back in the gym. I'm doing this. I'm doing that. And he goes, wait, wait, wait, wait, stop, stop, stop. And he said, no, no, no, no, you could get a hernia. And I'm like, maybe you should have told me that. Because I felt good enough that I thought I could go back to the gym and start, you know, you blow, you know, when you have one of those surgeries, I felt like, well, you know, I got to get the ads back, you know, I'm getting married. So I tell people, I said, you know, hey, take it easy on this and try not to do that and make sure you're doing these things. Diana, mine was during quarantine. So we were our quarantined pod, as they used to call it. So it was Christmas. The bubble. It was Christmas day and I was home for two days from the hospital and Diana and my son and daughter-in-law come over and Diana's in jeans and a belt. And I looked at her and I go, what are you doing? I can't even wear underwear. You know, and she's like, I'm good. And I go, are you taking pain meds? And she said, Tylenol. And she was cooking dinner. And I'm like, okay. So you know, and again, I know it is much harder for the donor because I started it. I'm apparently not Diana. Well, I started it at 10% and woke up at, you know, yes, over 50. They started at 100 and wake up in half. So their body has to catch up. But even that, it was like, I just was looking at her like, what are you talking? You know, that's amazing. You know, when I knew my family was fine because, you know, your family gets really worried. You know, my sister came, my mom came. My now wife was all doting and everything. I guess I had a surgery on a Wednesday and then I was out of the hospital. And then I think it was the following Monday. I think, you know, once I was out and I realized they didn't get off the couch because dancing with the stars was on and they let me go to the kitchen and make my own soda or whatever. And I was like, I was, I quite literally was in the kitchen going, well, okay, well, they think I'm okay now. But yeah, I was dancing with the stars was Monday night and they were all like, okay, he's fine. He can get his own food. Well, and even the summer, Diana and I, Diana and I were comparing scars. You know, I already, yeah, I mean, I have a pretty small scar considering what my uncle had this big huge round the back, big curve J thing. And I have, you know, this small little scar, but she has like a little three inch scar that, you know, is covered by her bathing suit bottom. Right. But we were, you know, comparing like how crazy that these little things saved a life. Like, Well, that's, that's something that people need to understand is the advancements of the donation process for me, for you, for the recipients. Right now, many people might know this, not know this, if they need a transplant, they often don't take the kidney out. They just simply stack them right on top of there. So she has three, you know, it's, it's, it's just a faster process and, you know, easier process. I think it'd surprise a lot of people to know that you were home after two days. Yes. And I was doing well. And I was, you know, my doctor said, you need to walk 10 minutes out and 10 minutes back from day one. Yeah. You know, they get you up the day of surgery and have you walking. And it's like you said, the move that air to move that loading. And I was walking by the end of the month, you know, and my doctor said, I was walking, you know, up to five miles, but I felt, I felt really good. Yeah. Did that surprise you? How good you felt? Yes. Because I didn't know how bad I felt. Exactly. Yeah. You know, I do look like I, yeah, I had lunch with another recipient on Sunday, a friend of ours, Chantel, another core member who was in another system and we convinced her to come over to UCLA cause she was waiting and waiting. And, and we were talking about, like I said, I remember being on the floor of my office in the afternoon thinking, how am I going to get to my car? This was at the end. And I knew we couldn't call my husband because I was, I wouldn't be allowed back to the office. It would have been the end of going to the office, right? So the reality was of being where I didn't even, my body just kept up to where it could no longer keep up, you know, and, and then all of a sudden I woke up and I'm like, I'm ready. Let's go. And, and it has, you know, it was three years, December 20th. And if I didn't take meds twice a day, I forget I'm a transphobetian. I do, I forget, you know, and when I get a little tired and I'm like, I'm tired. My husband's like, right, you know, but what a miracle. What a blessing that I get to live this full life. The everyday, the everyday blessing. On the gift of, and you can say I can quit calling you an angel, but I never will because I live on the gift of someone, you know, very much like Philip who just had that passion and, you know, I get to live it every day. I'm so, I'm so glad. I mean, and it's true. I mean, the court kidney program too. I mean, it's, I hear both of you sound like you have wonderful families, you know, and, and I hear that in the support system. I also am always impressed by the court kidney program because it's this infrastructure of, of a system support, right? To get you through it, right? To all these people who don't family. I mean, where do you feel like the, you know, core really kind of supported, you know, in the net and, you know, patients like Dale and, you know, but both, you know, both recipients and donors to kind of get through these processes. I think they sound very, when you describe them, it just sounds, it's, it sounds doable. I think for a lot of people listening, I think it still sounds pretty just miraculous and incredible, and it is those things, but it's also really doable. And I do feel like core is kind of that piece. And it's not a miracle that everyone can't have. Right. Right. It's not like, Oh, she got that, but I'm, I won't get that. Right. It is a miracle that everyone. But you have to, that the thing is you have to be willing to, to, to let somebody help you. I mean, that's the thing. If you're not going to ask, and that's why core is so important. And I don't mean to jump in for Anjaye, but that's somebody that you can call. Yes. When maybe you're uncomfortable calling a family member, you know, you can call and say, what do I say? How do I do this? Maybe you don't want to post it on social media. There's, there's health things that I have that I'm not quite ready to just start talking about. But I want you can call somebody and, and they have answers for you. And support and support, you know, because not everyone has a blessed family. You know, we have core members that came to us because they didn't, you know, one of the things when you're looking for a transplant to qualify for the list is you have to have providers who are committed to being there with you post surgery. And we have had core members that came to us because they didn't have those people. And so they came to core to help build. Wow. So you really joined a community. Yes. It is, it is a community that we're building. And it's his, it is, I want to say it's his brainchild, but it's really his heartchild. Kidney child. It's his heart child. But I do want to say a few things. And I just want to go, I'll start with, with Philip, who obviously everybody knows how much I admire him as a human being and a gift that keeps giving. I want to go back to your mother. You know, I was raised by my grandmother and I get very emotional. I talk about her because she raised me and she was not surprised. And we know why she wasn't surprised. And she, because she raised you and what a wonderful human being she has raised. So let me tell you about Philip a bit, because I think I've met a lot of wonderful people. You know, I'm surrounded by a lot of a, but there are very few people I like to talk to who I like to talk to. And the reason I would say that is because, and I've said that at our Gala events, every time I speak to him, I say, you know what, I can be a better human being. It's always, always. No, this is, and, and, you know, it was something that came very naturally, you know, because that's the way you were raised by your mother. But also he's always there. Today, today he had to go to his, at work, he has his daughters, high school, but, but this was an important thing to get the word out. He's going to share his journey that other people feel comfortable, right? And I do want to point out, you know, the next husband, Rick, who's also a very dear friend of mine, and he has his own story that hopefully will cover one day in one of these, these, but he, he applied to be a donor. Yeah. And he went through a very rigorous, you know, screening and at the end he was declined. So the point that I want to make is that, that we are very careful, especially at use of the health, who we accept. It cannot be at the risk of the donor. And if we see that there's any risk to the donor, we decline then Rick was not happy and Rick is an expert, you know, and my conversation with him was that unfortunately you're not a donor. And I, you know, he was ready to fight. Like you're taking my kidney. It was tough. So I do want to point that out that there is, but going back to people like, like Phillip and, and Diane and what they're doing is priceless. And we call them angels, a donor. And let me, and I've said that I'll say that again, when you give a kidney, you know, you are not just helping a person. You're not just helping the family. You're helping society. We have a member who's a CEO of a very influential mental health company. This is what we gave. So a donor does a lot more than just a kidney. They change society, you know, and, and I think that's really important. So that's why we had the rose parade float. The first one, a gift of life, a tune that never fades and both. Phillip and, and, and, and we got our princess wave down. Oh, I'm so jealous. So, so I think it's, it's really important about awareness. And I do want what one thing that both Phillip and, and, and then it said, is if you don't ask, you don't get that as simple as that. So when, when a core kidney member called Nanneten said, get out of it, that you need to share floodgates opened. There were so many calls you say the health was getting that we're going to keep up with that. Yeah. So what, what Phillip is doing, getting the word out, making feel more comfortable. Right. So you have to have a provider that strongly believes in that, but this is, this is knowledge about it. Has knowledge about that. A lot of nephrologists are not talking about transplant. They did. And that's, that's something. And that's where I think, you know, look at, you know, Phillip, I mean, he is a kidney donor. Right. They're like Phil said, I mean, there's 7000 other people, right? Any year in the United States. And there's, right. But every time you talk about it, right? That's what's generating that number to grow. Yeah. There's a hundred thousand people waiting. Yeah. And that's just living. Yeah. Just living though. Yeah. Because the families of those and, and those that pass, we don't, I mean, we, we focus on living donor and preemptive because that's where we want the future to be. But there's a lot of families that are angels and giving their loved ones. Very much so. In many ways. And so I don't want to minimize their, their, you know, their miracles that they're providing every day as well. And that's something, you know, that's, you know, I, I work a lot with donate life, one legacy and, you know, we've always had that conversation. And, and that's one of the conversations also with this is you, you, you don't want to have to make the decision about whether you do or don't want to be a donor when the emotional moment comes. You want to have already made that decision. And I think that is one blessing that I had when Dale got sick. I didn't have to think about it. I'd already made up my mind and I'd already become a donor, whether it was one, like, you know, whether it was, you know, post mortem or whether it was living. I knew I was going to do it. And I've always said that with, with organ donation in general. Um, talk to your family, let them know. Um, because yes, 7,000 living donors, but exponentially more who have got the pink dot, you know, so you're saving lives always. Have the conversation with your family. With yourself and your family. 100%. Yeah. It's important that your family knows what your wishes are because I've talked to many family members who, um, said they wouldn't have donated their loved one, but they knew it was what their loved one wanted. So they did it out of respect. And that has to be the hardest decision when you're in the middle of such grief and loss. I mean, I really applaud them to be able to do that. I love hearing, you know, how you mentioned the core, um, team member, though, they helped you ask for help, right? Because it's hard, especially if you don't feel well, even if you've normalized not feeling well or emotions run high to ask for help, you know, no matter what, but to have someone that help you ask for help is its own, you know, the caregivers. Yeah, I mean, it's so important to acknowledge the caregivers, you know, your caregiver was your husband Rick, right? But they are the true angels as well. Yeah. And I think we don't do enough to recognize them. And that was also the part of the float that we did is a caregiver's walking and riding on the float as well. But I also want to give a message to our audience who are, you know, who has a loved member who's on dialysis, getting close. So preemptive transplant, which means that the normal process is, you know, you should know your kidney function. Once you're GFR, which is a filtration where every kidney patient should know that number. Once it falls 20 or below, then you can be evaluated by a transplant program and get listed. And once you're listed, then you, you know, you can get a living donor evaluated, but the process should start much earlier, right? Because, and I do want to say, Philip, as you, you, you know, the way you approach, you know, the transplant or, or, you know, approach it when, when you're giving, you know, you had decided and, and, and, you know, whatever it took, you, you had done that. What we have to keep in mind, it is a process. It is a major surgery, right? It is, you have to go through testing and stuff. But the key thing is what I tell, I was a medical director of the living donor program for 10 plus years. I've spoken to a lot of donors and it's the purpose of life, right? It's what it means to the donor. You know, we all talk about what it means to a recipient, right? And it does, but, but it is a very special feeling. And, and once you've gone through it, they will say, we'll do it again if we have to. I've never seen a very rarely. I'm not gonna. But you're doing it in different ways. You're doing it in different ways by giving back to, and I think that's also the donor identity for life, for sure. Yeah. I, you know, I would add to one of the things that you said, though, about being proactive. Yes. Um, and as a primary care physician, uh, you can only do so much at some point. The patient has got to do their job as well. Um, and when you talk about not talking about your illness, there's a measure of that. I don't want to acknowledge what's going on. And when we both Dale and I, once we did this or, or found out it was possible, we needed urine sample. Well, I carried the jug around and, you know, it was like, let's go. And then it's like, we need to do the blood sample. When can I go? And so there was, there was a measure of we're going to do this. Let's, let's just go. And, and I would suggest to people who might be feeling ill, um, or they might think they need help, make the phone call. And when somebody tells you something, if your doctor says, Hey, you've got some levels that we need to send you to an aprologist, you need to go. Right. Jump. But guys, there is a measure of logistics here. Yes. Then are a challenge. We can't just, when you get sick, schedule you for next week and go do it. It's logistically a challenge. And that's the one thing that I try to tell people is like, Hey, they've told you you're sick, let's go. You know, get up and go. And the most successful outcomes I've seen are the people who take matters into their own hands when it's what they're supposed to do. Right. And regardless of what your illness is in today's world, in today's healthcare, you have to be your own advocate. Yes. Yes. And, you know, it is great to have people supporting you and fighting for you. But like you said, if you, if you don't get up off that floor and do it, if you don't put it out there, you know, no one else is going to do, no one else can. And so you do have to show up for yourself. And that's a big, you know, working in mental health. That's a huge thing. Learning to show up for yourself. As you say, and tell, and you're worth it. Yeah. Yeah. And you're worth it. And that, that you can get through the depression, you know, you can get through the fear, you can get through the anxiety because it's powerful. You know, what do you, I mean, I can only imagine there's so many everyday lessons, but how have you incorporated your experience as a donor recipient to the work that you do in mental health? All the time. I mean, it's on my website, you know, that I'm a kidney advocate. It's a story that I tell. It's when I'm, you know, if there's an area where I can relate it to family participation or family involvement or wellness or being willing to accept help, you know, I may not have, you know, psychosis or I may not have a cocaine problem, but I do had, I did have a very serious mental illness that I was definitely afraid of and the word deathly was what was going to kill me. Yeah. Right. And so when you look at addiction and mental health, they have a deathly fear and that those, those illnesses, you know, can be just as deadly. So I bring it into all my work, you know, this episode will probably be on my website. I think it's very, if you're in healthcare, you've got to encompass all of it, but mental health touches everything. Yes, it really does. Since, since, since you donated in 2007 and I mean, again, it seems like you're just, it's this ongoing identity. I mean, correct me if I'm assuming, but do you just continue to incorporate kind of this, this identity for yourself and your work with your family? I mean, you bring so much awareness, obviously, to kidney disease. No, an odd thing. I am always willing to do what I can when I, and anybody, you know, but I forget. And I think sometimes that's what I try to tell people who are wondering. I've done two half Ironman triathlons. I've done multiple sprint triathlons. I remember one time I thought, Hey, I'm going to go do boxing to get in shape. And my wife said, No, you're not. And I'm like, why not? And she said, you have one kidney. And I'm like, Oh, right. So that to me is the thing. Right. It's like, when the subject comes up, I'm like, Oh, I can, I'm, yeah, yeah. Here's, here's the thing. But my life is completely normal. I, I, I'm just like anybody else when it comes to health. I forget sometimes. I was sitting here going, you got to be proactive. And I remember I'd gone to the doctor, got my blood work. The, the, you know, the, the staff called me to give me the blood work. I forgot to call them back. They called me later in the day and said, Hey, you've got to call us. We've got the results. And I'm like, Oh, you know, so I'm as forgetful as the next person. But that's, I think my narrative is, I forget. You forget, you forget kind of physically, physically, I forget. And sometimes I will look in the mirror and go, Oh, wow, you've got one. Okay. But I just want to maybe kind of live my life in service as a fan. But I think that was, I try to be that anyway. I was just going to say, I mean, it seems like there's just an enduring spirit of giving though, in service, you know, I hope. And maybe that was always there. I know there are times, I mean, there are times when I, you know, if I have, you know, when I go to the doctor and I have a physical something and they, they sit, you know, I say, Oh, well, by the way, I have one kidney and they go, Oh, well, we should have known, you know, we need to know that. I don't take, I will say I don't take anti-inflammatory medicines. But, you know, there's the jury is out on that one. I've had an aphrologist say, if I would let you take anti-inflammatory medicine with two kidneys, then I don't mind you taking anti-inflammatories with one. And then there are others who say, don't. So I just choose not to. Yeah. I choose not to. I think, you know, that's just, you know, we can have a different discussion. We'll take that offline. I also try to, you know, stay hydrated. Oh, you know, but other than that, I feel like I live my life the same way I did before. You're thriving. Yeah. With one kidney because it grows. You're living it better. And then that you're thriving. Yeah. I'm thriving. Yeah. By God's grace and Diana's grace. Yes. I met a bunch of awesome people because of it. That's the way I've always looked at it. Me too. I've been, I am surrounded by some of the most amazing people I never would have met because of the community of donation. Because you're both vital members of that community. Whether it's this organization, whether it's what donate life one legacy, you know, it's, it's really an amazing show up for them. Always shows that every time I call him that we're having this event, we need you. He says, when is it? I will be there. Well, it's also because he calls me three years in advance. Yes. So it's like, yeah. That's not true. That's not true. We've been last minute. Can we get that love? And the answer is, you know, if he can make it possible. I mean, he has a life of, you know, children, but if he can make it, I'm sure I get possible. He showed, and that's what's, that's, that is core. You know, Phillip is an embodiment of, because he's one of the founding members of people he leads by example. Real ambassador. And, um, really, that's awesome because I see all the same people there. So it's, yeah. And you tune in that. Is there anything else about core that we want to share with our audience too? One thing to the audience is, you know, you saw Phillip and what difference he has made in somebody else's life, society and everything else, but also in his own life. Right. Um, so what I say to everybody is that if you're interested in learning more, right, there are resources and there's no better resource than core kidney. Whether you talk to Phillip, Brian Gillums and the name was mentioned. There's so many, you know, kidney donors that one year out, five years, 10, 20. So get to learn more. And I think was you who, who said that in the net, which really left an impression on me that if you have an opportunity to help somebody, right, why pass that out? All that we give, we give to ourselves. And I think that is such a powerful statement, right? If you can help somebody, why pass it? And that's what core is about. And these are two, you know, examples of what core does. I'm very grateful. Like I said, Phillip, and I'm speaking on behalf of the net as well, that, uh, you know, you're a super angel and, and thank you for all that you do. You know, um, and it's a great fundraiser too. Yes. Yes. For many organizations. Yes. Yeah. Well, I guys, I think. Maybe I'm an example of others in that, you know, yes. After having become a living donor, it's like you can't donate again really, but you can tell people the experience. Yes. And I think there's a lot of questions that people might have. Right. We go to an event and somebody is like, well, I was thinking about doing this and, or I just did this. Right. And what about this thing? Sure. And, and that's when you can give again. Yeah. It's ongoing giving. And for sure. And the understanding and I don't know what time we have, but I remember sitting in the Connie Frank center, which is the kidney transplant center at UCLA, and there was these two young Hispanic boys. And I say young, they're probably mid to late twenties, right? Both of them on dialysis and both of them were new recipients. And one of them was showing, you know, I was on dialysis for seven years and he had, you know, the things that change the fistulas and the others said, well, I was nine and, you know, I did dialysis at three AM because I had to go to work because my mother was sick. And what I know, you know, I have family that are of the Latina community. What I know about the Latina community or Latino community, you said we have to be male, female, but if they knew, if aunts, uncles, grandmothers, if they knew they could donate to those boys, what a difference it might be.  amelodipine, and there lies to seven to nine years of dialysis to doing that. And I think it's about education. It's an awareness. Because there are so many beautiful communities that are very family-centered that I know would show up if they have the information. So awareness is so key. Education is so key. So key, which is so great while you're here. This is so key, talk about these. These are such amazing programs that you and your team are putting together. Oh, no. We're just, I mean, you're kidding. We're so honored to just have this platform, too. Getting the message out. Share. In a way that people can understand. I mean, I've heard your podcast, you know, and they're really, I mean, you know. Like you're turning it around. But these are things that we need to get out there. Yes, absolutely. And that's where the use of the health care is involved. And then your example is very well taken because, I mean, you know, we do so many wonderful things at UCLA Health and we need to bring them to, you know, the communities where people are all over Los Angeles, if not further. But they only knew. That's right. You know, if they only knew, these things would be different. And that's on us to share and educate. And that's why we have to continue to show up for however, what was yours, 2007 you donated? I think so. And you received yours in 2020? 2020, 2022. 2022, it's just three years. So, I mean, he's 20 years in and still showing up every time. So, I want to be that person. Yeah, I'm sure that you will be. I could not. Yeah, I know she will be. I mean. Yeah, and you know, since we're thinking of things that we want people to know. Yes. I could speak to somebody who might be listening to this and they're wondering if they wanted to or not. The one question that I always get is, well, what happens if I get sick? What happens if I need or if my family member does or doesn't? And there's two parts that the one that the doctors told me at the beginning was that in general, kidney disease will attack both of your kidneys at the same time. So if I have kidney disease in the future, it would have gotten my kidneys anyway. So having one or two, you know, but the personal thing, because this question was asked of me by a person who was considering donation and they said, what if your child needs a kidney down the road and you don't have it? And I said, but what if she doesn't? And that was the thing for me because of the here and now is what I was worried about. I can't worry about the future. I said, what if Dale dies and the family member never got sick? So that was my thing. So I did look at it logically. I did ask the questions about what if what would happen to me and the meat part, I felt like I answered from the scientific element, which is I have a chance of getting sick. You're at the top of the list. How friendly. As a donor, you know, go. But they also said anecdotally, you know, there's not a lot of research been done, but they said kidney donors no longer, you know. So I mean, it's an interesting thing. Was it healthier? Yeah, they stay healthy. And they have to talk right. And so I asked the questions about what happens if I get sick in the future. And I felt I got those answers. But the one about what if somebody in your family needed it later? That was the one that for me, I was like, yeah, but what if they don't? Right. What if you can save a life now? Yeah. Yeah. And a family and just going back to that, there are other programs and usually health has been a leader and is a leader and and think a lot of innovative stuff. So we have a voucher program in which you can donate in advance and it's basically a voucher. So somebody wants to give, you know, then it is doesn't need or or something in our family, but they might need it eventually. So somebody can donate on their behalf and they can put, you know, multiple peoples on the name that, you know, this one, this one, this one, and they'll be on that list. So if they ever need the get. So that's a voucher program. We have a member of core that did that. There is also the paired exchange. I don't think that's very important. Those are amazing in the in the pathway. Asked, am I a match? Well, you don't have to be a match. What's the paired exchange? So paired exchange is suppose Philip wanted to donate to Nenet, but, but they are mismatched. Their blood group is not compatible. They think, but what you can, Philip can donate to somebody else and that's person can donate to. So they match it up and a lot of times you get a better kidney. So there's better matching. So what I tell this can happen with nine to 10. Yes. I think it's chain was 90. But it doesn't happen immediately. This is Sarah. It's got a matrix. Yes. It goes on and on and on. But it's like, it's like a potluck. Right. You can say, you know, Philip's chain letter ever. Philip gives on my behalf and I get on someone else's behalf because they get to and so. No, you're right. Potluck. It's great. It's a kidney potluck. I love it. Also why you call for. This is another reason you call for because they can say, here's your answers. Another thing that core does that, that I've experienced myself is not just with kidneys. So you have this advocacy. You have this case management team. Part of my disease didn't go away because I got a new kidney. I still have an immune system disease, polycystic kidney disease. So I have other complications. Well, you know, I needed to be able to see another provider and the list was very long the wait and I couldn't wait. Well, I have an advocacy in core to help me get through that, you know, and to help me get a resource in the time that I need it. So it's beyond kidneys. Yes. You know, it's that social, social work part. It's that you part. It's that research. Yeah, it's amazing. And just going back to the blood group, because a lot of people ask, can I be a donor and then said, if you're healthy, you can be. There's lots of ways. The blood group is not a factor anymore. This period exchange will take care of it. The other is which is still a smaller group, but it's called non directed donors. We used to call them, you know, by different names in the past. Outroistic donors, but non directed means that you don't know who's getting the kidney. Somebody will benefit from that. So these are all very, very powerful things that that that, you know, usually health is as leader in, I mean, tolerance, you know, programs are going on. So so I mean, and usually health has always been known for for transplant, not just kidney, the heart, the lungs, the liver, you know, bone marrow, gut, you know, so so it's really a very, I would say inspiring place to work at, you know, and working with people like, like, you know, Philip and Nanette. It's it's it's it for us as healthcare providers and you being one as well. And a very good one. I think we feel good, right? When we see this kind of passion about about it. I'm very grateful to both of you and spending your time with us, right here and sharing your story because, because, you know, we did the rose parade float and somebody twice. And the only reason why we didn't do this is because we had a lot of other things that we had to do, but somebody asked me about the kidney center. Yes. Yeah. But somebody asked me what is the purpose of the float, right? A lot of people want more business. A lot of people want the name, right? And I told them, and which I truly meant, if there's a person sitting in Mississippi and they see Philip and Nanette going by, it gives them hope. And that was that was if we can make a difference in one person's life, right? Yes. It's a success. And that was the purpose of the float. Yeah, it's that saying, right? When they say, you know, you're walking down the beach and you throw one starfish and they say, why are you throwing one? There's a million here. It doesn't matter. And you're like, it did to that starfish. Thank you. Thank you. You know, so like the pebble that you spoke about initially in every one matter, right? There's so much just shared humanity in this amazing community. Amazing. I can't thank the three of you enough. Is there any just last minute kind of take a ways or final reflections just for the audience? I mean, there's been so many, but I just I just need to hear your voice one more time. Be brave. Reach out. Be brave. Reach out. There is there is help. There is hope and and it's there and available and you deserve it. Thank you so much. I would say that you never know who in your life has a desire to help that may be their prayer. And if you don't give them that chance by talking to them, then they're missing out and you're missing out. So share your story and you never know what you might get back. It's beautiful. And on Jay, last word. I mean, I would just say that humanity is alive and kicking. That's all that I would say. Well, and you're leading the charge with these with these podcasts. Oh, thank you. Thank you. I couldn't be luckier. We have the best team and we couldn't be luckier. More grateful for the three of you being here. And I mean, not just sharing your story and your perspectives and reflections with us right now, but just really everything that you do every day. I mean, it's just incredible. And I mean, I think that, you know, this is a these are beautiful stories. And I know marked by so much, you know, like hardship that we're not even talking about and or you've alluded to, you know what I mean? But, you know, it's it's, you know, kidney donation isn't simple. It's not casual and it's not that you've represented it that way at all. But you're both doing so well and thriving. But it's not something that, you know, anyone does lightly and they just hearing how thoughtfully just how, you know, ethically, just the support from the core program. It just I really think that just you and this story that every that you're sharing really represents humanity and medicine, you know, at their best. And I'm just joining very, very grateful. You know, for our listeners, we'll have a lot of information in our show notes and links to the core kidney program. I'm sure a lot of people are very curious and have a lot of questions. And so we'll have a lot of resources about, you know, transplantation and kidney health. We'll reference back on Jay's other episode, which is very remember medically, I know nothing. So always go with whatever they medically speaking. Medically speaking, so thank you so much. And thanks for everyone for listening and we'll see you next time. Thank you. So much. All of you so much.

=== FILE: Straight From the Heart： What Your Heart Wants You to Know [T8jmwjUCw7w].txt ===

 subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected habits that strengthen and protect your heart. Joining me today is my very good friend, brilliant colleague and the perfect guide for this conversation, Dr. Ravi Dave. Ravi is the Director of Interventional Cardiology at UCLA Health and I just can't thank you enough for being here. Thank you for having me, Eve. Let's just start with basics. What does a cardiologist do? So a cardiologist is an expert on the heart and the vascular system. So anything that is related to heart, whether it is cholesterol blockages in the heart, weakness of the heart muscle, any valve problems, all of that is under the realm of a cardiologist. Also anything to do with the vascular system like blood pressure issues, blockages in the peripheral arteries, all of those are treated by a cardiologist. And the vascular system veins, arteries? All of the above. I mean, full disclosure, I love the heart. I think that if I had gone into any specialty I would have wanted to be a cardiologist like you. Well, thank you. No, it does it all. I've actually been lucky enough to know a little bit about what drew you to cardiology. But would you mind sharing kind of the story of how you became interested in medicine and especially cardiology? So I'm a third generation physician so I didn't have much of a choice to become a doctor. But in one of my summer vacations I was asked to look after an uncle of mine who had a heart attack. And at that time the treatment was bed rest for about a month. So I was sitting there during my vacation for an entire month doing nothing except looking. How old are you? I was 21 at that time. Oh my gosh, okay. So it completely ruined my vacation and as I was thinking about it, I thought there has to be a better way to treat a heart attack. So many years later I got into the field and now instead of a one month long bed rest we send our patients home the next day. There's a lot of personal motivation. Right, like 21, you're like, I'm not doing this again. Exactly. There has to be a better way. I think before we kind of get into prevention it would be helpful if we kind of really defined what heart disease means. You know, especially for the purpose of this conversation, coronary artery disease. And I'm making that distinction because when we're talking about the heart, right, this beautiful muscle, full, which is a muscle, right, full of vessels and an electrical system, we're going to really just talk about the vessels today, the coronary arteries. But again, I'd like to appeal to your expertise in terms of really defining what heart disease is. So like you mentioned, there are valves, there's an electrical system, there's a muscle, but then the blood vessels of the heart pretty much determine the function of the heart. And if there is a problem with the circulation with the heart, then that can create a malfunction of the heart, weakness of the heart. An acute problem is like a heart attack. But we see patients who have congestive heart failure because over time the heart muscle is not getting enough blood and it's not working as well. In terms of the coronary arteries, one of the things that people talk about is a plaque formation. And essentially, anytime we ingest any food, there is cholesterol in our blood stream that tries to stick in the blood vessels and creates these little road bumps inside the blood vessels. And that can end up causing restriction of blood flow and as a result, all the problems that come with it. So like the cholesterol kind of coats the inside of the blood vessels or just kind of gets these little bumps? Yeah. So cholesterol is circulating. So the best way to explain the cholesterol in an analogy is that there are two kinds of cholesterol. There is a low-density lipoprotein which is called the bad cholesterol and the high-density lipoprotein which is called the good cholesterol. So imagine you're having a party at your house in your living room and you've done a lot of care to clean the floors, get all the cobwebs out of the walls and everything is nice and pristine. And here come your guests. There are some of your guests that are kind of messy. They leave food around, they drop an occasional glass of wine, they're creating a mess. These are your friends, Ravi. So that's the LDL particle. They come in and they create this mess inside the room and make the vasculature. If you use the room as an analogy for a blood vessel, they're creating all these issues inside the blood vessel. Now you have some other friends who are actually the helpers. They come in and they're like, well, I need to help you clean the room. So they're always picking up things and cleaning the room as the party goes on. That's the HDL particle, the good cholesterol. So there's an interplay of LDL and HDL. Now if you have too many of your guests that are messy, then you end up creating having a room that's very messy and that creates blockages in the heart. Now there's a new particle that a lot of your listeners will maybe hear about. It's called lipoprotein A. That's in use quite a bit. So the lipoprotein A is like an unwanted guest at your party. That's the messiest of them all. And when they come to your party, they create a significant amount of mess. And there's new treatment coming up for lipoprotein A, which is in development. But until we have the treatment, we really have to work with reducing the risk factors. This is really why I never have people over. While we're on this, how do we check for these guests, wanted or unwanted, I guess I would say then. So as we all know, I'm a primary care doctor. So once a year when my patients come in for their annual visits or annual physicals, I will get what's called a fasting lipid panel to check for cholesterol. And so I will check these different particles, cholesterol particles, LDL, HDL. And now, yes, to your point, I'm starting to check the lipoprotein particle. So anything else I should be checking for or patients should be asking their doctors to check for. So what you're doing is a standard way to check for to do prevention of heart disease in patients. Now, when your patients who are at much higher risk, there is some validity to ordering of advanced lipoprotein profile. That's where you're checking the sub fractions of all of these particles. For example, the LDL, the messy kind of guess, they are there is a small dense variety, which are the messiest of them all. So if you have a patient that has a normal LDL level, but you feel that the patient is at much higher risk, the sub fractions may help you determine if you need to treat them even more aggressively. And we're talking about cholesterol being part of, you know, this overall, what we say, cardiovascular risk. And again, cardiovascular being heart vessels. But what are other risks factors for cardiovascular or coronary artery disease? So when we look at risk factors, we divide them up by the ones that we can modify and the ones that we cannot modify. So the unmodifiable risk factors are things like age, your gender, your family history, which tends to be a big risk factor in certain populations. But the ones that you can modify are high blood pressure, cholesterol, as we talked about, diabetes, weight gain, lack of exercise, and stress, which is to some degree under your control. So I mean, I think that's just a really important point because, you know, we're talking about the fact that heart disease is this leading cause of death, right, for men and women in the United States. But correct me if I'm wrong, up to 80% of those are preventable with control or avoidance of these modifiable risk factors. Absolutely. There is a lot that can be done to control your risk factors. And I think it is very important for individuals to get those risk factors checked. I think that's the first thing that needs to be done. There is a problem in terms of delay in getting these risk factors checked with our patients. We do tend to see women if they're going through childbirth, and that's an opportunity for us to evaluate their risk factors or for primary care physicians to look at the risk factors. But the ones that are at higher risk, such as men, we don't actually see them until it's either quite late or once they have a child and then it's their spouse that may wants to make sure that they are in good health, and that's when they'll come and they'll see us. Why do you think there's that delay in getting evaluated or checked out? It's because men at that age, they think they're invincible. What's your message to them? My message to the bros, as we call them, is that they need to come and get themselves checked, especially if they're having difficulty with keeping their weight off, if they're having any symptoms, if they're having trouble with sleep, if they have increasing stress in their life, and if they have any family members who have had heart disease before the age of 60. This is excellent. We will enumerate this many times. This is a genuine question for me as well. When does someone need to see a cardiologist versus, let's say your average patient comes and sees me for their annual physical, when does someone need to see a cardiologist, that specialist of the heart? I feel that the primary care physicians have a huge role in terms of taking care of doing primary prevention. If patients have high blood pressure or high cholesterol or elevated blood sugars, the primary care physicians do a fantastic job at UCLA trying to control all of those risk factors. But if you feel that you're having difficulty managing blood pressure, or if your cholesterol is getting harder to control, that's when someone should see a cardiologist. If the patient is feeling chest pain or pressure or heaviness with exercise, if it is exertion related, it could be physical exertion or mental exertion. But if there is any exertion related symptoms, that's when someone should come and see, ask their primary care physician to come and see a cardiologist. I love referring to our cardiology group, of which you lead. I feel comfortable again as a primary care doc doing, let's say, first line, meaning I see your cholesterol is high. Let's start you on a medication called a statin, and then we'll check you every three months and see how it's doing. But medicine can be really complex. It really takes this ongoing dialogue. Sometimes someone might not tolerate a medication for cholesterol or have side effects that are troublesome. It's helpful to hear when it's the right time, but I never, I would say, air on referring. You mentioned signs and symptoms, right, or having chest pain. So I would like to pause and talk about the signs and symptoms because I truly think this can really save someone's life. So the signs and symptoms of a heart problem. I think that often we think of a heart attack looking like it does in the movies, right, like this classic dramatic chest pain, elephant on the chest, and we're taught this in medical school too, right, like clutching the left arm collapsing. But in real life and definitely in populations other than the 50-year-old male, the signs and symptoms can be different or more subtle. So I'd love to kind of hear from you what should people be watching for. Yeah, so I mean the TV heart attack, the one that you described with the elephant on the chest, does happen, and we do have patients come in with exactly, and these are people who have not really read the medical textbooks, but they still describe their symptoms as if there is an elephant sitting on the chest and how I cannot imagine how someone comes up with that example. But the ones that we worry about the most are women, because women don't have the typical symptoms of heart disease, especially when they're having a heart attack. A lot of women will have shortness of breath, they'll have sweating, they'll have fatigue, they'll have jaw pain, and those are some symptoms which can be easily overlooked as being signs of just being tired or indigestion. So those are the ones that we need to anytime a patient, especially a woman comes to us, we want to make sure that we don't overlook those symptoms. The elderly patients sometimes they have stuttering symptoms, so they feel that they started having symptoms suggestible for heart attack, but then it goes away, so they feel that, well, perhaps I'm okay. So that kind of does create some confusion. Some elderly individuals come in with passing out as one of their initial symptoms and we tend not to overlook that because that could be a sign of a heart attack. I should make this distinction too, I mean we're talking about, you know, a heart attack versus signs of heart disease, so maybe you could help us with that distinction, right? Of, you know, like you were saying, like someone might have intermittent chest pain that doesn't necessarily mean that it's a heart attack, so maybe we could define that. So the acute symptoms, the ones that need urgent evaluation, those are the ones where you have chest pain that doesn't go away, that causes shortness of breath for you to sweat, for you to pass out, in women causes you to have sudden sense of fatigue, jaw pain, back pain. This feeling that something's terribly wrong, something's wrong, like something's not going right for you for that particularly. Those are things that need urgent evaluation, but the ones that we also want patients to report to us are symptoms that have changed in the last three or six months. For example, they're getting more tired when they're doing their normal activity or they're having chest pain when they start some activity, but as soon as they take a little break, the chest pain goes away. The one symptom that patients develop is if they're walking up an incline, which is a little bit harder than walking on flat ground, they may start having some chest pain, but then as they relax or rest, then it goes away. So it's a very, when you listen to a patient who's having chest pain because of blocked arteries, the symptoms are very on spot and very predictable. And when we ask questions such as what happens when you rest, almost always they say that the pain goes away and then they can restart their activity. So those are some symptoms we worry about. Obviously, some other symptoms that do occur are swelling of your ankles, weight gain, which is out of proportion, difficulty sleeping at night, having to use one or two pillows to prop up your head while you're sleeping at night. What's the concern? What's that usually indicating possibly? So that tells us that the heart problem has now caused to have some fluid retention. I see. So it's not pumping out enough. Enough blood. And then when they lay flat, the lungs get flooded, but if they prop themselves up, then they can breathe a little easier. This is so helpful. And I want to kind of go back to, you know, just like, do I need to go to the ER? I mean, if you're having this new, severe worsening chest pain, right, and it's not getting better, I really just want to encourage people like, right, go to the emergency room, call 911. Right. I think that's great advice. The one thing I would add is that if you're having chest pain that lasts a few seconds, then it's unlikely to be a heart attack. If you have chest pain that you can press on that particular part of your body, chest, and you can reproduce it, it may be because you just did some excessively tough workout or you lifted something. To remind people that we have a lot of like muscles and soft tissue between the ribs. So if you can press on it, it's likely superficial, right? Exactly. Or what we call intercostal or between the rib inflammation. Yes. So those are less likely to be heart attack, but I also don't want your viewers to feel that they can self-diagnose. Yes. No, that's very, very important. If you have any concern, might just go to the emergency room and the emergency room is used to seeing patients that don't have a heart attack and then you get a good reassurance that you're okay and then you feel better. Right. I mean, we really, really don't want people to wait. I think either people feel like they're overreacting or they're turned off by, you know, feeling like they're going to go to the emergency room and wait six hours. I mean, I think Ravi and I can both tell you, we take, emergency rooms take chest pain extremely seriously. And what's the worst thing that happens? You go and they say you didn't have a heart attack. That's the best we've ever. The best, the best ever, right? False alarm. Fantastic. Go home. You actually don't have a heart attack. So do not delay in getting checked and take chest pain very seriously. And then in terms of these other kind of groups, if people, you know, for women, I think especially, you know, we have a cardiovascular center for women at UCLA Health as well. But I think in general too, this is an important message for women. I think we normalize pain a lot when people are like, it's just cramps or it's like just indigestion. None of it is normal. Pain isn't normal. And this is where I think that the cardiac pain can be a little bit more insidious, right? Less of that like lightning bolts, you know, elephant. Yes. And I think those need to be taken seriously. It's great. It's really, really helpful. One thing I want to ask, kind of going back to prevention is why do you think prevention is such a game changer? I mean, like, you know, I love hearing about you kind of like sitting there and babysitting your uncle for a month. But what about prevention? I mean, is this, is that kind of the cornerstone of, of almost in a way preventing heart disease and everything that comes with it? Absolutely. So, you know, as you know, one of the things that I do is I take care of patients that are very advanced blockages and I'm fixing them. And while I'm fixing those blockages, I'm almost thinking that at what point where we could we have changed something for the patient so that they would not be in this situation. So we're always trying to look for answers. And one of the things that we have found through research done at UCLA is that if you put patients on medications or some lifestyle modification, you know, take, you know, approach, then you can stabilize this cholesterol problem and you can also reverse it. So I generally tell my patients who have blocked arteries is that my first goal, I tell them think of a fast moving train that's moving forward. My first goal is to stop the train where we stabilize the plaque and then put the train in reverse so we regress or take the, make the plaque smaller. So that can be done now with powerful medications. And if you do that, then you can make immediate changes in your cardiovascular risk and your risk of not having a heart attack. I mean, that's incredibly encouraging because I, you know, I think when sometimes people are also diagnosed with other chronic conditions like diabetes or, but I have to say every time I start a patient on a blood pressure medication or cholesterol medication, they ask, am I going to have to be on this for life? Yes. So there are some people who have exceedingly high risk that need medications for life. And that's one time when you're struggling with a patient that is resisting taking medications. In the past, we would try to give them the possible poor outcomes that could happen to them. But now we have this test, the CT scan, which you use quite often. The CT scan pretty much checks to see how much calcium deposits you have in your coronary arteries. Now, once you have cholesterol that is accumulated in your blood vessels of the heart, your coronary arteries over time, it has this change and it shows up like calcium on a CT scan. So if I have a patient who's resisting to take a medication or to make lifestyle modifications, I order a CT scan and on the CT scan, if their heart lights up like a Christmas tree, then it's a very easy way for me to tell the patient to make these changes. Right. So you're saying, here's really this visual evidence. I mean, it's a really good point and it's hard, right? I mean, a lot of these things that I think that are inside of our bodies, let alone the entire medical field, are really abstract for people who aren't, you know, physicians. That's why, again, it's so helpful for you coming on the podcast because, you know, I, what are the conversations can we be having with people, right? So we don't have to wait until you light up like a Christmas tree, right? For that to then, you know, motivate you to change your lifestyle. So I mean, let's, this again is part of this prevention conversation. I mean, there's different kind of levels of prevention. So there's the prevention of, listen, you've had a cardiac event, right? Or you're already having symptoms of heart disease. How can we prevent another event from happening? Event meaning a heart attack, so sciencey, or, you know, developing into, you know, an event. But how can we, if we are backing up, going way upstream, as you're kind of thinking about as you're doing procedures, how can we present, how can we prevent these modifiable risk factors from ever developing in the first place? I think that's an excellent point, Eve. We have, you described, you know, somebody who's had a heart attack to prevent the next heart attack, we call it secondary prevention from somebody who has risk factors to develop their first heart attack. We call it primary prevention because we are trying to prevent the primary event from happening. But a lot of cardiologists are now starting to think about primordial prevention, that is to prevent these risk factors which is going to cause heart disease from developing in the first place. It's the first I've heard of this. I love it, the primordial prevention. And for that, we need to start addressing maybe some kids that are at high risk in their 20s, and adults, you know, in their 30s. So that's the area that we are now looking at, you know, when we see a family that has very high incidence of heart disease within multiple members, we start talking to their children and grandchildren to make sure we can prevent them from getting there. It takes a lot of work. I'm sure it does. And so you start like, let's say, screening earlier, right? So screening for cholesterol or screening for diabetes, or I'm guessing making sure that we're monitoring for excessive weight gain, you know, all of those things that can really impact that heart and stress reduction and sleep. And you know, the 20 year olds now that we see for primordial prevention, they went through this whole pandemic. So they have had a very hard time with, you know, mental health illness. And, you know, they're not exercising because they stop going out. They're on their social media quite a bit. So it takes a lot to to change their risk profile. But that's the group that we're worried about the most. In fact, there are the one thing that we are seeing in certain high risk populations is that before when the patients would come in with a heart attack, it was generally the son or daughter that would bring their parent. Now what we are seeing is that the parent is bringing their children with heart attacks. And that's the one thing that concerns us the most. I mean, that's incredibly sobering. Why is that happening? Because of just these lifestyle changes, risk factoring, lack of exercise, poor diet. But all these things are modifiable. I think that's such an important message. Yeah. But again, I mean, talk about abstract. I think that, you know, your average young person is really thinks of heart disease as an older person's problem. Yes. But what you're telling me is that no, younger people have heart issues all the time. Absolutely. Absolutely. And the biggest heart issues are same things, high cholesterol. That's really sobering. Yes. But then I think there are a few other risk factors that have come in. I think stress plays a big role. How does stress affect the heart? So stress, you know, when you have stress, it has some direct problems with the heart in terms of increasing all the flight and the fight response. That your blood pressure goes up, your heart rate goes up, you have more inflammation, you have more shearing forces inside your artery that make them vulnerable to blood clots formation and things like that. But an indirect thing that stress does is that you start doing stress eating. You stop doing exercise. Right. You gain weight, you drink more, you eat more, you know, people. Right. And all of these things have been the deleterious effects on. Right. So that's the one thing that concerns me the most. What do you recommend for kind of that stress reduction? I know it's different for every person. It's different for every person, but I think exercise is the number one thing, getting out. And I feel personally, I'm a big believer in not having your phone with you and have access to your screen time. I mean, while talking to you, I have my phone off and I'm feeling so relaxed just so that your phone or is it me? Yes. It is you, of course. Okay. Those are great. I just, because I know all of your, you know, so many of your talents, you know, so I can't, I would be remiss if I didn't mention your ways of reducing stress for yourself. I always sort of picture you going and like saving lives and doing your interventional courteology. And we'll talk to all the stents that you place in balloons and then you go home and then for our listeners, Ravi, I hope it's okay. I share that you're like this amazing, you know, culinary chef. Well, I try my, I'm an amateur baker and I feel I like baking because, you know, it reminds me of science because the proportions are pretty exact. I mean, you make very complex things like really exquisite macaroons. Like I make chocolate chip cookies, you're making like lavender infused macaroons. Like just for the record. Thank you. I mean, it does relax me. Yes. And eating in moderation, but the relaxing is important. It is important. Yeah. Okay. This is very, very helpful. You know, you're talking about high risk individuals. So who are the highest risk? I mean, I really want our listeners to know that like all of us are ostensibly at risk, right? And so there are things that we want you to be paying attention to. Have a primary care doctor, get your, you know, routine lab work, which includes cholesterol panels. We check your blood pressure when you come in for, you know, routine physical exam. We sure we check your weight. We ask about exercising and diet and nutrition. But who are the higher risk kind of patients that you're, that you're mentioning, especially in their younger years that we want to pay attention to? So there are certain subgroups that are at very high risk. For example, the South Asian population, they're at, they have four times higher risk than the general population. They developed their heart disease, high blood pressure, everything 10 years earlier. So now you can just imagine we're talking about primary and primordial prevention. The primordial prevention now shifts to the kids in their teenage years. In their teens, yes. Right? So, so that's something that's a very high risk population. I think anytime somebody has had a family member, either one of their parents who had a heart attack before the age of 60, you're at very high risk. It is a huge red flag for us. Now, unfortunately, all the calculators that are out there to assess and predict your risk over a 10 year period don't include the family history component. Oh, they don't? No, they don't. And the reason being that when you ask a patient about, did anybody from your family had any heart problems, they feel that having a pacemaker is same as somebody having a heart attack when we know that those are two separate things. So, that tends to get a little confused. For our listeners, we're breaking that distinction between the electrical system of the heart and the vessels. Right. So, that's why it's excluded. But that's a high risk person. Now, most men need to know that once you cross the age of 50, one out of two men have high blood pressure. So, you can ignore getting checked, but there's a good chance that you have high blood pressure. If you have gained weight, your risk has gone up. Your cholesterol is likely elevated. Smoking is a huge risk factor which we haven't really touched upon. Smoking just takes, imagine that there is cholesterol circulating in your bloodstream looking to stick on the walls. When you smoke, you're pretty much taking this cholesterol  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected and heart disease. I know that you are leading really important work in understanding heart disease in the South Asian community and you established the center which I'd love to hear about. You mentioned 10 years earlier than the average person. Why? That's because the South Asians tend to have these risk factors which are much, much higher than the general population. Modifiable or is it like the smoking or something else? One of the risk factors which is just a theory is that the South Asians that came from the South Asian countries, when they tend to accumulate fat in a very different way compared to the other population, when somebody that's not South Asian tends to gain weight, the fat's all over distributed evenly across the body. South Asians tend to accumulate fat around their organs or in their belly area. We call them the skinny fat. They appear skinny but they have a lot of fat concentrated in their belly. That fat is just metabolically very active. Imagine that as if it's a volcano that's sitting in there that puts them at risk for diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure because it's releasing all these toxic chemicals that's there. The theory is that South Asians started to accumulate fat there because that was the one way to store fat because the South Asians were exposed to a lot of famines in the last 200 years or so under the colonial rule. Areas that were affected very highly with the famines. For example, people grew up in Bangladesh where there was the highest amount of famines. They have four times the risk of heart disease compared to the other South Asian countries. That is so fascinating. Obviously begs the question about other countries in other places who have endured multiple famines as well. I'm guessing there's going to be a lot more research. There has been research done to look at other populations such as places in Africa within the United States, the Native American population that has been exposed to famines. As you know that there is a high incidence of diabetes and heart disease in the Native Americans as well. That's something that people are putting these hypotheses together. It's so important to identify. This is so actionable. To say knowing the risk factors, whether they are ones that you have inherited through family, through places of origin, all of those are good reasons to go and get checked out and monitored. One of the things that we are trying to do with the South Asian population, people who are at risk of this belly fat, is instead of checking the BMI, which is a measure of obesity, we are checking their waste circumference because they could have a normal BMI and they would slip from under our radar. When we check their waste circumference, we catch that they are at risk for heart disease. BMI is the body mass index. It's really helpful to talk about prevention. Although did I miss anything, any other tools of prevention that you like to mention or emphasize? I think exercise, waste to lower stress, trying to get some activity going. I think one of the things that a lot of people have picked up is pickleball because tennis is a little harder to play, but pickleball is manageable. I think that's amazing. You're like, I play tennis, but you can play pickleball. While we're on it though, exercise though, you mean what we call cardiovascular exercise. Yes. A lot of people confuse exercise with fat burn and things of that nature. I think if you have a regular walking program, 7,500 to 10,000 steps a day, I think that does the job to keep your weight in check. What about nutrition like diet? The three diets that are recommended by cardiologists, and there are so many diets, like the South Beach diet and Keto and this and that, but the three diets are the Mediterranean diet because that's a good portion of protein, grains and fruits. Then there is the dash diet to lower your blood pressure. What is dashed in for? Oh, I can't remember. It's like low salt, right? Low salt diet. Yes. That helps you with cutting down your salt intake so that your blood pressure is better controlled. Then the last diet we feel that makes a big impact is the plant-based diet. That's a little harder to enforce, especially if you're not used to having primarily plant-based or vegetarian food, but that definitely has shown to cut down the risk of heart disease. Things like then, your diet, your nutrition and exercise, those are primordial, primary and secondary prevention. Yes. That hits all of them. It hits all of them. No smoking. No smoking, absolutely. The worst gas of all. Yes. Okay, excellent. What if you do have heart disease? I think it's so great to talk about the prevention. Hearing the word heart disease feels very overwhelming for patients, irrespective of where you're on, the prevention scale. If you're diagnosed with coronary artery disease, tell me what the main treatment options are today. The main goal with somebody who has coronary artery disease is to bring the low-density lipoprotein, the LDL, to as low as possible. Now, you can do that with lifestyle modifications, diet, nutrition, but statins do the best job. Statins not only lower the LDL, but they reduce the inflammation in the vessels. It does a lot of different things, and it helps you lower the risk of having worsening heart disease. And statins are the most common anti-cholesterol or cholesterol-lowering drug. Yes. Get rid of those bumps. Get rid of the trash. Get rid of the trash makes your vessels nice and squeaky clean. Now, there's a lot of... It's so effective. Very effective. Now, there's a lot of publicity against the statins, and unfortunately statins is one medication that has been shown to have the maximum impact in reducing heart disease. 20 to 30 percent, sometimes even more, to reduce your risk of heart attacks, strokes, death, things like that. Amazing. So those are amazing. People often talk about their side effect profile, but those happen very rarely. Yes. And most doctors, if you ask them, how many patients have you seen who had a very bad side effect of statin? People can generally count them on their patients. So few. So few. They're exceptionally well tolerated, and they make such a difference in lowering your cardiovascular risk profile. Exactly. Any other medications? I know Aspirin comes up a little bit. Aspirin comes up quite a bit, and if you have established heart disease, they do help. Going back to cholesterol, we have the PCSK9 inhibitors. Those are new injectables. It's a class of medication. Yeah. New class of medications, injectables. There's some oral medications coming out as well. They are very effective in lowering LDL. There is another group of medication that is currently being used. They're called the C-Tep inhibitors. Those are medications that lower the LDL, the bad cholesterol, increase the HDL, the good cholesterol, and lower the lipoproteinase. It does everything. So that may be a great medication. There are some vaccines that are being developed against the PCSK9. That's incredible. So that will be very effective. Is the idea, why a vaccine? Is there an idea that there's a microbe? Oh, like your microbiome, sort of leveraged your microbiome? Biomes and have your body kind of fight it. And then there are some medications that are coming out. There will be a one-time shot in your life that's going to cure your cholesterol issue forever. Oh my gosh. So really then targeting that primordial prevention, right? Those very high-risk patients. They will be key for that population. And I also just want to, maybe we could make this point together, if you agree, that if you're put on these medications, they're not a substitute for lifestyle modifications. Yes, that's the mainstay. Now, a lot of cardiologists feel that as soon as someone's diagnosed with heart disease, you start putting them on medications. Yes, it is in a very effective strategy. But my strategy is that I have the patient go through a three to six-month process of lifestyle modification so that they feel they have some control over their heart disease as well. And that's where a few other things need to be evaluated. How about things like meditation or yoga? Can that make an impact? We need to do some more research to find that out. Well, I mean, it certainly sounds like, especially if stress and overreactivity are contributing factors to the fight or flight. So, okay, that's great to hear. Any other kind of treatments, you know, kind of medical treatments, meaning medications? So, there are, so when you look at the coronary artery disease, you know, the mainstays are statins, aspirin. There are some other antiplatelet agents which prevent the platelet blood clot formation that are used in patients who have heart disease. But controlling your blood pressure by any of the medications, controlling your diabetes. Yes. By any of the medications. With weight gain, you know, we have great therapies for weight loss now. Fantastic. Yeah. With the GLP-1. Right. Now I just need a shot of cholesterol and a shot of my GLP and I'm like set. Yes. Right? That could be the future for patients who are at very high risk. Right. Which is fantastic. Yeah. Who just need a little bit of a push to get going the right direction. Yeah. And I mean, it's reminding me as much as I'm, I personally am emphasizing that, you know, you're in control of these lifestyle modifications. The point also isn't to sort of, you know, blame, right? Or make anyone feel guilty for, you know, having some of these risk factors. But there's a nice balance between feeling like you have autonomy and you've control and we want you to talk to your doctor and partner together on the best. And there's so many treatments, you know, and modalities and also balancing that, yeah, you also might have a predisposition that you can't control. But it's a complex but, you know, you know, very, I think, encouraging conversation. Yeah, I think there are so many new therapies that are out there that really give our patients an option and hope. Yes. I think which was missing for many years because we would just keep telling them lose weight and they would come back with weight gain and we would always get on their case. Right. Have a heart attack. Don't move for a month. Right. Right. And then we're going to yell at you for gaining weight. I'm glad we are. Before the don't move for a month, we were putting leeches on patients. So we've come along with. Yeah, we really have. Some people end up needing a procedure for heart disease. And I was wondering if you could just walk us through some of those techniques, I guess. Yeah, so if you have symptoms for heart disease, a stress test is a common way to find out. A CT scan is another way of stress test means like getting on the treadmill with and getting some imaging. Right. So while you stress your heart, I'm just going to back up while we stress your heart with exercise, for example, or sometimes we give you a medication that stresses your heart. Yeah, we get a picture of it and we can see if there's blockages of lockage. So we provoke the heart to go through some kind of effort to see how it responds to, you know, to the exercise component and see if it can keep up or if there are some issues. So those are some clues. A CT scan with an x-ray dye injection can give us like a virtual angiogram. It gives us an idea if there are any blockages, how much is the calcium count. So a lot of tools. Yeah, a lot of tools. It gives us a little roadmap of what could be happening inside the body. But eventually we would, if things are pointing towards a lot of blockages, you then go with an invasive angiogram. Generally, those are primarily done through the wrist, through the radial artery, and we put a catheter in which is like a little tube, like a little tube. It almost looks like an uncooked spaghetti and we go up to the heart, we inject some x-ray dye through that, visualize the arteries, and if there are blockages, we go ahead and decide whether this is something that needs medications. A lot of times we find blockages, but they don't necessarily need a stent. So we treat them with medications, high dose of statins and things like that. What's a stent if someone needs a stent? So a stent is like a metal mesh tube that is compressed on a balloon, and then once the balloon goes through this uncooked spaghetti, we expand it and then the stent kind of takes its holes open the sides and pushes the blockage into the walls of the arteries and provides good blood flow through it. It's amazing. Is it so gratifying to be there in what we call the cath lab? It is a lot of fun. It is good to see patients who come in with a lot of symptoms and go out smiling. Right? I mean, that's amazing. What do you notice with your patients that do have to have a procedure versus what we call medical management? I mean, is it a real wake-up call? Again, not everyone has modifiable risk factors, but what do you notice in people when they go through an event like a heart attack or a scary bout of a heart disease sign? So it is a true wake-up call for patients, but personally, I use it as my best opportunity to make a change in that person's life lifelong. So what I do is you kind of do a little bit of a theater. We have the patient there, bring the entire family there, and you walk in and you're like, okay, this is really bad, but we did something to help you. Wow. But now moving forward, we need to make all these changes, get the involvement of every family member. So you really engage everyone. You're like exhibit A, we have the blocked artery up here, six feet tall, and then you're like, and now, but I love the theater. So that makes the biggest impact. That's what most people remember, and that kind of helps, especially the children, to then focus on their parent that we can't eat this or we can't do this. And then they internalize it themselves. Exactly. And they follow that. Yeah, no, I mean, it's a really big deal. But it's so doable, I think, taking care of the heart. And like you're saying, the outcomes are so much better today than 10 to 20 years. Absolutely. I think our numbers keep on looking better and better and better. We have reduced the risk of bad things like death and repeat heart attacks. So we've done a great job. That's incredible. Well, thanks to you and your colleagues. What are the kind of biggest advancements that you're excited about? I mean, you mentioned some, you know, all the different cholesterol medications, but anything else that it kind of really excites you? So that, you know, the cholesterol has a lot of advancements in terms of congestive heart failure. We have a lot of new medications. You know, there is one condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. It happens in sometimes young adults and when they're doing exercise, sports, they have cardiac arrest and everybody's kind of heard of. Yeah, it's terrifying, right? Like a young athlete just collapses. Yeah, it's terrifying. So there are new medications that help with, you know, the thickness of the heart muscle. So that's been a big game changer for us. I think... Can I ask you a question about that? I mean, I think as a mom, it's very scary to think about, you know, obviously your child just suddenly collapsing, especially if they've never had symptoms, which I think happens in these cases. What is your, I guess, sort of advice or recommendation? I mean, should like all our kids get screened or we screen people before activity? Absolutely. There are some sports that really have a higher chance of having a problem with that particular hypertrophic cardiomyopathy condition, you know, things such as, you know, running and, you know, swimming and soccer and, you know, basketball. Anything that requires a lot of start and stop, you know. Oh, start and stop, okay. So we are always screening younger athletes and as well as, you know, major league, you know, professional athletes as well for that. Right. I mean, right. Everyone gets kind of that cardiovascular screening. Okay, that's helpful. We talked a little bit about, you know, kind of screening in general for people. So I mean, again, for someone seeing their primary care doctor like me, I check your blood pressure again to just want to remind everyone about their cardiovascular risk factors, right? I'm going to ask you about smoking. Hopefully convince you to stop if you do. I'm going to check your blood pressure, which was one of our vital signs for your routine blood work. I check a lipid panel, which is checking all those particles for those guests, the HDL, LDL. And then I also check something called a hemoglobin A1c and all my patients know this, but this is what's screening for diabetes. You know, we'll talk about your diet and your nutrition and, you know, health, healthy weight. Anything else? I mean, actually, you know, one thing that, you know, and thanks to this podcast and being educated by Dr. Ravi Esola about sleep, you know, I also ask a lot about sleep and it seems sleep apnea is very, very underdiagnosed in sleep apneas, you know, for our listeners when the airway collapse or gets obstructed and then, you know, someone wakes up, you know, many, many hundreds of times a night because they're they're brain is saying, wake up. You're not, you know, you're not breathing. And you've actually mentioned sleep and I'm sure there's a correlation with stress. But what about sleep apnea and heart disease? There's a direct correlation between sleep apnea and heart disease. Because when you have these episodes of not breathing, you're raising the carbon dioxide in your body that does a lot of negative things with your heart. It makes your heart, you know, the right side of your heart. Sometimes having to function a little bit harder. There are issues with irregular heartbeat with sleep apnea. And we've also found that some of our younger patients, when they have high blood pressure that's difficult to treat, it's because of sleep apnea, the correlation. And once you treat sleep apnea, you have actually cured their blood pressure issue, which is amazing, right? It is amazing. But it reminds me that, right, I mean, we're not just treating organs, right? We're like really have to treat our whole person. Right? Because otherwise, if you don't ask, you're not going to know that. And if you're not screening for sleep as part of the overall health, then that's going to go undiagnosed. Right. So it's a whole balance in the entire body. Yeah. It's so interesting. So I'm hoping that, you know, our listeners are hearing, you know, your very wise words, they want to do better. What would you advise them to do just realistically kind of starting today to really take care of their heart? I think the one key thing is exercise has to be done. It has to be done at least five times a week. I always feel that when you kind of try to do it five times a week, you end up doing much less. So your goal should be to exercise every day. Yeah, that's a good idea. And, you know, lately there has been a lot of talk about exercising right after your dinner, you know, it will lower your spikes in your sugar and your insulin level and things like that. That's a good time. You know, in Southern California with the weather it is, we have absolutely no reason to find an excuse for not, whether it's not an issue at all. Right. So exercise is key. I think portion control of your diet, it's very hard to become a vegan or to change your dietary habits of what you've done over the years. But portion control, I think, is a good way. That's just like it too. We want you to enjoy your life, but just smaller portions often is all you need. Exactly. And sleep is very important. And, you know, when I talk to my patients who are over the age of 100, I'm always very interested to find out what is it that got them to that level. And they always talk about portion control, exercise and sleep. And pickleball. And pickleball. Right. Yes. Do you have a lot of patients over 100? I do, yes. That's amazing. They are the most amazing patients because when I see them, I'm learning from them. Sure. And you're mentioning that they're patients, right? So they might have even had some heart disease. But they're still going... Right. But it's controllable and treatable for the long run. Yes. That's incredible. Yeah. And, you know, we talked about this, but I mean, because you've been doing interventional cardiology for gosh, more than 20 years at UCLA, I want everyone to know, I mean, you really train our residents and our fellows, you know, our future cardiologists as well. Have you seen the practice evolve over time? I mean, even despite just sort of the bed rest and the new treatments, but any other sort of kind of general approaches that you've kind of really noted? Yeah, we are doing a lot more advanced procedures now. For example, valve related issues before the only treatment would be open heart surgery. Now that's pretty much done through your groin. You know, you don't have to have your chest. A vessel in the groin, yeah. That's incredible. Yeah. So that's completely revolutionized our field. In terms of blocked arteries, we're sending less and less patients to bypass because we feel comfortable treating a lot more areas of... Bypassing like open heart surgery. Open heart surgery. Yeah. Right. So we can do so much more with medications and lifestyle. Okay. I have some asking for a friend questions. If someone feels totally healthy, do they still need screening? It depends on your risk factors. Like I said, if you have family history of heart disease, then you should get screen. If your physical shows that you have high blood pressure, elevated A1c, suggestive of diabetes or high cholesterol, you should get screen. Okay. Panic attack versus heart attack. How do you tell the difference? It is very difficult because there are certain conditions with the heart. For example, when your heart rate is really fast that can lead to a heart attack because you have gone into an abnormal heart rhythm, most patients experience it like a panic attack. Sure. And when they come in and instead of giving them a brown paper back to breathe in, we're injecting medications to slow down their heart rate. So if you feel that your heart's beating fast along with your panic attack kind of symptoms, it's best to get checked out. Come on in. Come on in. Especially if you feel dizzy, lightheaded. Sure. Which often happens with panic attacks too. As well. But we'll figure it out for you. Yeah. And then with panic attacks, what happens is as you're coming to the hospital to get checked, if it just goes away, then you know it was a panic attack. Right. Exactly. If you roll down the window and you're feeling better by the time, great. Yeah. Come on in. We'll reassure you. Acid reflux versus heart attack. That's a little difficult. Yes. The one thing I tell my patients of acid reflux is that if the acid reflux is associated with certain kinds of foods, you know, the high citric kind of foods, then it could be just, you know, acid reflux. If you have acid reflux that is treated with one of the over-the-counter medications, then it is likely acid reflux. The ones that we worry about is that it happens at any given time of the day. Right. Irrespective of whether you're eating or not. And if you've taken the medications and the medications are not working, then it is likely associated with the heart. And if you have the acid reflux like symptoms with exertional activity, then it's likely to be your heart. Okay. That one comes up a lot. And it's hard. And I guess I would say to our listeners, it's hard to discern often for us as medical providers. Exactly. So come in because, you know, when you come in, we actually do an EKG and we do other testing and we can really determine. Very easy to sort out. Very easy to sort out. Why are women's symptoms different? The heart disease, you know, is different in women. Most men have, when you look at their coronary arteries, their blockages of the pinpoint area. You know, eccentric, like one side of the blood vessel. But you generally see like a pinch in the artery. When it comes to women, they have more diffuse blockages. The entire length of the artery is blocked. And that results in different kind of symptoms. A different kind of symptom. And do we know why? I mean, but it distributes differently. Oh my gosh, I think we need more research for women. There you go. Okay. I'm looking forward to that. Here's one. Can emotional heartbreak really affect the heart? Yes. And it's, there is a condition called, you know, stress cardiomyopathy or the broken heart syndrome. We do see it quite often. And surprisingly, we see it when one of the spouses passes away. And then a few weeks later, a patient comes in with chest pain. And there's a portion of the heart that goes through unusual amount of stress that makes it kind of a little bit weaker and cause all these symptoms. Thankfully, you know, most of them go back to normal. But in some rare cases, the damage is permanent. Wait, so it's really actually one portion of the heart that we see repeatedly? Yes. The tip of the heart becomes weaker. Yeah. I feel like that's a whole other conversation. Is it true that heart attacks happen more on Mondays? Yes. Because there tends to be higher, you know, your stress level is higher, you're relaxed over the weekend, and now you're to suddenly go up and perform for the week. Well, it really makes the play for the reduction of stress. Absolutely. As a doctor who's, you know, deeply invested in intervention and prevention, what keeps you really hopeful about the future of heart disease care? I think that we have a lot of treatments available. Once somebody has heart disease, but I'm very excited about the prevention of heart disease. Yes. Because as much as we can treat these patients and fix these blockages, you'd be great to not have the blockages in the first place. Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, I think, you know, we have this incredible social drivers of health program here, led by Nikki Miller. And it reminds me too that I'm guessing, right, like your environment, right, genetics are included, your education, your access to transportation, you know, adverse events when you're a child, all of these things that are so upstream, right, from being the 55-year-old, you know, man with a heart attack, all of those things are aspects to target and monitor for so upstream of an event, you know, same with, you know, these risk factors. Absolutely. This has, of course, been so informative and empowering. Is there anything I didn't ask you, though, that you wanted to kind of share with me or our listeners? No, I think we covered pretty much everything about heart disease. I mean, it's just, it really blows my mind how preventable heart disease is and just that these kind of small, consistent choices can really create such long-term protection. And I think the one thing that I would like to leave with your viewers is that heart disease is preventable in some form at any given stage. You don't have to, if you feel that you missed that primary prevention, you've already had a heart attack, you can still prevent your second heart attack and, you know, life can be beautiful. That's a fabulous message. I can't thank you enough for being here, sharing your expertise with us today. You're just amazing. So I really hope that everyone shares this episode with someone that you love. I think it really can nudge someone to protect their future health. And you're just the best guest ever, obviously. For our listeners, you can find more resources and past episodes at uclahealth.org forward slash medically speaking. Ravi, thank you so much for being here. And for our listeners, stay curious and healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. Thank you for having me. Thank you.

=== FILE: The Best of the Season： Highlights Part 1 [BeDs9luqthQ].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to These episodes have honestly changed the way I practice medicine, the way I think about health, and honestly the way I understand people. Please join me as I share some of my favorite moments from each episode and reflect on what I've been lucky enough to take away from these fantastic guests who are so gracious enough to visit with me for enlightening conversations that are designed to spread medical knowledge and awareness to you. What you're about to see isn't just the best of moments, it's wisdom, humanity, science, vulnerability, humor, and the kind of conversations that make you feel less alone on your health journey. As I always say, you shouldn't have to go to a medical school to know how your body works and how to take care of it. So let's start with. Episode 1, a conversation with Katie Kirk about colorectal cancer. Kicking things off with Katie was absolutely surreal and amazing. Every part of our conversation was riveting, but my favorite moment was when she quoted Ralph Waldo Emerson, a reminder that courage and prevention go hand in hand. My Roman Empire is when you aired your colonoscopy on The Today Show. I was awake and semi-lucid during my colonoscopy because I wanted to kind of watch and take our Today Show viewers through the process, but you are usually out like a light. You wake up and that's one less thing to worry about and that's a real gift. Stop whining, buck up, just deal with it, get screened. I think sometimes that Arthur Brooks and Laurie Santos and all these happiness experts, I think it really does come down to seeing outside of yourself and figuring out what can you contribute. I love this Ralph Waldo Emerson quote and it's kind of to me the key to living a happy, successful life. He wrote, to laugh often and much, to win the respect of the intelligent people and the affection of children, to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends, to appreciate the beauty, to find the beauty in others, to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition, to know that one life has breathed easier because you lived here. I think people don't understand that at least 70% and maybe even 75% of colon cancer cases have no family history and I always say no family history is no guarantee, but no family history is no guarantee. Similarly, I think something like 80% of breast cancer cases have no family history, so I always say your family history could start with you. Episode 2, Integrative Medicine 101 with Dr. Elizabeth Coe connecting the mind, body, and soul. This episode is still one people stopped me to talk about. It really showed how powerful it can be when we merge traditional and integrative tools and look at the whole human, not just a diagnosis. To quote our friend and colleague Diana Winston, mindfulness is the experience of paying attention to the present moment experience without judgment, with openness, with curiosity, and a willingness to be in that space. A guiding ethos that I tell my patients that I think really sums up what Integrative Medicine is about is this idea of I can give you a prescription or I can coach you to heal yourself. So it's the idea of patient as captain and us as coach and cheerleader to be able to really cultivate the sense of personal agency to engage and to activate and to empower. Episode 3, Through the Speculum with Dr. Maya Zapata, What Your Guy Know Knows. Dr. Maya Zapata has become a regular guest on Medically Speaking. It's so easy to understand why she's got this amazing way of explaining women's health with honesty, ease, and zero stigma. I think it should be required viewing for young adults, learning about their bodies, and how to advocate for them. I have patients that are in their 50s and post-menopausal and still sometimes are wondering, like, what exactly is the pap smear part? So a pap smear, which we don't even really do a smear, pap smear goes way, way back. It used to be an actual test where a gynecologist would look in the vagina of a female patient, see their cervix, scrape off cells from their cervix, smear it on a slide, and look for abnormal cells. So it really was a smear. Nowadays it's just we call it a pap test, and it's a cervical cancer screening test. So it's a way for us to get cells from the cervix, a place that your body could get cancer, and look to make sure that those cells are normal. Now we also test for HPV. So usually whenever someone says pap smear, it also really means HPV testing, because they go hand in hand as part of screening for cervical cancer. I want them to find an OBGYN that they have a relationship with, and go, even if you feel totally normal, boring visits are great. Just go have a boring visit. It's wonderful. Definitely get to know your body. Don't be afraid of your body, because it's yours, and they're all different, and you know your body the best, and so only you can tell someone that something's changed. You're like, it wasn't like that before. It doesn't mean there's anything bad, but you know, and you could have a dialogue about it, and then maybe they can reassure you that that change is normal. Oh, I did ask. I asked a patient today what I should share from a young patient, and she said that patients should not be afraid to talk to the doctor and actually show them the things that they're worried about. If there's something that feels not right, I might tell you it's totally normal, but then you can put your mind at rest. So worrying, worrying, worrying. Just ask. Just show us the thing that you're worried about, point it out to us, and I might say that's totally normal, and then you can be done. Episode four, Health Below the Belt, a guide for every man. Our guest was Dr. Christopher Seigel. This was my first deep dive into men's health, and wow, did I learn a lot? Hearing the trends, the bro science, the questions, and worries men share with their urologists was so eye-opening and really relatable. One of the things that is getting a lot of press now, which is great, and I think a lot of celebrities are using their platform, is to talk about menopause. And there's a word that I've heard about, and I don't think it's like a direct mirror, but the word's andropause, and I think, and I'll ask you whether that's referring to also hormonal shifts in men, but I wanted to ask you a little bit about that. Yeah, it's a big topic, and I think the word andropause, it's catchy, and I think it conveys the sense that there's a change that happens in men as they get older, so it's useful to sort of communicate that. It's not really analogous to menopause. I mean, in women, there's a relatively quick change in hormones that's quite dramatic over time, so you have the hot flashes that happen acutely, those are because of the changes, so acute. And men, a lot of studies show that year over year, there is a slow drop, like maybe 1% or 1.5% in testosterone levels and the male hormone level, and it isn't always consistent, and in fact, there are ways you can prevent that, but I'd say at a population level, it's widely observed. Whether that is for all men pathological or causing symptoms, this is a separate matter. Another of these things, there's a lot of mythology around it and a lot of bro science, I'd say, about what it does and doesn't do. For sure, it affects libido. So if a man's complaining of a low libido, maybe some ED, that's certainly a trigger to look for a low testosterone. And ED is a rectile dysfunction. Yeah, that's right. Got it. There's, actually, in medical conditions, anemia, osteoporosis, those are reasons to check it for the doctor. If a man might complain of things like feeling cognitively fuzzy, low energy, those are less consistently associated. There's been some studies on this, testosterone trials, looking to see if supplement testosterone changes those outcomes. Not quite as hard about that in terms of the effect, but libido is the biggest driver, and then some of those medical conditions I mentioned are also important. What are the risks of taking testosterone if you don't need it, and especially if you're getting a completely unregulated source? So one of the saddest things that we see, especially in younger men who are at the gym who get it from friends or people that are selling it at the gym, they don't realize it's going to take their fertility down. And so you go on injecting testosterone, your sperm count will go to zero pretty quickly. And if you're on it for years, what happens, your testicles begin to atrophy. They don't make enough of the sort of testosterone naturally, that loses their volume, and then when you go off of it, they can't catch up. So infertility in younger men is a big deal. Shrinking the testicles without the ability to get them back in size, you can have an increase in your red blood cell count, which if that's not caught, that is a risk factor for things like blood clots in your legs if you're on an airplane for too long. Acne, if your levels go too high, there's aroid rage that can happen, or sort of emotional disturbances. Number five, menopause 101, what to expect, when and what not to do or not to. I guess we're Dr. Rajita Patil and also Dr. Maya Zapata. This was part one of our menopause series. There is so much noise and misinformation out there, so we wanted facts, nuance and humor. We got all of that and we had a blast. Can you talk a little bit about what to expect during this perimenopausal period? You know, there's like 60 plus symptoms of perimenopause and so on for me earlier, and everyone just experiences this journey and this transition very differently. Right, and layered onto the fact that we're also getting older, right? There's often life stressors that are also happening at these periods as well. Okay, we're going to move to one of my favorite segments, asking for a friend. Sometimes I don't even see this question before. So here's one, which is, I hate my husband and I'm rethinking every choice I've made. Is this a midlife crisis and a waking perimenopause or all three? I mean, yeah, that's a loaded question right now. There's a lot there. I mean, I definitely think, look, I think we really have to understand, you know, there could be situations around that, right, that have nothing to do with maybe the hormonal changes that might be happening. But yes, there may be an element of hormone change that is happening because a lot of times it comes down to how they're responding and reacting, their mood and the stability of their mood. A lot of times in sort of their coping mechanisms that are no longer kind of the same. And that happens because the neurotransmitters in the brain are actually somewhat destabilized when these fluctuations of hormones are going on. So number one, it's like, okay, you know, making sure it's not other factors. But like, if that's the case, look, this is why it's happening. You're not feeling as stable because of this. The good thing is, this is a little blip. It's not going to be like this forever. It is going to go away. Your hormones are actually going to be stable in menopause later, you know, but during this timeframe, you don't have to suffer and that there's ways that we can kind of stabilize these neurotransmitters. Some of that could be through therapy. Some of it can be through medication. And honestly, just to know that there's something that they can do and that they're not going crazy and that like they're not having a midlife crisis. It is actually, there's the reason for why suddenly there's been a shift. I can talk a little bit about what to expect during this perimenopausal period. I think that the range of things is wide. Great. Some people, you can don't expect anything and have lots of symptoms and some people are anticipating that it's going to be smooth and easy and they notice lots of changes. So changes can range from changes in your body that you notice. Harder to lose weight in the ways that you did before and feeling like you have the exact same diet, lifestyle, exercise routine, stress levels and yet weight has gone up five or ten pounds and it's hard to lose it in the way that you could have before. Sleep might be changing. Maybe just, you feel like you slept but you wake up and you're just not as rested or waking up in the middle of the night and having a hard time going to sleep. It could be mood changes, feeling more irritable, feeling if you had mood symptoms before that they're worsened, whether that's ADHD worsening or anxiety or depression worsening. It could be skin changes, feeling like the quality of skin on different parts of your body feels different. In six we continued the series with the body in transition, reframing the evolution. Our guests were Dr. Erica Oberman, Dr. Rajidya Patil and Dr. Maya Zapata. This episode has a very special place in my heart because we focused on language and how words shape the narrative, how women feel about their bodies and how menopause isn't just a failure, it's an evolution and it certainly is a new chapter. I mean you're reminding me though that knowledge and good information are such a powerful currency and it sounds like again, because you guys are such phenomenal physicians but when you're able to have access to this and have these conversations, right, then great, it's a reframe and a pivot. Well there's not that many analogies in life where it's so big and just based on your own experience and what you're feeling. So many things that we have analogies for whether that's stuff in our life like cooking or a car, it's like you put this amount in, you fill to this level, there's a gauge, it tells you exactly when you're at the right temperature or the right amount of something and it feels counterintuitive to say well, but if you're going to give me this medicine, don't we have to check this level to make sure you've given me the right amount? And that is the piece that some of the gimmick and sometimes some doctors who are offices that provide some of these medications that are compounded or pellets, it feels reassuring to patients because that's something that makes sense. Okay, you gave me this thing, you check a level, you said the level's good and I am feeling better or you told me I'm feeling better so that feels immeasurable and I can concrete. I mean let's actually back up, yeah we've talked about language and perspective I think impacting a lot how we patients society feel about this transition and so even sometimes there hormone replacement versus hormone therapy, I don't know, do you feel like those are different words and it kind of- Absolutely. So we are trying to manage this highly symptomatic time, we're in this transition from perimenopause to menopause, we are not replacing hormones. In early menopause we are, that is the goal actually, we should think about it like we would thyroid replacement in somebody who had low thyroid hormone. But early menopause meaning like if someone was 35, I had an early menopause, right it's not normal and their body needs a high level of certain hormones that you would- You don't mean earlier in the menopause transition, I mean earlier in the early menopause, they are like endocrine, they are separate. So menopause hormone treatment is how we are trying to, if you see our nodes when you see our patients is we're really trying to change that from hormone replacement for these women who are perimenopausal and menopausal. And I want to point out what you were talking about, hot flashes, that's not something that people talk about that much about that inflammatory process and the association with heart attack disease and that's one of those reasons why sometimes if patients are feeling they have maybe some misconceptions about hormones or different treatments for treating hot flashes, it doesn't always have to be hormones, they're like well no but I just deal with them and I can just keep dealing with it. I've been dealing with it for several years so I'll just keep dealing with it and even though it's something that they can tolerate, if they're really significant it potentially is impacting their cardiac health. So that's another reason to try to treat that. Episode 7, sex, intimacy and identity, women's sexual health after 40. This was part 3 of our 3 part series on menopause, our guest were Dr. Rajita Patil, Dr. Maya Zapata. This episode was particularly candid, informative, wildly entertaining and if coconut oil means anything to you, enough said. Some of our more viral moments came from this episode and for a very good reason. There's no just men's sexuality matters, women's sexuality matters. Sorry I can't hear you. Right. Please, yes. And sex doesn't stop after like the transition to menopause. People can have really fulfilling, wonderful sex lives so it's just a matter of supporting their bodies, their life, reflecting and being able to let them continue to optimize how they want that part of their life to be. But even just starting then with the vagina, like you're saying, if there is dryness and especially I always say to my patients as well, it's often skin or a mucosal barrier. So if there are changes or thinning or that barrier isn't as strong, let's say, anymore, there's right there, it might be more likelihood of sensitivity or even inflammation or an infection. But again, I mean, we're talking about sexual health, dryness, lubrication, so not everyone might experience this. But if this is maybe one of the more common symptoms of these hormonal changes, that's a real, it seems like something that might be really related to how you feel about having sex. Yeah, if you had sex and it was uncomfortable and maybe you weren't really aware, but like, it was uncomfortable, it makes you not want to have sex again. So being able to, and if every time now it's like just things aren't working the way they did before, it makes self-doubt happen, it makes you wonder like is something wrong, am I not as aroused? Like this is whole cascade of things. It would be easier almost if your brain automatically went to, oh, I'm having perimenopausal symptoms and my vagina is changing. Or if your vagina had a brain. Yes, and it could tell you, it could give you the answer, but that's not what our brains do. So a person might have had a very normal sex life, arousal, lubrication, sexual experience, it might have been amazing. All of a sudden, it doesn't feel as good. It's even uncomfortable. Something feels different. They don't even want to now. And then the cascade of things our brain will do will make it negative. Maybe it's my partner, maybe it's me. They don't feel good about their body. My partner noticed that I'm not getting as lubricated as I usually did. They think I'm not into them. It's complex. So, and then just speaking of, I think going back to, because one of the first symptoms you mentioned was vaginal dryness, right? Or sensitivity. You mentioned some of the lubrications. Do you mind just going into a little bit of detail about kind of what kind of lubricants we recommend? Yeah, well, I think for, okay, so for lubricants, right? In general, water-based lubricants don't work as well. As sort of the, that's kind of the mainstay normally when there is estrogen around. But afterward, it's really oil-based or silicone-based lubricants. I think you have to read the label. Yeah, yeah. The label. You gotta read the label. The good work. But I do have like this funny thing that I tell everybody. And I don't, I think I've told you probably too, probably. But I tell people, look, you don't have to go pay for this really. Like you just can go, you probably have coconut oil in the home. Yeah, yeah, I tell people. I learned it from them. So coconut oil. Yeah. Make coconut balls in the fridge, right? They can, it can gel, oil can gels in the fridge. Make coconut balls. Put a bunch of balls in a freezer bag and stick it in the freezer. And then 10 minutes before you have any kind of penetration, just put it in it, put a ball in the vagina. It melts right away. Sure. Smells nice and it works. I find you can have it in case someone's not like misty in the kitchen. You can just play a little tiny melon baller. You can use that or a little scoop to take your A to C these sold on Etsy. Code 8, Sports Medicine 101. What every parent should know, our guest was Dr. Marissa Vasquez Machuca. We talked recovery, resilience and growing bodies with the two-time World Series winning LA Dodgers Doctor. This continues to be one of the most referenced episodes, been really, really helpful for parents and athletes alike. See, I'm loving this inside baseball info, literally. And I would be remiss. My DodgerBlu team would be furious with me if I didn't ask you a little bit about being the Dodger team doctor. I just want to also say you're doing an excellent job caring for one of the top teams in the world to go below. But you were commenting a little bit about the rest and recovery even for these elite professional athletes. Anything else different about treating or advising professional athletes versus your younger? Yeah. I think one of the things I always remind myself is that professional athletes, they have the same injuries that our general population has. They might have it at a higher rate, oftentimes because their job is to be an athlete. Yeah, that's what they do for a living. But a lot of the medicine is the same. So they get coughs and cold just like the rest of us. They get ear infections just like the rest of us and the treatment's not very different. I always like to say the medicine is the medicine. But you mentioned that so many sports now are year-round. What are your thoughts about that? Yeah, so that's really a lot of coaching and also counseling parents to ensure that the kids are getting active in other things as well, especially during off-season. So instead of doing the same sport year-round, trying to get them involved in other sports so that way they can develop other skills as well. Are you finding that kids and their parents are receptive to this advice? It varies, actually. I think there's this thought that if kids start to specialize very early, they're going to become very elite athletes. Whereas when we take a look at the literature and the research, that's not really pointing at that. It really points at kids that are doing multiple sports actually become better athletes later on in life. And then they can specialize when they're skeletally mature and they're not growing anymore. Are you seeing the same pressures that you're seeing in your younger athletes, also in your pro athletes? Yeah, I think there's social pressures that come with sports, especially playing at higher levels. You're a good team and you're moving towards championships. There's more social pressures that go there to perform. There's more pressures to practice a certain skill that you might not be as strong at. And those are similar at the professional level. It's not only at the elementary or school age or high school. It's across the board. There's definitely some social pressure to perform. I was sitting on the sideline of a volleyball game for my daughter and the posing team, I just could hear the parents just like, go do this, do that, get it over. That is a social pressure ranger that these athletes are enduring. And we do it right when we watch a professional match on TV. There is a social pressure and everybody handles that a little bit differently. So I mean this day is a question, when should you go to the ER after an orthopedic or sports injury? Probably one of the more common ones is an acute injury. So someone has either a fall or trauma where they can't wait-bear, for example, that oftentimes does warrant further evaluation. Certainly someone who has an open wound from an injury that oftentimes will require further evaluation as well too, depending on the injury that occurred. The easiest one I could think about is an ankle sprain, right? So not every ankle sprain has to go to the ER, but an ankle sprain that perhaps the athlete is not able to wait-bear on, they're not able to walk on it, that's probably something that's going to need an evaluation, at least either in their primary care doctor office or in urgent care for that matter. Or if the pain just isn't controlled, right? Okay. If pain is not well controlled, that's definitely something that would require further evaluation. Right. I mean I tell a lot of my patients, I'm like, if you're at home and you can't fall asleep because it hurts so bad, you need to go get it evaluated. Exactly. Episode 9, breast health 101. What everyone should know, our guest was Dr. Carly Thompson. We covered screenings, imaging, risk factors, and answers to the questions women quietly or sometimes not so quietly worry about. This is another episode, it should be required listening for women and anyone who knows women. So basically everyone. We say breast health. What really are we talking about? I think that breast health encompasses kind of a spectrum of concepts. I mean we're talking about, I think first and foremost, being aware and familiar with your body and your breasts and how they look and how they feel and how they're changing over your lifetime. So it's an awareness and a mindfulness of what your body is like. And then it's also an awareness of what you can do to optimize the health of that tissue over your lifetime and the things that you need to do to reduce the risk of developing problems in the tissue. So we're talking about things like, what can you do to optimize your breast health? So we know that average risk women, although please correct me if I'm incorrect, typically start mammograms at age 40. But that can shift depending on family history, genetics, or any risk factors. Can you talk about a little bit how we tailor screening based on any personal or family risk? Yes, great questions. So there has been some debate over the years, which anyone who's in the field for sure, but you don't even have to be paying that close of attention to have heard about the breast cancer screening, the mammogram, when you start mammograms, the whole debate. There are different guidelines that have set different guidelines. For the most part, the consensus is kind of narrowing down on that women should start, average risk women should start screening. Most of them should start screening at the age of 40, but you can probably go up to the age of 45 and still be OK. But there are definitely things that are going to influence those recommendations. So anything that is known to put a lot of effort into the process of mammogram screening, anything that is known to put an individual at higher risk of developing breast cancer might shift those guidelines a little bit. It might decrease the age at which we recommend starting mammograms. So for our highest risk women, we might even go all the way down to starting screening at the age of 25 for our genetic mutation carriers. Alternatively, maybe we'll still start at 40, but in addition to doing a mammogram, we're also going to add breast ultrasounds or we're going to add a breast MRI. So we're going to add some supplemental mammogram as the foundation, but we might supplement with some other types of imaging. And so risk known and kind of the most important risk factors that we think of come down to family history and genetics. So if an individual has a strong family history of breast cancer, then there might be a strong gene traveling through that family line that increases the family's risk of developing breast cancer. So you might not know your level of breast density until your first mammogram. Exactly. And that will then determine subsequently whether you need additional imaging, imaging modalities, meaning types of imaging at that time or just in the future. Or just in the future. And also very importantly, breast density is also a mild to moderate risk factor for breast cancer because the same kind of hormonal causes that cause a woman to have dense breast tissue also contributes to the formation of breast cancer cells. Now, it's not a strong risk factor. So I don't say this to scare all of the individuals out there who have dense breast tissue, but it is a risk factor. So it's something that's important for women to know, which is why you might see on your mammogram reports this kind of disclaimer that you have dense breast tissue. You should talk to your doctor about it. Women are like, wait, why are they telling me that? And what am I supposed to do about it? Right. And what doctor am I supposed to talk to? What doctor? Yeah. And so you're talking to your primary care doctor. For some women, their OBGYN acts as their primary care doctor and orders their mammogram. So you're talking to whomever ordered the mammogram for you and saying, okay, I saw on my report I have dense breast tissue. Do I need to do anything about that? And then it comes back to looking at all the risk factors, putting together the whole picture because breast density is just one puzzle piece. So it's putting together the whole puzzle and saying, should we be doing something more to more intensely screen this individual? We do have other measures that we can take to reduce a woman's risk of developing breast cancer. We're not usually employing those measures until a woman has a very elevated risk of developing breast cancer, things like medications that can be taken. And then even surgeries that can be done to remove all of the breast tissue if a woman is at high enough risk. Episode 10. Whole person, whole system where social care meets medicine. Our guests were John Jasper Kump and Nikki Miller. This episode is incredible. It's full of heart and hope. Nikki and Jasper reminded us that there are teams of people working behind the scenes to support our patients and who care.  and so on. So, thank you for joining us today. We'll be back with a new episode of Social Care. So, let's get right into the heart of today's episode. What does social care actually mean and how does that really just show up in real life? Yeah, I think we can vibe up. Yeah, let's do it. We should go first. You should go first. You should go first. Both. And, you know, this is something that Jasper and I really try to model, which is meeting our patients where they are, or meeting our community where they are. And so, when we talk about social care, it's this model where our health systems are responding to the social needs of our population. And I think you're all different, Jasper, to really talk about the heart of it, which is our social workers, our community health workers, and how we're modeling that. Social care has always been something that we've done as part of social work, and now community health workers have become such an important part of the work that we do. So, we've always been concerned about the things around a patient's health. Now we have a more formal way of doing it, and we take it like a vital sign, right? So we look at it as that. Like, it's something just like any other health indicator, this is also part of your health, and so we want to look at it that way. Gosh, I feel like our patients are so incredibly lucky, all of our teams, to have the two of you, your teams. But, yes, it does. I want to make sure that, you know, for those of our listeners who, let's say they're not even patients in any health system, right? To even have awareness about what social needs are, how it contributes to your overall needs and your overall well-being, right, and healthcare, it reminds me, because I really want to, you know, encourage everyone to advocate for themselves, right, in any space. What is, you know, is there any advice you would want to give anybody, you know, when they go to see a primary care doctor, if they go see their high school principal, you know, a guidance counselor, their therapist, or not therapist, or, you know, their pastor, their rabbi, what's, is there any recommendations about how to voice, give voice to, you know, these concerns, or how to advocate for themselves? Go ahead. I mean, I, yeah, I, I, the first thing is like, the biggest hurdle is that shame, is that, is that fear that we have. And the reality is, and I love that you use the word advocate, because the truth is that people who advocate for themselves or their loved ones get better care, period. It's just the way it works. It's part of why I became a social worker is in order to advocate for people, right, and so I always encourage people to advocate for, for what they need. And sometimes that's as simple as saying, hey, I think I could use some help, right. You might not even know what that help is, right, but just saying, hey, I think I could use some support here or some, some help here. Would you be willing to talk with me about it? I just want to be a nerd for a second, because I studied Latin for a long time, and the Latin roots of the word community are mean with gift. That's what that means, the, the comb and then the munis. Anyways, so it just always reminds me that just being part of a community is sharing of gifts. And I just can't think of two people who are more gift-giving. I know you were going to say something, but I had to know about for a second. I'm going to take that home with me for sure. That's, that's, I mean, well, I mean, as you asked the question, I started getting emotional because I started thinking about the, the community health workers and social workers that I work with every day. They give me such hope every day. I hear story after story about the things that they do, the lengths that they go to, the connections they build with patients. They're changing people's lives. The messages that we get from patients about, I never knew I could get this kind of support somewhere else before. It's just, it's just beautiful. And so that, that really literally is, that's where I get my hope from. Just everyday hope too. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. You never can hear enough of those stories. Episode 11, your health's home base. Why a PCP is your MVP? Our guests were Dr. William Carroll and Dr. Maria Hahn. While I head up the faculty practice group at UCLA Health, I'm still a very proud and engaged primary care provider with active patients. So I really wanted to do an episode highlighting primary care, what that means and why it's so important to utilize what we offer. And as a PCP myself, I love spotlighting what primary care really does, continuity, longitudinal relationships, prevention, coordination, and especially partnership. Let's get into it. And why don't we just start with the basics? Well, I'm going to ask you first, what is primary care? Of course. Yeah. I think, you know, it depends on the day and it depends on the person. It really can be anything, you know, that can be I have COVID, that can be I need my medications refilled. I think when I think about primary care, it's really the person's doctor, you know, your doctor that knows you the best, has probably seen you the most in your life, has kind of grown up with you, right? Like knows when someone's had a child knows when someone's kid has gone to school, someone that you know, you've been seeing over a long time. And, you know, I think when you think about the purpose of primary care, the purpose was that everyone has a doctor and someone that they can go to in times where nothing's wrong, right? Like a nice boring visit coming in for your physical, coming in to get some paperwork done, but also the person that you reach out to when something is going wrong, right? Like you have a new diagnosis and you're trying to learn how to navigate that. You caught a cold at a party last weekend and you need some medications just to get through that. I think that's that's how I imagine how primary care has evolved over time. That's great. I mean, I think what I'm hearing too is that it's comprehensive. It's everything. The person in your corner, your coach, your navigator, I guess to the comprehensive idea, anything else to add, Maria? Yeah, I think about having a primary care doctor is having a very medically savvy best friend. And it's someone who knows really well, ideally over a longitudinal period of time. They know your history. They know your family. They know your habits, your hobbies, all of these things. And they kind of take everything that they know about you that they've learned about you over the years. And they help you make good medical decisions for you and figure out how you can as an individual stay healthy and stay well and thrive. I mean, I think that all patients should deserve amazing primary care docs like the two of you. What would our advice be though? I mean, I love hearing what you're saying about primary care. I hope I'm a good primary care doc. But how do we instruct, I think, our community and prospective patients? Like, how do you choose the right primary care doctor for you? Yeah, I think there's so many factors that go into that. But I think ultimately you're talking about the power of primary care at the beginning. And I think the power of primary care is that relationship. And so you do want to find, I think, a primary care physician who you kind of vibe with. And when I say vibe, what I, the piece I'll highlight is someone who you can be honest with and be honest with. And who you feel comfortable bringing your concerns and your anxieties to. And who you also can feel reassured by. I think that's a big component of the therapeutic piece of a primary care relationship. Episode 12, Metresense, becoming a mother, guest Dr. Misty Richards, a beautiful, deeply validating conversation about how a woman transforms biologically, psychologically, and socially when she becomes a mother. Let's just get right into it. Let's just start with, what is Metresense? Yeah. So, Metresense is actually, you know, it was coined by a medical anthropologist in 1973 of all things. And it involves like this push and pull of becoming a mother. So we often don't talk about it, right? You become a mother, obviously when your child is born. But what we don't talk about is this identity formation, identity shift. And it doesn't just happen like this. This takes months, years, it's dynamic, it's ever moving, and it's hard. It's not pathology though. It's almost like this rite of passage to motherhood. So really when you think of the idea of what motherhood looks like to you, it's like a fingerprint. It's very specific to each one of us, depending on our childhood. And as a child psychiatrist, I come with that lens, right? I think it's so important that we think about how we were raised and what we're taking with us into motherhood. So from the time that you become pregnant, from the time that you conceive, you go through pregnancy, labor and delivery, and the baby is born. And oftentimes people are like, wow, you're a mom, nice job, here we go. And it's so hard from the time that you become pregnant, this idea of becoming the mother of your wildest dreams is planted. Goes in the nursery, so you ask someone, hey, what does motherhood mean to you? And they go back, talk back to how they were parented or mothered. Goes in the nursery is thinking about any types of experiences that you experience as traumatic or hard or overcame. And those are the ghosts. And if those ghosts are not addressed as you become mother, you can take those ghosts into your nursery as a mother. So ghosts of childhood taken into your nursery as you become mother. We've got more highlights coming in part two from kidney health, sleep science, end of life planning, sexual health, chronic pain and more. So stay with us.

=== FILE: The Best of the Season： Highlights Part 2 [hne_v5ILqDs].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to organ donation in a very human and accessible way. I mentioned that your medical specialty is nephrology. Let's just break that down for our listeners. What's nephrology? So nephrology is just a fancy word for specialty in kidneys. And just want to point out that it's part of medicine, not surgery, because a lot of people confuse us with surgeons that do the transplant. So this is a medical aspect. And we take care of all aspects of kidney disease and kidney health from prevention to transplant. Which brings me to, tell us about the kidneys. I would love to. So as you mentioned, they are a fist-sized organ in the back and under the ribs. And they work 24-7. They act as filters. And their prime job is to purify the blood and get rid of the waste products. But they do a lot more than that. They get rid of excess of water or preserved water. If you are dehydrated, they will try to conserve it. Acid-based electrolytes, which we've got potassium, sodium, calcium, phosphorus, the acid load in your body, that's really about the kidneys. But it has a lot more functions than that. Hormonal functions. The vitamin D that you ingest or get from the sunlight is not active till it goes to the kidneys. So if you have kidney disease, then you become vitamin D deficient, even if you're taking vitamin D. So family history is very important. Know your family history. Well, because once you know your family history, I think sometimes I think people feel overwhelmed by genetics because they're like, well, what am I supposed to do with that information? But I'm guessing then, even if you know, you tell me, but if you know you have a genetic predisposition or a heightened risk factor, tell me what you can do with that information. So the two things. One is what we call the monogenic. That is a single gene. And for example, polycystic kidney disease. It's a single gene mutation. You go in and you get tested. So there is a broad panel testing now. So the future of medicine, not just nephrology, is three things, in my opinion. Three big pillars. Number one is AI, artificial intelligence. The second is immunology. And the third is genetics. And genetics could be monogenic. That means a single gene. And you can get tested for that. You go in, you ask your doctor saying that, hey, I have kidney disease. It runs in my family. Can you test me for any genetic cause? The other is what we call polygenic. That means multiple genes. And that is example type two diabetes. So you really can't test. I mean, you can, but for most of them you can't test. But it runs in your family. Everybody in your family, from one side or the other, is diabetic. There's a pretty good chance you'll be. And it doesn't how you look or what you are at very high risk of getting diabetic. And I have to ask, how much water am I supposed to be drinking every day? Yeah. So that also depends upon if you're working out, if you're sweating, if you're in Arizona, where it's very hot. So one thing I would say, if you don't drink enough water, that's really bad for the kidneys. Because kidneys are the most vascular organ in your body. 25% of what your heart pumps goes to the kidneys. So when you say vascular blood flow, like veins and arteries. So 25% of the blood that your heart pumps, 25, goes to the kidneys. Because they purify the blood. It makes sense. So the kidneys do like to be hydrated. And that's why we have this water drink. But Anjay, how do I know? Do I have to pee clear? Do I have to drink enough water to pee clear? That's for sure. Yes. I do? Yes. Or is that the question? Oh. No. But then you might be taking multivitamins that might make your urine pee. So I think it is. I would say if you're not excessively sweating or losing, I would say about a liter and a half, basically a body size. If you're Shaquille O'Neal, it's very different. So general guideline though. Episode 14, your voice, your care, the power of planning ahead. Our guests are Dr. Neil Wenger, Dr. Annie Walling, and Shawnee Smith. This was a beautiful example of how hard conversations make life actually easier. Talking about advanced care planning isn't morbid. It's loving and empowering. And I was so impressed by how thoughtful this conversation was about this often unavoidable and difficult topic. In your own words, what is advanced care planning? I think the simplest way to think about advanced care planning is communication. So I think the most, and you give such a good example, just at the beginning of the intro to this podcast, really talking to your health care team and to your family about what's most important to you and how that might relate to various health care decisions. I love the emphasis on communication because I think for a lot of people, their minds are instantly going to go to documents. So I love that really why it matters most and what does it really mean is about communication. I don't know if you have any other thoughts, Shawnee or Neil. I would add that it's communication about what's important to a person. So just as your dad was communicating with you about things that would be important to him in the future, that's what advanced care planning is all about. I do think that a lot of our patients, my friends, my family have the necessary myths, but maybe some misconceptions, I think, that would be helpful to clear up a little bit. And I'd love to know like, Shawnee, what do you say to someone who says, I'm hearing you, you're talking to me about an advanced directive, but I think of that as giving up. No, absolutely not. It's just beginning a conversation of, in the event if something happened, what would you want? Like just making sure we're honoring your wishes, making sure that we're not taking on the hospitals, not giving measures that maybe you want or do not want, making sure you have a voice if you are unable to speak. I would imagine that this process would also just invite everyday reflection, right? So even in this process, I hear that you want all these decisions made, but actually step back and reflect like, what matters to you, right? So it's not just like what matters to you in the future, but am I imagining that that just maybe it also invites people to sort of say, actually no, actually let me think about how I do define my quality of life or what do I love about being alive? And yeah, absolutely. I think it's a continuum. Yes, because I think if we're always constantly thinking about what matters most, we can make choices to make our quality of life every day the best it can be. And so I think it's basically just thinking about that now and for the future. Right, and in fact, it's a way of making explicit that what we're aiming for is shared decision making. Now this is a special kind of shared decision making, looking toward the future. But if in fact, in that doctor-patient relationship, the expectation is the patient is gonna be fully informed and make decisions that are real, that are real possibilities with their clinician, with the support of their family, that's really what advanced care planning is aiming at. Episode 15, a doctor, her best friend, in stage four cancer, life interrupted. Early onset colon cancer, Julie's story, I guess was Julie Clower. This episode was deeply personal. Julie is my childhood best friend and she shared her diagnosis and what it means in her life, her identity and for her family. And I am so grateful for her courage and her advocacy and her friendship. So I thought maybe we could start, and just for context for everyone, to take us back to March, 2018. Could you tell us a little bit about where you were in life and work at that time? Yeah, so I just had a baby, my first baby, then I was so excited to be a new mom. She was seven months old. I was consulting, doing marketing consulting at the time. I just kind of had finished up a contract for the week. And that day, there was a day where I was having some rectal bleeding and the first thing I did was call you to say, what do I do? I was at dinner with a friend and I'm outside drostanolone, I remember it so clearly talking to you saying, what do I do? This was actually on a Thursday. You said you need to go in and see a primary care doctor because you were in Los Angeles. I was in Chicago at the time. And so I didn't have a primary care doctor at the time because I had moved to Chicago and then I had my OB and she was really my doctor that I went to for everything. So I thought, so I found a doctor, made an appointment, went in on Friday. And he said, I'm your little anemic, you've had this bleeding, so I want you to do a colonoscopy. But don't worry, it's not cancer or anything. I think you might have like IBS or something like that. And so I went down the path of searching who should do a colonoscopy because I'm a complete researcher and not, and I'm like, well, I want to make sure I have the best person for me to do a colonoscopy. And it was about a five week wait to get a colonoscopy. And then that weekend, so this was on a Friday, I finished up the consulting project I was doing. And then that weekend, I started having horrible cramping. And of course, I was like, speed that with you the whole time. And then went to the ER on Monday morning and was in the ER, wondering what it was. It really felt like I was having contractions, like baby contractions, it was that kind of pain. And they did a CAT scan and about a couple hours later. So I'm in the ER and a couple hours later, they said the doctor came in, he was very kind, but I had no idea who he was. And he said, you have colon cancer and you have lesions in your liver. And I was like, first of all, of course, like so confused. So no idea what he was talking about. I had no history, no family history, nothing that would point to that. I was a relatively healthy person, just having had a baby. And that was my diagnosis. It really feels like, and actually I know this to be true, that you've partnered with your docs, one of them being the medical oncologist. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what that care team is. When we say care team, right? So there's a medical oncologist, but tell us about your care team. And I guess how you talk about all of this with them over time. Yes, so my medical oncologist is a huge part of my care team and his nurse practitioner is also a big part of my care team. And the two of them work very closely together, but they play different roles in terms of when I'm having, you know, a side effect or something that I need treated. I usually will talk to her sometimes over him, when I need like strategy on my treatment, I talk to him. And not that that's the case with every medical oncologist, it's just I know my team and what they are good at and how they kind of think and approach things. You play to their strengths. I play to their strengths. And I think, you know, so they're core to my cancer care team, but you are core to my team. I call you my PCPBFF, my primary care physician, best friend forever. Or we call you Dr. Petunia in my house because your Petunia is our nickname for you. So when I'm asking a doctor question, I'll say I'm like, edit that out. I need to talk to Dr. Petunia. But and it's interesting because I have a lot of friends who have cancer who don't have a primary care doctor anymore because their oncologist has become their primary person because pretty much most things are related. But what I realized is like when I had COVID, like I called you because that has nothing to do with my cancer necessarily. And you make sure that anything you tell me to do related to that, that if you think there's going to be an interaction or an issue to talk to my oncologist. So, you know, understanding what people's scope and lanes are and having them play that role as best as possible, everything is an urgent. And so, you know, you sit there and you're like, this cancer is inside of me. Like we have to do something right away. And yeah, you can't just let it go for months. And you know, depending on the aggressive, I had a pretty aggressive cancer. So it's not, you know, couldn't, it's not like I could go months. But a couple of weeks here, it's okay. Like you can take breaks from chemo if you need to, if you have an important vacation or something that you want to do, like it's not, everything isn't as urgent. And I think that is a rub when your first diagnosis, it's really hard because you call like a doctor's office and you know, you make an appointment. And they're like, yeah, we'll see you in three months. And you're like, no, but I'm dying today. You know, kind of thing. And you want to have a plan, right? You want to have a plan. And so getting to that plan, once you have the plan, it's a lot easier, but getting to that plan is tough. But I would just say that it may not seem as urgent and concerning to everybody else because like they've, the medical care team has been through this and they know, like it's okay if you wait three weeks for the surgery, but you don't know that. So asking those questions, I think is really important. Episode 16, a doctor, her best friend in stage four cancer, moving beyond survival, living with metastatic cancer. Our guest again was Julie Clower, more wisdom, more honesty. And some laughter even than you'd ever expect from a conversation about cancer. And for me, it was real reflection on friendship, medicine, and in a way, appreciating the complexity of being a doctor and friend to someone who's suffering. We talked about being an advocate for yourself, right? Even being in an exam room, stopping doctors when let's say they're not being as attentive or they're dismissing you or feeling rushed. I want to talk a little bit how you've been an advocate for yourself and how that's looked like in practice. So maybe we could even just talk about how you actually ended up choosing the right doctor for you. Right, so I went on a interview tour for oncologists and I knew the oncologist kind of becomes your core person. So you have a bunch of people on your care team, but the oncologist always kind of comes back to the oncologist, the medical oncologist in cancer care. So I knew it was gonna be a long term or hoping it was gonna be a long term because that meant I was surviving doctor. And when I went to these different oncologists who all were really, really smart, really, really good, I mean, I couldn't have made a bad choice in terms of experience and skill and perspective. But what I was really looking for is somebody that connected like decision making and communication style for me. And who ended up being my oncologist during that appointment, he said to me, is you're gonna go to these different oncologists and we're all probably gonna tell you the same thing. Cause at the time the treatment was very clear. The first treatment was very clear for my disease. And he said, we're all gonna tell you the same thing. Well, you know, he said, but there's an art to medicine, which again was the first time I'd ever even thought about that, right? Cause I think of it as such like a scientific black and white, you know, medical thing. And he said, let me ask you, have you ever had a Margarita? And I said, yes, I have. And he said, have you ever had two Margaritas? I said, yes. And he said, they all have the same ingredients, but did they taste the same? And I said, no. And he said, because it's different, who's mixing it? How, you know, it's different to bar your in everything. You know, it can change, it can change how that tastes. And so it's, so they, all the oncologists have the same tools, but how they apply them can be different. But I'm curious too, about the support systems in the community, right? So meaning outside the hospital, outside the clinics. And could you talk about maybe some that you have found especially helpful? Yeah. So I think it's very important to talk to other patients who have a similar disease as you may not be exactly the same cause we're all different, but as close as you can to your disease. So I found that very early on in a community called Cullen Town, which is from the name you can tell that I like it cause I had the sense of humor that comes with having a disease. Right, it's like made of Legos. Yeah, totally. And it's an amazing community of patients and caregivers who have all had the lived experience. And it also has a bunch of different subgroups, neighborhoods as we call them, that are for different pieces of the disease. So like when I had liver, Mets, which is tumors in my liver, the liver lovers lane, that was like my primary place I went was liver lovers lane because those people were dealing with a similar experience. Then when the disease went to my lungs and my bone, well there's Legos land for bone Mets and it's treated entirely different. It's the same disease, it's colon cancer, it's in my, but it's, but the treatment and the modalities and also the speed at which the tumor grows and all that. So having people that have had that lived experience is really powerful. And then also things that aren't even necessarily cancer related, there's a PTA, which for parents who, and so in there we talk about like how to talk to your kids about the disease. So finding people that you can connect on your disease, either specifically about the disease or specifically about living with the disease in your life and other things that you care about in your life is I think extremely valuable. Lots of different things that people that have a diagnosis need, just like anything in life, anybody that's going through any kind of trial. Earlier you had Dr. Richards, that her name, that talks about, yeah, talking about matrescence when you go into motherhood that your life changes. And there really is a corollary here that when you get that diagnosis, like you are learning to navigate the life in a totally different way and that means your relationships are gonna change too. So being a friend and a support to somebody with a diagnosis I think understanding that there'll be probably a change to your friendship, not maybe like in a very overt way, but embracing that because that's the hardest thing is feeling like you've lost friends. When really it's you haven't lost the friend, the friendship might have changed and morphed. And I think this diagnosis has brought you and I back closer together. Episode 17, who's really in charge here? A guide to navigating a hospital stay. Our guest was Dr. Ashley Bousetel. The response to this episode was immediate. It was put this on repeat in every waiting room. It demystified hospital care from admission to discharge and it was long overdue and really just showed the humanism of our amazing hospital providers. So Ashley, let's just start with the basics. Okay. What exactly is a hospitalist? So I do think your introduction was quite on point with referring to a hospitalist as your quarterback but inside the hospital as opposed to inside the clinic. Hospital medicine actually has been around for some time. It started back in the late 90s and even before then in a lot of health systems in Europe. But it's interesting to me that not a lot of people know the term. And what happened back in the 90s is healthcare costs were really skyrocketing. That was coming to the forefront of everybody's attention and hospitals realized that they really needed to make sure that the care of their patients while they were in the hospital was really efficient. And the old model was primary care doctors would wake up in the morning, they would go see whatever patients they had that happened to be hospitalized in the hospital. They would go to their clinic, they would stay in their clinic all day and then maybe they would go back to the hospital in the evening and see those patients. So it was not really 24 seven care for those that were the sickest in the hospital. And I think if you're a patient, you want your doctor to be available. So hospitals realized that they really wanted somebody on site there all the time being able to address the changes that patients were undergoing while they were there. And I think the second component is medical care has just frankly gotten more complex. There's so much innovation. There's so, it's just so much bigger than like when you and I trained. Exactly. You know, and I think about what you do in the clinic. It's such a different skill set. Such different medicine than what I do in the hospital for a patient who's there for a more acute illness. Any advice for how they can be advocates for themselves? I mean, again, I'm sensitive to the fact that they don't feel great usually, but for their families. It's hard to just keep track of all the information. How are they gonna feel reassured, I guess, for this critical handoff of being discharged, of leaving the hospital, transitioning out? I think it's important for people who are ill like that to recognize maybe some of their limitations when they need a family member or a friend to really help them. I mean, you know, I just think about it, like you're in the hospital. There's stuff going on through the night. You know, you might be left without eating because you have some procedure and you're not allowed to eat. Exactly. You're in potentially hospital, but you're not feeling your best, right? No. You're not at your primary decision-making place. Exactly, no, exactly. Very hard. So I think maybe having compassion for yourself and realizing when you need to ask for help, a partner to kind of hear the medical advice. Even you can say to your doctor, I need someone else to participate in this. Can you call my daughter? I think that's such an important reminder, whether you're in the hospital or out of the hospital. Patients, I mean, exactly, especially when they've had chronic illnesses or we can learn together. Yeah, I actually try to be very clear about that, not just in terms of, you know, admitting if I don't know something, I have no problem doing that at all. But being clear with patients, like this aspect of whatever it is, it's clear. We know what's going on here. Here's the plan with it. We're really trying to still work this out. We're not sure what's going on here because I think for a patient, it's important to understand that. In addition to, I think, you know, a little bit of reassurance to being like, oh, they're not pretending like they know everything. Like, you know. Episode 18, Leading with Heart. From public policy to personal struggle, our guest was Dr. Felicia Nall. This is a powerful story of loss, advocacy, global health leadership, and what it means to be your own champion. And one of the many things that stood out to me from this conversation is it really emphasized one of our favorite themes we have on the podcast, which is being your own advocate. Dr. Nall is an amazing ambassador for this message while sharing her very personal story of being a cancer survivor. I'd love to start today's episode talking about you and your background. And maybe we could start with your personal journey with breast cancer, of course. And thank you. So this year, well, very especially this year, my 18th year since my diagnosis, which was in October of 2007. And with no family history, no reason to suspect or worry about it in my first baseline mammogram at age 41. In a small clinic in Cuernavaca in Morelos in Mexico, I was diagnosed with an invasive breast cancer. Stage two, let's call it. Luckily, triple positive. So there was so much to be done with that cancer, which is a message that women need to understand, that now, today, some of the most aggressive form of breast cancer is the most treatable, in great part because of a discovery at UCLA Health, of Tristuzumab, of Herceptin. So I was diagnosed with this very invasive breast cancer, this very aggressive breast cancer. Again, age 41, my children were 11 and three. And with no reason to suspect, and it turns out that I do not have BRCA, even though Ashkenazi Jewish Heritage is mine. So we went into this kind of blind. I had never worked on that topic before. It was not my issue. I'd worked quite a bit on issues of children with cancer and access to education, but this was all new. This is why I also said you don't have a mastectomy for cosmetic reasons. Exactly, oh my gosh, exactly. So it's a series, it's for a different reason. But so going back to that. So first I think there's a lot we could do to prevent some of that. If not abandonment, to improve the way that your partner can support you. Whoever your partner is, by the way, male, female, or other gender. But the other thing that we're beginning to do a lot more work on is, and I have another Lancet commission on this, the level of violence against women and children is horrendous. We are speaking about one in three women globally, globally, everywhere in the world. And at least one in five children, girls and boys. And what we can reasonably hypothesize is that that kind of physical and emotional and mental trauma makes you much more susceptible to different diseases. It's been hard to prove, but I don't think it's without correlation that the trauma can affect the biology and the cellular level and make you much more likely to get many things. So that's one. But the other is that the whole survivorship part of a cancer journey, breast or otherwise, is tremendously affected when you have suffered violence or when you suffer violence like abandonment during that process. We should teach young men how to explore breasts. Because it's not that uncommon that it's actually a partner who finds the lump and not the woman herself. That is how it happened to a friend of mine. Yeah, absolutely. So if we coupled that with an idea of, okay, gentlemen, here's how you actually can effectively fondle a breast. They'll learn how to do that respectfully and think about all that it means to be a healthy breast. So I actually think we could combine it with all sorts of important health education and message about dignity and womanhood. But at the same time, think, well, five, 10 years down the line, they may actually be finding in their partner something. Right. That's like my hope that we could combine breast health with all sorts of other issues that we need to work on. When there's a moment when you see something beautiful and you feel well, it really strikes you. In other words, when we're healthy, we don't appreciate it the same way. Most of the moments in our day, we feel good. We feel okay and we go through our day. When most of your moments, you don't feel well and you have one that's special, it really stands out. And I talk about that in the book, moments with my daughters, moments when I looked at a flower and thought that is just stunningly beautiful. The awe. The awe, but it's a moment in time. And you don't get that unless you've lost it. And then you get it back. And now I miss that kind of awe. And I think, I've got to have that awe because I don't have to feel horrible most of the hours in the day to think about the awe of something beautiful in front of me. And so what I try to do, also in a lot of the work I do, is think, if you're living in a shantytown that is gray and cold and frightening and there's a lot of illness, you deserve to have flowers. And one of my great mentors, wrote one of the fours of the book, Paul Farmer, was always speaking about how to beautify and dignify the places that the poor live. So he would put koi koi into hospitals in remote poor areas of Haiti. He'd say, why? Because the poor also deserve to have flowers and fish and something beautiful to see. It makes a huge difference in life, to mark those moments and celebrate them and internalize them. And I think when we're healthy, we forget that. Episode 19, sleep science, why we sleep, what happens when we don't and how to fix it. Counting more than cheap, our guest was Dr. Ravi Asola. This was part one of our very popular episodes on sleep health. We did a deep dive about the science of sleep, including the stages, some rules that will lead to sleep success and tips to stop self-sabotage. While it was about sleep, it was also a very active and informative conversation. We deep dove into the biology of sleep, stages, hormones, rhythms, and self-sabotage. The tips in this episode changed people's sleep the week that it aired. Why don't we just start with basics? What exactly is sleep? Why do we even do it? So this is the question that always comes up first, right? And it's a question that pretty much we talk about almost at every conference and there's a lecture about it. Why do we sleep? Evolutionarily, all animals sleep. And it doesn't make a lot of sense. You're not reproducing, you're not feeding, and you're extremely vulnerable. So why is it conserved? And the short answer,  and alfalfa. So, what we give is the price you pay for having a complex brain. And if you want to have a nervous system and have a nervous system that's capable of doing all the things that our nervous system is capable of doing, it needs time to reorganize and rest. Simply put. So, that's why we sleep. I want to back up a little bit because you mentioned high blood pressure. So, I guess that's the question about maybe you could connect some of those dots for us, which is how does I guess chronically lousy sleep or suboptimal sleep, again, whether it's caused by frequent awakenings, breathing, how does that raise the risk for certain medical conditions? That's a very good question. And I think the most evidence we have in regards to this risk is related to sleep-related breathing problems. And just for a moment, I just want to pause for a second and say that right now, we treat really obvious problems. People who don't breathe right at sleep, when they're asleep and their oxygen levels drop, when we do sleep studies, it's not subtle. We see people's breathing disrupted. There's no airflow. Oxygen is dropping from 90s, sometimes down to the 80s, 70s, 60s, dangerous levels. When I give lectures to the trainees, the medical residents and students, I show them an example of what we see on a sleep study. And I say, if this person was awake, they'd be in an intensive care unit. But this is happening every night, 20, 30, 40 times an hour they're having disrupted sleep in a drop in oxygen. That's a really profound way to frame it. But I appreciate you saying that it's normal, meaning that not having a great night of sleep is normal. I'm going to say a little bit, tell me if you agree or don't, about feelings of anxiety and depression. It is normal to have feelings of anxiety and depression, to have to feel stressed out. But when it becomes debilitating, when it starts affecting your relationships, your mood, your memory, your work, that's when, let's go get some help. And I think this is helpful when we talk about insomnia. And you can tell me if I'm wrong, I'm guessing it's one of the most common sweet problems. When it becomes something to worry about. Yeah. I think you hit the nail on the head with the term when it becomes something to worry about. And as an ICU physician and a sleep doc, I often compare and contrast as people say, how do you, or how did you do both? In the ICU, your sickest patient takes up most of your time. Right. And ICU is intensive care, right? Intensive care unit. The most sick. Yes. And that's when you get to your time. In the sleep clinic, often our most sick patients are people who have heart issues and breathing problems. They're actually pretty straightforward if we treat the breathing problem. The patients that take the most time are the worried well, or those who have insomnia. And an example would be a person coming in saying, doc, I'm not sleeping well. And okay, we talk about what's going on in their life, things that may be stressing them out. And it's not uncommon for me to hear, no doc, I'm not stressed about anything. My life is great. My kids are fine. Finances are fine. Work is fine. I just can't sleep. And I was like, okay. So what is it that is stressing you out? The lack of sleep. If I could just get sleep, then everything would be okay. And that desire to achieve sleep, often which goes along with certain personality types were not comfortable tolerating discomfort and would rather fix it, are predisposed to that situation. So often the conversation I try to steer towards the understanding that sleep is not something that we have to try and do. Sleep is something that happens on its own when we remove the obstacles that are preventing it, whether that's behavioral or physiologic, meaning breathing problems. Episode 20, sleep science. Why we sleep? What happens when we don't and how to fix it? Sleep FAQs, our guest was Dr. Ravi Aswala. In part two of the sleep series, we continued our conversation on melatonin, snoring, breathwork and meditation. Pure gold for anyone who's tired of being tired. Let's just start with the first one. Do women need more sleep than men? No. While we're on that topic though, this comes up a lot because people have teenagers, myself included. Why do they sleep so late? Yes, this is a great question and I think something that has been a victory for sleep science in the sleep world is what we know is our circadian rhythm or our sleep and wake rhythm as it relates to how the sun revolves around the earth is not the same throughout the lifespan. The stereotype of the lazy teenager actually comes from physiology where the sleep phase shifts later. Teenagers have a tendency to want to stay awake later and wake up later. We call that the delayed sleep phase. That's normal. Based on research done by a number of individuals, including Judith Owens on the East Coast, have demonstrated that by changing school start times, having middle school and high school start a little bit later, that resulted in improvements in everything from car accident rates for these teen drivers as well as emotional health and performance. That is normal. Speaking of partners, I think we talked a little bit about sleep apnea in the last episode. Sometimes, what's the best, most sensitive way to talk to a partner about their snoring or their gasping? No shame, no blame. People get really sensitive. Yes, people do get very sensitive. I've seen a number of different strategies. Everything from the heavy handed I'm grabbing you and taking you to the doctor no matter what to the, okay, I'll just record you. Oh, okay. I like it. The recording is often pretty convincing when people hear that, what it sounds like when they're asleep. I will tell you some of the worst snores have no idea that they snore. Once they hear it and then they hear the, that occurs when they're waking up from it, that tends to move the needle a little bit more. I always have patients who are surprised that when they're grieving that their sleep cycles are, that they're not sleeping well. It's the first thing that gets disrupted when we're stressed and whether positive things that we're looking excited about something or deeply hurtful things. Dreams are fascinating, specifically in that I have not seen a good correlation between how much REM sleep someone has, which we're measuring during a sleep study, not routinely otherwise, and what they recall from their dreams. I've read sleep studies where I've seen a person get a whole bunch of REM sleep and I've asked them afterwards and they don't remember any of their dreams. Others get a sliver of it and they'll tell me a whole story about what's happened. Dreams are fascinating. My oversimplification in those terms is there's REM sleep, there's a lot of activity going on in the brain and that activity is coming into the centers in the brain that are normally used to getting input from other senses and during wakefulness. Those other systems aren't feeding in to the signals that are currently getting up into the brain. The brain has to make up a story and the story that it makes up for all these signals is based on what it knows. It's history, it's predispositions. Episode 21, Safe Sex, Why It Always Matters. Our guest was Dr. Raifi Landewitz. I loved this conversation with Raifi. We actually had so much fun talking about very serious infections. He's got a great way of explaining often difficult subjects with thoughtfulness, care, and a candidness that made our conversation flow very beautifully. It's really unfortunate that even in 2025, infectious diseases and sexually transmitted infectious diseases and even more specifically HIV are still so stigmatized. It complicates people being tested, people seeking care if they have one of these infections. Even there are these very powerful medicinal tools that we have now to prevent people from getting these sexually transmitted infections and people will not seek them out again because they are terrified of the stigma associated with even being considered in a category of person likely to encounter these infections. I've also remarked in preparing for our chat today how at least in the 80s when I took the health class 90s, whatever, that we used to say safe sex and I'm seeing now more people are using the term safer sex. Are you seeing that? Yeah, absolutely. I think because of the idea is you want to use the comparative adjective. I love it. Throwing myself back to 10th grade English. Right. What's safe in 2025? Crossing Wilshire Boulevard is not safe. Everything is relative. I like to think of it honestly when I talk to people about occupational hazards. If you're going to be sexually active and most of us are going to make that choice, you want to understand what the opportunities are to be exposed to various infections and then you have a conversation with your doctor or your provider. What's going to be an acceptable risk? Something like lubrication help enforce that barrier and lower that risk. It doesn't enforce the barrier but it does reduce the friction. Yes, it is helpful in reducing that risk because it is less likely not zero but less likely to disrupt that layer. The one thing you really need to be careful of with the lubricants is a lot of lubricants also have chemicals in them, particularly ones that are intended to prevent pregnancy in particular. Have chemicals, there's one called aninoxinol 9 in particular that actually can be more irritating to these sensitive, fragile tissues and when a tissue gets irritated then it's actually even more susceptible to an infection. Episode 22, safe sex part 2. Again, it still always matters. Part 2 of my conversation with Dr. Landewicz was just as wonderful and informative. The series was full of so much takeaways for our viewers and listeners. Can't wait to have him back on the pod again. Conorrhea, informally and colloquially known as the clav. It's been around for forever. It's a bacteria, again, genital contact, mucous membrane contact. It's of all of the sexually transmitted infections, it's the one that is the most and I'm going to use this word very carefully, purulent. They can cause a sore throat that can be very difficult to distinguish from strep throat. In the genital area there's often pus like discharge, not always. Pain with urination, vaginal discharge, pain with having a bowel movement, all are reasons to get checked out. Go see someone if you have any of these symptoms. Please. And to not be shy about it, you're mentioning pus and purulent, I can barely say that word. One of our producers might have a question about the green discharge, which is green discharge, pus, etc. I think people get really freaked out and then they get not only freaked out because you see that coming out of your own body, but then they're like, oh my God, I'm going to go show someone. I just want us both to remind our listeners, we do not get grossed out by pus or discharge. We've seen it all. It stinks, it could look gross to you. It does not bother us. I cannot emphasize that enough. Thank you for bringing that up, Eve. I think a lot of people get scandalized by pus, by pee, by poop, by vomit, blood. Here is the God's honest truth. Doctors literally are immune to being grossed out by that. Literally, this probably comes with what I do. I adore pus. So here's why. No, seriously, here's why. First of all. Do you have that on your license plate? I should. I should. Puss under pressure causes a tremendous amount of pain and problems in people's bodies. If you can get pus out of somebody's body. Your basic infected pimple. Well, don't pop pimples, please. It's a different story. But same idea. Spontaneously comes out. Same idea. Exactly. Yes. Puss always better outside than inside. You had hearts. You're a syphilis for a moment. I think for a lot of people it sounds like it is in another century. I was actually just reading about Paul Gauguin, the artist, and him, all the amazing artwork he did, even despite having syphilis. But is syphilis still a sexually transmitted infection we need to worry about? It is. It is. And as much as we would like for it to be gone, it's not. The other classic story is Henry VIII and his madness, which may have been caused by either the syphilis or the mercury treatment, full disclosure, spoiler alert. We don't use mercury anymore. But yes, syphilis is around. It's another bacteria. It's a kind of bacteria that's a little bit special. It's called a spirochete, which basically means it looks like a rotini under a microscope. Sorry, pasta fans. But yeah. So it also is sexually transmitted and little known fact, more than even gonorrhea and chlamydia, it loves oral sex. You can get any of those three greatest hits from oral sex. Syphilis for some reason, particularly likely to be transmitted through oral sex. Episode 23, Hope for Chronic Pain, Science Meets Compassion. Our guest was Dr. Tom Strauss. This was an amazing episode of how science does meet compassion and for anyone living with pain or loving someone who does, this episode brought a lot of validation and especially a lot of hope. Before we get into the science, I just want to acknowledge all the lingo that we use in medicine. This topic in particular, I think, is kind of full of a lot of terms and acronyms. So if we could just step back for a second. Can we just define the difference between acute and chronic pain? Yes. So I think we started to. Acute pain is usually in response to an identifiable provocation or event. It serves a purpose to the person experiencing it, which is to stop doing stuff. Or if you're recovering from an operation, not get up and run around the block into your stitches of healed, et cetera. And most clinicians and researchers in the field define chronic pain as pain that lasts for three months or longer. And again, in terms of a phenomenon that has really stopped making sense in the standpoint of providing an important warning or other information. And I know pain is hard. I mean, whether there's a latter approach, like, again, I'll just use back pain as an example. And I guess, unless you need surgery, often there's a staged approach of first rest or do gentle stretching or do some physical therapy, take some Advil. Is this the type of treatment for, let's just say for the neuropathic pain where a patient has already tried, let's say, oral medications? Typically yes. Okay. And that hasn't been enough. Yes. So if you're an occasional person who's resourceful and hates the idea of ever taking a medication, who finds us and if they're referring physician as supportive of this, maybe starts with what we offer, but that's the rarity. Most folks have kind of worked their way down those algorithms that you just described that I know are a big part of primary medical care practice and have sort of, their problem has declared itself to be not either adequately or at all responsive to standard treatment. If we can't see the pain, it isn't real. Yeah. Ask anybody with chronic pain if that's true. Right. Well, I think that speaks to, right, this sort of, if it's invisible, that it's not valid. My best friend was actually on the podcast a few weeks ago. She has metastatic colon cancer and she was saying something that's really hard is that sometimes she's doing immunotherapy right now and so right now, she has tons of gorgeous hair and people don't, people undermine how poorly she feels. You don't look sick, so you can't feel sick. And I think that's why pain is so difficult, but again, I just, again, really admire your work because I just think it's not, it acknowledges who we are as human beings, right? This confluence of physical, emotional, spiritual, electrical beings. Yes. Yes. And ultimately we're relying on somebody's self-report, not a blood test, not a imaging study, not a genetics. Episode 24, shared decision making, changing how medicine listens. Our guests were Dr. Chris Seigel and Laurie Smith. This episode came about because the concept of shared decision making has been a common theme in some capacity in almost every episode during our season. There's this terrific growing movement to bring patients to the center of their own medical choices with a more collaborative approach with their providers. And as a primary care physician myself, I really, really enjoyed breaking this down. So you both heard my very quick take on what shared decision making means, but I'm going to ask you both, how do you define it? And Chris, maybe I'll just start with you. Sure. Well, there's literally hundreds of definitions out there. The National Quality Forum, I was part of that effort to sort of to have a consensus definition. And really what it is, is a process of communication where clinicians and patients come together, use evidence to make optimal medical decisions for patients that aligns with their goals and preference. So that's really the standard way to look at it. It's a process of communication. But the informed consent, again, these are things I thought always kind of existed, but when did that kind of the informed consent come up, do you think? Is that 60s, 70s? Yeah, I think so too, which is fascinating. Yeah. Oh, it is fascinating. I mean, doctors really had carte blanche. And of course, they were all well intentioned. I mean, they were a medical culture. That was their role. But I think there's just in general, the relationship of people to experts has changed. Information has changed. So physicians have evolved over time as well. Right. Why do you think the relationship has changed, though, to doctors? Well, I think access to information is so much greater for patients. People can go and find whatever answer they want, whether it's right or wrong. And so I think that's part of it. And physicians are changing, and patients are changing at the same time. Even the demographics of physicians themselves. That's correct. Training is changing a little bit. You see programs like Narrative Medicine, Columbia, and so forth that are really about drawing the story out of the patient. So I think those things are all good and changing. I think the other piece of it, of course, is for better or for worse, pharmaceutical advertising. So you're having people see things on TV or hearing them on the radio and going in and asking about these things. You of course have chat GPT now, or any other platform, where you can ask your questions and something reasonably professional comes back. Again, whether it's right or wrong, there's a lot of information seeking already happening. If I'm the patient and I'm getting told I need a knee replacement or I have terrible arthritis in my knee that could be either go to PT or who has this conversation with me? What's the tool? So you guys are so beautifully scripting this, but do I have a script as a primary care doctor if my patient comes to me? How are these tools employed? Sure. Yeah, that's a conversation that could take a very long time in clinic. And as a primary care physician, you're probably dealing with an average of eight to 12 other issues given what the visit is. And so the best way to do this is to really give the patient the time and space to learn about what the options are, what the pros and cons are, and then reflect on their goals and values and how they relate to the decision. And so what if I can mention it? Yes, you can, of course. So our company that we have developed with underlying technology from Dr. Seigel here actually has an approach that engages patients in that educational process and in that self-reflection process. Episode 25, The Hidden Heroes, the essential work of a pharmacist. Our guest was Dr. Melissa D'Analpho. And this episode was a particularly fun one for me because I got to interview my very long-time friend who also happens to be on the forefront of women in the field of pharmaceutical science. I love taking a deep dive into the history of pharmacies and following the many steps in her journey and also the journey of how a pill gets from a doctor's prescription pad to your bedside. I mean, we're talking about just like prior authorizations, but what about like costs of medications and even just access to medications? Well that was the second argument of what we would do. So the way insurance companies sleep at night, do I believe they should? No not really, but I won't go any further. But they have what they term patient assistance. Now in oncology, remember the process I described, phase one, two and three? It can take hundreds of millions of dollars to get a drug from phase one into the world. So part of what pricing is about is recouping that because for every compound you get through there are dozens that didn't. So part of it is they can sleep at night because they're charging $24,000 for one bottle of this stuff that lasts for 28 days. Sorry, just lost my breath. I know. Is that they offer like copay cards and different things. Where the rubber hits the road is typically they don't offer those to the elderly. So our most vulnerable patients are Medicare and MediCal patients. The pharmaceutical companies don't have a venue for them typically. Now there are some that we have developed by dint of like threatening and cajoling and doing our part. But if you are a Medicare patient until very recently the donut hole would just chew your leg off. The idea that you could afford to pay $5,000 out of pocket every month for some kind of medication. So what the insurance companies do to save this part of the healthcare community that they've completely abandoned is they donate money to non-profits. And they say to themselves, well yeah we don't help the Medicare patients but they can apply to Lymphoma and Leukemia Society or they can apply to the Rare Drugs Foundation. There are all these different foundations that people have. Most patients don't have the wherewithal to do that. Of course not. But we do. Right. There are concerns. You know people are like I don't want to have to take a pill. So it's just interesting kind of from your kind of professional perspective. You know how do we get people to take what they need and if they need it. We had a prior conversation on shared decision making which was and I don't know if you employ kind of that approach. Yeah. How would you? Well so basically we get all this training. Yeah. All this kind of stuff which I've just basically been doing for my get. You've been doing exactly intuitively. Right. So I mean it's shared decision making but my goal is you do what I tell you to do. The Nebulin Dictator. Yeah. So because I'm in your corner and I know better. So let me help you. And you feel better. Usually if you're in the prescribing. Yeah. Let me get you there. Let me walk with you until you're comfortable. You show up to the emergency room. You show up to meet you know Dr. DeNolfo to talk about your chemotherapy regimen. You have to tell us everything that you're on. So whether you got it at a pharmacy or supplement it all it's so important to tell us because all of these medications interact. Yes they do. And they can also there are supplements that can cause bleeding. Yeah. Absolutely. There are supplements that can raise your blood sugar. So I'm not saying you can't have supplements. Right. I'm saying supplements are one piece of your treatment. I agree. And it's a piece that needs to be wielded by experts. And it's another place where the internet will get you in a heck of a lot of trouble. So be judicious. Be cautious. But don't throw the baby out with the bath water. Right. You know most of my patients need something that actually deters the cancer. If they want to take a supplement because it gives them more energy or helps them sleep at night. I have no objection to that. I knew that when I started this podcast that I wanted to showcase our amazing faculty, our staff, our providers at UCLA Health. And I knew that we would be doing a service to our community by sharing incredible information, demystifying complex topics, highlighting resources and presenting practical steps for people that they can apply to their everyday lives and to their loved ones health. What I didn't know is that I was going to have so much fun getting to know these dynamic human beings. I really didn't realize that in breaking down medical topics for our audience that it would allow me to look at them in a new light. I wouldn't have predicted I was going to laugh so much, reference so much Latin, and honestly cry so much. I hope you've enjoyed our rookie season as much as I did. We've had a blast bringing UCLA Health's medically speaking to you in 2025. We can't wait to double the content in 2026. Thanks so much for being a part of our conversations. I'm your host Dr. E. Glaser. Stay curious. Stay healthy. And I hope you have a really happy new year.

=== FILE: Working Against the Clock： Recognizing Stroke Symptoms When Every Second Counts [3onHTMC4K-s].txt ===

 subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to me. But here's the thing, they do happen. One out of every four people will suffer a stroke in their lifetime. And so when I look around our studio, there's four of us in here right now, statistically means that one of us, at least one of us, are going to have a stroke in the course of our lifetime. The good news is, is that there's so much we can do. We can lower our risk factors, we can recognize warning signs, and we can get life-saving treatment quickly. And there are remarkable clinicians leading this charge and joining me today is one of them, Dr. May Noor, UCLA Health Interventional Neurologist and Founder of California's first mobile stroke treatment unit. Welcome to the podcast, May. Thank you so much. It's such a pleasure to be here. I'm so glad you're here. May, can we just start at the beginning, Wendell? Like, what first sparked your interest in neurology and then more specifically in stroke medicine? That's a great question. So I think we're most influenced by mentors. So I did a PhD in neuroscience before going to medical school. And my work was in gene therapy for inherited retinal degenerations. But my first experience in clinical medicine was an orientation with a neurologist who was just absolutely wonderful. He was terrific with the students and teaching. He was terrific with his bedside manner of the patients. He was terrific in explaining to us. And I said, wow, this is a field I really would love. You know, maybe I could do this. My dad is a transplant surgeon. So my, my first sub-eye, I did, oh, I have to do transplant. And I love to transplant, but not for me. So as soon as I did the stroke rotation and neurology rotation, I said, wow, I find myself here. I find myself relating to the patients. I find myself making an impact. And furthermore specifically for the interventional, you know, there was a, I was doing a sub-eye at Mayo Clinic and one of the physicians was telling all the residents and all the fellows, if I were to go back, I would be interventionalist. I would take the patient from the ER to the industry to following up on how wonderful would that be. And I said, hmm, nobody's telling me about this. This is what I want to do. I wonder why they weren't telling you about it. Because I was a medical student. I was a medical student in the corner, but I, but that's okay. But that's okay. That makes me much more sensitive when we're teaching our students to include them, right? Make sure we answer their questions to make sure that they're part of the conversation, to make sure that they feel that they're the future. Oh, I love that. But that was the moment, honest to God, that was a life changing moment for me as a fourth year medical student. I said, I'm going to be interventional neurologist. So going, going back to just to add on to my, what interventional neurology means. So I think you talked about using techniques then though, to kind of remove. Yeah. Clots or stopping bleeding. That's kind of the difference between being a traditional neurologist and an interventional. Well, it's a minimally invasive surgical practice. And just like somebody would go to the cath lab and get a stent for their heart, we could put stents for blood vessels of the neck or the brain. We could stop bleeding in severe nose bleeds or in patients who have had a neck cancer, help them with bleeding complications of the cancer. We, of course, for stroke can go there and immediately remove the clot and return blood flow to the tissue of the brain. Because as you know, and as you mentioned, minutes matter. And every minute that there's lack of blood flow to the tissue of the brain, 2 million brain cells die. So acute action, fast action is so critical and so important. I love the hearing that what got you into it too, just to go back because even when you talk, you exude so much compassion and connection. So I love though that you're thinking about this ophthalmology, but then this person who clearly demonstrated kind of compassion. And I'm guessing a lot of just diagnostics, probably that extended to that thoughtfulness extended to diagnosis was that real inspiration for you. Absolutely. Absolutely. And then fast action and then life is sometimes a series of, you know, happenstance. Yes. And I think that person that mentor, those mentors were put in my way in my path so I can have the career I have today and I'm so grateful to them. Oh, I love it. Well, at the end, I want to ask you about who you're mentoring because I have a feeling that you mentor you mentor in turn. Let's just start with some I think just some basics just for our audience. I mean, what is a stroke? What defines a stroke? Great question. So stroke is where there is either lack of blood flow to the tissue of the brain. And so the tissue of the brain doesn't survives and dies, or there is bleeding into the tissue of the brain. The majority of strokes that we will see in that people will experience are actually lack of blood flow type strokes. So they can be a blockage in a tiny blood vessel or a large blood vessel. So about 80% of strokes are ischemic in nature where there's lack of blood flow and about 20% where there is bleeding into the tissue because of many reasons could be high blood pressure because it would be a problem with connections with the vessels could be a ballooning of the vessel like an aneurysm. And both are devastating and both are devastating different ways. And I like to give for our audience, you know, the understanding that the brain is like real estate. It's all about location, location, location. So let's say you have bleeding into a tissue of the brain that affects strength, then somebody will lose strength. Let's say lack of blood flow. Let's say a tumor that's sitting there. Let's say a seizure that happens there that incapacitates those neurons or brain cells. You will still have the same outcome. Somebody's arm is weak, right? Or we've heard of patients having migraines and they look like a stroke, but they're not. So there are stroke mimics that present looking like a stroke. And that's why in stroke, not only do minutes matter, but do immediate diagnosis is very important because not everything looks like a stroke could be a real stroke. Right. So it's actually takes some so nuance. What what actually happens in the brain when a stroke happens? So whether it's caused by, I think you mentioned ischemia, which is kind of death or something like blood flow isn't getting to tissue or hemorrhagic, which is there is bleeding too much bleeding into the tissue. But what's happening inside the brain then the brain, whatever function that area is responsible for is incapacitated basically, like it dies or it's incapacitated or both. Yeah, it dies. And the brain is not like, you know, other organs which may regenerate. The brain is once these cells are dead, nothing makes up for them. But with time with rehabilitations, other cells can take over that function and help the patients to recover. But those cells once they died, don't regenerate again. That's really, that's overwhelming, honestly to think about. So but just to reiterate what you said, the outcome is really depending on what region of the brain is affected. 100%. Okay. And I mean, when you say brain cells die, like a lot of brain cells die, the brain is also about eloquence of the tissue. So sometimes a big amount of tissue and you can see a patient with very minor deficits and sometimes a very small amount of that real estate or that tissue and the patient is devastated clinically. Yeah. It's so and it can be so life changing. So we talked about, we started talking about just how precious the minutes are. And I guess my first question would be if the damage is starting, let's say in one region of the brain, can it spread or worse than over time? Or does it depend on maybe what kind of type of stroke it is? Typically, the the the the damages contain typically whatever is, you know, the area that's subserved by that that blood flow or whatnot. Typically, it's contained. Okay. And so talking about everything that you can do about it, which is exciting and promising. So what are some of the treatments that an interventional neurologist like you do if a patient's having a stroke? I think even to take one step back, please, what are the symptoms of a stroke? So because we want the interventions to be involved swiftly, very, we have to take the responsibility of recognizing in ourselves and our loved ones. The thing about stroke, it's not like a heart attack. It doesn't is not painful. Patients now say, Oh, my chest hurts or this hurts or that hurts. So the thing about stroke is that it's painless. And sometimes the patients don't recognize the symptoms as a result of the stroke. We have this concept called neglect. Patient doesn't understand that that's the side of their body that's weak. So the most critical thing is that we recognize and we can recognize and by giving the audience an acronym to remember. I love acronyms and the acronym is called B fast. Okay. B stands for sudden changes in balance. E sudden changes of eyes or vision. So somebody can lose half of their vision or their whole vision or C double that happens suddenly. The hallmark about stroke is it happens suddenly. It's not something that creeps up over weeks or months. Sudden change in outcome. F stands for weakness in the face. Somebody can have a facial droop. A stands for weakness in the arm or leg. S stands for changes in speech or language. So somebody is not intelligible in their speech. They're slurred or they can't quite understand what you're telling them or you can't quite understand the words they're making out. And T is time to call again to come back and emphasize every single minute matters. Right and B fast. B fast. So now what does inferentialness do about that? So what I've noticed sometimes is that people think that the symptoms of a stroke are going to be very dramatic. Like right like just like when you're watching a movie and someone has this like very like prototypical heart attack. But not only our symptoms can be subtle and so we're asking you know families and you know partners and kids themselves to be you know to be aware of subtle changes. But what if you're by yourself like what if I'm by myself and I look in the mirror and I'm like oh my god like is my face drooping a little bit like what should I do? Yeah the biggest problem is that sometimes stroke is not the awareness of stroke is not there for the patient. So the patient can be weak on the left side of their body and actually part of the stroke syndrome is that they don't recognize that this is their limb. So how do you deal with that? Right. I think we still have a lot to do in terms of innovations that actually automatically detect stroke symptoms. You mean like a wearable? Like a wearable. Like so many I mean we have something very simple now something called the Apple watch. We have it already. Maybe you've heard of it. Right. Where somebody can fall and it can call 911. Absolutely. What about an idea or with somebody's blood pressure surges and they fall and this and this algorithm we have so much AI advancement. So much. We have to put our forces towards detection of stroke that patients do not recognize. What about stroke during sleep? A lot of... Yeah I was just going to say can you detect oxygenation in the brain? Yes. Yes a lot of atrial fibrillation patients actually have stroke in the early hours of the morning. Right. So they're asleep. So again so all these minutes have gone by. All these minutes and then somebody discovers grandma the next morning or is she not waking up for breakfast? Oh she's had a stroke. So what if there's a wearable that sleeves off of a watch or any other device and sees well the rhythmic movement of grandma is not the same tonight as it was every night. Right. That calls an alert. So I think we have to put so much effort into innovating devices that will detect stroke that patients don't recognize and for patients who are alone and don't have someone to recognize the symptoms. I can't wait to do the startup with you. Let's do it. I know. Let's do it. I push it to Apple. Yeah. Apple are you there? Okay no that's very very helpful. And I guess I would say is that if you do have the whereabouts to understand that something is going wrong call 911. Absolutely. Is that right? Absolutely. Right. So don't even call your friend first. No. Call 911. Don't call a friend. Don't call a daughter. Don't call a son. Don't call your spouse's phone. Call 911. Yes. I have to say like as providers we like to be bothered. I know that seems counter-intuitive but we like to be bothered. The worst thing that happens is what you go to the ER and you don't have a stroke. Exactly. Fantastic. Fantastic. You think that anything's wrong. Please call 911. Yes. Yes. Be fast. Be fast. Can I go back before we do the treatment really fast? So I mean I love that it's first of all it's like a very memorable acronym. So anyone can learn it. Definitely teach you know their family. I hear that you're saying that they happen suddenly. I do think that sometimes like you know when I think about like the cinematic version of like a heart attack it's always like oh yeah but with like strokes I mean I understand these happen suddenly but can they be subtle? Can the signs be subtle? Yeah the signs can be subtle and I think when you know the general public thinks of stroke or when you say the word stroke what does that mean to you? Somebody's collapsing. They're like really like exploring their speech. They can absolutely be subtle. So even subtle changes in our loved ones we should be very cautious about and the most critical thing is not you know to discuss it or call a family or whatever it's the call 911. Yes. It's the call 911 for many reasons. One because time is everything. Yes. Two because the paramedics will take the patient to the center of stroke care that is most reliable for their condition based on the severity of symptoms. Three because people can change fast. People can deteriorate fast. God forbid we take our loved one in the car and something bad happens and we cannot handle it. Right you can't help because you're driving. So and also because timing is everything. I just think this is an important point. I've just in my own experience I've had patients who've had strokes or they're family members and they're like I something was a little bit off but I didn't know and so I just really want to encourage you know our community and our patients if something just seems a little bit off and that's why it's so important to know a baseline right. Something seems off call 911. So I think that's a really important point call 911 there. Call 911. Okay so yes now tell me the amazing things that you do as the interventionalist. So as a vascular neurologist the patient comes immediately to the hospital and we assess them and the treatment first the most critical thing is to get imaging. Do we do we think this is an ischemic stroke where there's a lack of blood flow or there's a hemorrhagic stroke. Right. The medications that we have for each of these are vastly different right. Right. So let's say there's an ischemic stroke the most common kind of stroke. We have clot busting medications but the the other importance of time we come back to this fact that that medication can be only given four and a half hours from the last time the patient was seen their normal selves. I always like to ask the family and members this way not when did you last see grandfather normal. Yeah when did you last see him as a normal self. Right. Patients have different relatives. Right. Yeah. And not when they went to sleep the night before and when did you see them well and sometimes that's you know before they went to sleep. The fact that they got out of bed and fell this morning doesn't mean that their last known well time was in the morning. No it was the last time they were seen normal. Okay. Why is that critical because we can give life saving medications or brain saving medications like clot busting medications but only within four and a half hours within four and a half hours they may help out of a hundred patients who take these 30 will do better. Three may do worse. God forbid one may die because of hemorrhage but you could do that within four and a half hours. So when you give them outside of that time window the risk of hemorrhage or risk of bleeding as a result of the medication increases so we don't give the medication during that time. Okay. So now that's the medical management of stroke. Right. And let's do we start with that if you can. Yes. If you can you start with the medical intervention. Always. Always. Always with the medical intervention. Okay. That's for ischemic stroke. Right. Let's say somebody comes with a hemorrhage. There's a brain bleed and they're on a blood thinner. We can immediately reverse that blood thinner. The effect of that blood thinner. Right. Yes. Exactly. We can decrease the blood pressure so we decrease the rate of expansion or blooming of this blood and we can get them on seizure medications because that's something that commonly happens when we have something irritating the brain like blood. So now we are done with the immediate emergent medical intervention. What about the endovascular or interventional services? So let's say a person has a blood vessel that's blocked. It's really about opening that blood vessel on time before the tissue dies. Not opening in general later. Right. Right. We're doing the thing. So we give the clot busting medication but the clot busting medication does very well for tiny clots but for big organized clots maybe 20 or 30% of the time it can dissolve that clot and not always on time. So in spite of giving that medication we immediately proceed to the angiography suite which is kind of like a small operative room except we use x-ray beams to understand what's happening in the brain and visualize the blood vessel. Right. So that's what the angiography is. That's the angiography. So we are injecting the blood vessels with contrast. We can see that as a tree or a map and in a minimally invasive way either go in through a blood vessel in the wrist or in the leg or even in the neck or in the arm sometimes. We go all the way up and thread catheters, catheters or tubes all the way up to the tissue of the brain inside the blood vessels and mechanically remove the clot and believe it or not. Like just grab it and then pull it out. Grab it. We can aspirate it. We can suction it with a machine with a little pump with tubing or the first stent retriever was actually invented here at UCLA. And what is that? It's like a stent is like a mesh like a chicken wire and it's hollow like a tube of pasta but it's on a wire. Yeah. And then you implant that inside of the clot and you allow it to grab the clot and then you pull that out and immediately when you pull that out you see the patient miraculously improve on the table. That's amazing. As soon as that blood then reaches like the tissue we could we the word is perfused right but then all of a sudden those cells right get all those the nutrients the blood and then start functioning again. And the grandfather who was paralyzed who was unable to talk to their family can now lift their arm can lift their leg can reintegrate into life again and can be part of have a meaningful life. It's not we never extend life you know but we help to improve quality of life. It's incredible and really moving and all time. It's all about time. All about time and another important thing for the audience. Yes age doesn't matter. Oh good. The oldest patients I've personally helped to return blood flow was 101. Age doesn't matter. It's all about quality of life. Well and then also I mean I just want to this is why like though paying attention to yes how you are normally paying attention to if something changes right and listening to that gut feeling you're you know I'm not sure you're having a stroke but something feels a little off call 911. Yes much better to be checked than miss something. I agree I think that's just such an important message. I think sometimes people get really deterred they're like oh it's just a subtle symptom or it's something else is going on or I don't want to go to the emergency room. It makes a humongous difference in your outcome. Yes in fact I'll tell you a story about a patient I saw today and the patient is a physician and his wife is a physician and he had some he had a stroke in the past and he had some subtle symptoms and his wife felt that maybe they're being overbearing like I don't want to disrupt people every time and call well as the speech is a little slurred well in fact turned out that was a stroke from three weeks ago. Oh wow. So sometimes we feel that we may be inconvenienced like we're not we're not brain is precious call 911. Yes yeah and you're precious. Oh my gosh okay let's talk let's talk prevention right because I think that's really important so I mean first of all great we've talked about you know signs symptoms getting yourself to the emergency room you know different ways that we can break up a clot right or remove it or reduce and stop bleeding and again I think that people are like oh my gosh one in four people have strokes or oh my god they're so they're so debilitating and catastrophic but I really want to emphasize that there's something called prevention right and so we absolutely can affect that and we all need these actionable takeaways. Tell us what are the major risk factors for having a stroke. Absolutely and I can even start by telling you something very important 80% of stroke is preventable. That's incredible. 80% that's great. We have so much we can work on. Yeah let's talk about things we cannot control things we cannot control are our genes. If we have propensity to have high blood pressure propensity to have high cholesterol we cannot change our genes but we can change our environment and how we act about things. But even that you can change your risk though. Exactly. Even with the genetic risk. So the risks are the common things that you can think about diabetes that's not well controlled high blood pressure that's not well controlled smoking illicit drugs that pump up the heart like cocaine or amphetamine a regular heart rhythm like something called atrial fibrillation that disease of the vessels because of high cholesterol that's accumulating etc etc there's so many risk factors there are other risk factors when we talk about genetic that somebody's born was a disorder that makes the blood more thickened at some times. There are many many risks but even even trauma can be a risk even a healthy child can have a stroke people tend to think of stroke oh it should happen somebody older yes stroke can happen at any age stroke can happen at any age the smallest example of that we had a patient a child who jumping on the trampoline and hurt their neck maybe didn't even feel hurt their neck a day later had a stroke because our blood vessels are like an onion with multiple skins and when we have mechanical shearing of that yeah by small things we've had patients how this is called dissection we've had these experiences dissections even reclining back at the hairdressers for hair washing or going on a roller coaster or having a big fit of coughing for three weeks or whatever and they may damage the blood vessel and what happens is that small blood clots will get caught between these layers and then the travel all the way up to the blood vessels of the brain and block them and then you have a schemic stroke that way so one important thing is that stroke can happen at any age yes there are risk factors we know about we can control yes and we should all try to reduce our risk nothing eliminates risk when you have risk factors but we can definitely reduce oh my gosh there's there's so much even if you're born with that you know propensity to your blood is thicker and you might clot more than the next person when we know that though we can give things to think your blood and another very very very very crucial thing i didn't mention healthy diet and exercise yes tell me what you what that means for you for stroke risk prevention a Mediterranean diet has been shown to help reduce risk of stroke what does that mean healthy fats like avocado olive oil nuts like almonds cons and so forth great um lean meats less red meats and more you know proteins that have white meats beans and so forth a good variety of fruits and vegetables and you know maybe a few years ago there was a thing if you have a glass of wine a day prevents you against stroke or heart disease but i really think it's the flavonoids in that red color yes so if we think about very healthy fruits and vegetables things that have that red color yes beets berries grapes and so forth those can be preventative against inflammation in the body as well and then exercise and exercise exercise is important you have to do exercise that helps you as we age with balance something like yoga and pilates and stretching and and and things that build up our muscle mass but also cardiovascular exercise right three to four times a week good 20 minutes to just pump up our heart even if it's a brisk walk we can all do that yeah we can i mean i think that's what i mean i think that this is what's counteracting i think what sounds very scary for people but i mean the for us to focus on these are the things that you can do or not do in some cases because don't do you know these you know really you know some of these illicit drugs are so so you know bad for you and your and your heart um and even some of these conditions you might just accrue as you get older or run in your family diabetes high blood pressure those can all all be modified and the risk can be so greatly reduced yes i think that's incredibly it's empowering encouraging and empowering absolutely and you have agency and autonomy like you know life doesn't have to just happen to you you can happen to your own life yes um so what's amazing to me is that um in addition to just being the expert that you are um you've um you've built something and i want to talk about that you've innovated so to me like what i see is that you you've probably been in the field all these years maybe even starting in in in your fourth year when you first explored neurology and clearly you saw right how precious these minutes were um and it sounds like you decided to not just flip the model but create a new model and really innovate and bring the hospital and those features of the hospital that are so critical to this process of um mitigating you know the damage of of too much time going by meaning like imaging right because it seems like the big process is getting in getting imaged you know and then um getting a clot busting drug or stopping bleeding um and so tell us about the mobile absolutely so as you said i was inspired by the many patients i've seen but not just the patients the families yeah there's a lot of caregiver fatigue that's involved there's a lot of un unanswered questions patients suffer through so much and and when i saw that i really got inspired and i said i want to do something that can revolutionize that can change things in our county that can create something different we have to be visionaries we can't think about oh can be under our feet today we have to think about in 10 years how can we create change and so the arlene and hennry gluck mobile stroke rescue program that ucla health has just so much supported is a county initiative it's not just the ucla health yeah and la county la county and la county emergency medical services has designated this as a shared regional resource of ems what does that mean unlike any ambulance that when you call 911 will come or fire engine or so forth this is a primary stroke center on wheels or a hospital on wheels we bring the hospital to the patients because we know time matters and so the ambulance is equipped with actual CT scanner where we can see the tissue of the brain and also the blood vessels of the brain we can tell if the blood vessel is blocked right away right away right away like you pull up somewhere and like within five like five minutes within five minutes within that's how long the scan takes 30 seconds this is within how many that's incredible yeah but but the the key is that we are actually dispatched with the 911 services so of san amonica fire department long beach fire beverly hills fire la city la county culver city fire we are live with eight different fire departments in different regions of the county where we are there with the primary crews with the firefighters with the engines with the ambulances we determine if the patient is having likely a stroke and if they are likely having a stroke then we'll admit them to our ambulance and our team it's very exciting to be there yeah because you can really impact change you can right there right there right there and without transporting yet to the hospital without taking all that time to register without taking the time to get wheeled to the imaging without waiting for the pharmacist to get 20 minutes just to say that exactly exactly exactly so basically on the ambulance is a firefighter paramedic and we have partnerships with different fire departments for example torrents fire long beach fire culver city fire who staff us a physician either in person or by telemedicine because you want to expand the reach of that physician everywhere now we have three ambulances so now i can cover one two three and in fact covering today you know so you can literally sit at this table and you can consult from here as all three go on emergencies exactly exactly in fact the last time i consulted on a mobile stroke unit patient i was in the middle of removing clot from another patient's brain and like in the or in the or and then we had a telemedicine projection okay one patient we're working on here one patient on telemedicine that patient turned out to have a blood clot as well and that patient ended up coming to our hospital by virtue of where they were in the vicinity and i scrubbed out of this case and finished it and went to the mobile stroke patient removed the clot from her brain and she was completely normal after how gratifying how gratifying so technology has changed a lot i don't know why i would ever need to see like a marvel movie i could just watch you all day i'm here kidding it's really amazing so so when they're when the department the ambulances are out in the field and you're let's say like consulting from this from this table if they see a clot will they bring the will they wait for you to remove the clot or will they do any other intervention in the mobile stroke unit so we actually have the same medications that are in the hospital on the ambulance so they can get the medication clot busting medication we can reverse and lower blood pressure lower blood pressure we can all of these and most importantly know what the diagnosis is so we can route the patient to the right hospital from the beginning that's right when you say right hospital why do you have to say right hospital it is not every hospital have exactly so every hospital has different level of stroke privileging or certifications or the things that they have the ability to offer some are not stroke centers at all some are stroke centers that can give the medications through the ivy like the clot busting some have intervention lists they're 24 seven yeah some have neurosurgeons they're 24 seven to deal with hemorrhages so you have to take the patient to the right hospital that can cost them their life if they go to the wrong one right so now we have conclusive diagnosis in the field we're able to take the patient to where they need to be and the most important thing is that although we're operated by ucla health we are a shared regional resource of the county what does that mean we are a community resource yeah we drop off patients at over 24 hospitals within our county and this is in an effort to improve stroke care everywhere right all over los angeles all over less yeah right i mean it's such an amazing demonstration of health equity in that way you know making sure that everyone has access to life saving care right no matter where they are in the county yes um that's such a that's so um incredible um i still can't get over that you can just do like the brain imaging you know in the mobile van um but also i mean thank you for explaining too because i think i don't know if everyone also understands like i didn't did that there's different stroke centers on level of care and it really is again that's another part of getting there um on time um just just amazing um tell me about the program i mean has it been successful it has been absolutely one i want to hear all about a journey it always uh started our first clinical operations in september of 2017 actually remember this yeah yeah eight years yeah fantastic still going strong yeah and all of that by support from philanthropic funds and special project funds and support from l.a county board of supervisors we have been just so so fortunate because every day we can operate we can help more patients and in fact part of our study for the county is  so that we did geospatial mapping for the incidence of stroke all around our county. So the patients who had final hospital diagnosis of stroke in the hospital, we went back and looked at the longitude and latitude of where they were picked up from by the 911 EMS services. And we found where the stroke hotspots are because we want to direct these resources to the areas where they need it most. So did that also inform stroke prevention? Absolutely. If you're like, here's a hotspot, does that mean like, oh, we need to put more primary care in for prevention and diabetes care? But you found a very interesting pattern that something we already learned about from the textbooks, right? Our genes play a lot into it. So we found major hotspots in San Fernando Valley, where primarily Hispanic population, St. Gabriel Valley, primarily Asian population, Englewood, primarily black American population. So we know genes play a lot into it, but also access to preventative services, access to health care. We have to do better. We have to do better by our patients. Yeah, I mean, the access is, I just think is such a huge part of it. I mean, because to me, you've built something that goes way beyond technology, right? Because it's about, it is about access. I mean, just because, you know, something bringing a hospital to you, I mean, that's access, access, access. And it sounds like though you see a lot of inequities in not just stroke care, but in stroke prevention. So what do you think the best ways are to address that? I mean, it sounds like having a mobile unit that can be deployed. I think education plays a lot into it too, about the importance. How are these factors? How are these 20 years of uncontrolled blood pressure really affecting me? People don't understand that until the stroke, the day the stroke happens. Our job is to educate also. In the downtime of the mobile stroke unit, we have the unit everywhere. We have health fairs and we have them stopping at the street, talking to patients who just read the name or are curious, what is this thing? And then this is an opportunity for us to educate about early prevention, early notification, diagnosis, treatment, how we can help our patients. Right, and if not for you, for your family. Yes. Right, and then we've got this great acronym that anyone can remember. And I encourage our listeners, our viewers, to teach that to five of their family members. Be fast. Learn it for yourself and teach it to five people you love. I guess that's an important reminder. I have to say, I think that it still feels like that people assume strokes happen to older people, older, older people. And I can think on my right hand, five of them, and there are 42 have had strokes, and you're going to tell me that kids have had strokes, especially when there's a mechanical or disruption, but that's incredibly important to remember. And often though, it's a family member who says something isn't right. Yes. So I just want to really keep hammering that message of like, listen to yourself. Yes. Don't stay home. Absolutely. Absolutely. That's incredible. What are your other kind of plans for the mobile stroke unit? What else do you think we can do for stroke prevention and just prevention? We have to dream big, continuing to expand services with a fleet of mobile stroke units that cover the entirety of the county. A fleet. I love it. My dream is for us to be the leaders. Los Angeles County should be the leaders nationally and in the world to say, this matters. We should really incorporate this into, become part and parcel of EMS care. Every patient should have access to this. Not only the patients who are lucky when we're operating 7-7 in, you know, San Fernando Valley or Long Beach or whatnot. Do these mobile stroke units exist anywhere else in the United States? They do. Actually, they started in 2014 in Texas, but they originally started in Germany because in Germany they have physicians writing ambulances for advanced life support calls anyways. They said, well, okay, we treat heart attacks this way. How can we treat stroke? Well, we need a scanner. First, we need the diagnose. So actually the engineer who built this brilliant guy, he was motivated by the fact that his brother had a ski accident and he was in a remote area where no brain imaging was available. He passed away because of a big brain hemorrhage. He dedicated his life to make a compact scanner that could fit in an ambulance. That's how it all started. They put these on in Berlin and other areas in Germany and they said, oh, wow, okay, now we can affect care. We call these golden hour emergencies. The first 60 minutes really matters. It's the outcome of patients. And so we were part of a big clinical trial called Best MSU. We do everything in medicine by evidence base, of course. And so anecdotally, as physicians, we know if you treat a patient sooner, they will do better. But we needed to prove that if you treat them sooner on an ambulance, they will do better. So as part of the best MSU, there were seven mobile stroke unit programs in the nationally that participated, including our Los Angeles County UCLA Health Unit. And one week we looked at patients' outcomes when we give them clot busting medications in the ambulance. And the following week, the patients were randomized to just receive normal care, get to the hospital, receive the same clot busting medication. And we asked the question, how did these patients fare? They got this faster versus they got this same medication later. Out of 100 patients who got treated earlier on a mobile stroke unit with the same medication rather than later in the emergency department, 27 had a less final disabled outcome, including 11 of whom were completely disability free. Wouldn't we want this for our loved ones? We should demand it. We should demand it. Yeah. Exactly. Oh my gosh. Okay. Is there anything I didn't ask you though about stroke prevention, risk factors that I forgot to ask you about? Maybe we can talk about aneurysms. Oh, that was my next question. Yes. Is that those are definitely like out there. And I think whether celebrities have been diagnosed them with or not. But I think the question is, what is an aneurysm? And then is it a risk factor for having a stroke? Yeah. So great question. What is an aneurysm? An aneurysm is a ballooning or an outpouching of a normal blood vessel. As you imagine, if you have a balloon and you inflate, what happens to the latex of that? It gets thinner and thinner. So the bigger the aneurysm is, the more likely it is that it can rupture. We also know that there are some risk factors that control who's likely to have an aneurysm and what is the likely risk of its rupture. But to even take a step back, how prevalent is this? We said in stroke one in four, right? So to give a frame of reference in the US, about one in 50 of us are walking around with an aneurysm. Right. They don't give symptoms until they've got for bed rupture. Again, the aneurysm, it's a thinning or a bulging. It's nothing's exploding in your brain. Nothing's exploding in the brain until they rupture. Until they rupture. Right. So it's a thinning. So if you think of it, how can we say it in kind of like an anecdote to it is like a tire has a little blowout. It doesn't explode, but there's a little bump and that bump is a weakened part of the tire. The same thing for the blood vessels. Now what are the risk factors of developing an aneurysm? Again, family history is a risk. If you have two or more first degree family members, you have a slightly increased risk to have aneurysms. That's one risk. Smoking, tobacco. We know tobacco is not good for our vessels for stroke, for heart disease. Even for the aneurysm, it weakens the vessel wall. Again, the drugs that pump up the heart, cocaine, methamphetamine, others. Other things, increased use of alcohol, that's alcohol abuse. These are the most common things that we think about in terms of aneurysm risk, but also, again, our genes. Who are two of the populations that are at the highest risk even when we do an aneurysm risk scoring of how likely this is to rupture over time? Japanese and Finnish. Two genetic populations who are at a higher risk when you have the aneurysms developed for them to be more dangerous or for them to rupture and so forth. Do we know why? We don't know. The genes, this is so. We are all born with different tensile strengths to our vessels and that same wear and tear, my same 10 years of high blood pressure and someone can cause an aneurysm and someone can cause nothing. I think a lot has to do with that. I think someone's listening would probably say, how do I make sure I don't have an aneurysm? I think the big message is that we don't need to panic. Not everybody needs to have a general screen for aneurysms, but if you have two or more first degree family members with an aneurysm, I recommend to screen that whole generation. Any screen with a CAT scan or MRI? You screen with anything that ends in an A. A stands for angiogram, so you want a CT angiogram or an MR angiogram. Both of them will show you the blood vessels of the brain and if there's bulging. If aneurysms and when aneurysms are discovered early on, God forbid, before they rupture, we can treat them. Yes. We don't have to have a big brain surgery. Sometimes we need to, but most of the time we can do a minimally invasive. Again, interventional assistus myself can go in through the blood vessels with leg, arm, etc. Go all the way up to the blood vessels of the brain and put tiny coils. That's another invention that happened at UCLA. The first treatment for aneurysms where you put these tiny, tiny platinum coils, what is the purpose of the coils? Because it's metal, it causes the blood to clot. So if you deposit them very carefully inside of this very fine aneurysm, then it will clot off and no more blood will go in there to keep it expanding. And sometimes we have to do that in addition to using a stent or what not, depending on the shape of the aneurysm. Yes. And in some cases patients need surgery for clipping or mechanical tying off of the neck of the aneurysm. But in so many cases now we're doing everything endovascularly, whether the aneurysm comes ruptured or we know about it and we can treat it. Endovascularly meaning through the vessels. Through the vessels. Right. And so patients, yeah, no, no, patients wakes up, they think they're going to have major surgery, they don't have a major surgery, they're walking the next few hours. It's incredible. I mean, what do you think? Like when you first started becoming interested in stroke medicine, have you really, how do you feel like the field has changed even since you were first interested? Amazing. It's amazing. Even the procedure called mechanical thrombectomy or removal of the clot, when I started as a resident and I was applying for an interventional fellowship, in fact, many people were, oh, well, field of intervention is going to die. The stroke trials don't show that if patients, you remove the clot, they do better, et cetera. There are just one or two trials that were not very well designed and then all of a sudden monumental change, you know, 2014, seven positive trials showed that if you remove that clot, that patient will do so much better and all of a sudden the field completely flourished. What I love about that field, interventional field is that there are so many innovations in technology. A new stent, a new this, a new that and all of that for the betterment of the patient. And it changes so fast. You can barely keep up. This is a new device. This is a new device. So you have to be comfortable with what you have on the market that you can use that you're comfortable with that you know is reliable, but also you have to be open-minded because many new generations of these devices evolve every day and we have to use them for the better of the patient. Something you mentioned, you know, was really poignant was just, you know, obviously the person who's undergoing the stroke and, you know, probably in my goodness, hopefully if they survive and they have a rehabilitation, but how hard strokes are on families and caregivers and partners. I just didn't know if you wanted to say a word about that. I mean, I think that there's like amazing things that we can do, but I also want to, I guess I'm asking you to also to feel the hope for those who have strokes and might have a few deficits and by that I mean effects of that stroke, you know, what life is like for everyone. Well, I'll tell you, you know, we see stroke patients in many different times and I am so fortunate. I get to see them on the street by their house. I get to see them inside of the Andrews Suite. I get to see them, you know, in the hospital and I get to see them when they recover afterwards after rehabilitation. And one thing I always tell stroke survivors, number one, your mood, your affect, your will to improve is 100% correlated to how well you're going to do. So many times we will give patients some medications that help increase their mood, better their mood, that can also help motor recovery because I want to advocate for them. I want them to advocate for themselves. And the other thing I always tell them all strokes improve. We can't predict the degree towards you. Some people improve 100%, some people 60, some people 70, but I know you're going to get better. I want you to believe that I know you will get better. I want you to know that you will get better. And the greatest recovery perhaps we see in the first six weeks to three months, but improvement continues for one whole year. Where you are at one year is your new baseline. And I tell the family members one piece of advice when I go to the bedside, especially for patients where every 24 hours we have to just make it past the next one. It's overwhelming to think in three weeks what's going to happen. In one month what's going to happen. We have to take it one day at a time and you have to take time for yourselves to recover. As a family member, you have to take care of yourself so you can take care of others. I think that's very important. I get that all the time from my patients too. I know that you're going to get better. I think that's very powerful. And I think it's hard. I mean, we talked about that it's very scary, right? I think for people to feel like their parts of my brain have died, right? And then all of a sudden I can't move my leg too. But you can feel better and you will improve perhaps quite slowly, but there will be improvement. But that's really important to hear. I think that just sort of the mood, the well-being and also just for caregivers how they need to care for themselves. And today as I was showing the imaging of a patient to his wife and the imaging looks like a lot of the brain is missing. And I say, we don't treat the imaging, we treat the patient. This looks very bad, but look how he looks. That's right. So we have, recovery is miraculous. People can be motivated. The brain can rewire. We have to encourage patients. And that's really amazing about the brain. So even if some of the brain cells die and don't regenerate, other parts of the brain can take over. That makes us, we're just very... We're just very complex. Despite everything, we're a very cool species. Yeah, or just like us all animals are. So it's really neat. Yeah. What gives you kind of hope then as we move forward in your field? People who believe in the cause. You know, people such as yourself. People who believe in the cause, who believe that we can impact change. People who are forward thinking to look at innovation, not just for today. Like I said, what's going to happen in 10 years? What's going to happen in 20 years? We have to think for the future. We don't have to think and look under our feet. And we have to do that all with the drive and passion that we have for improved patient care. We went into this field because we had a mission and we knew that we wanted to deliver better care to patients. And yes, we have hard days and yes, we have hard jobs and yes, sometimes the disease beats ups and we can't help the patients, but we still go the next day. And we still go the next day for the hope that we can impact one person's life. It's amazing. You literally are a living testament to your own hope. You mentor a lot of people. I mentor a lot of people. I bet. You're so inspiring. Thank you. Your patients are so lucky to have you. Thank you. I mean, I feel like a whole organization too is so blessed that, again, for your innovations and your forward thinking, I love that even with this incredible innovation that you're still just kind of thinking, go, go, go and move forward, move forward. In fact, our mobile stroke unit, the two recent mobile stroke units, thanks to philanthropic funds that we got from the Brett Torino Foundation, the Karen Canarelli Foundation, we are so fortunate we had the first most advanced mobile scanner in the world. We were the first in the US to have an employee here. So we continue to push boundaries and look further and further. And we're all the beneficiaries. I have seen the mobile stroke unit across the street from my house and I'm like, oh, wow. Dr. Noor. For me, it's a celebrity sighting. When I see it, I start video. Like, why do I video? I was just on that thing an hour ago. It is kind of a celebrity sighting. I'm excited. I'm excited for you. This has been such an incredibly valuable conversation. I mean, everything that you do is just honestly so groundbreaking, but also so kind of human and everyday moving. And you certainly make something that seems very terrifying and very overwhelming, not just understandable, but it actually feels very actionable. And I think that in itself is reassuring and hopefully gives our listeners, the agency, the autonomy to say, like, you are in control. This doesn't just like have to happen to you. You know, you're not to blame if something happens, but you are in control of mitigating these risks. I want to remind our listeners about Be Fast and also to teach it to five people that you care about because clearly it saves lives. Anything else I forgot? Keep the hope. Yeah. Keep the hope. Keep on the lookout. Keep the hope. Keep improving your own health. Keep being a positive beacon for others in your life. And that makes a whole lot of difference in recovery. It does. And thank you for being a positive beacon for all of us. Thank you so much for joining us today. For our listeners, there's resources. There's going to be stroke education materials and episode notes. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier, this is Medically Speaking. And until next time, stay curious and healthy. See you next time. Thank you so much, ma'am.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.467741Z ===
