Welcome to Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. Today, we're talking about something that's not often named, but deeply felt. The profound transformation that occurs when someone becomes a mother. I recently learned that there's actually a word for it, matressence. And it puts language to the changes we experience physically, emotionally, and socially during the transition to motherhood. To explore all of this, I'm joined by UCLA health psychiatrist and maternal mental health expert Dr. Misty Richards. Misty, I can't thank you enough for being here today. Let's just get right into it. Let's just start with what is Matresence? Yeah. So, matressence is actually, you know, it was coined by a medical anthropologist in 1973 of all things and it's it involves like this push and pull of becoming a mother. So, we often don't talk about it, right? You become a mother obviously when your child is born. But what we don't talk about is this identity formation, identity shift. And it doesn't just happen like this. It sometimes takes months, years. It's dynamic. It's ever moving and it's hard. It's not pathology though. It's almost like this right of passage to motherhood. um this is so new and I and the fact that I hadn't heard of this until you know you told me about it um is really enlightening for me you know I think no you know as a mother as a physician as a friend to to to other m mothers um so when does it start though I mean you're mentioning that it's not just like a pinpoint in time but when does it start I mean how do we mark this sort of beginning sounds like adolescence right it sounds like adolescence if you think about it break it down medence So really when you think of the idea of what motherhood looks like to you, it's like a fingerprint. It's very specific to each one of us depending on our childhood. Now, as a child psychiatrist, I come with that lens, right? I think it's so important that we think about how we were raised and what we're taking with us into motherhood. So from the time that you become pregnant, from the time that you, you know, conceive, you go through, you know, pregnancy, labor, and delivery, and the baby is born. And oftentimes people are like, "Wow, you're a mom. Nice job. Here we go." H and it's so hard. From the time that you become pregnant, this idea of becoming the mother of your wildest dreams is planted. Now, matressence again is ever evolving. So, it feels like this, you know, push to stay, you know, keep the parts of you that you really loved and this pull from oxytocin to become the mom again of your wildest dreams. And that push and pull and that tugofwar is where the kind of the conflict uh lies where you're thinking my gosh what am I willing to sacrifice and um where what direction am I willing to grow in and it's it's a very hard concept but when you explain it to people they're like my gosh I'm going through this right now. >> Yeah. I mean that brings up so much. I mean, one thing we really like to talk about um on this pod is language, you know, and so um the fact that you're mentioning how people feel, I'm guessing, like that relief or just that acknowledgement of naming, you know, this process, this transition, what what have you noticed when you know, you bring up this word and acknowledge that with language? This is such an important point. I'm so glad you bring it up because every time I say this, which honestly in every patient encounter, if I have an opportunity to talk about matressence, I will. There is such relief when you're when they're describing just feeling conflicted there, you know, and it's almost like a confession of this is really hard motherhood. I'm not sure I'm meant to do this. Um I don't think I'm a good mom. all these negative, you know, cognitive distortions and almost like um confessions and then feeling uh alone in that process. And so when I'm able to say, "Hey, it sounds like this is something called matressence. Have you ever heard of it?" It is this eureka moment. And it's one of the things I wish every provider that has touch points with mothers would think about and talk about because it's relief and then it's this like sense of understanding that you can see wash over them. And as a psychiatrist, there's nothing kind of more potent and powerful than that than seeing your patient across from you feeling seen and heard. And then you see kind of this these it's it's almost like a disarming a calm and then the conversation begins to flow about reality which is not easy, you know, becoming a mother. It's uh it's not always like what what Instagram uh you know portrays it to be. And so it becomes this conversation about I'm not sure that this was what I was supposed to do or and and I'm not sure I'm doing it right and let's talk about that. Gosh, there's you're just reminding me that there's so many cultural and societal expectations about, you know, becoming a mother, a mother with a capital M, and that feeling less um right, you can have this singular experience, right? this finger print right experience, but feeling less alone and being part of something collective and having there be a real word must make people feel less alone. You know, there was just yesterday I was seeing patients, you know, in in the clinic and she this this mother and she had a like I think it was a four four week old so one month. So in in the swamp land is what I call it just like in the trenches of motherhood and you know you could see her trying to convince herself and me that she was okay and I I I was just watching this again it's always the how are you doing open-ended question tell me about motherhood and I could see her uh you know just really trying to convince herself in me and then once I you know was able to just have a a natural pause and to say hey you know What? Sometimes motherhood can be hard. Sometimes motherhood isn't always right. What we see out in social media and kind of like planting the seed that this is a safe space that you can tell me how you really feel. My goodness. Then said the Mword matressence and kind of explained it. Explained like it's like you know this identity shift. Explained how hard it can be. It was unreal. I literally I I can I have chills right now. >> I do too. >> Because she just softened and began to sob and just and really it was like one minute of just sobbing and being able to say, "I'm not doing okay. I need help. This wasn't what I thought it would be." Right. So naming it even just opened a door 100%. The I mean the word itself is really gorgeous, I have to say. I mean, I kind of want to wrap myself in it like a warm- weighted blanket. Um, I, you know, you mentioned that it was an anthropological term, right? So, to start, um, as opposed to a clinical diagnosis and I, I noticed that you mentioned that it's not pathologic and I wonder if you could explain like so the difference between those things, you know, so something, you know, what can be under the realm of normalish, right, which again must be very comforting and reassuring versus something that's pathology. I mean, we could you could break that down for us. Yeah. So, matressence to people are like, "Oh my gosh, like is this a diagnosis? Is this going to go in my after visit summary or or is there a diagnosis code? Am I going to be charged or talking about it? What medication treats this?" No. So, it's not pathology, meaning it's not something that we're trying to quote fix, right? It's not part of our differential diagnosis. It's not something that, you know, there's an evidence-based treatment for. It's it's more of this right of passage. It's more of just every single mother goes through this in some form. And so it's naming just a natural process of motherhood, becoming mom. So as opposed to something like postpartum depression, which is a diagnosis, it's treatable, good to identify it early, treat it before it becomes a forest fire versus something like postpartum blues, which is not pathology either. It's almost like a right of passage. So you think about it like what's the difference between matresence and postpartum blues? Matresence really is this. When I say identity shift, it's thinking about the parts of you before motherhood that you loved. The parts of you that you're like, I love to dance. I love to sing. I go to my hip-hop class. Whatever the heck you do, right? I have a career that I love that is deeply meaningful to me. these these entities and then kind of this pull to become again mom in your mind of what that looks like what do you sacrifice and what does that tugofwar look like and that process is mcence which on some days it's beautiful it's like this feels balanced this feels I feel whole and on a lot of days I would say most days during the swampland period it's what did I do oh my gosh how am I going to do all the things. >> I was like, or within 60 seconds. I There's probably I could have experienced that 20 different times in 20 different ways. You you mentioned um and I'll get into this a little bit later cuz I have so many questions about um a little bit of the science and the hormones, but you mentioned, you know, pregnancy. I'm thinking, but correct me if I'm wrong, that this process applies to all forms of motherhood, right? So whether there's a biological birth or adoption or fostering. So 100%. So this again it's like the idea if you ask anybody what does mother mean to you >> just loaded >> so loaded and so powerful and most people are taken back by it like mother what does mother mean huh and then most people will start with how they were parented who their caregivers were and so it's deeply like you know it's tethered to childhood and that's why it's so important we ask about about adverse childhood experiences that allows us a window into something that is called ghosts in the nursery. >> I wanted to ask you about that. I'm completely obsessed with this term. Please tell us more. >> So ghosts in the nursery is is so you ask someone, hey, you know, what does motherhood mean to you? And they go back toggle back to how they were parented or motherthered. Ghost in the nursery is thinking about any types of experiences that you experienced as traumatic or hard or overcame and those are the ghosts. And if those ghosts are not addressed as you become mother, you can take those ghosts into your nursery as a mother. So ghosts of childhood taken into your nursery as you become mother. >> I think first of all I mean I think it's so interesting, right? Because the associations around the word ghosts and haunting are I mean yeah it's spooky and you know it's a little bit chilling. Um and it's negative. I mean, I think a little bit the way you're describing it, it's also just seems like so much. I mean, my heart is going out to um you know, mothers of all kinds, including myself, but um just trying to sort of gosh, oh my god, I feel like you're just like gorilla crawling to like the next nap and feeding, let alone being like, "Oh, and then I'm haunted by like, you know, my my childhood and babyhood." But especially at this moment of time, it's so new. Like you're saying, you're in this swamp land. I mean, I would think ghosts in the nursery. I mean, isn't that something that you carry with you throughout childhood, adolescence? I mean, especially adulthood. I feel like even now as my kids are teenagers. I'm really thinking about parenting and my parents as parents more than ever. >> Yeah. >> And there's such a duality to it all. So, there's ghosts in the nursery and there's also angels in the nursery. And so, thinking about this is kind of a, you know, concept of life, right? The duality of life. And so the ghost in the nursery, it implies an intentionality. So if you know what those ghosts are and if you know what really hurt you as a child and what was really painful or traumatic, then you can parent intentionally hopefully, you know, in a way that's restorative, repairative like that you are like, ah, you know, this feels like I have agency as a mother, as a parent. So that's what it's meant to do as opposed to striking fear and >> No, it makes sense. Well, I'm wondering is there also an opportunity to parent yourself as you identify? >> Ah, we need to do more of that, right? Yes. Like like parent yourself, get trauma is a tricky business. So, and we can open that door, but I'll say like trauma-informed care is a part of of every encounter that I have. So um being mindful of traumas that people have endured in childhood and not being dismissive is very important to do in psychiatry in general. And so you know our our touch points you know tend to take a little bit longer I think than than most uh subsp specialties um of medicine and there there's an intentionality to that. So when you ask about go and nursery for people as you think about how they parent a lot of people say well hold on why are we talking about this like well what does this have to do with this cuz it's deeply painful and then in that process of discussing it it becomes like oh huh you bring it out you identify it the intentionality starts and then to bring it back to matressence it's tied in there into what do you want to be as mother and this goes back to how you were parented and what hurt you and what helped you and so there's there's some concepts in terms of attachment theory and to kind of toggle off of that you know you have secure base and safe haven and these are two terms that I use all the time when I talk I lead groups with mothers that have postpartum depression or trauma and when you think about secure base it's how do you feel about yourself to allow your child to launch out into the world. Are you secure with who you are and your attachments? And then the safe haven is when something happens to a child out in the world, whether it be a 6-month-old or a 16-year-old, when they come back into you, what emotions can you hold for them? Can you help them understand? Can you help them digest? Typically, if you had problems digesting those emotions as a child, it will be challenging for you to welcome them in with open arms without intentionality. I mean, imagine that that that self- interrogation is continuous. I mean, so sometimes I'm I mean, I'm this is a a a beautiful and to me such a crucial concept framework, right? Not diagnosis. Um, I also feel a little overwhelmed by it because I'm like, "Oh my gosh, these are big questions to ask, you know, you know, you know, at the beginning, but I'm I think what I'm hearing you say is that it's not just the beginning, right? That this this is a transition, a process, a self inquiry, connections to be made for the long run." 100%. You said a word there that I think is so important postco I know it's a little bit played out. I say this because it's like the isolation that happened from co and the connection and the community that is necessary to go through motherhood doing this alone or in isolation is so hard. It's not really not meant for that. And you know after every group that I lead I say at the very end you are not alone because right at 3:00 a.m. when you're rocking a baby the baby's screaming your army crawling. I like thinking about you felt alone. >> Yes. Very. And it's lonely making you know I think any anything that's painful right is and singular it's like it's lonely making. So I mean that does bring me a little bit to um you know what can friends partners you know parents of these new parents um how can they help? I mean what are specific questions or just even awareness I think that they can have. I mean sometimes I feel like scripting is very helpful because even if you know about something it's you know people are like well what do I actually say? >> Not everyone is just like beautifully articulate as you. I'm like just call Misty and she'll tell you. >> Oh no. >> Like Sino de Bersack makes in the back like say this. >> No. You know there are times when it sounds I wish I had like the perfect script but I'll say listening like allowing the person to just breathe and pausing because there's such beauty in a pause. It's so hard cuz when you see someone you love or you care about hurting in a way or grappling with really hard entities becoming a mother, you want to jump in and talk about your experience. You want to jump in and come in, you know, with the advice about how to do all the things that they're trying to do. That's we all do it. If you if you take a beat and just take a moment and watch them and listen and look at them, right, it allows that vulnerability to occur, right? that seed is planted. Um, and allows them to say the thing that they're probably scared of even acknowledging to themselves, which is this is hard. I'm not sure I can do this. I can't do this alone. I'm not meant for this. And so, even in saying that, I think it's feels hot to handle. I'm like, what do I do with that? As a recipient of that, and I'll say as a recipient, you just hold. There's a book. It's so good. There's there's lots of books out there. >> Tell us all of them. We will we will link we will link everything to these books. This is great. >> There's a book. >> They're so comforting. >> Yeah. It's like the art of holding. >> And I would say like all providers, all medical providers do this, right? when you're you're talking about a really a terminal diagnosis and you're giving that to a person or you're telling them some bad news to hold the space and not make it about you know quickly giving statistics quickly jumping into medical facts um making it about yourself which people tend to do when they're nervous get you know it's what you do you fill the void allowing the void to sit for a moment hold and then support And it's it's like finding that person's frequency. So being able to attune in a way that's like, oh my gosh, it gives them again that word agency to feel what they're feeling. So important. >> And I'm guessing it's not just once, right? But allowing these spaces multiple times, right? And being, I think, attuned to those opportunities. I mean maybe we should title this episode beauty of the paws as as Misty mentioned since sounds like art of holding is taken. Um no I think it's true. I I think as a provider as a parent all that I nothing that I do but try to you know fill a void um when really the void itself is can be healing and actually be the big the kindest introduction to and the most generous sort of gesture it sounds like to another person. You know, as a mother, I don't know if I'm allowed to talk about this, but I'll say as as a mother, you know, I have a 10-year-old, and it's so funny. He was told that he's going to be the starting quarterback within two days notice for a very intense game this past weekend. And I, you know, and he was nervous. I have never seen this child shake. Literally knee shake, like lip shake, all the things, you know, and it was funny because, you know, he started off the game and it wasn't wasn't so hot. He was in his head, you know, and I just bring this up cuz here I'm a child psychiatrist, right? A reproductive psychiatrist. And he's he's like, "Mom, I can't do this. I can't do." And I I had no words, you know? I had no I had no words. And then I I was like, "Okay, I'm going to do the pause." I did the pause and he's like, "Tell me what to do. I need help." And I'm like, "Okay, I don't know football. Just hold the ball. Do that." I'm like, it was And I was a blubbering mother. And so >> like, yo, let's hold space. Let's hold Kinky Kinky and Ariana like I got this. We got it. >> So I I will say and I want to just say that like I have I am humbled as a as a mother, as a parent and and that is a great lesson in and of itself, right? Like to just be humbled and realize, hey, we are all going through this together. And if we can build community and be vulnerable and honest, oh my goodness, we'll have this sharing this moment of where we can just, you know, embark on our own matressence which we are still going through right now. Yes. I I wanted to ask you about that. Um I um I have, you know, many friends who are um experiencing the quote emptiness syndrome and first of all are screaming for another term, >> right? But is that another I mean that's another identity shift. Um but matressence itself does matressence apply to that shift? I mean or >> if you think about it like if you think about okay you have a newborn and you're talking about if you ask them the question what does motherhood mean to you? First newborn first child they're like I don't know which way is up and Instagram is telling me I need to lose you know all the baby weight. I need to have all the best products. I need to make only make the food at home. I need to So like, you know, there I don't know which way's up essentially is kind of the theme, right? And I I don't I I have traumas from my childhood that I'm not even aware of or I can't acknowledge. I'm grappling with all of this. Then you ask somebody that has, let's just say, a teenage child and their mother and say, "What does motherhood mean to you?" Now it's going to be wildly different >> and the ghosts are different. >> And the ghosts are different and they're still there. >> Yeah. >> So I think I think that the moral of the story is it's a journey and it's a long journey because matresence doesn't have a final destination, right? It's an it's an identity shift that is ever evolving. And then when you empty nest, you know, it becomes I have done this role for x amount of years. This has been my identity. maybe taking like a 70, you know, 30, 80, 20, 50/50 depending on what you do for the other percentage of your time. Then all of a sudden, you're like, wait, they've launched. Who am I as mother? And that is a hard thing sometimes to kind of hold and think about for yourself because it's like, I've done this. This is who I am now. What's left? You know, >> these identity questions are so interesting. And you mentioned um how new mothers, you know, might ask themselves, you know, how do I, you know, retain these other parts ofelves? And it's so interesting to me like is do you think that there's this cultural or societal expectation that we have to leave behind parts of our former selves? I mean, why does it have to be so binary? I guess I would ask. And um you know and again would maybe even asking that question upstream of empty nest help ease that later empty nest right where do you I guess you mentioned the word sacrifice like who's telling us that there we have to be sacrificing as opposed to changing sacrifice is a big word and and listen culturally and society we use it all the time it's a huge word that's a loaded word sacrifice you know if you if you ask a new mom like hey what does motherhood mean to you. It's interesting. That word comes up a lot. Like, I'm not willing to sacrifice. Here's what I hear most often. >> Really dramatic. >> I'm not willing to sacrifice my career. I'm not willing to sacrifice all that I have worked for. I think this is such a hard thing because for mothers, it's like how about do all the things? And it's if you ask I mean you have a podcast all about that. What does it mean like to do all the things and or is that the goal, >> right? >> And sometimes I think it can mean like doing the things that you know are prioritized in your life and spread them out, >> right? Not at the same time. >> Not at this if there's a moral of any story, it's like my goodness, we can take a take a pause, take a breath, spread it out also. Um and even just talking to someone last week um who was talking about this career that she had sacrificed for herself like given up x y and z multiple multiple um opportunities that she has given up to become you know an executive I'll say that's a top executive and had a child and felt like I can't bring my motherhood into this job I can't bring who I am becoming into this kind of I don't know image of who I've become in my career and kind of trying to reconcile those things and put them together and integrate them is what she was grappling with and that is her matressence. I don't feel like that's an uncommon story. I feel like a lot of folks who become mother are like, "Okay, how can I keep this part of me that I've worked so hard for and and value it while also becoming the mom that I think I need and should be to this child who needs me?" >> So, what do you think though can I guess challenge that idea that you have to sacrifice, right? that these are that that these are in conflict, right? So again, is that generational? Is it society? Is it personal? Again, all of the above. But it just bums me out, frankly, right? That that because I can't imagine that with the word or feeling of sacrifice comes later a healthy other healthy feelings, right? I would be worried that if someone felt that they sacrificed that there wouldn't be some accompanying resentment. Oh, >> later. And so all those things just I'm like, well, what can we do then upstream of that to I mean I'm going to ask this for my daughters. I want them to feel like no that have it all is so tired, right? But you know, can you do all these things you're interested at different times in your life? Can you take all the pauses? Um, but how do we integrate integrate that into like that's the expectation is that and the I want to have to say to my kids I want the assumption that you are still you and you're going to be changing and not but at the expense of an identity or yourself especially when identity is changing and evolving right I love that instead of but and yeah >> we're working towards integration just I I think that's a very important word integration the pressure that people feel to have arrived right >> it is uh that is a fierce pressure like everybody else is doing X um everybody else can manage X why can't I but also leaving space to figure out the what the who right this proc process is a process of becoming like what are my priorities and what are my priorities not what are the world's priorities for me. I think you know I talked to a lot of medical students and it's funny because you know third year they're trying to figure out what am I going to do what I'm going to be what specialty right do I want to pursue a lot goes into that and if you and it's hard because with medical students wildly talented they can do anything they want to do they can do any specialty and that's what scares me sometimes and that's what scares me sometimes with you know overachieving children I'll say this because they can do anything and so but I I want Ask them. I'm going to slow it down and say, "No, but but who are you and what do you want to do? Who do you want to become?" Not what do your parents want you to be and what do your grandparents want you to be and what does Instagram say you should be? And you do that apply that same theory to to a mother, right? And the same practice is slow it down, right? You you're seeing all this, you know, kind of these pressures. Who are you? What is important to you? And that in and of itself, there's usually a pause and AI don't know. I don't know anymore. And holding that and being able to say that is so valuable to not know. It's like I think that could be part of the goal, right? I mean, reframe this as I mean, I think the goal could be just becoming, right? And just constantly evolve. And we talked about this a lot with you know uh when we had some of our our menopause um physician colleagues on right is is and the idea that there's such power in evolving and like I mean I mean maybe and you can tell me this as again as a as as a professional I mean transitions might feel uncomfortable right so I can get that like we want to you know who do you become but that it's so much less restrictive I think and just freeing in the grace of like no really just keep becoming and keep evolving and keep interrogating, you know, yourself and um gosh, I can't imagine the pressure of, you know, how do I dress up or the costume of being a mother? You know, you mentioned Instagram. I'm like instantly thinking about some sort of like white sort of antique flowy top and like, you know, the it's ridiculous, you know, and it's ridiculous, but also instead of saying that's not the image, instead of just instead and finding the beauty in what actually is the existing, you know, evolving images, I guess, or experience. Yes. Like I I think it can be hard for people to kind of sit in a process, right? >> I think people want to arrive at the final destination >> and part of that is some relief of I did it and I get that. So thinking about looking into a process and embracing it and being okay with it is tricky business. >> Think about it like if you're running on a treadmill or if you're running a marathon, you know, and in the beginning you are like pumped. You're like, I am running a marathon. I signed up for this. Whoop. >> Short. You're like, hm. Okay. But but you're like, I'm, you know, I did this. I'm proud of this. Right. It's going. >> It's an achievement. >> Right. Right. And then you start off in the beginning with the sprint cuz you're like, yeah, this is I'm running a marathon. And then maybe like 6 miles in, you're like, what did I what am I doing with my my life? And help and slowing down and being able to walk a little bit and then being able to pick up the pace a little bit. This is again, this is like matressence. Being able to like sprint when you need to sprint, when you want to sprint, and then being able to pause and slow and even sit on the floor and lay down and be like, I'm done for a minute here. Everyone bring me IV packet water or whatever, right? Cheer me on. >> Cheer me on. And then getting back. So, so being able to be flexible and dynamic. So, that is so critical. And also being able to say, hey, like like you said, evolution, like priorities change. And instead of people are like, I quit this, you know, there's a there, you know, negative connotation of that word quit. We don't say that in my house. I'll say I don't say that in my practice. I don't use that word. I use the word that you said so, you know, beautifully earlier, which is evolve. There's an evolution, right? You've evolved into different interests, different priorities. And so we need to praise that if we were the same frequency or doing the same exact thing from the time we're 16 years old, wow, where would the world be? We have to evolve. No. And I appreciate that. I think, you know, it's it's right. It's easier for me to, you know, emphasize the grace of evolution from again where I'm sitting at this table with three teenagers versus honestly how raw I felt, you know, um, uh, in that post, you know, pardon period. And I can imagine that um you know I would have loved to have a mic on you when you were talking to your son before the game. >> No. Oh no. And I'm I'm grateful that no one did. Let me be graceful. There's a grace to being a star quarterback. Um >> um but it's it's interesting you you mentioned um oxytocin and again you were talking about pregnancy and you know you've you've clarified that you know this metress really applies to all these forms of you know transitioning to motherhood. But I mean, I wouldn't mind nerding out for a minute and talking about, if that's okay, um, uh, neuroplasticity, which is, you know, the brain's ability to, uh, change and adapt and form new connections and, you know, reorganize themselves in response to, um, experiences, learning, you know, major events. And I'm wondering if during matressence there are there is some neuroplasticity or changes in the the brain. Yeah. There's some wild studies that have been published recently. You know, we talk about like mommy brain. >> Yes. another another maybe term we should rebrand. I'm just saying >> I know like what is this like short-term memory loss or just not being able to remember or recall? There's some studies that have, you know, come out showing there's actual gray matter loss in the brain during pregnancy and can last for years, but the bottom line is there's a rebound so that it eventually comes back and becomes more efficient years later. Isn't that interesting? So it's kind of and they've it's you know you know published in nature and it's big study because again just like mressants naming something that people are experiencing provides relief being like I knew this was happening right you you can feel it in your body and then being able to say wow it rebounds and becomes more efficient that's wild >> it's it's wild and it makes sense >> yes so that neuroplasticity that you're talking about I think a lot of folks I think you know when you're building a baby and you know you birth the baby and you're holding a baby that nothing about that process is easy. I think we often think it's natural. You hear that a lot. >> Oh my gosh. Yes. Just like natural is supposed to mean easy. Again these expectations, right? >> Like it's natural but nonetheless you're building this baby and this is you know to build a baby and build a child. It takes from you physiologically. There's even a sharing of cells between kind of mother and baby in uro and those cells can persist years later in the mother and the child of so example for example if I'm growing a child a baby baby's born baby can have my cells in their body for years to come and I can have my baby's cells growing and living in my body it's a wild thing >> it's incredible >> but it's reminder, right? We're these organisms, right, in these human experiences. And so I can't I mean then I have to assume that there's chemical, hormonal, neural interactions. This is probably what drew me to this field to tell you the truth. Like yeah, like endocrinology and like just hormones because hormones are just more powerful than any medication I can prescribe as a psychiatrist. And if you think about all the transitions that let's just say a mother, a woman goes through, oh my goodness, right? You have adolescence, you have metrics, you have permenopause, you have menopause. Wow. I would like I want to give women just a huge high five and say good job because you navigate this while doing a thousand other things because the expectations are that you're going to be like the bedrock or or the cornerstone of your family or you know your career whatever you're doing in your career it's you will be the steady rock. So, all of this to say, you know, just like we were talking about before, um, expectations, it's tricky business. In when you're pregnant, you have estrogen, progesterone, and this new one that's super important called Alo pregnlolone. That's a lot. >> Yeah, >> that's kind of a mouthful. >> That's a lot. And just, you know, quick sidebar, the reason I bring up alo pregnenolone is because this new FDA approved medication for postpartum depression is kind of a a derivative of alop pregnenolone. So, it's become the latest new kid on the block in terms of of treatment. So, it's a word that is going to be very important for everybody to know about. Alo pregnant. What does it do in uterero? This is wild. When you're pregnant, if you think about it, a baby, I don't even like this term, but a baby is viable, meaning, you know, can live outside your body at 24 weeks gation. So, here's what, you know, if you have a full-blown baby, 30 weeks, let's imagine this baby you could give birth to and would live and breathe and typically do okay outside your body. What allows that baby to calm inside of you and and kind of tolerate in uterero? Alo pregnentoolone is a big part of that. So it's a hormone that's secreted by mother. It calms baby and acts kind of like you know an internal benzoazipene. >> Mhm. Is there come in a cream form? >> Yeah. Just spread it all over your body. >> Sorry. I'm listening. >> I know. It's true though. It's so it calms the baby and it calms mother. Yes. And so what happens like all hormones they rise to wild levels in uterero once you give birth they fall really within 2 days to pre-reg levels in this magic you know mountain roller coaster ride that's awful the worst physiologic experiment of all time worst including alopregentoolone so if you have this hormone this neuroststeroid that is typically calming for you and baby and it rushes out of your Good luck >> with the plummeting levels of estrogen on top of everything. So, you're like sweating, right? You're like night sweating, right? Um Wow. Okay. So, how does this how are how are you how are um medical professionals um utilizing then this this new medication? >> Yes. So, the medication is Zoranolone. And so, this one is the latest and greatest and actually the only FDA approved medication for postpartum depression. It's wild. It took over the FDA approval of Brexen alone which came out in 2019 and was the one that was given via IV cost a lot of money and evolves not accessible. >> No, didn't really work. That was kind of a failed experiment. So they created a bymouth version which is ranolone and so it is a derivative of alopregenolone and so it works on let's nerd out for a second the gaba a receptor and so it's a positive aloststeric modulator what does that mean it means it kind of links up with the gaba a receptor and helps you feel calm that's the same pathway as like benzoazipines like adavan kind of xanex these medications that people may have heard of And it just brings you back to center. It bring in in a hurry. So backtrack really quick. And this is something that you we talk about the medical students is so important. It's really not the overall amount of hormone that I pay attention to in my role in reproductive psychiatry. It's the delta, >> right? >> It's a shift from low to high and high to low >> and how that's perceived and felt. I'm sure. >> Exactly. So, Zoranolone just came out and it's being prescribed. It's a 14day, you know, administration where you can feel better as early as day three >> postpartum. >> Postpartum or after starting the medication. >> Oh, wow. Okay. >> So, like it's like almost like a course of antibiotics, >> And so, by day three after taking the medicine, you can feel relief. And why that's so critical is I prescribe selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors oftentimes for postpartum depression which is different than mressants and that's you know it's pathology meaning it's a diagnosis um it takes about 4 to 6 weeks that's a forever >> yeah for an SSRI selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor to work and when you have a 2e old that you're holding >> and you're feeling like you're melting waiting a month for a medication to work feels like an eternity. So with Saranolone on board and again like you have to make sure that you know it's appropriate. You can start feeling better as early as day three often times by day nine. It's such an incredible reminder that one doesn't have to suffer. So I think that's such an important message we will you know um I I do want to since since I have you and I know you're an expert about on about about you know postpartum and perinatal around the birth you know maternal mental health I you you are emphasizing that matressence is different than postpartum. So I do want to take a moment if it's okay to you know again you've we've we've talked about ways that our partners our friends can you know give space lean into the void but when should we when is a red flag you know sort of noted and when when when should we be aware that something is moving beyond an identity transformation which again can be uncomfortable and chaotic to something that is again pathologic or something that does require an evaluation or further help. Yeah. Yeah. Just to name I love this this question. It's so important like discomfort is not the same thing as illness. And so matressence separate thing postpartum blues separate thing meaning right of passage and then postpartum depression is you see someone like me a psychiatrist who can help you. You can identify that. Always pay attention to trends. If you're noticing that this there's a word called anhidonia okay which is like Delta. Yeah. Yeah. Like you're not enjoying the things that you once enjoyed. That's hard to even People are like, I don't even do the things I once enjoyed when I have a baby. It's so small. But it's a sense of meh of like there's no color in the world. I'm looking out. Things are gray. I'm not enjoying any aspect of my life. There aren't little glimpses of joy or experiences of joy. I say this to my patients. So postpartum depression is flavored a little bit differently than say a classic depression because you have hormones, right, that are a part of this that make it even more stubborn to treat and even more challenging. They're the two A's. Okay, this is and it's just a way to easily remember it. So the first A being extreme anxiety, extreme anxiety, the second A being agitation. Those you know, you know, anxiety and agitation are neighbors on this continuum of life. For example, if you have two minutes and someone takes five, the rage that you may feel as a new mother, it is like toxic rage. I will destroy you and everyone around you. >> I have no idea what you're talking about. >> None of us do. None of us do. And let's just say if someone's if you just, you know, pumped and just say you decided you were going to breast, you know, breastfeed your child and someone dumps that, you know, pumped breast milk down the drain. Wow. Get out of the rage that you can feel. So postpartum depression tends to be flavored with the two. extreme anxiety, extreme agitation, but not always, but tends to be along with the kind of melancholic symptoms of just weepiness, anhidonia, feeling despair, and it's a trend. Things are getting worse, not better, >> right? And this isn't just a moment. This is something that's pervasive, lasting. Okay? It's I mean, I think that's very, very helpful, you know, for for actually for all of us, whether you're experiencing it yourself. I mean, and again, I'm just I'm a primary care doc. I'm not a a psychiatrist but I also think what I hear you saying is that um we know you can feel better >> right with the right help and awareness. So I just uh that that you are you are feeling right despair extreme agitation you know anxiety and there is help and relief hope for sure >> and hope >> for sure always and that's the thing like that's I I think just saying that out loud is if you acknowledge it if you take a second cuz a lot of people try to bury it and I understand that as a new mom you're like no no I need to be these things but if you're able to take a second and be like hold on like the way that my body digests this process is different. It's physiologic. The way that my body responds to this delta shift, so the shift from high to low is different. You know, I'm uniquely sensitive to this hormonal shift. I say, "Hey, your thermostat's working." I tell your thermostat is working a little too well. Right? And so being like, the way that my body's digesting this is different. Let me be vulnerable enough to acknowledge this. That's the tricky business because then vulnerability when you're a new mother can be tied to this I'm inadequate, >> right? >> Like if I can't do this despite this physiologic response in my body, I'm not good enough or meant to be here. More ghosts. Ghosts. Yes. Ghosts in the nursery. So, if you can kind of get through that, um, it can be really valuable because it's treatable. Yes. 100%. Treatable. Yeah. Another quick thing, just a little tidbit. Um, it's really important and this is for like just everybody in primary care or everybody who has a friend or everybody who, you know, knows somebody who's had a baby is you could ask them how their body responds to hormonal shifts even before pregnancy. you can go back to their menstrual cycle and ask about the ludal phase. So, kind of the week before they're they're actually menrating. And you can say, "How did or how does your body respond to this? Do you tend to feel agitated, anxious, weepy the week before, you know, you menrate in your menstrual cycle?" And if the answer is yes, then you're just your radar is up. like that that could be a litmitness test for how their body responds to hormonal shifts which can translate into pregnancy and postpartum that I mean it makes so much sense and it's also it's such a tool right I mean we're basically saying like this is you you are a fingerprint and when we know this about you right we can then anticipate plan which in itself is like why we read all these books in the first place what to expect so what to expect about yourself and then also be a little bit prepared and ready have resources Not just for you but the people around you who are watching you and supporting you too. >> That's you said where so plan and prepare, right? As opposed to being like >> blindsided. >> Blindsided which can feel and does feel overwhelming, >> right? And then you feel like something's really wrong with you. >> Oh yeah. And then I cannot say this. It's my deep dark secret. >> Right. And I love how we're again I love that the language of matresence you know because then saying like this is this exists >> you know like you exist this exists um um I I do have to ask I want to be you know fair to everyone is there is there a correlary for fatherhood is there a petressence >> yeah it's interesting that doesn't get as much press for much >> attention it's interesting considering the patriarchy does yes >> yeah I know can we talk about that >> of This is our show. >> It's It's kind of funny, right? It is interesting, but it is an entity. It's something we don't tend to talk about very often. Just like, you know, you can have paternal depression like you can have and and that does exist. Um, it's funny. Again, I'm going to tell a story really quick if I can. This is hilarious. It's about my own partner, my own husband, and he's going to love that I mentioned this. It's funny like because I stumbled upon this little black notebook and it was uh it was when we had a one-year-old our you know our 10-year-old was one and I was like what is in here? What is in it was in the back and it was kind of you know like you can tell it's like he had been working on something and it was a blow black notebook. I was like huh? And so I opened it of course as we do. I >> mean I don't open medicine cabinets when I'm at people's houses so I don't know again sort of what you're referring to. So, open like, huh? And he was writing down. It was the sweetest thing and also heartbreaking, but also good for me to see his struggles in fatherhood. And part of it was like, how am I going to show up for my son, right? How, when I feel empty, am I going to be able to fill his cup? How am I going to teach him what it, you know, what it means to be a a strong, good man with integrity? all these thoughts when and it it it kind of tethered back to or toggled back to him being like I'm not sure I meant to do this and right and just his process and now seeing him just even being able to be vulnerable in a notebook which I stumbled upon which I did have a conversation with him about a little bit later. It was so important just to to honor his process. Oh my gosh. Of course. I mean, so patriarchy aside, I I mean, I do want to actually champion this. Gosh, when we and I it's a whole other conversation, but how great would be this be as a if this was how we defined, right, masculinity and fatherhood, right? So this is wonderful to hear actually and I you know um I do think we should be giving language to these experiences because again the normalizing um gosh I would like to think that then that would inform our strength and courage and vulnerability and that we'd all be better for it right as a society. >> I like Yes. Like toxic masculinity. No thank you. >> Right. Journals, little journals asking these incredibly important questions that we all ask. Yes. You know what happened with this? To kind of conclude the quarterback story, which is my 10-year-old son's going to be mortified as my entire family will be mortified, but this is who I talk about. You know what happened? I didn't know what to say. And my own son started hysterically crying. Wanted to like leave the game. Not just leave the field, like leave the entire game, drive away. I can't do this. Pressure got to him. Totally get it. I walked away. The coach walked over to him and got down like eye level and said, "Hey, it's all right to cry. It's okay to cry. You know, this is tough, Mason. It's okay to cry." And paused and and then I was watching, you know, from AI was watching from a distance and being like, "Oh, boy." Right? What's going to happen here? Gives him a hug and says, "Let's get back out there. I got you." Misty, you're shocked by this, but this is what you do for your patients every single hour. You literally are this coach every single hour, giving them this space to hold hope, to hold sadness, confusion, despair, all of this. This is exactly what you do. You can't be everyone's coach. Like, thank gosh for this coach, too. >> Oh my god. I was just like, I have goosebumps. I'm humbled. Yeah. >> Because I my own mress. every mother goes through it is to acknowledge, hey, sometimes this isn't this isn't for me. This isn't my battle to >> or I don't know what to say. >> I need to ask help. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And I did. I asked for help and I was like just staring and being like, please, >> right? We all need a coach. >> Oh, 100%. It it warmed my heart really. >> Oh, that's so wonderful. Thank you for sharing that. Thank you, Mason. Um uh no, that's um that's incredible. Um, I have a few just asking for a friend questions, too. I promise they're not all from me. Um, uh, well, we talked about, you know, the empty nest and, um, we talked about actually even reliving our own childhood. That, that was actually a question that came up a lot from our listeners. Um, and, you know, we talked about how, you know, your friends and partners and and spouses can help or be on the on the lookout. But what if I have this sense of my matressence, but I actually don't feel like my partner is understanding that I'm um you know going through this? Um how can I help them see that? >> Yeah, that's a really hard question and and one that comes up often is like my partner and I are share different values. We're not growing together, we're growing apart. And that can happen. And I'd say, you know, open communication critical little black notebooks important. It just left left for maybe someone to find for me to stumble upon uh to this day. But but communication what what tends to happen is really during the first year postpartum is I cannot acknowledge any of this how I'm feeling or how I may be feeling about my relationship with my partner because hm it's too close to home it's something I can't fix I have no quote control these types of thoughts right and the more that you allow that to fester and the more that you kind of engage in maybe routines habits that don't serve you and right don't serve your process of matresence or who you are as a as a human and you kind of the seeds of resentment are planted and so that word came up before and it's an important one >> right the sacrificing too >> the sacrificing and resentment and the more that you kind of harbor that and hold that and allow that to grow and how does that grow interestingly enough it can grow a lot from silence it can grow a lot from neglect and so that's what happens sometimes in partnerships is like a form of neglect that can grow into, you know, this kind of resentment that ends up becoming something huge after years of neglect and then you revisit it and then it's a different monster than it once was. So that's a huge question, a very important one. So I will say it's not uncommon and that's really important to know. It's not uncommon for there to be a mismatch in priorities between partners when they welcome a child. That is very okay, very normal, very important. Just talk about it. And if you're having problems seeing eye to eye or at least listening and hearing, have someone help mediate and and you know. Yes. So, I'll just I'll leave it there to say that sometimes it's really hard to kind of grow together um when you're not seeing the priorities and the value in your partner. So >> and you mentioned silence and again it reminds me just circling back that language right having a term right giving voice to this experience is this really crucial counterpoint then to silence you know that we have this word matressence even if it's just to point your partner or if there is silence to again even if the word is a coach in itself yes in existing this it's funny because as leading a group and I had partners um right which was like a really important step. The reason I had partners come was because many of the people in the group the mothers were like listen I am trying to explain this and it is not working >> right I'm trying to explain how I feel. I'm trying to explain my priorities as a new mother. >> So brought the partners cuz I'm like let's just walk into the fire here. Let's have six partners here and let's do the thing. And it it was it was interesting because one of the moms said it was so beautiful and we all chuckled together. She was like, "You are not respecting my matressence." And I was like, "That's right. She laid that down for you." And they're like, "What is matressence?" And it was such a beautiful. You're like, "And I'm going to get down on one knee and get eye level with you and I'm going to tell you what it is." But they're going to But honestly, they people hear things from different people. I mean, really, you know? So, um gosh, that's so valuable. Um Misty, I have to ask you, too. I mean, if you could put on I mean, first of all, I can't believe how incredible you are and everything that you've said and shared with us. Um, you know, just as a takeaway, I mean, if you could put a message on a billboard for mothers, fathers, um, uh, especially new moms, like what would it say? >> I wish it would be put you on a spot like this. Sorry, but I know you have an answer. No, you know, I wish it were like something wildly prolific, but it's something that I I truly say at the end of every group because it's so important is you are not alone. You're not alone. You are not alone to to everybody. Like you can feel so alone. And really I I say that over and over and I end each group with that because I think people walk out and I hope that's the thing they remember when they are alone when they feel alone and that they have someone to reach out to if it's not me obviously you know a partner a friend somebody right cuz when you're alone and you feel alone and you sit in that I think that's the hardest time so then that's yeah especially during those very long nights sometimes Oh, wild. Yes. Um, Misty, I can't thank you enough for being here. Um, I really could talk to you forever and I just feel so gifted truly by, you know, your your expertise, but also just your deep, deep, profound compassion. I mean, your patients are so lucky. As a colleague, I feel so lucky to be in the same community as you. I I um, is there anything though I didn't ask you that you, you know, wanted to say and or emphasize? >> Just an honor. It's an honor to be here. Like number one, it's an honor to serve the patients who I serve and the families who I serve. Um I truly genuinely feel like this is just every day um brings joy to my life. So I have to say that and thank you to the patients and the families. >> Yeah. Thank you so much. Um and I want to thank our listeners for for joining us and um until next time medically speaking. Thank you so much, Misty. My goodness.