I'm Matt Cyra. I'm 23 years old and I was diagnosed with non-hodkins lymphoma and I've been out of treatment for a year and a half. It was right around midterms. I was staying up late, studying. On my breaks, I would go play basketball. And one day I wasn't feeling well and that next morning I started feeling even worse. I thought I just had the common cold, you know, fever, cough. Then the left side of my face went numb. So then I knew something was wrong. My mom flew in. I was still studying. I was working on a project while I was in the emergency room. They admitted me into the hospital. They wouldn't let me leave. And they weren't really telling me what was going on. I spent 2 days of doing tests and being hooked up to EKG monitors. Finally, a man that I've never met with before had walked into the room and he basically sat me down and said, "Listen, you have cancer." The whole room lost all of its color. Everything went silent. As soon as my mom got there, I had to tell her myself that I have cancer. And that was probably one of the hardest things I've ever had to do in my life. I went through four rounds of aggressive chemo. At first, I thought I was, you know, college kid, young. I could tackle the world. You know, I would do this thing where I' I'd pull on my hair and like, "Look, it's not coming out. Like, it's not stopping me." And then one day I was doing the same spiel. And a chunk of hair came out. So, I was like, "Oh, shit." I was getting fevers. and they had to change my bed and put a cooling mattress down that took the temperature down to like I think it was 40° and it was just torture. I had to get nupagen shots. Those are the worst. I had a bone marrow biopsy where they drilled into my back. I remember they tested that and they said that I was in remission. I was bald and I just picture the day that I would have hair again and it really gave me hope and pushed me to keep on going. You been good. One of my goals in the hospital was I want to make it to my birthday be healthy and I felt that was a big milestone for me. So my 22nd birthday I remember at drostanolone everything I was so happy I was speechless. I was like, I made it to that day that I've been that I put on a calendar to celebrate being alive. It's something that people take for granted and I think people need to celebrate their lives more.