Hi there, Michael Yay from UCLA Health Endocquin Surgery here to talk about medications to stop before surgery. When you're getting ready for surgery, it's important to pause certain medications in order to lower the risk of certain problems during and immediately after surgery. It should be noted that each medication I'm going to talk about has two names, a generic name and a branded name. I'm going to use both to be complete. There are two main categories of medications to stop before surgery and the first main category include weight loss and diabetes medications. The first subcategory include GLP-1 receptor agonists such as semiglutide also known as ompic or wiggoi and tzepatide also known as munjaro or zeppbound. When to stop these medications? If you take the shots weekly, stop at least 7 days before surgery. If you take a dose daily, just skip the dose on the day of surgery. GLP-1 drugs slow down how fast the stomach empties. That means food and liquids can stay in your stomach longer than normal. During anesthesia, this can cause food to move into your lungs, causing pneumonia. An empty stomach makes surgery safer. The second category encompasses the SGLT2 inhibitors such as EMPaglyphloin brand name Jardian, Canaglyphloin brand named Invocana and Dapaglyphloin brand named Forka. When to stop these? 4 days before surgery, please. The next subcategory metformin. When to stop that? 2 days before surgery. The last drug in the weight loss and diabetes category is of course insulin. So if you take daily insulin by injection, you'll need a special plan made with your doctor before surgery. Many patients are fasting before surgery. In fact, that's routine. If you take your usual diabetes medications while you don't eat, your blood sugar could drop too low, and that of course could be dangerous during surgery. Now, we're going to back up and talk about the second major category of medications that should be stopped prior to surgery. And those are the blood thinners, meaning anything that prevents your blood from clotting. Longacting blood thinners include Warerin brand named couadin, clipil brand named Plavix, Ticelor brand named Brerenta and aspirin. These medications should be stopped 7 days before surgery. It's important to note that some patients with heart disease may need to keep taking aspirin throughout the surgery period and afterward your doctor will tell you what's best for you in this instance. Short acting blood thinners include Aixaban, also known as Eloquis and Revaroxaban, brand named Zeralto. These should be stopped 3 days before surgery. Surgery often causes small blood vessels to bleed and that's normal. We need those vessels to clot properly during and after surgery to avoid complications. But remember, people are taking these blood thinners routinely for a reason, often because they're at risk of forming dangerous clots with conditions such as atrial fibrillation. That's why we generally plan to restart these blood thinners as soon as it's safe after surgery. The timing of restarting these medications will vary according to each case. Now, below on this web page, you're going to find a summary table of everything I've covered, including the different drugs and when to stop them. I hope you find the table useful. We are often asked when can you restart your medicines after surgery? And the restarting depends on multiple things such as the type of operation you had, what is the bleeding risk of the operation, and which specific medication you take. In general, we restart medications slowly once the risk of bleeding goes down. Now, this particular video is meant for our patients, UCLA patients having endocrine surgery on the thyroid, parathyroid, or adrenal glands. So, if you're having surgery at a different institution or a different type of surgery, this may be a useful general guideline to you, but please ask your surgeon about the specific. I really appreciate your attention. I hope to see you next time.