Hello and welcome to an overview of benign prostatic hyperplasia. Our goal is to help physicians understand the prevalence of BPH, its diagnosis, treatment options, and when to refer to a specialist. BPH is a hisytologic diagnosis first seen in men around age 40. However, by age 60, over half of men show evidence of histoologgical BPH. About half of those with historic BPH have moderate or severe symptoms, which are categorized as lower urinary tract symptoms or LUTs. BPH is ultimately diagnosed by looking at prostate tissue on a slide. But the causes of LUTs, which are the symptoms bringing men into clinic, can be multiffactorial. and some other diagnoses such as UTI should be ruled out prior to ascribing LUTs to BPH. The minority of men who present with severe symptoms like bladder stones, refractory gross hematuria, recurrent urinary tract infection, or acute urinary retention should be referred to a urologist for further management. For everyone else, we need to consider their symptoms when managing treatment. Symptoms can be quantified using the AUA symptom index, which asks the diagnostic questions seen here. If the AUA symptom index is not available, history should assess symptoms such as incomplete bladder emptying, double voiding, slow stream and straining or obstructive symptoms and urinary urgency or frequency and nocturia which are irritative symptoms. It's thought that irritative symptoms develop as the bladder decompensates from chronic high pressure voiding due to obstruction. However, men can have primary overactive bladder unrelated to BPH just as women can. In addition to the physical exam, including a DR to assess prostate size or tenderness, a urine analysis is recommended to evaluate for a UTI or microhemia, which can signal the presence of bladder cancer. Both of these can cause irritative symptoms. PSA is indicated in younger men with a greater than 10-year life expectancy. Optional tests include a postvoid residual or PVR test. If you suspect a patient is in acute retention, this is usually accomplished with a portable bladder scanner or if necessary an in-n-out catheterization. If a patient has mild symptoms and low bother or an AUA symptom index score of less than seven, treatment may not be necessary and they can simply be monitored for progression. For those with moderate to severe symptoms, it's important to talk to the patient about their goals for care and quality of life. That will determine the treatment course and potentially trigger a referral to a urologist. Medical management is the first line therapy for most men and involves two types of medications. Alpha adonurgic blockers or alpha blockers and five alpha reductase inhibitors or five ARIs. These medications are similarly effective within class and generally can result in a 3 to six point drop in symptom scores which can be enough to make a patient with severe symptoms drop to moderate symptoms or when with moderate symptoms drop to mild. Patients are often begun on one of the new alpha blocker medications which are similarly effective compared to older ones but don't require dose titration. Side effects to warn patients about include dizziness and retrograde ejaculation which are uncommon and reversible. These medications show an impact within a few days. Five ARIs cause involution of BPH tissue and can take 3 to 6 months to show effect. These medications are usually only effective in men with larger glands greater than 40 grams or perhaps the size of a golf ball and rectal exam. Side effects can include a rare decrease in libido or ED. In lower doses, these medications are used to reduce hair loss. Combination therapy with both types of medicine has been shown to be more effective than monotherapy in slowing the progression of symptoms. Progression is defined as a meaningful rise in AUA symptom score requirement for surgery or endstage complications like acute urinary retention. Finally, men with predominantly irritative symptoms and no sign of retention can be managed with an antiolinergic agent such as sulfenosin or oxybutin to reduce OAB symptoms. These medications can be used in combination with traditional medications for BPH with a minor risk of incurring retention. Patients should be warned to stop these medications if they develop symptoms of retention. Patients should be reassessed within 1 to 3 months for response to initial therapy. If initial therapy with a maximum dose of an alpha blocker is not effective at reducing symptom score or patient reported bother, a 5 ARI can be added. If at the next 3-month interval, no improvements noted, referral to a urologist is indicated. Patients who cannot tolerate medications for BPH should also be referred to a urologist. Urologists can perform one of several procedures to reduce the size of the prostate. Sometimes patients ask about these procedures, so we will review them briefly. Transurethal microwave thermotherapy or Tumpty and transurethal needle ablation or tuna involve using energy to heat prostate tissue causing the tissue to die and be resorbed by the body. These procedures can be done in the office under sedation. However, they are associated with a higher retreatment rate than surgery. There are several surgical options for BPH that involve general or spinal anesthesia. TURP transurethal section of the prostate is the reference standard to which other surgical modalities are compared in terms of outcomes. However, newer technologies have emerged with similar efficacy and lower complication risks. These include photovaporization or green light laser treatment and bipolar plasma vaporization which can be done on many patients on anti-coagulation medication because of better heistasis. These procedures can often be done on an outpatient basis. For men with very large prostates greater than 100 or 120 grams, open simple or robotic simple prostatctomy may be indicated. In terms of prevention, studies have shown that the more men exercise and attain better control of their diabetes, the more dramatic the reduction in risk for BPH and lots. Our ultimate goal is to help men with BPH reduce their symptoms with the least amount of risks and side effects. But there's no one-sizefits-all treatment for BPH. Treatment decisions need to be shared. For men without emergency symptoms, shared decisionmaking is key to finding the appropriate treatment choice. BPH impacts men differently in terms of quality of life, and men place different values on the variety of side effects that occur with treatment. Thanks for watching.