Hi, I'm Dr. Jing G. I'm a medical oncologist and hematologist at UCLA Health. Hi, it's Dr. G. So, my role in the care of my patients really starts at the diagnosis of their illness. For patients who have cancer, we go through the complex process of the imaging, the testing, and all the complex workup that needs to be done to start a treatment plan. We then go through a comprehensive treatment plan and trying to make it as much as of a patient centered experience as possible. For the other part of my practice, I see patients who have non-cancer issues such as benign blood disorders. For these patients, we go through the diagnosis and the complicated workup that can often be a part of these illnesses and guide any treatment that is necessary. >> Hi, I'm Dr. G. Nice to meet you. Outside of my clinical interests, I've also have a research focus on how we treat older adults with cancer. So, a lot of our treatment practices nowadays are based off of how we treat younger adults with cancer. Yet older adults have a very unique set of challenges that we have to face when we decide on their cancer treatment. And we need more research to figure out how we can tailor these treatments to be personalized so that we can maintain the independence and function of these older adults um and make sure that we have the best outcomes. Have you taken a couple deep breaths? >> So my interest in medicine and oncology really started at a young age. My mother was an avid cancer researcher and took me to her lab many times as a child. I really got to see the intricate workings of the human biology of cancer biology and the important work that she was doing at the time. So throughout my education and my training, this has really stuck with me and I uh got to see some of the work that she and many of others in the field have done to introduce new medications, new treatment options for patients with cancer. And in my clinical practice, I've really seen that these new medications make a huge difference in both the quantity of life and quality of life that my patients are able to now live. So outside of medicine, I'm an avid photographer. I love taking pictures. I've been doing that since I was a child. Um, as part of that, I love to go on hikes and find these really beautiful landscapes that take pictures of these fleeting moments that maybe only I've seen um and captured. Also very much love taking pictures of my family, my friends, and these important moments in my life.