Hi everyone, I'm Dr. Eve Glazier and welcome back to Medically Speaking. Today is the kickoff of a topic I'm incredibly excited to discuss, a three-part [music] forum dedicated entirely to women's health after 40ish. Part one is going to focus on pmenopause, a term we hear a lot about but sometimes don't understand exactly. We're going to explore what it means, how it shows up, and especially how language and perspective can radically shape our experience. Part two is going to focus on menopause 101. And part three is going to be about later in life sexual health. Joining me today to talk pmenopause are two extraordinary UCLA health physicians, Dr. Maya Zapata and Dr. Regina Patel. Dr. Regina Patel is a certified menopause expert and the founding director of our very new UCLA Health's comprehensive menopause program driving national change through clinical innovation, research, and advocacy in women's care. Dr. Dr. Maya Zapata, return guest, is a board-certified UCLA Health OBGYn dedicated to inclusive, patient- centered reproductive care with a focus on helping people navigate every stage of their health journey with clarity and compassion. Maya and Regina, I am so thrilled that you're here. Uh, let's just begin with some basics. Um, what is pmenopause, Regina? Yeah, so um, pmenopause by the strict definition means that um, periods are not so regular anymore. So technically, really speaking, it would be that when your periods, your regularly time periods are more like off by about 7 days or more. You can be skipping periods. Um, and it kind of ends when you don't have a period for a year. So that's technically um what it is. Not everybody can use their period to, you know, tell if they're in permenopause because you might have had a hyctomy or you might be on hormone therapy or have an IUD in. um you could have had an ablation of the uterine lining. So those things mask that you're not able to kind of use that. But in generally for for people who have a period, that's that's the best way to kind of characterize when you're in pmenopause. >> Okay. So quick distinction then between pmenopause and menopause is that 12 month cessation or stop of no period. >> Yes. As much as you can tell. >> Yes. Exactly. So when it's kind of like looking back and saying, "Oh, I haven't had a period for a whole year." That's when you can say that you're in menopause. >> Okay. Great. And I think you know so much I think is about what to expect right and how to empower people with knowledge. I mean I think what we hear about being so distressing you know and of course we'll talk about that is what what can we expect right during pmenopause um and the importance of being prepared. So Maya can talk a little bit about what to expect during this permenopausal period. I think that the range of things is wide. Great. Some people you can don't expect anything and have lots of symptoms and some people are anticipating that it's going to be smooth and easy and they notice lots of changes. So changes can range from changes in your body that you notice um harder to lose weight in the ways that you did before and feeling like you've you have the exact same diet, lifestyle, exercise routine, um stress levels and yet weight has gone up 5 or 10 pounds and it's hard to lose it in the way that you could have before. sleep might be changing. Um maybe just you feel like you slept, but you wake up and you're just not as rested or waking up in the middle of the night um and having a hard time going going to sleep. It could be mood changes, feeling more irritable, feeling if you had uh mood symptoms before that they're worsened, whether that's ADHD worsening or anxiety or depression worsening. It could be skin changes, feeling like the quality of skin on different parts of your body feels different. Um, it what else am I forgetting? >> Um, yeah. So, just even like hot flashes. So, sort of, you know, all of a sudden having waves of heat. I would say that's the most common phenom. Um, or waking up at night and having sweats and and that's really disturbing your sleep. um you know there's like 60 plus symptoms of pmenopause and so on pain early and everyone just experiences this journey and this transition very differently >> right and layered onto the fact that we're also getting older right there's often life stressors that are also happening at these periods as well um but why do these symptoms even happen >> yeah so um well I think that the biggest thing is that there is a fluctuation of hormone that's occurring because the ovary is no longer kind of doing this predictable dance I say of like you know this how the hormones go up and down and you ovulate regularly and you have a period every month and so that predictability is kind of erased and so it's much more wild and um and imbalanced in the sense of like it's not that normal kind of balance it's not that um you know and and so some of the changes some of the symptoms that you feel are because of the fluctuation and other symptoms are because there's just a drop in the actual estrogen level and so for example mood Um definitely we know is due to the fluctuation of the hormone and it's not something that persists when you get deeper into menopause because the hormones are just more stably low producing >> things get unpredictable and uh like the dance so things get j so things get jazzy. >> Yeah. And I think like to your point right you talk about this stressful time. I always love to tell people you know when I see them in the office look you are you are super you are a super person. You're a super woman. you are juggling enormous responsibilities in the home and in the workplace and some at this time many people are at the top of their career. they are maybe taking care of kids still but also maybe taking care of elderly or they're going through emptiness nest syndrome um or they are still the primary consumers of the home caretakers of the home and so they're doing all these things and they've figured out how to like juggle this so nicely and then like all of a sudden you know this transition starts to happen where there's the hormonal shift and everything gets rocked their equilibrium gets >> I would like to add too that it's happening because it's happening simultaneously it's not like you get little bubbles or little lists that say this is happening to you now. Now this is happening to you. This is a hot. You're so busy with where whatever phase of life you are, which as you just described is usually with lots of different factors and things that someone is juggling. And then as some of these various symptoms to different degrees for people are happening, it's most people as when we talk to them in in clinic are almost not even aware of the individual thing. It's sort of just wrapped up with I have a lot going on. I'm just not feeling as awesome. And only when someone stops and reflects and maybe even asks in a very like, "Are you having this thing? Is this happening?" Like, "Well, yeah, you know, I'm just I'm so busy. I'm just really stressed out right now." And then as you reflect a little bit, they can pull out, >> oh, that is different. I am having that, too. And I have I just thought it was cuz I have so much on my mind. >> Yes. And I think that the fact that, you know, asking the right questions like knowing almost journaling being like, you know, these are the changes that have h are happening. this is how it relates to maybe my period timing or because sometimes the symptoms don't always happen at permenopause. They can happen even premenopausally when you're having like regular periods but then right before your period there is a drop in the hormone, a very substantial drop. And a lot of people are very sensitive to that drop and they can start to feel the same symptoms that they're feeling during pmenopause. And so just even like journaling when do these symptoms happen, how does it relate to your period, how long has it been going on? um you know that can give a lot of awareness for a person and also for the person taking care of them to help kind of delineate what what is it is it is it just stress or am I just working too hard or is there actually something else going on >> I mean it seems like there's such power in awareness and even comfort and reassurance naming it right characterizing what's going on although it can even be really just difficult to attribute it right like perfectly to oh this is um exactly and you're right it's so complex and layered in. So, it sounds like there's all these symptoms. So, I guess my question is and there's the fluctuations in estrogen. Is it true there's estrogen receptors all over our body? Is that why we're feeling it in all of these different organs and systems? Yes, absolutely. There are estrogen receptors from the vagina to the heart to the brain to the skin. They're literally everywhere. >> Carnipotent. >> Yes. Lots of estrogen. >> But what's interesting is that, you know, not everybody experiences all the same things. So, definitely matters like genetics matter. your um health factors matter. Your lifestyle totally matters. Um your just basically like a lot of things we don't even understand matter. You know, we don't really know everything. And so that's why everybody doesn't experience it the same. And um and so they but definitely the fluctuations affect the organ systems. I love that humbling statement. We don't know everything. But I think what I love especially about the two of you and your approach is that we just want to talk about it with you. Um I think what's confusing sometimes and and you know I'm both both of you know I'm a primary care doc is sometimes because the symptom spectrum can be so wide you know let's say I have a patient who comes in and she said oh my god all of a sudden my period is 8 days long but I went to see a doctor or I talked to a friend and they were like oh it's just parameopause. So it just kind of gets basketed. >> Yeah. So but like when is it important to say something you or when to be worried? I mean, I always like to tell people like if you feel worried, talk about it. But what do you what do you think? >> I mean, I would agree. I think that it depends on how it's affecting someone's life and making sure that the symptoms that person is experiencing aren't so out outside of normal that we need to be concerned. Like you gave the example of bleeding and if your period one time lasted 8 days instead of seven days, it's a change and maybe they're aware of that that one time isn't worrisome. that if it's lasting for 10 days and now it's starting to last longer and longer. As their gynecologist, their main gynecologist, I might say, "Let's work up this bleeding, this is probably related to pmenopause, but we need to make sure that there's not something else going on." Sometimes someone will say it's just it used to be 5 days and now it's 7 days and maybe I'm not concerned, but like you said, they're concerned. And so I want to understand what's different for them. What else are they noticing? And what do I need to do to reassure them as well? Even if I maybe I feel like it's fine, sometimes the patient needs to be reassured. Absolutely. I definitely think like listening to the patient and how much is it bothering what is going on with them like we want them to live their best life right so as it is right now as it is in the future as it will be in the future but I think that um we want to if if it's if it's bothersome to them it doesn't have to be severe right it does that this labeling of like oh it has to be severe to do something about it no I mean if it's if it's affecting their daily functioning their sleep um that's something that we should be listening to and trying to help figure about um how to improve their quality of life and I think it also goes to state that like there's these labels of you know sort of premenopause permenopause menopause I mean I know sometimes patients get very fixated on and even doctors and providers get fixated on where are we in the spectrum of where are you in the spectrum of this um this process I mean in some ways it matters but in a lot of ways it doesn't right it really matters like what how are they feeling how are you feeling that is what we really want to address and so um It's really important for you as a person to really um understand what the changes are that are happening and advocate for yourself and journal and talk to your provider about it. I I think you said something really important that is it's not really that clear and we as as people humans like things many of us like it to be really clear very like yes wrapped up this is exactly what's happening right now and most of the time you can't quite define or say how long or give it a nice label. It's just it is sort of this basket of terms and so I think helping patients feel okay with that that we don't have to know exactly there's not a level necessarily to check or something specific to do at this moment we'll observe let's pay attention um that doesn't always feel very neat and that can be hard I think as long as you know that it's not neat that already you know alleviates right I think stress I mean and even if something is normal I mean let's just say that let's go back to the bleeding example um there might be things to alleviate the symptoms though of heavy bleeding for example correct I mean if you're really bleeding eight or nine days and you're bleeding a lot you could possibly become anemic right like so low blood levels and that will then have its own right constellation of symptoms of feeling low energy or headaches or shortness of breath so I loving what you're both saying is just what's the personal experience no one should tell you what matters to you right you decide if something is debilitating or disruptive and it sounds like there's things that we can do about it if we want um just Um any thoughts kind of about just some symptom alleviation? I mean we'll talk about that more with with menopause but even during this again just sort of permenopausal period what are what are we talking to patients about? Well, I think definitely lifestyle is a huge, you know, kind of uh topic that I bring up in every in every discussion because um yes, sure there are medical treatments and we can definitely go into all of those, you know, but I definitely think there's power within the person and I think that one of the things I always kind of say to people is look, estrogen has been sort of protecting you, you know, giving you this little added buffer like okay, for example, like maybe you went out and drank a few drinks and you still slept okay that night, but now it's not working so well. Well, part of it is you're just more sensitive. Your body is more sensitive to stress. Um, your your sleep disruption is going to be easier to get to have. Um, you know, so I think understanding that going into things with a little bit more intention. Um, so what you put in your body, how you sleep, your sleep regime, your stress reduction practices, your exercise, um, how you socially connect with people, you know, um, just those those things, the way we live our life. I think it matters so much more during this time. And I think that's empowering, you know, like that you can do something about that, that you have power in the process. >> You're more than a hormone. >> Yes, you're more than a hormone. And so that protection, that buffer, like now actually the new sword and shield are you. >> Yeah. But I think that's what makes sometimes people feel like something's broken is I did something that worked for the last decade. Sometimes like I had a routine down. I had an exercise routine. I figured out my life and my or my family or my work. And so why isn't that working? Yeah. Now it something must be broken because I knew how to manage this body and now that's not working. >> Yeah. Speaking of that, exactly. So, exactly the fixing. I still want to get away from we're broken, we need to be fixed. And so, I'm always so struck by the language um that we use in medicine um and why words matter and how framing is so critical to the narrative, our narrative. So, I would love to talk to you guys about those terms like ovarian failure and even just hormonal imbalance or deficits. It just seems like a lot of the words that are out there so far, the patriarchy is um that kind of frame this change, this evolution, um as a pretty negative decline, right? There's always like this decline instead of a transition, right? Or even an evolution. Your thoughts? >> Yeah, I mean I think that like I know there's so many I mean so much to say. Yeah, I mean I think this idea of medicalization of the process >> um it is a process that every person with an ovary is going to go through. It is not a pathology. So >> every woman >> will have this or female body this yes if you're lucky. And I think of it that's actually a really great term because it isn't so I think a lot of people equate this with first of all they equate it with aging which is like a whole other it's it's completely different from aging right like it is reproductive change in the sense that the ovary no longer can repro cannot um is not active but that doesn't mean that your whole body is just aging exponentially at a moment in time that process happens for both sexes gradually. Yes. Right. Um but also that this is a normal process and that um it it doesn't mean you're any less for it. Um I think personally I think it is like almost like a rebirth like a celebration because you are free of a lot of things. >> You are free of contraception needs. You are free of um worrying sometimes about like grow little little children that you have to kind of rear. at this point most a lot of times the children are older and you're like you have a more um a freedom that comes along with that >> concern about pregnancy decades I don't want to use I'm trying not to get pregnant when I don't want to and then all of a sudden being like I don't have to >> oh I'm not like that and periods like not having to have to deal with you know hygiene products all the time or like unpredictability around that. I mean there's so much freedom and to be honest like the society we really need to start celebrating it. Yes. And kind of elevating people in you know how there's kineras and there's nitpas and there's um there's a transition celebrating of transition. >> Why are we not doing it parties? >> Yes. We why are we not doing menopause rave? Yeah, it also then that reminds me though like why aren't we talking about this during health class in nth grade by the way for everyone boys, girls, you know, everyone because we should all know this like this information shouldn't be siloed. The same way we all learn about each other's puberty should learn about each other's changes. We even had uh Dr. Chris Saigelon from urology talking about andropause and you know changes in um the male body over time. But I mean this is why I mean this conversation is not just for women. This is for everyone. Well, did you know that in the sexual reproductive health term menopause is not even included? So, there's a there's definitely some issues around the in the medical system itself too, right? Like, and it it stem it then it percolates all the way down like high school students, they learn about puberty, junior high, they learn about puberty, but they're not learning about the other book end of sort of the reproductive lifespan and what's going to happen, right? and that education starts there, but like it's not even included in that that full term. And I think that's a problem. And I think that's, you know, that's something that we need to kind of work towards changing so that it's inclusive >> inclusive and not putting the value of a of a female body as just the reproductive potential to breed or to to have this potential um for having a baby or having a pregnancy or looking a certain way that it puts value on a female's body just because it is for their whole reproductive lifespan. >> And 40% of the life is lived in the menopause time frame up too. So that's a long part of our lives, right, that are lived in this time where we don't really we haven't valued it. They matter. They do matter. >> Yeah. It's such an opportunity. I mean, I think that but like you say, it's not just like the media, right, who's kind of this this treadmill of perpetual youth. It's also medicine. It's our it's our medical system. And even again like the the language. I had a patient, you know, who was, you know, asked me to take off her diagnosis list. It's a code, right? So it means it's acknowledged by insurance companies, you know, vaginal or vulvver atrophy. You know, atrophy meaning, you know, >> word term. Yeah. >> Atrophy is shriveled up and gone away, >> right? Shriveled up and gone away. >> Yeah, exactly. I love that you're saying celebration. I mean, I feel that way. I couldn't be more excited about >> and feel more fortunate about getting older and not being defined, right, by estrogen or >> or or reproduction. It's kind of like a rebirth for a person, too, right? Like you can do so there's it's a time to focus back on yourself, too. and probably most people taking care of a lot of things. Well, now we get to focus on ourselves and I think that's exciting. >> And in fact, your body demands its demands it. And to to be able to be liberated to make the space to do that because your body does demand it and demands a little bit more exercise, a little bit more sleep, these things to care for this whole thing, make it continue to function well and taking that space in your life to do that. >> That's pretty important. I love talking to the two of you because I just feel excited about it. >> How they by the way, which is how kids should feel knowing about this, by the way, you know, no matter who you are, how old you're >> Yeah. something that's bad or that um is something to run away from. Even patients will use the language sometimes where maybe they don't love their period, but they're so they're like mourning the loss of seeing blood or having a period each month because that means that something bad is happening or that they've lost something and >> they feel a loss of sort of feminism, youth. Mhm. >> There's a lot of this aging aging kind of feeling that people get when they when they I and I feel conditioned. I think that it's like, oh, what's your purpose after you can't have children anymore? And I think that's where the reframing in society has to happen, right? And other cultures do this. It's just not been done in this country very well. I think we're starting to, you know, have a moment here and the awareness is really happening. And I think that's the first step is we got to start talking. We got to start feeling comfortable with the with just talking about it and not being ashamed, >> right? Yeah. >> I want to bring up though that part of what makes it feel negative is that people don't always feel good. So something that is normal doesn't always feel pleasant. So yes, we've said the words this is a normal process. Yes. >> But there's and it varies from person to person. Some people had not one symptom, the period went away and then maybe they had one hot flash or two and then it was over and that was easy for them. And other people suffer for years with symptoms, sleep changes, hot flashes, just not feeling like themselves and they're not it's not pleasant. So if I tell them what you're going through is normal and they want to punch you in the face cuz you're like, "Well, thanks. I feel terrible." That's where you can do things to maybe help them feel better. But without that, of course, someone might have a really negative feeling about this transition in their life. They feel terrible. How is it? How are you able to celebrate when you're like, "I feel not like myself. exhausted. Yeah, I don't feel well. It's hard to celebrate that. >> Yeah, absolutely. I definitely think like, you know, not everybody's going to feel great going through this and that is why and they have been silently suffering, you know, and I think like people don't weren't talking about it, weren't doctors weren't educated about it. >> Um, and so I think that there is some there is a way to get through this period of time which is not forever where you have this feel these feelings these symptoms and you don't have to suffer. You can be validated. be supported and even if it doesn't mean a certain medication, but just efforts and being seen that this is what you're going through and how can we help you through that transition. That's a different experience than feeling like you're crazy or that you're making or you're dramat dramaticizing it. Like gosh, dramaticizing you're so hysterical. I always like to remind people also speaking of language, right, that the ancient Greek, right, word for uterus, right? hystericus like wandering uterus. Hysterical means wandering uterus. That's >> talk about punching in the face. Anyways, let's talk about how we do make people. So, I I think there's also I think it's wonderful, right? There's a lot of um more awareness. I think luckily hopefully a moment will turn into a norm, right? And just a convention of just of of of talking, educating, discussing um and um I think we'll talk about this also when we talk about menopause, but let's talk about it here. I mean so for symptom alleviation right I certainly have patients who are like I don't want to do anything is that okay so I want to reassure them but for people who do want to do something right before they're actually in menopause so before there's been 12 months without any period as we know um what what are you advising so we talked about lifestyle but just I guess um medically or you know >> yeah there's so much out there now so I think it depends on the symptoms but we have hormonal therapies that work very Well, and we also have a lot of non hormonal options. A lot. And there's more and more coming um for, you know, for these exact symptoms. And so, it's hard to tell, you know, there's not like one magic uh treatment, but there's a lot of options out there. And some of them are medications and some of them can be even therapies like cognitive behavioral therapy or um using uh acupuncture, acupressure, um using some supplements. Um there's a lot of different ways that we can be using uh western and eastern medications and uh I guess techniques to really synergize along with lifestyle and so it's not just one thing. Yeah. Holistic approach. >> Holistic it has to do that and it and it really is the there is not just a one silver bullet as you mentioned. Even if someone does for example use uh hormones which do address a lot of things for a lot of people it's still not necessarily addressing everything and so one might still need to do these other modalities and these other things to holistically approach what's affecting their life >> actually to that point right like uh I always tell patients you know look the reason why you feel these things are because estrogen is fluctuating estrogen is declining however giving back bioididentical estrogen looking exactly the same but still made from a plant biioidentical doesn't fix everything. Yes, it will help a lot of the symptoms but it doesn't fix everything, right? It doesn't build muscle. It doesn't, you know, make your skin magically the same. >> You're not going to feel, >> right? And you're describing creating a realistic expectation patients. We haven't really done that so well in in medicine and healthcare for lots of things, especially this transition. It sometimes seems like if I take this medicine that you gave me, it's just going to be magic and I'm gonna wake up and feel like my old self the next day. And sometimes people describe that, but that's not necessarily everyone. So, I think realizing what factors um are also important and that you might have to being comfortable with with changing. But you're reminding me too, too, right? I mean, this is we're talking about a time period pmenopause. I mean, maybe starts around what age? I mean the average is about 45 to 50 but you know some people go through it as early as in their 30s some people go through as late as or 50 mid50s. >> So it could be a 10year right change and also then your symptoms might change as well. So >> some therapies right I'm guessing might work for certain symptoms at certain points of time but that's why it's so important to have this ongoing dialogue right in conversation with your provider because then later it could be sleep right or anxiety or brain foggess. So I'm guessing I mean it's about having that constant evaluation and review. >> Yeah, it's really important to kind of first of all gather the information from the person as to like what are all the different things that you're feeling um and sort of assessing all the different parts of their them their whole body their whole person as they are now. Also, you know, I will just mention that we are wanting them to feel better, but we do also know that there are some potential increased risks that do occur when we lose that estrogen for some people chronic for different chronic conditions. And so, we want to be evaluating for that and kind of knowing, hey, what is their genetics? What are the genetic factors? What are their lifestyle factors? What are their health factors that are unique to them um that we want to address at those times? And we need to keep addressing them every year. I mean it's not something that we don't just like give hormone therapy and say go off. All right. No. No. Because first of all, we all know hormone therapy has some risk. Um and those risks change, right? It's not static. >> Yes. Because we're not static. >> Um can you break down though a little bit of what those risks are? >> Yeah. Yeah. So um for most people right uh in the when they're using hormone therapy in the early parts of menopause pmenopause and for the average risk patient who doesn't have a high risk for breast cancer in general we say you know for breast cancer the risk actually is pretty much not increased for the first 5 years of using it. Now age increases risk of breast cancer and then after we get to about the four or five years of use and beyond that's when we start to see a little bit of rise in breast cancer risk and that of course just increases with years mostly because of age as well. Now for blood clots a little bit different that risk is immediate but it's a very low risk one in a thousand. So one out of every thousand people will get a blood clot. Now blood clots are not are scary and they definitely can be lethal. That's, you know, but so it's not something we don't want to be not talking about, but it is low risk when you think about it. >> Sure. Wait, so this one in a thousand for menop for replacement >> for menop hormone therapy >> compared to I'm just curious just if you know for um birth control oral contraceptives what's the risk >> another >> it's it's much it's under one it's probably about the same but it's the same no under one >> so very low and I think I think a higher >> and that's a higher during however younger >> yeah younger person maybe less medical um conditions >> yeah so a lot of it is in hangle just in and also just getting older Sure. But I just, you know, I will say that for most people who don't have established cardiac heart disease or cardiac disease, who don't have an elevated risk for breast cancer or don't have breast cancer, who don't have a risk for blood clots in general, it is considered pretty safe. Yes. And um and so I think that was something that people were not very comfortable with before. And um I know, you know, in the in the early 1900s, 1960s, 1940s, these were just, you know, given out like candy. And then right we had a 9/11 of sort of hormone therapy which was the WHI study which we learned a lot from but definitely not the right type of study to kind of tell us um about the risk of hormone therapy in younger people. Um and so the pendulum swung the complete other way and I was scared. >> Yeah. Everybody healthare providers were scared or anything like that. We were just taught don't don't really use them unless it's like absolutely necessary. Adas got scared and then that got perpetuated. And so yes, there are like you described some risks, but num numbers are hard when you're the person making the choice. You're the patient. Numbers one in a thousand, one in 500. Like how do you really um right conceptualize for yourself? And so sometimes uh trying to help a person make a choice really is it's about risk benefit for them individually. If my symptoms and my quality of life is such that a is it small, medium, large the risk, extra small like not even just the number, but if it's an extra small risk or at least a very small risk and my impact on my life is extra large because I can't sleep. I don't feel like myself. I I want to punch people in the face sometimes. I how how do I make that choice? Maybe that feels more worth it for them. But to somebody else who really hasn't noticed much difference when you say any number of risk even if it's extra small they might say oh well that doesn't >> that doesn't feel comfortable to me maybe they don't have any symptoms that are that bothersome and that's their own like algorithm their own meth and you can't we can't like form we can't create that formula and I think the values and the preferences of a person is really ultimately that shared decision-m that needs to happen at every single visit. uh we can give guided recommendations. However, I have plenty of patients who are high risk for breast cancer that you know what they hear me, they hear the risk that we have to give them the good information, right? We want to give them good information so they can make their own decisions because they are their own person and they have the power to do that and to tell us what they want to do and we have to support them. Um and so I don't think it's right for us to say you know what you are not a candidate for hormone therapy because you have breast cancer. I mean we can say look the risks are higher for recurrence. Um there are other alternative options here are the options but you know there are some things that are beneficial specifically to hormone therapy that some of these other options may not tackle every all of those things and they will weigh those things and decide and we are here to support them. That is all our job is. We make the recommendations, patient makes choices. >> It's so incredible and inspiring and refreshing though to hear you center the patient and the individual into the calculus of this decision. And again reminding it's not static like we can have this conversation now. In a year you might change your mind 6 months. Let's just keep having the dialogue. >> Your health might change. Who knows going to change >> your perspectives. Yeah. >> Yeah. Totally. Um it's uh I'm really also just interested because I just feel if I feel lucky speaking with the two of you, I can't imagine how lucky your patients feel. So I am interested, you know, um in sort of luck and accident of birth and access to this incredible information, not you know, let alone approach um how it impacts health outcomes, how it affects just how we um approach our own health. I'm curious kind of when it comes to, you know, pmenopause and menopause, how does access to um information and also misinformation um affect uh a woman's experience throughout this? How can we kind of address this and and and make sure that we're as inclusive and as impos, you know, as possible in getting this information out um especially good information. >> Well, you're doing a great job right here. Yeah. >> Um I would say kudos to that. I mean, I think that there it is such a tough time actually because um there is so much information out there and um you know there are celebrity doctors out there, there are celebrities out there and they're doing a great job at like helping to promote like public awareness like look let you don't need to silently suffer your health matters. These are really key. This is key. But there's a lot of other things around misinformation that you know patients are trying to figure out like well what do I read? Is this is this is this the right book to read? Is this the right, you know, um Instagram to follow? Is this the right information online to be looking at? And so it I I don't have a great solution for that because the problem but I think we're we're moving towards good stuff. I think right now we have this exponential demand for care which I think is amazing and it's it's like gosh menopause is not new but somehow it sort of feels new but it's not new, right? And um now it's really coming to a forefront where people are like I'm not suffering anymore. I demand good care and that's great. >> Excellent. >> Problem is that we have a sort of a supply demand mismatch in the sense that we as the medical providers have gone through training. I received one lecture on menopause. >> Same. And even current training OBGYn residents that are going to be your future OB/GYN doctors that you'll go to um they get very little training about menopause. So even they may be well-intentioned, ready to hear and listen and validate but might not have much experience or knowledge to be able to Yeah. So we're trying to change that. >> Gen X, we're counting on you. >> Yes. A lot of things. >> Yes, we definitely have to work to change the medical curriculum that the So okay, there's one approach is let's work from the bottom up and like make sure the nextG >> has all the right information. not fearful of hormone therapy, not fearful obser primary doctors, family medicine doctors who are caring for women. >> Absolutely. I mean in there was actually a study out of um Mayo in 2019 that surveyed all the residents coming out of like primary care and OBGYn and you would not believe what do you think the percent is of uh providers coming out saying I'm ready to tackle menopause and care for menopause patients? >> 2. >> Okay. It was like 8%. It was pretty sad. It was really sad. And there's an updated version of that and I think it's like 20 something% something like that. So look, that is one big thing we need to work on and that but that's going to take time. It should be as ubiquitous as high blood pressure. Yes. Right. When you experience it yourself like either that's maybe being uh having birth, you you are more of an expert in having a birth. If you go through pmenopause, menopause, you are more of an expert. Maybe you care more. That might even be what brought me to care more about it as a doctor. But you don't have to have experienced something to be able to care for a person in it. Like you can take care of a person who has different medical conditions, autoimmune disorders, and never have experienced them and still be a good doctor. So we can change our curriculum so that you don't have to have experienced it to then be motivated to care about your patients experience. >> Absolutely. >> I think the second issue is that in order to meet this demand, we have to work to educate the current workforce as it exists today. And right now, you know, it really takes a doctor's time and dime to go learn about this. >> And so that is a problem, right? Like, so we have to start to educate all of the people who are getting this extra training or going and using their dime and time. Our job is to now help get everybody else up to speed because our patients deserve that and they do need to have good information and they want we want evidence-based practice, right? So um we as an institution it's our job to work towards these things so that um the good information gets out there that it's and that other institutions are doing the same thing so that that's what's really superseding the kind of things that people are hearing about you know online um and so I it is hard right now and I don't think I can bubble you know kind of wrap that I think that it's going to take some time but it is going to change >> and we have to have continued dialogue with our patients nobody lives in a bubble People are on the internet, on Tic Tac, Tik Tok, on Instagram. They're reading books that some are great, some are maybe not as good. So have a dialogue and ask, "Well, what what information have you been looking at so we can talk about it and not pretend like you are the end all beall of information to download to your patient?" They're going to get information from everywhere. Let's talk about it. Let's help de, you know, debunk some that maybe you heard. And maybe let me clarify that for you a little bit. Uh so that that dialogue and relationship has to change in healthcare with healthcare providers >> and you know we're talking about the you know our medical colleagues but I mean this is the opportunity too and this kind of goes to the reframing right or just kind of owning and then perpetuating a narrative right I mean the power of stories telling each other stories I mean I only remember things if someone's telling me a story right but there's also like our conversations between friends right family members so the more information that we get out and then share right then we talk to each other. We can educate each other once we, you know, once we have that great information. >> I know people like to share, especially women, they love to talk, >> but then you listen. >> Yeah. You listen in a different way often, >> but sometimes you need permission to share. Yeah. It's okay that it's not something that you need to sort of quietly hide because no one else is experiencing or maybe no one else is having your experience. Permission that it's something okay to talk about and to um maybe share your experience, validate each other. Mhm. And I and and again, it doesn't have to be this like proverbial kitchen wisdom, right? So, I mean, what what I mean, do your patients ever come in with their partners, spouses, friends. I mean, what can we tell partners, families, again, our kids um to how to support, you know, us? I I like I will tell you that it's pretty uncommon that a partner comes in. I love it when they do and I thank them for being there because I said you are going to learn a lot and you're going to be able to help support your the person you care about. You're obviously here because you care so much about this person who's not doing well for whatever reason or wants to you to understand what's going on. So, I thank them and I wish that more more times that people would bring their their friends, their partners, their support so that they know how to help them. And um you know going back to your point about like community and really having power and sort of being the sharing you know we did this whole it's called centering menopause and it was really this idea of bringing a cohort of 10 people who are going through parmenopause menopause together >> and just talking week by week with specialists and us w with each other about their experiences and talking about different topics and it was so empowering for powerful for me. It was not just like um we brought a group of friends in who already knew each other. We brought 10 people together who had never met each other before. And by the end of their 10 visits, they were really medical visits, but that we that were curated and edited to to really educate them and um allow them to share. And by the end of the 10 sessions, like they were so comfortable. The things that they shared in these in a very safe supported space and were able to validate each other, learn from one another's experience >> was it was amazing. It's nothing that we could do in a medical visit. >> Is that amazing? And I I'm sure the retention is so high. >> We did very little. We did a little talking. Yes. Majority of the time the patients were doing the talking. The experts would come um to share a little bit of information about their particular expertise and topic. Yeah. But the a lot of the talking was from the patients and their reflections or their their questions were amazing. >> I mean, it's just this is what I feel so passionate about. Education shouldn't be this privilege, right? Like we should all be able to be experts about our own >> um bodies. Okay, we're going to move to um one of my favorite segments asking for a friend. Sometimes I don't even see this questions before. [laughter] Um, so here here's one, um, which is I hate my husband and I'm rethinking every choice I've made. Is this a midlife crisis and awaking penmenopause or all three? >> I mean, that's a loaded question. I know there's a lot there. I mean, I definitely think look, it's I think we >> really have to understand, you know, there could be situations around that, right, that have nothing to do with maybe the the the hormonal changes that might be happening. Yes. Um but yes there may be an element of hormone change that is happening right because uh a lot of times it comes down to how they're responding and reacting their mood and their stability of their mood a lot of times and sort of their coping mechanisms that are that are no longer kind of the same and that happens because the neurotransmitters in the brain are actually somewhat destabilized when these fluctuations of hormones are going on. So number one, it's like, okay, >> you know, the making sure it's not other factors, but like if that's the case, look, this is why it's happening. You're um you're not feeling as stable because of this. The good thing is this is a little blip. It's not going to be like this forever. It is going to go away. Your hormones are actually going to be stable in menopause um later, you know, but during this time frame, you don't have to suffer. And that there's ways that we can kind of stabilize these neurotransmitters. Some of that could be through therapy. Some of it can be through medication. Um, and honestly just to know that there's something that they can do and that they're not going crazy and that like they're not having a midlife crisis. Um, it is actually there's a reason for why suddenly there's been a shift. >> I would say holistic approach again because this as we've described this phase in someone's life is often a time of great transitions. Transitions in one one's career, transitions in their family life as you described in your home. Are children getting older? or are they leaving? Is your job changing or your stress is changing? So, all of those factors might make you all of a sudden feel like this relationship that perhaps worked before isn't working as well. And yes, uh hormones might make that person feel like they can cope in the way they were able to cope, but still that same holistic approach. What's happening in my life? What are these feelings that are happening um and going on in in me? reflecting, paying attention, other approaches to work on stressors and just understand what's happening. Yeah, I was just going to say communicating with the partner, >> right? You're communicating with us, the providers now, and thank you for this question. And also, communicate, you know, with your partners and your families, but you're not crazy. >> No crazy. >> And you're not going crazy. >> No, >> I love saying to my patients um when I'm acknowledging that they're suffering, I know you can feel better. >> Yeah. You know, it just that's like the one thing I was one of my favorite things to feel as a doctor is that I >> Absolutely. Yeah. And I I think that it there's power in knowing that this is like this is not a permanent there's nothing wrong with you. Like you didn't do anything wrong. >> Yeah. You didn't do anything wrong and there's nothing wrong with you. >> No. The rules changed in your body and you're not broken. Yeah. You're not broken. So you now it's like just trying to figure out, okay, what does my body need now? How can I still optimize how my body's working? So less of like fixing but more just optimizing as your body's changing. Hormones are changing. Life is changing. How do you optimize? >> How do we optimize your mood? How do we optimize your sleep? How do we let's make sure we're knowing what we're putting in our diet when we're bodies. You know, what are we doing to make us make ourselves feel good? What are the things that make us feel good actually? Right. Like sometimes people don't you have to actually stop and really reflect. Some people haven't had a chance to know that. >> Yeah. And you should be constantly interrogating yourself, right? That's not a static question. Um, okay. Before we go and then before we move on to part two and three of this amazing series, um, any just takeaways though around Perry Menopause just from either of you, things you really just want our listeners to take away? I mean, there's been nothing but gold kernels of this entire conversation, but anything that kind of sticks out on you that you'd want I just want people to remember know that number one, if you if you feel like your body is changing, if you feel like you're changing, something's not feeling balanced for yourself right now, definitely start to journal, start to think about what's happening so you have even more data to think about and also bring up with your doctor. Don't suffer like don't know need to suffer. Um, but also just like re I really think for me it's like this idea that we can celebrate this new transition. It's may not feel like a celebration at this moment, but like it can be an opportunity to focus on yourself when you maybe have just been focusing on a lot of other things and now we can just say, you know what, my body needs this. I want this. I want to focus on myself and do the things that are going to make me feel good. Um, and so it's just like a a an opportunity, a growth, a celebration. >> Love it. >> I agree 100% with that. Like just having a different perspective that can be a little bit more positive and really gratitude for your I mean, if you're at this point in life, your body has worked really hard for you for a very long time in lots of different ways. And so being grateful that you're even in this phase and grateful to your body for supporting you all these years and you're going to keep taking care of it. >> You guys are the best. I can't I thank you from the bottom of my heart um for being here today. Thank you for kicking off this forum with such wisdom, such warmth. Um these same amazing doctors will be joining us for part two and part three for menopause 101. Um everything you need to know and more and sexual health after 40ish. Um and for our listeners, I mean, you've heard these amazing amazing physicians and people. Um so let's keep these conversations going. Let's reframe. Let's break stigmas. Um and let's empower each other with I think so much knowledge and compassion. [music] Also, let's be intentional about our language. Um, and we'll see you next time. Thank you guys. >> Thank you.