Hi, I'm Dr. Masha Livitz. I'm Michael Yay. We are endocrine surgeons here at UCLA and today we will be discussing thyroid nodules, advanced diagnostic techniques and we will be focusing large part on molecular or genetic testing for thyroid nodules. Please ask any questions you have on Twitter using UCLA MD chat or comment on YouTube and we'll take your questions at the end. So just as a brief overview, thyroid nodules are very very common. They're present in about 30% of people. Um most of them are found asymptomatically. It may just be that you feel a lump in your neck or you go to see a new primary care doctor who feels a lump or a nodule in your neck or it may be that you get an an imaging study like an ultrasound to evaluate your corateed artery and incidentally we see that you have a thyroid nodule that was not causing any symptoms before. Thyroid nodules are more common in women than in men. So if you look over here in women, up to 75% of women will have a thyroid nodule. Up to 40% uh of men will have a thyroid nodule. Most thyroid nodules are benign. So that's a very important point because it's always concerning or worrisome if you do detect a new thyroid nodule. What is the chance of cancer? The chance of cancer is only about 5% in most thyroid nodules. The risk of cancer does increase with age. So how do we separate benign nodules from the minority of nodules that are malignant or cancerous? There are certain um sort of risk factors. For example, uh family members that also have thyroid cancer. There is a rare form of thyroid cancer called medelary thyroid cancer that is hereditary. But most thyroid cancers are actually not genetic or hereditary. Radiation exposure increases the risk of thyroid cancer. But we're talking about real radiation exposure like childhood treatment for like leukemia or lymphoma, not kind of the standard exposure from dental x-rays that we're all exposed to. Most thyroid tumors, nodules and cancers are painless. So even a thyroid cancer does not usually cause any pain um but may just have a lump there that you can feel. And if it gets to be really big, it may be pushing on the airway or the esophagus and cause some trouble with breathing or swallowing. Of course, we will all we will examine the neck and feel for the nodule. We want to know if it's growing rapidly. We do check the laboratory test to check the thyroid hormone levels, but there are no lab tests that will help us to determine whether there's thyroid cancer that's present. That's kind of another common question. Why was this not picked up in my laboratory testing? There are no ways to really detect thyroid cancer in laboratory testing before surgery. So the history, the exam, the laboratory test, none of those are really accurate to diagnose thyroid cancer. Yeah. So we're going to chat briefly about the overdiagnosis of thyroid nodules. Kind of a weird word, overdiagnosis. Could be could doctors and the medical uh establishment be finding too many things. Uh we do note that there's been a three-fold increase in thyroid cancer over the past several decades. Now, why is this? Well, we've seen uh almost no or minimal increases in thyroid cancer related deaths. So, does that mean we're just finding more and more thyroid cancers by imaging people and subjecting them to like overly aggressive ultrasound scrutiny? Are we discovering little thyroid nodules and little thyroid cancers that are best left untreated? You know, that's that's a big question right now uh and and debated somewhat. Do we have overdiagnosis or there is there some true increase in thyroid cancer? Well, this is a graph showing that is probably mostly overdiagnosis, right? So on the left hand panel here, maybe you could help me with your pointer, we see uh an increase in those two blue lines at the top. Uh those are papa, the light blue line is papillary thyroid carcinoma, papillary thyroid cancer, which is the slowest growing form of thyroid cancer. And here on the right, we see in orange that a lot of the growth is in the teeniest thyroid cancers, less than a centimeter. Most docs can't feel something like that. So it would have to be picked up on ultrasound. Are we doing too many ultrasounds? Uh so what you got from Dr. Livitz's introduction is treating thyroiders and thyroid cancers. We don't want to do too much. We don't want to do too little. It really has to be just right. Uh and as surgeons our we believe that our number one ethical duty uh to humanity maybe is to to help people avoid surgery if they can because you know yeah we also have to keep surgery safe but really the best thing to do if at all possible is to avoid surgery. So we spend a lot of time and effort doing that. Uh in other words over treatment is just as bad as under treatment. We want to find patients help patients to find that balance. Uh it's important you know we always hear hear that um in the United States we're spending too much money on health care you know more than other developed nations and part of this reason is over treatment uh providing unnecessary care sounds really strange but sometimes less care is better health if we can help a patient to safely avoid surgery that's less care but it's better for the patient so we try to do that whenever possible so how can we figure out out of all these thyroid nodules ules that we're detecting with increased imaging, which are the ones that are cancerous and which are the ones that we need to treat. So really the best way to detect whether a thyroid nodule is benign or cancerous is with the biopsy. And the first step is with the ultrasound. An ultrasound is highly accurate. There's no radiation exposure associated with it. It's non-invasive. Um it's cost-effective. And most patients really don't need any other imaging because the ultrasound is the best way to look at the thyroid, all the nodules there and the lymph nodes in the neck as well. Um, ideally we perform our own ultrasound in clinic. Um, so that if you were to need surgery, ideally the surgeon would perform their own ultrasound. There are certain factors that make us suspicious of thyroid cancer based on the ultrasound. So here's an ultrasound here. This is the thyroid cancer here. You can see that it's darker compared to the surrounding thyroid over here. That's that means it's hypoacoic. The margins are irregular here. It does not have smooth borders. And then you have these little bright white spots which are microalcifications. So those are the kind of things that we're looking at on the ultrasound to make make us suspicious that there's a thyroid cancer. And if we are suspicious and the next step is to do a thyroid biopsy or what's called a fine needle aspiration biopsy, which means we take this very small little needle here and then we just take a little sampling of some of the cells in the thyroid nodule. Now, there are over 500,000 thyroid biopsies performed just in the United States alone every year. And we want to avoid unnecessary biopsies of nodules that we know are already low risk and are very unlikely to be malignant. So, which ones are those? Nodules like this that are purely cystic. So, you can see it's completely black on the inside. It's filled with fluid. The chance of cancer is essentially zero. And those nodules do not require any biopsies. So we now have guidelines from the American Thyroid Association that help us to determine which nodules we need to biopsy based on their size and then how suspicious they look um on the ultrasound. So almost all nodules that are smaller than a centimeter do not require any biopsy and that's one of the first ways that we can avoid overt treatment of thyroid nodules and thyroid tumors. Great. So if you get a biopsy, what are the possible outcomes? And this is a conversation we always have with our patients. Before we do the biopsy, we discuss what are the potential ways this could lead us. Well, one category is non-diagnostic. It was a that's a technically failed biopsy where we didn't get enough cells and the pathologist, the person, the doctor looking at the slides can't tell anything. The next one is benign. That's our favorite. Most of these needle biopsies come back benign, meaning we're highly reassured that it's not cancerous and those people can almost always avoid surgery. indeterminate. That one means not sure. Okay, that happens about 1/4 of the time. And we're going to spend a little more time to uh discussing how do we handage how do we manage that sort of difficult gray zone of suspicious or indeterminate biopsies. Then there are some at the end suspicious for malignancy. Malignant means cancerous. Those last two categories were we're quite certain that it's cancer. Okay. One question we get pretty often is I had a thyroid nodule biopsied and they tell me it's cancer. Could it be wrong? Usually not. Don't don't bank on it. If it shows that there's cancer, almost always correct. Sometimes 99% correct. Okay, this is an example of a benign aspirate. And you see this very nice round nuclei. Looks very innocent. Those are potential outcomes of the biopsy. Uh and just so you know, it takes about in our system takes about a week to get the results. So there's a little bit of anxious waiting in the uh meantime. What do we do with that that gray zone that gray area the indeterminate biopsy the risk of cancer is is low but not it can't be ignored right 5 to 30% and traditionally prior to 2012 all these people with an indeterminate biopsy had surgery all of them because we didn't have anything better to offer than to go in there do the operation and get the whole block of tissue. All right. Some people often ask what's the difference between the biopsy, the needle biopsy, and doing the operation. The way to think of a needle biopsy is I'm peering into a keyhole through a keyhole into a room trying to figure out what's in that room. I only have a small view. When we take out the tissue block, we walk into the open the door, walk into the room, we see the whole thing. So only when we do the operation, do we have the true answer of what it is. This is an example of an indeterminate biopsy. All right, here's an example. So, this is a patient that we took care of a few years ago, a 78-year-old man who had a history of colon cancer. He had been treated for his colon cancer, had a PET scan to make sure that there was no recurrence of the colon cancer. That was all fine, but incidentally had a thyroid nodule over here that lit up on the PET scan that was 3 cm. He had no symptoms from this nodule, no risk factors for cancer. He had a biopsy and it came back in this indeterminate or gray uncertain category. Repeat biopsy again was uncertain. So at that point he surgery was recommended to him and this is what he said. When I had my colon cancer I had a colonoscopy. I had a biopsy. We knew that I had colon cancer and I was treated for it. But you're telling me that I need to have a diagnostic thyroid surgery to have half my thyroid removed. But the risk of thyroid cancer is only about 15%. Can't we do better than that? Such a great quote. Um and so this is really where molecular testing for thyroid nodules comes into play. Yeah. What is molecular testing? um we're looking at the genes inside of the cell and you probably heard Dr. Livid say at the beginning of the lecture today, our presentation today um about uh certain cancers that be can be carried along through families and you're going to hear us use the word genetic. Okay, so let me just take a minute. We know now that all cancers are genetic, right? But there are two types of genetic changes. One, germline or familial changes. That's what you get for your from your mom and dad. It's in every cell in your body. That's generally not what we're talking about. We're talking about somatic, also known as acquired mutations. As we age, little errors build up in individual cells, not in every cell in my body, just this area of my thyroid, which is growing abnormally. Okay? And changes in the DNA or the genetic blueprints of the cell can lead to downstream cancers. All right? So, most of the time when we talk use the term genetic from the for the next few slides, we're going to be talking about acquired mutations. We know that cancer cells have different genetic profiles comp compared to benign cells. And if a biopsy result is indeterminate that gray zone molecular testing looking at the genetic profile can help us refine the diagnosis. Give me more. Can we do better than oh there's a 5 to 30% chance. Can we get more clarity on these? That's the goal. And since 2012 the good news is there are evolving technologies that we really are improving. I think so. If the molecular test is benign, high-risisk mutations are absent and those people can safely avoid surgery today. That's the biggest change in thyroid uh nodule care for the last uh uh 7 years or so. If the molecular test is still suspicious, those people still go to surgery, right? So, the path is really only changed in this group, the molecular benign group. If it's still suspicious, they still go to surgery. uh it's important to talk about uh what are the principles of testing and what we really want in medicine in our lives is a perfect fire alarm that rings if and only if there is a fire. So let's imagine I have a fire alarm and I can turn up the sensitivity. So it detects any little whiff of smoke. If a guy smoking a cigarette two blocks away, it's going to ring. It's a very sensitive fire alarm. Now that fire alarm might have a lot of false positive. It might be ringing because somebody sneezed on it. That's not that useful. But if that alarm is silent, I sleep well. If that alarm is silent, there is no fire. Right? So that's one way to design a fire alarm. The other way is to turn the sensitivity down. Right? And then you have a different type of fire alarm which is silent most of the time. In fact, there could be a small fire and it won't wake you up. However, if it's ringing, you better get out of your pajamas and get out of the house, right? So there's another type of fire alarm which is very specific that each time it rings, you better run. but it might be silent inappropriately. Right? There's no such thing as a perfect fire alarm, but we're trying to get there. Okay? So again, uh the the in pictorial format, the very sensitive fire alarm rings every time there is a fire. And the very specific one is if it rings, you're darn sure there's a fire. Okay? Uh I know it can be a little bit confusing, uh but we'll come back to this and review it. Um the first molecular test we're going to talk about is the Affirma genomic sequencing classifier. And uh that just means they get the sequence of the RNA. RNA is a certain certain type of genetic material. And the sequence is what is the alphabet within that. Okay. Uh they subject it to a machine learning algorithm. Pretty complicated computational biology here. and it can reclassify 50 to 60% of indeterminate nodules as benign. Okay, so I just want to pause here and clarify remember a lot of nodules when the cytoathologist looks at the cells they can tell you benign or malignant. Often it's that gray zone that we need a little bit more help with. Okay, so it's that about 25% of indeterminate biopsies. So if you have a molecular benign result, the risk of cancer goes down to 4%. Safely avoid surgery. If it's a molecular suspicious result, the risk of cancer is 5050. Okay. So what type of fire alarm is this? It's the very sensitive fire alarm that if it's silent, you sleep well, but if it's ringing, there may be a fire and there may not. Hope you guys are with me. Okay, so this is a more sensitive alarm. But even when it's suspicious, these people when they go to surgery about half the time they have cancer and then there are half of people who in the end we discovered that they had surgery unnecessarily. But with this technology we're helping many more people avoid surgery than before. Half y so this is a rule out test. So a couple of examples. So um again let's say that the initial biopsy came back indeterminate here or in that gray zone uncertain and then the molecular test was done and the molecular test came back benign. Now the risk of cancer goes down to about 4% and this is what the report looks like and you can see that this nodule was 1.5 cm. That's not very large. So that nodule would be observed safely observed because this risk of cancer is fairly similar to if you had an initial biopsy and just had a benign biopsy result. So we can safely observe these nodules. However, otherwise again with an intermittent biopsy result now the molecular test comes back suspicious and they tell you that the risk of malignancy or risk of cancer here is about 50%. It will give you some information about the specific genetic information but it's limited. Um so some of the information here will be some specific mutations. It does have a classifier for that rare kind of hereditary medularary thyroid cancer. Um, so it has a couple of those specifics, but mainly will tell you either benign or suspicious. And if suspicious, risk of cancer is about 50/50. Uh, the other test we're going to discuss, we're only going to discuss two of them today, uh, is thyrok V3. Okay? And this looks at five different classes of genetic alterations. It looks at DNA and RNA. How do I explain the difference? DNA is sort of like the the blueprints of the cell that are locked away in a vault. And the RNA is sort of the messages that come out of the nucleus. All right? So it looks at many different types of changes. It also has a uh machine learning component. We use computers for everything these days. Uh and it also helps to rule out cancer. So that's the good news about both of these tests. So these are um these two tests are the competitors. They're the two market leaders. And it's very likely that if you're if you're watching this and and you get a molecular test, it's probably going to be one of these two tests. So, we want to help you to interpret this and put it in context. The good news is both tests are really good at ruling out cancer. Both of them are very sensitive, right? And that's helpful because the goal here is to help people safely avoid surgery. In other words, sleep well at night when the fire alarm is not ringing. So some examples again if you had an indeterminate biopsy results and then you had the molecular test with thyro seek um if the test comes back negative that means that there are no high-risisk mutations in these different categories here and the chance of cancer goes down very low to about 3% can usually safely observe those nodules however if the if it comes back positive thyro seek will usually tell you the specific mutation that was identified so in this case there's mutation in BFF B600 E this is a common driver mutation and associated with papillary thyroid cancer that that's the most common type of thyroid cancer that we identify. So if you find this BFF mutation you know there's an essentially you know here it says 99% chance of thyroid cancer. Not all mutations are associated with such a high risk of cancer. So, thyrose seek also overall the chance of cancer with a with a positive or suspicious mutations probably about 50 to 60%. But it will tell you a little bit more information on the specific mutation that's present. And here's just sort of a peoplegram uh showing that how molecular testing can avoid unnecessary surgery. So on your left before molecular markers before 2012 if you had an indeterminate biopsy remember 25% of biopsies returned indeterminate everybody went to surgery in 25% of those cases we found cancer in 75% it was benign all the green men and women there and they turned out not to have needed surgery at all. So this is today. All right. So you have an indeterminate biopsy. You undergo molecular testing. Uh half of people went into the benign category and avoided surgery. The likelihood of cancer is really low. Less than 5%. And you know some of you may be thinking, "Oh geez, but there's still a small chance." Yeah. Remember, there's no perfect test in medicine. No perfect test, right? And so less than 5% is about as good as it gets. and and we that that's the threshold for us to sleep well at night that we're taking good care of our patients. Are some of those people going to end up having cancer because of a false negative test? Some it's rare, but I want everybody to know that just because of you have a negative test doesn't mean you disappear. We still need to follow you, right? We know there's a false negative rate. Those people that get ultrasounds will make sure it doesn't grow. And so there's always a safety net. For those with suspicious results, they have surgery and half and half are cancer. Not perfect, right? Because the green folks here still had unnecessary surgery. But look how much better doing we're doing than in 2012. Much much better. This is progress. So the UCLA experience with molecular testing. We started using molecular testing um over here in uh around 2012, which is when the first molecular test really became commercially available. That was the Affirma test. You can see that before we had molecular testing if uh the chance of having cancer found on our thyroid surgeries was about one-third. So about one-third of people when they had uh surgery it was for for a cancer reason. Once we started using molecular testing that went up to about 50 to 60%. And this is what we want to see. We want to be doing surgery for patients who really need it who have thyroid cancers. And most of the people with benign nodules we want to not do surgery on those people. we can accurately diagnose them ahead of time. So the malignant yield um of our thyroid surgery has increased with molecular testing doing more cancers uh more surgeries for cancers. So our current practice at UCLA and we are a very integrated system. So we have endocrinologists out in the community. We have radiologists and we really have kind of the same practice for almost all of our sites. Um all patients will have a thyroid biopsy done throughout the UCLA health system. At the time of the thyroid biopsy, we reserve an additional sample for the molecular testing. That way, if the results are benign, we already know it's benign. We don't need the molecular testing. If it's suspicious for cancer or cancerous, again, we don't need the molecular testing. But if it's in this indeterminate or gray uncertain category, we already have that sample for the molecular test. So, you don't need to come back and get it done again. And we do it that way throughout the UCLA system. And the molecular tests that we use are the two that Dr. described either the Affirm GSC or the Thyk V3 which are the most up-to-date current versions of these two commercially available molecular tests and the reasons that we use these are that these are the two that have the most data behind them to really show what the performance is in peerreview journals so that we we believe them. Okay. Um and we've been have been studying these two molecular tests at our institution for the past several years. We have been doing a randomized study comparing these two molecular test uh technologies and the management of indeterminate thyroid nodules so that we can figure out which test has the best performance for our patients. So you can see here um we had about 150 thyroid nodules that had that indeterminate biopsy results but half had the thyroseek molecular test but half had the affirm GC molecular test. So I'll start down here with the affirma test and you can see that about you know 40% or so had a benign molecular test. So those were patients that before would have had surgery but on the basis of a benign molecular test went to just observation. Then about 50% had a suspicious firm molecular test. Those patients went on to surgery and about 40% of them truly had cancer. So the the positive predictive value or the chance of having cancer when you had a positive molecular test was about 40%. Now with the other molecular test or thyroseek about 75% ended up having a negative molecular test and those are patients who all avoided surgery on the basis of a negative molecular test. About 20% had a suspicious molecular test or a mutation that was identified and almost 60% of them truly had cancer. So we can see here is how many patients first of all were able to avoid surgery on the basis of a negative molecular test and also the difference that we're trying to see is one test better than another was thyro seek perhaps a little bit more predictive or specific compared to the affirm test. Now what we don't know is could there be some cancers missing in this category right? So the patients who had a negative molecular test could some of them actually have a cancer and it just wasn't picked up on the molecular test. So we have ongoing surveillance for these patients patients are all having yearly ultrasounds so that if we are missing any small thyroid cancers we should detect them during surveillance. If I could just chime in real quick. So here I just want to point out that if you look at where the people sort out here, you might say, "Oh, I'd rather have the thyroid test, right? Because there's it's going to have a greater probability of helping me to avoid surgery." I want to mention this is incredible research by Dr. Livitz. These are these both of these tests have now been replaced, right, by newer generation tests, both of which are incrementally better. So uh but this is just an example of how we analyze these things. Now, if you uh I just also want to touch on a point you mentioned before, which is UCLA Health is a big system. We we stretch over some 4,000 miles. We have a bunch of different centers and no matter where you go within UCLA Health, this will apply to you. You have the same level of care. We don't tolerate any heterogeneity or differences in the style of care. We want you to get the same high quality. Uh so this is going to happen no matter where you go within UCLA Health. Right. And uh we and our randomized study is ongoing. So we are now doing the same type of study in the current iterations or the current versions of the molecular tests which are the from a GSC and a thyroc B3 that Dr. Yay discussed and we've been doing that study for the past couple of years and we will be presenting our results and publishing them in the upcoming year or so um so that we know which test we want to use for our institution. Okay. So this is another very exciting sort of area about molecular testing for prognosis that is really looking into the future. Great. Uh, I just want to wrap up. You may ask, how is it determined which if I go in for a biopsy tomorrow, how am I going to determine how we going to choose which one to get? It's a coin toss. Uh, and I want to reassure you that the reason it's a coin toss is we honestly don't know which one is better. And as best as we can tell, they both work pretty well. So, so, uh, please don't, um, get too anxious about which one. They're both good tests. Uh, so now we're going to switch gears and talk about prognostication. What's the difference? So, up until this point uh during our presentation today, we've been talking about the diagnosis. Is it cancer or is it benign? Prognosis means, okay, I know I've got cancer. How bad is it? Is it going to be a slowgoing cancer that we're going to take care of with one simple operation in a day, or is it going to be a longer battle against a more aggressive type of cancer which is going to need several different types of treatments? So um this is kind of the the future I think of molecular testing is uh we will peer into the genetic profile of the cancer and it'll let us know depending on the mutation status and here it's a it's a mutation called tur uh or the tur promoter uh and it shows that if this gene is normal people survive a long time. Most people with thyroid cancer live full lives, right? It's only the minority, 10% or less, who are going to have their lives significantly shortened by thyroid cancer. But we're starting to understand that it's those people with the Tur mutation, sometimes multiple mutations, TUR and that BFF mutation that you heard about before. If there are multiple errors in the genetic blueprint, those are the cancers that are more aggressive. It's like a train that brakes whose brakes are slowly stop ceasing to work and it rolls faster and faster downhill. Um, yeah, go ahead. So, right now this is how we sort of think about thyroid cancer and how we determine the treatment and the prognosis. Most thyron nodules will be in this lowrisk category. There will be small thyroid tumors that are confined to being within the thyroid, have no lymph nodes that are involved, or just microscopically positive lymph nodes, tiny little tumor deposits in the lymph nodes that probably don't affect the prognosis very much. Um, and then the more aggressive cancers are ones that are over 4 cm, have invasion into the the blood vessels, into the surrounding structures, have large bulky lymph node metastases. But at some point it may be that the molecular signature is just as important as these other characteristics that I talked about. Knowing the specific mutations that are driving the thyroid cancers may actually tell us just as much if not more about the prognosis. Um so just as some examples thyroid nodules that have these RAS mutations, most of them are not very aggressive. They may either be benign or lowrisisk thyroid tumors. But these combination mutations, this TR mutation was the one that was on the previous slide, especially when combined with other mutations, really confer a much more aggressive sort of prognosis with cancers that tend to recur or may even shorten one's life. So, as of now, we really don't have this information on most thyroid cancers. We are doing molecular testing for patients with indeterminate thyron nodules, thyron nodules that we're not sure if they're benign or cancer, and we're trying to figure that out for diagnostic purposes. But it may be over time that we're getting it more for these prognostic purposes to help us determine how aggressive a particular thyroid cancer may be and that may impact our treatment, how aggressive the treatment should be. Uh this is one of our favorite quotes, make the punishment fit the crime. So um if somebody has a a benign thyroid nodule, let's avoid surgery, right? But the remember most of them are benign. The base probability malignancy in the general population is 4 to 10%. uh how do we reduce harm to patients through excessive poking and proddding and surgery? Well, only biopsy the ones that you really think need biopsy, right? So, a lot of them, I'd say most of the thyroid nodules we're seeing in the office, we just choose not to biopsy because the ultrasound appearance is so reassuring, right? That's a way to uh avoid overt treatment. If you have Bethesda 3 and 4, that's another word for indeterminate. We can help some patients avoid surgery by doing molecular testing. If it's still suspicious after molecular testing, well, those people still do need surgery. And then based on the ultrasound features and the molecular testing, we can customize an operation to fit it best for that particular patient. And we've had one or two patients come in where the molecular uh testing changed what we were going to do. Right? We had some people come in with a a nodule that didn't look so bad on ultrasound but had those two mutations at the same time and then you know we got the guns out. You know we we we got to be prepared for a tough tough battle and several of those people did. It came true that they had severe cancers and we're helping them to fight right now. So in summary, what we really want to do is provide the right amount of care, not too much, not too little. um that comes with first determining which nodules really need to be biopsied. We didn't really discuss this, but small lowrisk thyroid cancers can just be actually observed just like some prostate cancers. That's called active surveillance. That's sort of evolving in the field. Um that can be for cancers smaller than than a centimeter. Extensive surgery, we didn't talk about today, but we're, you know, really discussing uh can we do less surgery if we do need to operate just remove half of the thyroid? Do we really need to remove the entire thyroid? Which patients actually need further treatment like radioactive iodine? Um, and then the molecular testing for the indeterminant nodules to really help us avoid unnecessary surgery and potentially in the future to help us with prognosis, guiding treatment and predicting the biological behavior um of the cancers. And then underlying all of this is really the imaging for for thyroid nodules and ultrasound which we rely on so so heavily to help us with di diagnosis determining which nodules need to be biopsied and helping us to plan any kind of surgical treatment. So thank you so much. Um we'd be happy to take any questions now. Oh we got some questions. Okay maybe I'll have you start while she's warming up. I'm just going to mention that I hope you've understood from all of this an important concept that not all cancers are the same. Right? Some of them are really slow. Some of them uh like a a little prostate cancer or a tiny little thyroid cancer. The patients are more likely to die with the cancer than of the cancer. And next time our new partner, Dr. James Woo, is going to talk about when we can safely just observe small thyroid cancer. Stay tuned. Go ahead. Okay. So, how expensive is genetic testing and will my insurance cover it? Good question. I think you're probably more qualified to answer that than I am. Okay. So, um, actually the the companies that we talked about have made a lot of progress with the insurance companies. Um, and it the genetic testing is usually covered. Okay. Um, the test itself costs about $4,000, but it is usually covered by the insurance company. Um, both of the the testing technologies that we talked about do have an agreement so that if somehow it was denied by the insurance company, there's a maximum cash pay of about $300. So, they would never ask you to pay the three or $4,000. um that is the full price of the test that insurance usually covers. Um so it is a quite expensive test and that's one of the reasons that we really want to study it to make sure that is useful for our patients and is helpful, cost-effective for our patients but usually covered by insurance. Yeah, we haven't had any patients complain about undue out-of- pocket expenses. Um okay. What if the thyroid biopsy was benign but I still want the information from the genetic testing? Can I get that? Yeah, we get this question sometimes. Uh so remember I'm just going to review kind of the workflow. Okay. So once you get a biopsy, you wait uh a week for the cytoologist to look at the shape of the cells and things like that. And if they're very reassured that it's benign based on just the shape of the cells, we stop because the molecular testing is not going to increase our confidence. We are already very confident. You know, we do get asked, can you run the genetic testing anyway because they want extra reassurance. That's not the right thing to do. Um, I don't know how exactly to explain this, but remember these tests, all these molecular tests are run are developed through a machine learning algorithm. And it's and there's a there's a validation or what's called a derivation cohort, which means it's only tested on nodules that are indeterminate, right? So if we start to run that test on an incorrect population, you're you we really have no way of interpreting the results. Maybe you can explain that better. Right. We really just don't know what the results mean. Um if the cells already look benign based on the biopsy results and there is some kind of mutation present, but the cells look completely benign, that has never been studied to know uh how to put those things together. So, it really does not actually change the risk of cancer knowing that specific genetic information, right? Um, and it doesn't, you know, the other thing people ask is, I want to know that genetic information because that might impact the rest of my body. This is really just looking at the thyroid nodule and the chance of thyroid cancer in that nodule itself. It doesn't tell you anything about the rest of your body. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good question. I mean, I suppose if we get that question, we're going to get the other question, right? What if I have a known cancerous nodule? Can I also get the genetic testing? And the truth is sometimes we do that. Sometimes we do that kind of on the back end, right? More often what we might do is we we biopsy something, we do an initial operation as best we can for a cancerous nodule. And then if we find out later on the hystopathology the whole tissue block right after the surgery's over that it's an aggressive type of cancer then sometimes we'll send the molecular testing later to find us targets to treat with chemotherapy for for that top 10% of most aggressive cancers. So you can still get it afterward if you need it. But in most people with cancerous biopsies it's not going to add value. It's only a small percentage in which it's going to add value. Yeah. Yeah. Any more questions coming in? That's all for now. Yeah. Thank you so much for your attention and for your questions and we look forward to seeing you next time. Bye-bye.