 NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, penetrateziness, NICMA, Back to UCLA Health's podcast, Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. In today's episode, we're reflecting on the trust, resilience, and extraordinary partnerships that can form between healthcare teams and their families. The neonatal intensive care unit, also known as the NICU, is a place most families never expect to enter. It can be a place of uncertainty and fear, and it can also be a place of astonishing strength. And sometimes, sometimes, it becomes a place where lifelong bonds are formed, not just between parents and babies, but between the families and the teams that care for them. Today, we're joined by Brittany Ratner, a NICU nurse at UCLA Health for nearly 15 years, and Christy Bachrock, whose daughter, Charlie, began her life in the NICU. What began as medical care has become something much deeper, and their story is equal parts tender, real, and very hopeful. Brittany, Christy, welcome to Medically Speaking. Brittany, let's start with you. Tell us about you, what brought you to NICU nursing, and also what's kept you there now almost 15 years. Yeah. So, basically, ever since I was a baby myself, I have loved babies and other kids. I would, you know, I was one-year-old pointing at other babies in my stroller. So, when I decided I wanted to become a nurse, it was just like a natural path for me. I just knew that the NICU was going to be my place. I spent one day in the NICU in nursing school, and I was like, that's good enough. Yeah, that's where I'm going. So, I applied. I went to school in New York, applied to UCLA, got the job, and came out this direction. So, stayed ever since because it's really my passion. And pretty much every NICU nurse will tell you the same thing. We are there because we love it. We love the families. We love the babies. We love the bonds that we form. It's a special place. Oh, my gosh. What a calling. I'm so jealous. That's awesome. Christy, first of all, thank you so much for being here and also just sharing your family story with us. Tell us about yourself and also tell us about Charlie. Well, I'm Charlie's mom, and I work, and I take care of a five-year-old. Which is a lot. That's a lot. It's a 24-hour job. And I think that, as I said in the introduction, most people do not expect that they're going to be spending time in the NICU, certainly not as a baby, but when you're pregnant, right? You're not already anticipating most of the time that you're going to be a parent in the NICU. I think that often, too, even just the words NICU, neonatal intensive care unit, instantly I think people picture a crisis. I think why I want to hear more about Charlie, too, is because I think so much of your story, you even just described yourself as Charlie's mom, is about who she is and who she's become. So I'd love to hear just a little bit about her. Yeah. My pregnancy was super normal, and I was in complete denial when they were like, oh, you're going to have a baby early, and she's going to be in the NICU. And I was like, oh, no, I'm going back to work. I'm not having a baby right now. Did you even know what the NICU was? No, because I had no, I was like, oh, that's where they put sick babies. But I was like, my baby isn't sick. We're not going there. And that's where we ended up. And honestly, I was kind of thankful that we ended up there because we learned a lot. Let's break down, actually, what the NICU is. Because, I mean, not only would I have myself also been in denial, I would have also been like, I can't even picture it, to be honest. So, I mean, maybe, Brittany, you could give us maybe a little bit of a picture of what a NICU actually is. You know, for those of us who aren't as familiar, what exactly is a NICU? Absolutely, yeah. So, NICUs are at different levels. Level 4 is the highest level NICU. So, we take care at UCLA, Ronald Reagan, we're a level 4. So, we take care of basically anything that you could think of on the spectrum from prematurity, gastrointestinal defects, heart defects, genetic anomalies, anything, really, that baby could be born with that might need a little extra care. So, in the NICU, we have nurses who attend every high-risk delivery. So, we bring in babies from our own labor and delivery, and then we also take in transfers from other hospitals that maybe don't have the level of care that that baby needs. You said level 4, actually. I don't even know what that means. Oh, basically, we do total body cooling if needed. We do ECMO. I think that's what pushed us to the level 4. Breathing hearts and lung breathing machine. Yes. Okay. Okay. So, really, really that highest and most complex care. And I mean, I think this brings me to myself and probably many families. I think this isn't something most people are familiar with, let alone anything anyone plans for. Absolutely. It sounds like you had a little bit of a warning, or at least sort of an indication that you'd be spending time there. And so, I mean, I do think, you know, Brittany, for you, I mean, although, actually, Christy, I mean, you said denial. Did it just mean that, like, your whole world, like, shifted in, like, a day? Oh, I was, yeah. I was at work, and then later that day, Charlie was born. I was like, oh, no, she is not going to be born today. Like, I've decided this. Like, I plan to go out. It does not happen to me. Right. So, let alone, okay. So, first of all, you're like, wait, she was even born. And second, though, she went to the NICU. And I think for a lot of families, right, all of a sudden, they, like, find themselves, you know, in this very intense place. Yeah. It's definitely a shock for most families, I would say. There's a few who maybe we've known on scans that baby has a heart defect. So, it's a planned thing that we know baby's going to be coming to the NICU, and we're able to give the parents a tour. Oh, even before? Actually, while mom is still pregnant. But a lot of times, it's a surprise. Yeah. It happens like Christy's case where there's no indicators, and all of a sudden, the baby's coming early, and here you are, and the NICU is your new home temporarily. Yes. Yeah. So, it can be a very jarring and very scary, very shocking thing for families, for sure. Well, so that sounds, so it sounds like if you have a little bit of some time ahead, right, you'll do the orientation. Absolutely. What about for, you know, Christy and her family? I'm not sure what happened in your case, but usually what we do is if there is a little bit of time, we try to send one of our physicians over to give mom sort of like a briefing. Hopefully, that happened for you. I don't know if there was time. Yeah, it happened way too quick. Yeah. I don't know. There might have not been time. Take us through it if you don't mind. Yeah. I was at work, and I wasn't feeling well, and I was like, hmm, that's a weird day. And I told my boss, I was like, oh, I think I'm going to go home. I don't feel good. And he was like, okay, I'll see you tomorrow. And I left my desk a mess, and I was like, oh, I'll be back here tomorrow. I'll do it later. And I drove 15 minutes to my parents' house, and my water broke, and I was like, oh, this seems like a weird day. And my mom's like, you need to go to the hospital. I just have to ask, is this how you just like lead your whole life? Like, you're like, no. Something's weird about this day. A little bit. And I had called Labor and Delivery, and they're like, you need to come down here. And I was like, okay. So we drove down there, and we went up there, and then they were explaining, like, oh, we're going to give you medication, and we're going to try to slow down. Your water did break, but we're going to try to slow it down and keep you here. And I was like, well, I have to go to work tomorrow. So I have to go home. I have to ask, why do you think you were in such denial? Because I was like, my baby is not going to be morning today. This is too early for me. Oh, I see. I see. I am not prepared for this. I see. So there's like a real dissonance between what your expectations were. And they were like, the nurse was like, she was really nice. She was like, no, you're not leaving. Wow. And then. When did it start feeling real, then? I was having a lot of back pain. And they were like, okay, well, we're going to put you in a room. And they went to check me, and they were like, oh, no, you're having a baby right now. And Charlie was born. Is Charlie just like this now, too? She just does things on her own time. Yeah. Yeah. She makes her own plans. Yeah. I was going to say, it doesn't sound like she waits for you to be on board. She's like, we're doing this now. So tell us then a little bit, because what I know of when Charlie was born, right? You said five years ago. She's five now. As if things weren't difficult and unprecedented enough, you were there during COVID restrictions. Yes. Right? What did it mean to you to only be able to have one visitor at a time? It was weird, because I just planned that, oh, like my family would be able to see her. That we would be able, like I would go home with her and all this. I was already in denial that I wasn't taking her home. Right. And now we're in the NICU, and they're like, oh, only one person. And then I sat there all day, and I was like, felt like I was by myself. And I had my baby. And then I would go, and I'd switch with my mom, and my mom would come up. And then she'd be like, oh, Charlie did this, even though she just slept the whole time. But she did this while I was up there. And I was like, oh, I missed that. Oh, my gosh. I mean, that must have been so, so hard. But then I started talking to Brittany, and we were the same level of just weird. Yeah. And it worked out. Bond of weirdness. I mean, I can't say, I'm so excited to title this episode, The Same Level of Weird. I love it. And if I understand correctly, because we met before at a March of Dimes event, your mom met Brittany first. Yes. Correctly, probably because of these restrictions. Tell me about that. Yeah. So Carol tells a story to this day. Oh, good. That she met me in the NICU. I was assigned to Charlie for the day. And she, you know, of course, we're gabbing about whatever, Carol and I. You know, I'm talking to her about Charlie, telling her about how Charlie's day is going, how she's doing, giving her updates. And she left and went to go to Christy and said, you are going to love your nurse today. And then we love each other now. Yeah. She says, like, I knew from that moment, Carol always tells me, I knew from that moment you were going to be my family. And they have just adopted me into their family ever since. It's always felt like that since Charlie went home. And Charlie was at my wedding. We are truly, like, we're family. Wait, tell us more about that. That's amazing. Yeah. I mean, I think that, I mean, so did you know at that point that the connection already felt? I already knew, yeah. When Christy and Charlie were, like, you know, still in the NICU, I knew. Like, you have that sense. Like, we're going to be friends, right? Like, you know, you're like, can we still be friends? Like, we can still be friends, right? After this is over. So I gave her my phone number when she was discharged. And I think our first meeting was, like, a lunch on St. Patrick's Day. Yes. You made me lunch. Because it was Charlie's due date. And you had a newborn. Oh, her actual due date was St. Patrick's Day? Yeah. I love it. Shouldn't have let the poor new mom make me food. Right. I was like, go for it. What was I thinking? Nice, Brittany. Brittany's like, sure, I'm coming. I really like sushi. Horrible. Looking back. Now that I'm a mom, I'm like, ooh, bad choice, Brittany. Now we are happy to have you. Thank you. That is so great. Do you remember meeting Brittany, too, after your mom had told? Yeah. She came down. I was in the cafeteria. And she goes, wait, you meet Brittany. And I'm like, who is Brittany? Right. And she goes, Charlie's nurse. Like, she's going to be one of our family. Oh, my God. And I was like, okay. And I get up there. And I think you were holding Charlie. And you're like, oh, I got Charlie. And you were talking. And then I like, because I used to call Charlie chicken nugget. And I accidentally called her chicken nugget. And she goes, she is a chicken nugget. And then that's what we just called her. I love it. On her ID band is a chicken nugget. Pretty much. Yeah. I love it. Do you remember, like, kind of, especially, I mean, you seem very chill, at least in describing it, you know, retrospectively. But I would imagine things were stressful. Do you remember, like, what it was about Brittany or that kind of just made you feel, you know, more at ease or made this process in the NICU, like, more bearable? It was very hard to leave my baby, like, every day, even if I went to, like, go to the bathroom. And I don't know, like, just talking to Brittany and, like, you know when you feel a connection with somebody that you're like, I trust you with my baby. Yeah. And, yeah. It just made it easier. Mm-hmm. My God, it's bringing, yeah, I mean, I can't imagine any greater trust, right? Or anything that you could be more grateful for. Yeah, yeah. Because I'd be like, Brittany has her so I can go home and come back the next day and I know that she'll be fine. That's amazing. I mean, um. That's why it's such a special place for all of us. Yeah. It's so special. Well, I mean, I'm getting the sense from you, too, that you're not like, oh, I'm just here for a shift. But you're like, no, no, I'm in this, we're in this together to take care of Charlie. I love the babies. You know, I do. I love all the babies that I care for. Most of the nurses, you know, pretty much all of us feel exactly that way. I love that. Yeah, we bond with them and we bond with the families. And I think that I, and it's good to hear from Christy, too, you know, that it really does help them. Yeah, I mean, and there's this human, you know, obviously this like amazing, like just, you know, human connection. Mm-hmm. But it also sounds like kind of from the health system level from this, like there's this care model in the NICU itself that I think surprises most people to know. It's, it's beyond the nurses and the physicians. Like, I mean, what's the sort of team approach to caring for all the babies and supporting families? Yeah. Because I think what's even more reassuring is that you're telling me like you're like this and you're amazing, but it sounds like your colleagues are. Oh, yeah. You know, like, like this, too. Yeah, I'm nothing special. We're all like that. No, you're very special. Thank you, but very special. We're all like that. And we do try to do family-centered care, family-centered rounds. Of course, Christy's experience was a little different because of COVID. It was a terrible time for all of us. But we do try and involve families in the rounds every day. The physicians come to the bedside. We talk about baby's plan of care. Parents are, of course, welcome to ask any questions that they have, any suggestions that they have. Because the parents know the baby the best. 100% of the time, they know the baby the best. So we'd like to take their suggestions. We have a full, like, multidisciplinary team. We have music therapy. We have physical therapy, occupational therapy. We have child life specialists, social workers. Anything you could really think of that you might need while you're there, we're there to help on any level that we can. That's incredible. I mean, I don't know how you felt, but I mean, there's a lot of when you or your loved one is in the hospital, your sweet baby. That is, quote, medical. But there's so much else that goes into, right? Caring for your baby. What was your impression of, you know, it's very medical of us to say, like, multidisciplinary rounds, right? But it means all the time. No, no, no. I mean, but it, you know, what did that feel like to you? It was, because it was scary, like, seeing your baby in there. But then, like, I would sit there all day and the occupational therapist would come be, oh, we're going to do this with Charlie. Do you want to help? And I felt like I was very involved. And they're like, oh, will you be around at this time? We can come back and do this with Charlie. Or, like, the musical therapist would come and they'd, oh, do you, what kind of music do you like to listen to? Maybe we can do something that, like, Charlie would listen to at home. Or, like, they would already have done rounds if I had gotten there. And they would be like, oh, we knew you were coming, so we're going to come do the rounds so you know that Charlie grew three, or drank three cc's or something. Even though it wasn't, like, a big deal, but it was, I felt like I was included because I knew what was going on. Wait, that's incredible. But so that really is, though, the kind of standard of care that happens in the NICU. Absolutely. I don't think, I mean, I didn't realize that. That's incredible. And so, obviously, then, during a difficult time, you feel like you're part of it and you have agency and that you and Charlie are the most important. Yeah, we were included. Like, I felt like I was included on this weird outside world. Right. Which is exactly what it felt like, right? This weird world. We really want to empower, yeah, the parents. So great. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I always remind the parents. They'll say something to me like, oh, I'm in your way. You're absolutely not in my way. This is your space. This is your baby. I am in your way. So we want to empower them. You are the parent. Amazing. You know, you have full rights to this baby that you created. And we're just here to support you and help you in any way that we can. Amazing. How many weeks was Charlie in the NICU? She was there for 31 days. Oh, that's a long time. Yeah. Yeah. You, I've heard the term primary care nursing, you know, as part of this NICU, you know, care model. I know that you signed up to be part of Charlie's, right? Yep. On the first day I met her. Primary care team. Can you tell us what that means? Yeah. First day, she was running towards you. You just didn't know you. This one's real cute. I love that. This family is great. Yeah. I love it. So it's usually something that's sort of a mutual decision between the nurse and the family. So the nurse will sign up to be a primary for that baby, which means that typically whenever that nurse works, their shift, they will take care of that baby. So day shift, night shift, whatever that nurse usually works, there's better continuity of care. Yeah. So I think in this situation, it was just like a instant bond where we kind of knew like, oh, we're going to get along just fine. So I went ahead and signed up for Charlie's team and then I was able to care for her like almost every day that I worked. Oh my gosh. So again, that also then made you feel right. And I had other very amazing nurses and it, but it was nice to like walk in and be like, oh, Brittany's here today. Right. Right. And then that trust, right? Yes. When you couldn't be there every minute. Yeah. Because Charlie was there 31 days, but how many days were you an actual patient at the hospital? Uh, I was there for three days. My goodness. And then I had to leave. You need to leave. It feels really unnatural. Yeah. Right. And then drive home and then drive back. And drive back and then cry in the car and then come back. Yeah. I can imagine. Oh my gosh. Right. So having you there must have just been such a help. I hope it helped. It did. It did. And every time the phone rang, I was like, oh no, did something happen? Mm. But what happened most of the time then when the phone rang? Yeah. It was like an update. Yeah. There's this happened with Charlie, but she's going to be okay. Like, oh, okay. Right. Until Brittany finally called me. Oh, really? Really? You needed it to be Brittany. Wait, tell me about that date. Tell me about that moment. Please. Oh. Brittany called me. I was getting ready to go to the hospital and she's like, hey, did you leave yet? And I was like, oh no, I'm going to be heading soon. Well, you better grab the car seat. You're bringing the car seat. And I was like, what? And I didn't believe her. And I was like, I said a word that is not appropriate. I said, are you messing with me? And she goes, you know I'm not allowed to do that. I'm at work right now. And I was like, are you serious? And she's like, yeah. Like, Charlie's going to have her car seat test and if she passes, she gets to go home. Oh my God. Yeah. You just texted me about the anniversary of that. Like a couple of weeks ago. Oh really? So you still mark it as an anniversary? Because she went home that very next day. Oh my gosh. What day was that? It was her. She went, I got the call when Charlie was there for 30 days. Right. So her one month birthday. Yes. And then that next day she went home. So what's that actual date? It is February 20th. So it's like a marked in your calendar. Oh my gosh. And there's an anniversary to that day. They go home from the NICU day. Oh yeah. Because that was a big day. We got to go home that day. That's incredible. It was a huge day. How did it feel from your perspective? I mean, I just love, of course, to get to be the one to give good news. Who doesn't love to be that person? Right. So yeah. And then it's just so special. Like the other day when, of course, you know, sometimes these things slip your mind. And Christy texted me the other day about the anniversary. I'm like, you know what? That is so special. I'm so glad that I got to be a part of that. And I'm continuing to be a part of it. And I get to watch, like what an honor that I get to watch Charlie grow up. I mean, it's just incredible. You know? She is such a special person. Yeah. Yeah. She is just, she amazes me. Like every time I speak to her, she'll say something. And I'm like, how? You are five years old. Where did that come from? Did she say, I learned it in the NICU? Yeah. I mean, she used to talk about her NG tube. She talked about her isolate. Like as a very young baby, when she was learning to speak, she knew how to say all these things. Yeah. Yeah. I wanted her to know that she was special and that she came from something because she came from something so tiny. And she was, she is the bravest girl I know. So. And I love that too, though. I love that you are really making sure that this is part of her life story. Right? And then obviously then you're part of her life story and still are. Yeah. That's incredible. And she likes hearing about it, right? Oh, yeah. It's like where she came from. Yeah. I was like, and she goes like, she was like, oh, are you going to the hospital today? And I was like, no, we're not going to the hospital. Well, are the babies there? Yeah, the babies are there. And, you know, some nurse is going to be taking very good care of them. And so she wants to hear all about that. So it's very exciting for her. I wonder if she'll become a NICU nurse. Could be possible. Maybe. She's a very bright girl. Yeah. She sounds like it. Oh, my God. All right. That's just amazing. And I love hearing how the NICU model, how you involve the families in the care. I think a lot of our, I think all of us in health care, right? I mean, whether we're providers, whether we're patients ourselves, forget that you are the most important person. You, in your case, are the most important people here. You know, you and your baby. And so it matters what you think and what you feel. And what I also acknowledge, though, is that, like, when you're going through something hard, right, whether you don't feel good or your baby's, you know, in the NICU, it's hard to advocate yourself. You know, advocate and be, for me personally, I can't even say words now. Well, articulate, you know, kind of what you're feeling. And so it sounds like in Brittany and in this care team, you also have this, an advocate and a proxy for you when you couldn't be there every second. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And is that part of kind of how you see yourself, too? Absolutely. When you're at work. Yeah. As the, you know, the nursing team, we're the ones who are there 24 hours a day, you know, 12 hour shifts, but 24 hours a day covering the care of that baby. So we really communicate with the families, with the physicians, with the whole care team, letting them know, okay, what's happening moment by moment with each baby. So we do feel like we are the best advocates for the baby other than the parents. And, of course, we step in when the parents can't always be there. Mm-hmm. Yeah. How did you both stay connected after discharge? I mean, I'm sure that you were thrilled, by the way, to send Charlie home. I mean, I'd love to know, though, even from your perspective as a nurse and her primary kind of, you know, caretaker in what we say in-house, like, was there a little bit of, I mean, did you miss her? Of course. Yeah. Of course. I always miss the babies when we send them home after, like, a long stay. Yeah. So in this case, it's so special because, you know, I get to be a part of her life, you know? And, of course, that's not common or quote-unquote normal, but it does happen here and there. And I just feel so lucky for that. But a month, I'll just say this, a month in the NICU, like, just break this down for us, Christy. Like, how much did her weight change even just in those 30 days? A lot. Right. So she, like, grew. She grew. She was born at 3 pounds, 12 ounces. She went home at 5 pounds, 4 ounces. Yeah. She was a huge chicken nugget. She was a huge Costco nugget. Costco nugget by the time she went home. Right? But, I mean, so, but, I mean, you know what I mean? It's, like, sort of time compresses, but a month in the NICU is, like, a year, you know, somewhere else. Other people are, like, oh, it's only a month. But, like, it is a very long amount of time. Only a month? Yeah. It must have felt like a year, if not 10. Yeah. Right. But you really were a big part of, like, this first month slash year of her life. Yeah. And, yeah, like I said, I just feel so, I feel so lucky every time I get to go to work and do my job. So it just reminds me of, like, being a new grad and being so excited to get to do all these things and, you know, and to be almost 15 years later and still feel like that. Yeah. Not everyone gets to say that about their job. So I really am, like, so lucky to be where I'm at. I mean, I think we're all lucky, you know? So how did you stay, how did you decide to stay connected, though? I think I wrote Christy a note. I think I wrote her, like, a little letter. It's a little card. Yeah, I put my phone number in there and was like, you know, please reach out and, you know, keep me updated about Charlie. Yeah. And she did. And I was like, I think I texted you, like, a couple days later. I was like, I don't know if you remember us. How could I forget? Here's a picture of Charlie with the dogs. Oh, really? Meeting your dogs? Yes. Oh, how sweet. Because we had talked about, you know, life and pets and whatever. And, you know, I told her all about the dogs. It was all big animal people. Yeah. So I was like, here, here's a picture of Charlie. She loves life outside the NICU. Didn't you feel so connected to your – didn't you feel so connected in a way? I mean, not just to you because you're obviously the same, as you said, same kind of weird and we'll be friends forever. But when you spend that much time in the hospital, I mean, the whole care teams, you do feel – I mean, that's why I became a doctor myself. I got very sick in college and I was also in the hospital for about a month. I felt so connected to the multidisciplinary team who took care of me. So even, like, when I was out, my emotional connection was so, so, so deep. You know, and that's why I decided to go into medicine. Yeah. When Charlie – I was so happy Charlie was going to get to go home. Yeah. And then I realized I'm not going to see Brittany every day. Yeah. It's a different kind of loss. Yeah. I was like, oh. But I was way more happy. Yeah. I'm not going to work. You're like, I'm in denial again. So, so then you agreed to have lunch. Yeah. You're like, I'll only come to lunch if you make food for me. Yeah. I was like, is there going to be food? I'll leave, but I will eat. Right. Is the chicken nugget going to be there? That's good enough. Charlie chicken nugget. The big, the big chicken nugget. I love it. I mean, and I mean, again, I'll just say for our audience, too, I mean, it's – your healthcare has obviously, you know, very, you know, well-circumscribed, you know, professional boundaries. But, I mean, obviously, you've really thoughtfully navigated, you know, a connection, you know, when it's felt meaningful, for sure. Yeah. We, you know, everything was professional and as it should be when she was in the hospital under our care. Yeah. And then as soon as she was released, we're all just humans and meant to be friends and family. Right. I love it. Have you, have you, have you ever connected other moms to, to Christy? You know what? I don't think I have. I don't know if that's a great question. That would be a good resource, maybe, for some, if Christy was – I don't know if you, if you, if you're even interested in that. But I've done that with some patients, too. Oh, yeah. And a lot of my patients have become my friends. I'll say that. You guys have a similar situation. Yes. Yeah. That's actually a great idea. Yeah. It's just such a unique, you know, experience and connection. But it was a weird time, though, because of COVID. Oh, it was COVID, right. Mm-hmm. That you just didn't see. Right. Or you were, you know, you saw somebody, but you didn't talk to anybody. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We probably weren't – do we have parent support group usually every Friday? And we probably weren't even doing that on time. No, we weren't, yeah. Because we did not want people all in a room together. Right. But it is true, though. You're, like, so immersed in this, like, hospital environment, which is a complete alien environment, unless you work in it like they do. Of course, yeah. And then you're, you know, home with your baby. Yeah. Yeah. I love it. So you guys connected. And then tell us what your relationship looks like now. We talk every day. Every day. So amazing. Yeah. Yeah. It was funny. When we were coordinating this, I forget who it was, Nikki or someone, was like, oh, did you get a chance to talk to Christy yet? Or do you get a chance to talk to Brittany yet? Like, oh, we've talked, like, 30 times since then. Which is lucky in itself. Even if there's no NICU part of this, your friendship alone is just absolutely amazing. Yeah. And we always plan things to do. Yeah. And, you know, plans this coming weekend. Yeah. Yeah. This weekend. That's great. Have you been back to the NICU for any reason? Like, have you – yeah. I wonder if you'll ever take Charlie just to, like, tour it and see it. I'm sure she would love to. Yeah. It sounds like she would. She would probably love that. I mean, it's like a little bit of her origin story, right? Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. She loves to look up pictures of herself when she was in the NICU because she has lots of questions. Mm-hmm. So. Right. You mentioned the NG tube, which is the nasogastric tube. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's great. And so it's really great that you talk about it with her. I love it. It's her very, very special life. So, Brittany, I understand that you now have your own baby. I do. Yes. Sammy. Hi, Sam. Hi, Sam. So, how does Charlie think of Sam? Charlie loves Sam. When Brittany was pregnant, she was convinced that that was going to be her baby sister. Mm-hmm. But we had to explain that's not really how that works. We settle on cousins. So, they're cousins. They're cousins. Because, you know, Brittany is Auntie Nene and, you know, I'm Baby Sam's Auntie Christy. Of course. So, that's how that works. And so, they're cousins now. But she, every time she's like, when are we going to see Baby Sam? So sweet. Baby Sam would love this. I love it. They adore each other. And Sam equally loves Charlie. Charlie is the most amazing, most entertaining person that Sam has ever seen in her life. Yeah. So, yeah. Yes. They just love each other. Yeah. Sam just goes in Charlie's face like, ah, and they just back and forth, back and forth. Ah, we love each other so much. That is so special. Adorable to watch. Oh, I love it. It's the cutest ever. We have to show me pictures afterwards, but that's okay. Absolutely. I'd love to just ask a couple asking for friends. Yeah. That's just kind of a segment we have on the show. And I think, Brittany, maybe I'll start with you. Sure. If a family member or a close friend has a baby in the NICU, what's the most helpful thing that someone on the outside can do to support, you know, your patient? Oh, that's a great question. I feel like people need a lot of help with just, like, basic things. Like, maybe make them food. Mm-hmm. Bring them food to their house. And also asking that person what it is that would support them in that moment. Because every family is so different in what they need, right? Not every family is going to want the same kind of support. So just asking, like, how can I best support you through this? And maybe you don't get a response for a while, and that's okay. And definitely don't take it personally or take any offense if they don't get back to you right away. Mm-hmm. Because they're experiencing the worst time of their lives. So just be patient with them, I would say. Christy might have a very different answer for this. Yeah. I want to hear your perspective about this, too. Yeah. Definitely be patient. Yeah. If they don't respond to you, don't take that personally. Right. They're not ghosting you. We're not. Just in the NICU. Don't ask them when their baby is coming home. I'm sure that's a loaded question. Yeah. Yeah. You don't know. Yeah. And we ask it every day. You know, just support, like, making food. That would be very helpful because you're gone all day long. Right. And come home and make dinner and probably just eat a hot dog or something. Yeah. A real meal would have been nice. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's great. And then, I mean, really, really helpful. I think, I don't know the average NICU stay, as you're saying. I'm sure it's different for everybody. But, I mean, it sounds like it's really often, even if it's one day, it probably feels like a marathon. It would probably feel like a long time. Yeah. Right. So, whether it's one day, 30 to six. It can range from one hour to six months. Yeah. Right. Right. But every day, I'm sure, is so, so long. Is there anything that you would, though, say to parents, you know, who are going to be in the NICU or their baby's going to be in their NICU? Anything that you would want them to know or advice? It's hard, but you'll get through it. And you get to spend a lot of time with your baby, just one-on-one. It might be different now because they have, you know, you can have more people in there now. But just enjoy that time. They're never that little, ever again. And you get to love them a little bit longer on the outside. So great. And, Brittany, what about you? Advice I would give to the kids? Yeah, or just anything that you wish that, like, maybe, not you wish, but just that would be helpful for, you know, parents or family members on the outside, you know what I mean, to know about the NICU. Yeah. I would just say if they are a NICU parent themselves or if they're supporting a NICU parent, just the patience, I think, is a huge thing. And give yourself some grace. Like, you're going through really the most traumatic experience you could ever imagine, watching your child be sick or ill in any way. Yes. It's a horrible, horrible experience. So give yourself some grace. If you're sobbing at the bedside, that's okay. If you don't show emotion, that's okay. You know, just whatever the way that you react is totally acceptable, normal, appropriate, and we're going to support you no matter what. Yeah. Gosh. You are so lucky to have this woman as your friend. And you're so lucky to have this woman as your friend. Absolutely. Gosh, you guys are the luckiest. And your children, Charlie and Sammy, I mean, gosh, they're, this is incredible. I can't thank you enough for sharing your story, though. I know that it can, you know, it's, again, I mean, like you're saying, this is like the hardest month of your life, you know? Absolutely. But what's any, any kind of, anything I didn't ask you that you kind of would want, you know, our audience to, to know about the NICU? We have a NICU reunion. Oh, tell us. Yeah. Every two years, usually, except for COVID times. It's coming up in the fall. Uh-huh. So we invite NICU patients to come back and enjoy a celebration on the campus at UCLA. Uh-huh. There's food, there's like games and just. Jumpies. Jumpies. Oh, so you've done it? Okay, good. Yeah. It's usually like staffed by like NICU staff who volunteer to be there for the day. I always try to go if I'm not working. And so we just man registration, man the booths. There's usually like face painting, maybe like a little, what do you call it, petting zoo. Yeah. Good time for everybody. And we get to see the babies. Yeah. And you get to see the babies and you see them make their grow. Yeah, exactly. And then Charlie, you get to see almost every day. Exactly. Yes. Oh my gosh. I wouldn't want it any other way. So incredible. I mean, I, I really hear you kind of saying to, to, to NICU parents and their families, like, you know, this isn't what you planned, right? But you're going to get through it minute by minute. I don't know. It seems to me like it's a lot about, it's just like accepting the help, but obviously like you're the center of it. You as the parent, you as the, and you and your baby. I'm just thinking about for audience too, you know, just, and I, you know, I think this can be honestly extrapolated to kind of anytime someone's in the hospital. I think we all struggle when, you know, how to help our friends and our family, but just showing up and you need to give yourself grace, but also not need anything. And just, I'm sure just showing up in presence, you know, matters so much. I mean, I just am so impressed hearing though, about the NICU and the model. It's just this, this, this focus on the family and the patients, you know, because it really sounds like you're saying like, we don't just care about the babies. We care about, you know, our parents as well. So, um, so I just love it. I can't thank you enough for sharing your story. I mean, and your hearts, this is just like so, so special. And you're, and, and again, I know, you know, in your, you know, you know, thank you for telling us about your beautiful babies too. Um, I think for any parents, um, caregivers who are walking through the uncertainty of the NICU, um, just to know that there's nurses like you, Brittany, who are standing beside them, I think is just, you know, uh, tremendous. And I think just knowing that these stories are part of something bigger is just, you know, really life affirming. Thank you so much for being with us. Thank you for inviting us. Thank you for having us. Please come back. This is just, um, amazing for our listeners. Thanks for, for, for tuning in. So, you know, stay curious, stay healthy, take good care. Um, and we'll see you next time. Thank you.