It's very critical that we go in an orderly fashion over to the Reagan because the MGH move is happening as we speak. We are open for business. Welcome everyone. Good morning. This is a truly historic and exciting day. We um just gave a talk to the group across the street in CHS. Thank you. Thank you for the years of service that you provided across the street and on behalf of our patients and families. Thank you for the incredible care that I know will take place in this building. This is it. This is our house of healing. It's your home. Cherish it. Love it. Take good care of the patients. Thank you so much for everything that you do and thank you for making this day possible. God bless all of you. It's like history. Definitely history being made. a whole hospital moving in one day. Two, three. It's been 10 years. And as I was walking through CHS this morning, it was sad to say say goodbye to that building, but it was by far more exciting to say hello to the Reagan building. Randa, say hi to mama. And as we moved in the first patient, we realized that it's on. We turned on the building and it's on forever. It started uh it started breathing life into it. It's a building that will never shut down and it's just exciting. Get goosebumps thinking about it. Say hi, new hospital. I think today leaving the old hospital uh was really a nostalgic moment. Um I thought about 1976 when I first arrived here. The old center for the health sciences was still a relatively new building. That building has never been unoccupied for 54 years. Uh and now tonight it won't be occupied. So it's really a pretty nostalgic moment to think about that. You know what? I actually look forward to a new sad but in a happy way. You know what I mean? We're all excited to go to a new home and start fresh and and you know all be there together. Lot of memories. A lot of memories. There are many sad ones, but the good ones always overshadow the sad ones. We transferred hundreds of patients from our old center for health sciences into our new Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Resnick Neuros Psychiatric Hospital, and Mattel Children's Hospital, UCLA. And we did it without a hitch. And I've never seen so many smiles and teamwork. And we did it most importantly with the highest level of safety. Everybody is safe in their bedrooms upstairs getting the absolute best doctors and the best nurses in the world caring for them in a facility that is really second to none. We're really excited about the move into the new Mattel Children's Hospital, UCLA, part of the Ronald Reagan Medical Center. Uh this is uh an exciting day. The the facility is just lovely. Uh everybody who comes in here, patients, uh nurses, physicians, their jaw just drops. And of course the first array of patients that we had with the children and I must say I always find that uh somewhat overwhelming. Uh it's very hard to see children who are so ill. Wow. And I just hope and pray that they enjoy the playroom up there. You can kind of start to see if you see the blue twinkling stars. They deserve every joy and blessing that they can possibly get in the world. Yeah. No. Ready? What I'm really excited about in the Mattel Children's Hospital UCLA is the quality of the space, the technology that we have. This is the technological hospital of the 21st century. Um, but also the family centered care that we provide. We take care of the entire family uh in the Mattel Children's Hospital UCLA and that's not changing at all. So I'm really really proud of the planning that we've done for the move today. Proud of the people who will be involved in the move. Lead away go. Within hours of coming over here, there were three operations that I know of scheduled. There was a liver transplant that Dr. Busatil did, a kidney transplant that Dr. Grit did, and the appendecttomy that our team did. I actually have a long connection with UCLA. So, I went to school here. here. I met my wife here. My parents met here. Uh my father went to medical school here and then uh interned at the VA across the street. So, uh I guess that my being the first surgical patient here, it's it's pretty exciting. It's interesting to uh to be part of history that way. Antonio Ronald, really beautiful baby. It's an absolutely fabulous facility. It's gorgeous. It's wonderful for the patients and and we're thrilled. We loved our old hospital. It gave us great service for many years, but it just doesn't compare. This is just a beautiful, wonderful hospital. What excites me the most is not the past, but really where we're going into the future and the care we'll provide here and the comfort for our families. We're done. Um, this building is alive. It's really a great feeling that finally we're home.