The UCLA Medical Center Santa Monica's new 16,000q ft² state-of-the-art Nether Cut Emergency Center is one of the highlights of the newly completed replacement hospital. Remarkable, remarkable change. Is three times the size of the old emergency department. Engine 4. What do you got? STEMI. Our Nether cut ER was the first designated STEMI receiving center on the west side. STEMI stands for an established protocol for getting heart attack patients from the field to our cardiac catheterization lab in 90 minutes or less. Advanced technology, including an on-site CT scanner, assures the best possible outcome. We make a diagnosis of chest pain, stroke or a blood clot in the lung with within 5 to 10 minutes. We have a diagnosis, right? Because the city is right here in the department. We don't have to go to the second floor or the third floor. X-ray is in the ER. We don't have to move to another place in the in the hospital for an X-ray. This part of the heart, the anterior wall of the heart is injured. They've gotten to know us. We're on a firstname basis with just about everybody in the ER and it's wonderful to have Dr. Garabi as our medical director and he also serves as the medical director for our police department. I don't know that of any department here in Los Angeles County that has a better relationship with a with a hospital. I had a really bad injury. Several of the vertebrae in my back were broken. I was rushed to the UCLA emergency room. I felt like I needed someone to take care of me and that's how I felt. It was almost like a mother's warm arms. I felt like I was being taken care of. Our ER is the city's only emergency center approved for pediatrics, meeting established guidelines for the best possible care of infants, young children, and adolesccents. If hospitalization is necessary, UCLA Medical Center Santa Monica also offers the city's only general pediatrics and pediatric intensive care units. There is an ER Fast Track service for the immediate treatment of more minor injury or illness. Fasttrack strives to get qualifying patients in and out of the ER in 90 minutes or less. Okay. Medical very compassionate and efficient. The Nether Cut Emergency Center treats some 40,000 patients a year. We hope you never need us, but if you do, we are here to provide the highest level of comfort and care.