I went in for my c-section.. The doctor said that she was born with a lump on her head. It was shocking - I didn't get to spend any time with her. You're expecting to have your baby, hold them, have them there with you and... I didn't. The only way that she could get some treatment was down there at UCLA with Dr. Federman. Hi sweetheart. Oh my god - look at you. Uhoh - she has my badge! Infantile Fibrosarcoma is a rare cancer in children. There are about 20 cases per year in the whole United States. When I first met Little Linda she had a large mass that took up over 50% of her scalp. She was 27 days old - too young to go on the trial and I remember calling our investigators around the country and saying, "Look, when is a month a month?" I believe the clinical trial was my only hope - the only hope I had left. We're from Hanford, California. We live on a dairy We have a horse, I have pet cows too in my backyard so I always have milk. We love it out here. Every Monday I have to drive to LA. It's different going from country to city. I didn't know how to get around. There's a lot of addresses, a lot of buildings but anything to make your kids better. We enrolled her on the study at her one month birthday and within days we noticed that the tumor started shrinking. I've never seen a soft-tissue cancer dissolve like it had in Linda's - they just don't do that. To me it's a miracle. She's starting to wanna walk - she's too active! *Laughs* She loves animals - any little animal she sees she wants to pet. At first she's scared, but once they don't do anything she loves them and she'll pet them. *Horse sneezes* I love UCLA - I love the staff, I love the doctors and they love my daughter, as soon as they see her they're like: "Yay - Little Linda's here!" Sometimes they even fight over who's gonna take care of her that day. I'm just so thankful for Dr. Federman because he saved my daughter's life. He's her angel. The fact that I can tell a family that they no longer need chemotherapy or aggressive surgery to me is amazing. And hopefully someday I won't have a job anymore.