Hello, I am Dr. Juan José Andino, a urologist specializing in male fertility.  I am also a member of the oncofertility team at UCLA Health. If you or a loved one is about to begin cancer treatment, you may be wondering how it might affect your ability to have children. Today we're talking about oncofertility, a field that connects cancer care with ways to protect fertility.  In this video I will explain what oncofertility is, how cancer treatment can affect fertility , how to store sperm before treatment, and what we can do afterward if fertility is affected.  Oncofertility is a part of medicine that helps people protect their fertility before cancer treatment. Even during something as difficult as cancer, we want to help them maintain the possibility of having children in the future. Many cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery, can impair sperm production or ejaculation.  Sometimes it is temporary, but in certain cases the damage can be permanent.  That's why it's so important to talk about fertility before starting treatments. Cancer treatment can prevent the testicles from producing sperm, prevent sperm from being released during ejaculation, or cause permanent infertility depending on the type of therapy and the dose.  Even in testicular cancers, leukemia.  Lymphoma, which is common in younger men, can affect fertility. Acting in time is really important. Let's talk about your options now. If you are going to start treatment soon, there are ways to protect your fertility in advance. The most common and simplest way is through sperm banking or cryopreservation. You provide a semen sample to a fertility clinic. The semen is frozen and stored for the future. This semen can then be used in the future with assisted reproduction treatments. This is quick.  It can be performed within a few days of a diagnosis, even while in the hospital.  If you have limited time, there are also home kits available from a company called Fellow.  They facilitate home sperm freezing.  It's helpful because at UCLA Health we don't have our own sperm bank. If you cannot provide a sample due to stress, religious, or health reasons, then a urologist specializing in male fertility intervenes. We can perform a procedure to extract sperm directly from the testicle.  This is called testicular sperm extraction or thesis in English.   We often do it while he is already under anesthesia for another procedure. The semen is then frozen for future use. And even if there is no sperm in the semen, we can find some in the testicle. Sometimes a man does not have the opportunity to freeze sperm before cancer treatments.  In these cases we can attempt sperm retrieval after retrieval. The best time to talk about fertility is before cancer treatment begins.  Talk to your oncologist, a urologist, or a fertility specialist if you are unable to preserve sperm.  And even if you're unsure about having children now, sperm freezing gives you options for your future. Cancer treatment may seem overwhelming, but preserving your fertility doesn't have to be.  With the right help and by acting quickly, you can protect your future.  If you or a loved one is facing cancer, ask your medical team about oncofertility. Thank you for watching our video.  If this has helped you, please share it, take care, and remember that we are here for you every step of the way.