 subjected to subjected to exhausted or even worried about someone they love. Families are trying to listen, remember details, ask the right questions and advocate all while managing their own fear and uncertainty. And yet, in the midst of all of this, we ask people to trust us, to understand complex information, to make decisions that feel overwhelming or life-altering. So when we talk about patient experience in healthcare, we're not just talking about run-of-the-mill, straightforward customer service. We're talking about what it feels like to be vulnerable and how that vulnerability is met in exam rooms, clinics and hospital hallways by healthcare clinicians and staff. And creating that thoughtful, compassionate experience in moments, if not minutes, hours, days, this is not easy. It's incredibly humbling work. It requires empathy, systems thinking, and a deep respect for the human beings on both sides of care. Joining me today is UCLA Health's Chief Patient Experience Officer, Julia Gaviria. Julia oversees everything from language services and volunteers to service recovery and culture. Work that touches patients, families, and staff across all our clinics and hospitals, and often at the most intense moment of their lives. Julia, this is not a rule for the faint of heart. I really, truly already tip my hat to you. Thanks for being here and welcome. Thank you so much for having me. I'm thrilled to be here. I have so many questions. Before we get into the specifics of your role, let's start broadly. So when someone asks you what you do, let's say you're at a dinner party, how do you explain what a Chief Patient Experience Officer actually is? Oh, sure. I don't go to many dinner parties, but... Because you're busy experiencing. So when someone asks me that question, the answer that I would give or what I think about is really thinking about any kind of consumer experience. We all are consumers of some degree and have experiences, but when we enter the healthcare landscape, we become this incredibly vulnerable human or family member. And my job, my team's job is really to understand, assess, measure, and respond to that experience that the patient has across the entire care journey for their care. And when does patient experience matter most, I mean, in your experience and for your team, sort of when care is going, I guess, smoothly or when things are in these more vulnerable moments? Oh, great question. It's everywhere. It's in every moment. You know, if you think about patient experience and or any kind of experience, I think oftentimes we think about the catastrophic events that happen. We, of course, will respond to those. That's a really big deal. It requires a lot of teams and system thinking. But patient experience happens way before the patient even enters the hospital or way before the patient even arrives at the clinic. It's when they're deciding that they want to go to UCLA, when they want to get an appointment or have an appointment or thinking about the fact that they need to think about their healthcare. Just the entrance point of someone going online and experiencing what it feels like to get an appointment, that is an experience in and of itself. And so the experience starts when we think about getting care all the way through every milestone that happens in between that and then all the way until they get billed three months, two months later, that's an experience. I mean, did we educate them properly on their billing? Did they know that they were going to get a bill? All of that is part of the patient experience. And so I think every single moment is a reaction to the patient experience journey. And informs each other. I think about this all the time because when I'm in clinic as a primary care doc, the experience that my patients have when they're getting roomed, when they're getting their blood pressure taken, their interaction with our front desk staff, all of those things then inform. It doesn't what happened. I'm only kind of in these four walls in an exam clinic, right? But it's all part of that experience. Even those things that aren't even in our control, I think about this when my patients go to a pharmacy. They might not go to a pharmacy that's owned by UCLA Health where I work, right? But their experience in obtaining that medication still becomes part of that overall healthcare journey. And I do, I feel like we're all responsible for it. Like when people are like, healthcare is broken and they're yelling at me. I'm like, I feel like I broke it. It's really hard. I think physicians especially, or maybe we should say care providers have a really hard job. There's statistics that show that anybody, so a consumer will take a patient out of this for a second, but a consumer, when they experience one to two errors relating to their experience, they're 62% less likely to go back or they're 62% less satisfied. So all of a sudden, you know, yet the patient gets to the front desk, the front desk person is mad at them, maybe the parking was expensive, they didn't realize they were gonna have to pay for parking for this appointment. Then they get to the provider and now already the provider has a really hard job climbing uphill. And so it's really challenging. However, the provider can also win them back, we can win them back, the front desk person can win them back when we look them in the eye, when we make them feel seen, when we say thank you so much for coming to our clinic. Ugh, I know the traffic was so hard today. And so it's just validating, it's validating in their experience. And again, people are vulnerable. Nobody wants to go to the doctor. Nobody wants to navigate an illness or an injury, but when they are doing that, we have a responsibility as all healthcare workers to ensure that we're at least acknowledging that they've chosen us to take care of them. But I also like that this is a team approach too. I mean, it acknowledges that, look, I might be seeing you in the clinic and examining your belly or we're talking about something, but all of it is this entire approach. And I just want to clarify something too, because when we say that there's two errors, we're not necessarily saying a medical error, right? No, but like, it's just like any sort of misstep. Right, misstep, misstep, or just something that doesn't feel great. But what I like, what you're also saying is, because I commit, quote errors all the time, is that they can be recovered even in these small moments. But these small moments matter. They do, and they add up. And so we have to think about, okay, how do we recover these moments and what might that recovery look like? And everybody's recovery might look really different. So to your point, the person working at the front desk, just acknowledging looking in the eye of somebody is recovery. Yes. If someone had a stressful morning, or the parking was difficult. Yes, which I'm sure it was. Yeah, let's acknowledge it. And let's own what we can in the moment. Let's have the accountability. And then all of a sudden, the patient builds trust between us and them, and the encounters continuously go well. That's an incredible link though, that the looking in the eye, or just the acknowledgement, the validation, that that's that bridge to trust. Yes, yes. When patient experience breaks down, like what is it usually about? Would you sort of usually seeing other patterns? Totally, major patterns. I think 9.9 times out of 10, it's always about communication. We have dropped the ball in communication to some degree. And it might not be that we didn't tell them about their illness, or we didn't tell them what the next step might be from our vantage point. But communication between handoffs, healthcare is so complicated. And now we've gotten to this point where you're not even seeing a specialist, you're seeing a subspecialist. And then your subspecialist knows another subspecialist, and there's communication between them. Patients are navigating things that are very novel, I think, to them. But they might be everyday occurrences for a given provider. Because that's our place, that's what we know. But I think we have to figure out how do we communicate not only what we know, but what the patient needs to know to feel informed enough and educated enough so that they feel safe, so that they do feel like they can trust us. In these moments of breakdown, or in these continuous, whether they're grievances or the complaints that we get, again, it's constantly about the communication. We didn't explain it well enough, or we didn't explain it in a way that made the patient feel like they were safe, like they could trust us. And it might have not been the provider. It might have been the person from one clinic to another, or one hospital to another, or one provider to another. And so it's about that handoff. And I think we really need to think about what does that look like for the patient? It's very challenging because, I mean, communication alone is challenging, and often so important in the language that we use and how we say it. And then you add these contexts of, so then you add on all of the medical jargon, right? And then on top of it, these layers of often uncertainty, right? Or patients are, as I said, patients are coming, they might be in pain, or they're afraid. So I mean, it's just this level and acuity of communication that I just, I feel like is unmatched. Oh my gosh, I'll give you an example. Recently, a patient sent in a complaint saying that he was incredibly upset that we are charging him every time a nurse came into his room. And we thought, what does that mean? Like, how did that occur? So he said, well, every time somebody came into her room, they scanned my band. And I imagine that you're billing me. Oh wow. And so in the hospital, everybody is wearing an ID band, and we scan it to make sure that we are appropriately scanning the right patient, administering the right correct meds to this patient, et cetera. Patients transfer beds all the time and move around, so we need to make sure that we have the right patient in front of us. And the nurses were doing their job. We have to do that. That's a safety mechanism. The patient thought it was a billing mechanism. Nowhere did we explain, hey, I'm gonna scan your band now. When I scan it, I'm just making sure that you are Bob Smith, or whoever it was. It wasn't Bob Smith, but you are this person. And so I think, and can you imagine just like, every time that the nurse did that though, it's just like the fear, if not resentment, and then additive and a creative. Oh my gosh. So, and you can imagine that, you know, patients are vulnerable, they're scared, they're sitting in their hospital bed, they have no idea what's going on oftentimes. They don't know when the next procedure is. And neither do we sometimes, but I think when we communicate, or overtly communicate and say, hi Bob, again, I'm just scanning your band, here's why I'm scanning it. I'm just making sure you're the right Bob today. Right, not any assumptions. It is so critical. It really reminds me too. I mean, my dad was a doctor, and so I just actually feel very comfortable in hospitals, but most people do not feel comfortable walking into, you know, any sort of medical space. And so I just, I always have to remember that. It's such a novel space for people. I mean, people walk into the hospital, and instantly I think, even parking, people come to park before they get into the hospital, and there is a sense of fear, there's a sense of unknown, they don't know what's gonna happen. Oh my gosh, just trying to find your way into the building. It's really challenging. I mean, that's part of the experience. Yes, that's part of experience. It's interesting. So I mean, there's like the, were you, I really wanted to know how you got into this, right, because there's the patient experience, right, and the customer experience, right, and then you're, I, going back to my business school days of like the customer journey. I mean, were you always thinking about experience in terms of patients? Is that your background? My background is in hospitality. I mean, my background is in healthcare, and then before healthcare, hospitality. I started a career in hospitality, and then entered into fine dining, and focused really on service, and what it really meant to create an experience for somebody in drostanolone. And I was working at a restaurant that was a top 100 restaurant in the world. I mean, every single detail mattered from the moment we called the patient, or they called us to make a reservation to the moment. Yeah, I just love it. You said the patient. No, I love it, I love it. Were you at the bar? Were you at the guest? Yes, I was at the bar. You know, and so every detail mattered. Every detail, and how you made somebody feel, and what they were experiencing. I mean, those few hours that they were there, they were supposed to experience this amazing life-changing moment of this meal. And what I really kind of gleaned from that was, you can create and craft experiences because you, by way of really understanding how somebody is feeling, and engaging with them, and understanding what they might want or dislike, and you know, in fine dining, it's incredibly specific. You're thinking about your voice, and where your hands are, and how you're serving, and it's so detailed. But it's really also really, it's a human experience because you're relating to humans all the time. So I worked in fine dining for quite some time, a handful of years, and then actually one night, somebody had a stroke in the middle of the dining room, and I was the service director at the time, and the person who had a stroke got of course taken away by the ambulance, and it was a whole scene, and this is, you know, you're working in fine dining, so it's very quiet and very proper, and it was quite a, quote, disruption. And the chef had directed me saying, we need to apologize to every guest, and let's do champagne for everybody. So I was going around apologizing for this disruption that had just happened, and in my head I'm thinking, disruption, like this person just had a stroke, I need to make sure that they're okay. And I think at that moment, I thought, I'm in the wrong industry. I really wish that I was the paramedic that took this person away, let alone, you know, serving champagne to these people, apologizing. And so I really got such a wonderful experience learning about how to craft experience in hospitality, but what I knew, and since being a child, I mean, I was pre-med, and my whole thought was that I was gonna be a physician. I thought, you know what, I need to go back to healthcare. And so I went back and sort of started my career in healthcare at the very bottom, but, you know, in the last- In a career where all the customers are disrupted. Yes, everything is disrupted. Yeah. I love it, because you obviously just wanna be in it. I do, yeah, I love it. I think healthcare is so, it's such a unique experience because nowhere else in any industry that I can think of, you are this vulnerable. And the person entering healthcare is that nervous or that fearful. And- It's a very specific customer. It's very specific. I mean, I can't compare it to anything. Somebody compared it the other day to, unless you are in jail calling a lawyer, that's the only maybe suitable comparison that you can make to a patient. In terms of like stakes. In terms of stakes, yeah. And how nerve-wracking it might be for somebody. So I really love the idea of thinking about, well, how do we make an experience feel good and right, not just for the patient, but for the entire system. It has to feel good for the employees too. As they're moving through these systems. Absolutely, yeah. I mean, I always, I talk, I think it's, you talk about the healthcare journey. I sometimes use this word care continuum. And what I'm trying to say is that, care continuum means like sort of time from like, sure, sure, birth to palliative care, but it also means like physically the care continuum. As you're saying, from like the moment I'm researching, coming to a healthcare system, to being seen in clinic, getting medications, getting equipment, you know, medical equipment and that journey through, you know, different conditions and chronic diseases, whatever they are, but you know, having a baby. So there's just all these different spaces. And so I also, though, I mean, again, that just to me, I mean, fine dining seems very challenging. But again, I mean, there's so many different spaces that you're kind of overseeing. This is like it's life. Right, you're overseeing like life. And then, but really touched by, you know, again, these very, very high stakes. Yeah, I mean, every moment to your point that the continuum is ongoing, but every moment you have these sort of time bound encounters that I think it's really important for people to understand that each in each moment, there is an experience that you're having. And then that experience is so multifaceted within that time bound encounter. So it's just so layered. And like you're saying too, I mean, it's, you know, physically how you're feeling emotionally, but right then it's economic, right? Absolutely. You know, billing is a big part of this too. And then it's just logistics, right? I need to go and get meds. I would love to kind of talk about some of the areas that you oversee through the Office of Patient Experience. I think that many people probably don't immediately associate, you know, with quote experience. But language services is one of them. Tell us about what that includes. Language services is so amazing. So we have a department, within the department, we have a team of language service team members and they are in-person interpreters. And what we offer is an in-person interpretation right now, we offer Spanish. So we have such a diverse patient population, many of whom don't speak English. And one of the things that is really important for us when a patient enters our system is asking them, what is your preferred language? What is the language spoken in your home? And then they can share that with us. And if they decide that they need an interpreter, we can offer that to them either in-person or through video or telephone, depending on what the needs are and depending on what the needs are of the team, et cetera. It's such an amazing thing to witness, somebody who doesn't speak English, having an encounter with a provider who maybe doesn't speak that language, that native language of the patient, and then having this third person there as that sort of triangular support, it is a magical experience to witness. I mean, I can tell you as a provider, it's really, it's quite magical and essential, you know? You know, to have an interpreter with you during an encounter because nothing is worse than feeling like, oh my gosh, I'm butchering a language, and then also I'm not getting the accurate information, but also too, and then are like, whatever, I might be using Google translate. It's very hard for me to make eye contact, right? To your point earlier with my patient, and also like, it's very hard to build trust without just that basic communication. It's interesting to me how you said, and again, this is language, which isn't essential, but like, what's your preference? And it just makes me think of your fine dining experience when you're like paying attention to people's preferences, but again, that preference ends up being, I'm guessing, right? Like their truth, I mean, it's very important. It's interesting, you know, I think there's an equity piece in this too, around language, and ensuring that we are being as equitable as possible. Saying to somebody, I think I'm actually saying it wrong, when we say to somebody, what's your preference? Somebody might say, you know, given the times that we live in, somebody might say, oh, it's English, but if we say, what's the language spoken at home? Then we're actually digging in a little bit further, and somebody might say Spanish. Now, that allows us to say, okay, how comfortable are you hearing your healthcare, or learning about your healthcare in English? And then it sort of brings the narrative a little bit closer to the truth of what we need to provide for that patient. Absolutely. So it's really, again, it's very nuanced, how we encounter and how we interact with these patients is so critical from the very jump of even them just filling out the forms, because those are the types of questions that then engage us in different ways. Yeah, which is already overwhelming. Medical and what we call medical literacy, it's hard enough in your own language, let alone in another language. Yes, yes. And as you said, we're in Los Angeles together, and we care for patients from all over the world, but you mentioned Spanish, but what does it take to support the level of diversity that we have? Great question. So within the language services, we have these interpreters who are speaking Spanish in person at UCLA, but we also offer any other language needed across the spectrum of languages through video interpretation or telephone. So say somebody walks in through our ED, they speak Russian. ED's emergency department. Sorry, emergency department. It's my job. You know, insert a language, we can offer interpretation pretty much on the spot through video interpretation or phone call, and that is critical, again, to your point, so that we are offering the same quality care as to every single patient. Yeah, I mean, it reminds me that health equity, right, is quality of care. I mean, you know, while you take care of someone, it has a lot to. Absolutely. You also oversee volunteer services. You do a lot. Tell us why volunteers matter so much. Oh my gosh, the volunteers, they have such a special place in my heart. So at UCLA, we have over 1,000 volunteers, and these are folks who are retired. Maybe they've worked at UCLA for many, many decades. They all have different interests, and they all do different things across the whole system. We have folks who come and volunteer, and their job is to hold babies, their baby holders, and they come in and just hold the babies that need a little bit of extra touch and love when their parents can't be there. We have volunteers who come in with their animals and do our People Animal Connection Volunteer Program, where we allow for animals to come in and visit with patients and employees and just bring joy to the floor. It's such an important part. They bring joy. Yeah, they bring everybody joy. I mean, who doesn't want to pet a dog when you're sitting in the hospital? And we have volunteers who work at our front desk and answer phones and offer snacks to employees. Our volunteers are such an essential part of our system. They run the kindness cards. They run the kindness cards. I mean, they do so much, and I think really are part of the heartbeat of, I think, our system in a way that doesn't always get acknowledged. And then there's also programs like the Three Wishes Program, which is just this incredible program at the intersection of experience, dignity, end of life care. Tell us why that work is so important. I didn't know that was under you as well. Yes, so Dr. Novel does an amazing job running this program. She started it at UCLA. So this is a program that focuses on patients who are at the end of their life and where death is really imminent. And we offer them various wishes that they might want to kind of navigate through or experience, honestly. And it can be as little as recording the patient's heartbeat and putting it in a teddy bear for the family. It can be as big as a luau. We had a patient the other day who, he has a home in Hawaii and he really wanted to experience his home in Hawaii, and we obviously couldn't get him there. And so we created this luau for him. And Dr. Novel and her team do such a sensational job, really bringing joy and life to a patient who's at the end of their life and the family is involved. And it's really what they want to see happen, really comes to fruition. And it's really unique to UCLA. I think it's providing not only dignity, but I think peace of mind and honestly joy in such a sorrowful time. I can't think of something that is more unique and special. It's so meaningful and so special. I was looking on the Three Wishes Instagram page. It's so nice. Yeah, I know it's just so amazing. And Kay, who's part of our team, helped make the luau happen, which is amazing. But one of the patients really missed their Irish whiskey. So they put the Irish whiskey in the IV push for the last push. But to me, the common thread of a lot of what you've been saying though is just really acknowledging, sure it's the humanity, but it's the individual wishes. And again, I'm just going back to, it's not just the preferences, can sometimes just sort of feel like, right, I'm at a hotel with my preferences, but no, it's really like the acknowledgement and seeing people for who they are. Absolutely. I mean, we're not putting chocolate on people's pillows. We are really thinking about what is a one size fits one experience for each patient. And it is different. Every patient is different because every patient is a human. And so humans are different. And I think we have to remember that. That's why we need to get to know them. We need to build trust. We need to look them in the eye. We need to get to know their families. It's so important. I couldn't agree more. That sounds very, very hard at scale. So tell me how you, I mean, how do you even just kind of start even thinking about doing it? I think when I think about patient experience, it's two things. Patient experience to me is it's a signal and it's an outcome. So the signal is what's going on? What are the things happening? What are we hearing? What are we hearing from our patients? What are we hearing from our employees? That's a huge one. What are we hearing from the families? The outcome are the metrics that are tied to patient experience. And they're very intricate and sort of detailed. If you look at what that is really measuring. So you can measure, I mean, we have metrics. You can measure. You can measure. Absolutely, yeah. If you measure it, then you can improve it or build on it. Exactly. And so when I think about the measurement of it, we can dive into that. But what that is and then what's being signaled before it gets measured, that kind of helps me and the team organize around, okay, what are the initiatives? What do we really need to think about and change? And where are we doing well? And where are we seeing some improvement? So what are some of the signals? So I think the biggest one that I think is most important to listen to is employees. What are employees saying? When employees are flagging that something is difficult, we have to listen to that. If it's difficult for them, it is a poor patient experience. For example, something so simple as when a computer is broken, when a nurse's computer is broken inside the room, they might say, oh yeah, that's been broken for a couple weeks or a couple months, I just use the one next door. Well, if they're using the next door, maybe somebody is already using that one and now they are delayed. And now what's being delayed? Medication that's being sent up or a consult that needs to be, that needs to visit the patient, somebody coming in in addition or an extra person on the team. And so we have to think about what are our frontline workers telling us. And if they're telling us something, let's listen, because that guaranteed is affecting the patient experience, satisfaction, and just overall sentiment. All right, that's so interesting. I mean, it makes total sense. I just, it just wasn't the first thing that came to mind. But right, and especially too, because patients listen to us too. So I even remember when we first started doing a lot of work on the computers, it was very helpful to be reminded, don't be complaining about the computer while you're talking to the patient. Because then the patient's like, why is this person so irritated? Patients pick up on that too and bringing it in. So all of this has that trickle effect too. Absolutely. I mean, other signals throughout the hospital or even throughout our clinics, like within our system, employees share a lot of really good information of what's going on, what's difficult, what's not working. And they care about their patients. And they care about their patients. I think one of the things that's the biggest, one of the biggest goals for patient experience is I think reducing friction for the system and reducing suffering for the patient. So it's an individual focus, and then there's a systematic focus. And figuring out how those two work together can I think be at odds. But I think most times they really go in tandem. No, you're beautifully describing how these things connect. That's amazing. I mean, I think going to then kind of, so about signals, but talking about then outcomes, I think that people do associate, I think, customer service. I mean, probably thinking about fine dining and hospitality about scores and reviews. What do we do in health care? I mean, what are we measuring or trying to measure? So when we think about measurement of satisfaction, in the early 2010s, maybe 2008, CMS Center for Medicare Services came out and said, we're going to start measuring satisfaction. Now, before satisfaction was being measured, what was being looked at as a measurement for the hospital or for the health care system were clinical outcomes. Did we do a good job on the surgery? Did the patient survive? Yeah, exactly. Did somebody die? Now it was, did somebody die? And how did they feel about their experience? And that feeling got tied to this metric called HCAPS. And that stands for health care consumer assessment of providers and systems. And so this was an assessment of how did we do? And that assessment is then broken down further on, how is the communication with the nurses? How is the communication with the doctors? Was it clean? Was it noisy? What would you overall rate this system? Would you come back? What's your likelihood of coming back? And so if you dig into those individual metrics, those submetrics under HCAPS, that's really where we can kind of dig in and think, ooh, we have some work to do on some communication. We can think about, well, how are we communicating? Are we looking at people in the eye? And are we sitting down when we're talking to them? Are we making them feel heard? So that is the scoring system that really allows hospitals to engage with the satisfaction in a way that is really measurable. And actionable. And actionable, absolutely. That's extraordinary too, because happiness is just, to me, a very kind of empty word. It's just, I mean, and also even before you even have the scoring system, were you happy? Is nothing compared to, by the way, the challenge of, did you trust everyone? But trust, it reminds me too, that trust is, when you have it, is much more sticky. And it's going to survive and withstand a lot of the trials and tribulations that come along any health care journey. But the things that you're then scoring make total sense to me, right? Because those are things that we can measure. Obviously, I think, I don't know what you tell me, but it seems like even from a customer, from a patient, if someone's even just querying or surveying me, again, I know we're not trying to over-survey people. But even just someone asking me is a gesture to me of, we care about you. Totally. And we do care. I mean, we want to know, how was the communication? Is it clean? What do you feel about this system? And rate us on all these things. And we listen to that, and we look at that, and we dig into it, and then we find areas of opportunity that we can really dive in deeply and improve upon those. I mean, do you ever get any pushback kind of about measuring or kind of the things that you're emphasizing? From the patient or from the system? Both, or even family. Oh, yeah. I mean, I think people have an expectation, especially in today's world. We all are consumers. We all have an expectation that we want things to go well. If we're going to choose to be in a specific space or choose to consume a specific product, we want that product to work. We want that experience to go well. Healthcare is no different. The difference is, healthcare is a lot stickier and a lot more friction forward. And there are so many moments in the journey or in the experience that are just challenging, because it's so convoluted and messy. And so figuring out how to now.  amlodipine, naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin,