 s receiversituituitu, pituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituituitu our teeth. Oral health is deeply connected to the rest of the body, our hearts, our metabolism, our sleep, even our inflammatory response. And yet many of us think about dentistry as something separate from medicine. And that separation actually dates back to the mid-1800s when dental education split from medical school education. And since then, oral health has often been treated as its own silo rather than an essential, critical part of overall health. Joining me today to help bridge that gap is Dr. Rana Al-Rashid. She's an integrative dentist and an instructor in the interdisciplinary section of UCLA School of Dentistry. She's here to share her integrative approach to dentistry and to help us understand how oral health doesn't just reflect what's happening in the body. It can even sometimes be an early warning system. Rana, thank you so much for being here. I am so excited. This is definitely one of those topics that most people don't realize they know very little about, including myself. I'm very excited to dig in. Thank you very much for having me. It is an absolute pleasure and an honor to be here. Let's start with basics. Just tell me, what exactly is an integrative dentist? So integrative dentistry draws on the pillars of health. We all know to be healthy, you need to have a good diet, you need to exercise, sleep well, see your doctor when needed, have some sort of a mind-body intervention, spiritual health. Integrative dentistry puts oral health at the heart of overall health. Like you said, I teach at the School of Dentistry and I see my own patients and across the rainbow of socioeconomic, intellectual levels, the first thing that goes when stress hits is oral health. So if you start with that, with oral health deterioration starts, gingivitis, periodontitis, and that doesn't stay there. It goes all over the body. So we just want to draw on all the interventions to help patients be well. I love it. And all these itises we'll get into, which really means inflammation. So we'll be getting into those. So yeah, so tell me more about the integrative medicine training. You were saying that there's a lot of physicians. A lot of, there are a lot of physicians, a lot of nurses, different practices of medicine mainly. And I'm one of a handful of dentists. So everybody was asking me, what are you going to do with that? Mm-hmm. And little by little, I started drawing on things that I trained with. So let's say with my patients, to start the appointment, we do breath work. We use aromatherapy. We use music therapy to kind of change what the dental experience is from a highly stressful experience for patients and for the dental team, I have to say, to a more healing experience. And these are all evidence-based backed tools that can help during the setting of the appointment and the patients can take back home and help themselves and their families. Absolutely. I mean, tools for everyday life and so many different interactions. I mean, it sounds like what you and I do are very similar. I'm a primary care provider. So I will tell you, I hope this is good enough, but you can please, please instruct and educate me. When I'm doing my review of systems, which means when I'm asking my patients about how they're feeling and symptoms going through almost every organ system and when am I examining them, I do say, are you getting your teeth routinely cleaned? But honestly, I think that's all I'm asking. I always love when I go to get my teeth cleaned and people are looking under my tongue, you know, and all around my mouth. But the fact that you're asking about behavioral, you know, symptoms or signs, I love that you're integrating the whole body, right? And understanding it sounds like that the mouth isn't separate from the body, right? It's just another window in the same as eyes or nose or ears. And it really does reflect what's going on or is part of what's going on in the rest of the body. It is a mirror. In the year 2000, the surgeon general said that the mouth is a mirror to what's happening in the body and can be an early indicator of disease. So because of that, that is a modifiable area that patients will have. Actually, you give the patients agency. Once they know what they can do, you are giving them agency to control what's happening in their mouth, especially patients with chronic disease. Like you have patients who have longstanding chronic disease that they do not know how to deal with, or patients with diabetes, they cannot get that homoglobin A1c down. You tell them, okay, brush, floss, see your dentist, get the cleanings. And that the studies have shown that there will be drop in all the markers of inflammation. There will be drop in hemoglobin A1c by as much as 0.5%. That's another medication for you. That's incredible. And the hemoglobin A1c, to remind everyone, is a marker of how we see how well you're metabolizing glucose. I mean, so yeah, let's talk about this in practice. So when you're examining a patient's mouth, when they, and we'll get into when people come in and sounds like a lot of the mindfulness that you bring into it. But even with kind of, you know, thinking about chronic diseases in mind, when you're doing your examination, you're questioning, and you're building these relationships with the patient for sure. What kind of things might tip you off that something else is going on or is connected to what you see in, I guess, the mouth or the oral cavity, right? It's not just the mouth. So exactly. So the mouth and the oral cavity. So routine every, every year when you go for your annual checkup or the first time you see your dentist, you are getting a complete screening. So we do check for lesions in the mouth. We check for cancers. We check the lymph nodes. And then there is the detailed medical history. So at every appointment, we check blood pressure at every appointment. We check for whatever medication list the patient is on. And then we educate the patient as what is going on. We check the saliva level. So for so many people who have dry mouth, it is an indication of, let's say you're a woman above in premenopause or menopause with time, we know that the markers of the estrogen receptors in the mouth, they decrease. And then you are going to have less saliva. Many, many women feel like a cotton feeling in their mouth, like there's cotton in their mouth or feel that, I'm sorry to say, they start spitting when they're talking. It is a mark of low saliva. So you get a dry mouth. That's a mark of it. So there is a lot for us to see there just by me looking at the patient's mouth and seeing a dry mouth. We can tell so much from that. So one thing I wanted to ask you about was plaque, asking for a friend. Access, I know, can cause inflammation of the gums, which I believe is called gingivitis. I really like to remind our audience because I want them to know as much as me. Itis, you know, means the suffix, itis means inflammation. What can sometimes excess plaque be an indicator of, you know, again, something more systemic, I'm guessing sometimes it can just be local, but also might be a clue of what else is going on in someone's life or their body. Okay, so gingivitis, it is plaque or a biofilm that accumulates on the tooth between the tooth and the gum. Okay. And then one day you do not brush, you do not floss well, that's when you will get that inflammation. It's a local inflammation. Some people have, we all have, there are 700 different strains of bacteria in our mouth. That live, that live, cohabitate there with us. Cohabitate, it's a whole ecosystem. Yes, yes. So if we think of the mouth as an ecosystem, some bacteria in this ecosystem are very, very harmful. And this bacteria, if, and so not everybody has that, that strain of bacteria, and then you have to have the body that will react in a certain way to that bacteria. So there's a host response. So plaque left uncleaned with that bacteria we call, not our friend, P. gingivari, will cause local inflammation that becomes a systemic inflammation. So locally, it causes the breakdown of the tissues. So breakdown of the bone, breakdown of the gums. And that's when people, if for people who go to the dentist and you hear them saying numbers, you hear them saying four, five, six, or with time, they'll tell you, we do not need to see you twice a year. I need to see you three times or four times a year, or you need deep cleaning. So it means that you have that more advanced itis, more advanced inflammation, that is a big problem for your body. So the inflammation that you see in the mouth becomes like an open wound, where the bacteria seeps into the body and go live elsewhere. And it is, it is, this is so important. So it is, there is a bidirectional relationship between periodontitis, that breakdown of tissues and diabetes. That was established in 1993. Periodontitis is the sixth complication of diabetes. Last year, the Society of Endocrinology added the question. Ask your patient if they have bleeding gums. So that is about 30 years later. 30 years later. But it's there. I'm a positive person for people who know me. I'm a super positive person. Let's default to optimism. Exactly. I don't go to gloom. Still in our lifetime. It is happening. So we start, it started, it's, it's happening. So, and then diabetes. So it's a bidirectional. For people who do not know what bidirectional is, it is, if people have periodontitis, if they have that degradation of tissues, it can cause diabetes and the diabetes can cause periodontitis and both make each other worse. And then I'm going to just jump from diabetes to kidney health. Please. So diabetes is tied to kidney disease. And a 10%, sorry, yeah, a 10% decrease in periodontal health causes to a 3% decrease in kidney function. What does that, what that means is the inflammation load is increased on the kidney. And that increases the inflammation load in the, in the mouth, in these tissues, in this small area that we call the mouth. And that makes the products that this area produce worse. Yes. So that decreases the kidney function. Having these conversations, it's just, it's amazing because I've so much respect for my colleagues, for you who are experts, right? In what seems like a specific, you know, geography of the body, whether it's a, you know, an area or an organ. And all of these things are so interdependent. And so that's why I love that your whole approach to integrative dentistry, it just makes, you know, so much sense to me. So even like, say something like plaque, you mentioned, like you went to sleep without, I felt like you were pointed at me, going to sleep without brushing your teeth. But yeah, and sometimes, right, maybe I'm lazy, but let's say sometimes people, like their mental health isn't great, right? And they go to sleep, you know, without brushing because they're like depressed. I mean, right. So, I mean, this is a behavioral, you know, or this is a mood, right? But then it's affecting, right, oral care and hygiene, and then allowing possibly more plaque, right, to build. And then like you're saying, then leading into this, you know, other very, you know, possible inflammatory cascade. Because it depends on the host response. Right. You have some people who will have decay and no gum disease, and some people who have gum disease and no decay. Yes. Again, I'm not a gloom. I'm not, I do not hold that gloom. No, me neither. We're right the client. But bacteria that only lives in the mouth has been found in the plaque in the heart. Yes. And people, it's, that's another bacteria. And then you have another bacteria that, that P. gingivari, again, not our friend, it has been found, the, the, the proteins it produces has been found in Alzheimer's patients, gingipanes. It is tied to rheumatoid arthritis. It is tied to preterm labor. I have, um, a lot of empathy and, um, to, to patients who struggle with mental health. And I don't have to want to say patients who struggle with mental health. I think everybody struggles in different areas. So I'm not sure there is anybody who has brushed their mouth every single day. Right. Right. At night, at least before you go to bed, like I've had it, I've had a long day, I'm just going to go to sleep. It's not going to, it's, it might not do anything. And one day is not going to, the most important, then it's not going to cause harm. Um, but my approach is, uh, you wake up the next day and just think of this as a self care routine. So I want to move from, it's one thing that dentist wants me to do to rather it is one thing that I can control, no matter where you are in the rainbow of socioeconomic intellectual level, because I see students, I see older people, I see different people who struggle in different capacities. Some are medicated, some are not, and we all struggle. So having that, um, reframing the perspective of the dental visit, reframing the perspective of that everyday routine that you do, it's just something you do for yourself at the cellular level. Yes. And oral health is health. Oral health is a stamp of health. I have to say, I love, I think that's a much better way to say it. I love it. I mean, and these correlations make, you know, so much sense. So, I mean, we, and we talked a little bit about plaque, um, and you mentioned mouth dryness. Um, I wanted to ask you about a little bit about, um, soreness and sensitivity. So like when, when, when someone comes in and they're having a lot of sensitivity when they're eat or drink, what might that be kind of a pattern of, you know, beyond just, I'm. So another thing that the mouth is very sensitive to is the pH. So the pH is the, the degree of acidity that is present in the mouth. And like I said before, some patients have a lot of decay and not, uh, uh, inflammation of the gums and vice versa. The mouth is very sensitive to the acidity. So some patients who, again, help, health driven or following a lot of fads, we have a lot of fads will say, just drink lemon water, right? We'll say, I drink lemon water every day, right? I just sip on it. I do not drink Coke. I do not drink soda. I'll just do the lemon water. The lemon water is very acidic. It's making your teeth very, very soft. And then that same patient who is health driven wants to brush their teeth, not two times, maybe they want to brush their teeth three times. So you have softer teeth that you go and brush. Yeah. So you have, it's like this balance of, you know, really honoring and appreciating the care, but also making sure maybe they discuss it with you just so that we can fine tune the sort of prescription, you know, or the regimen. Exactly. That's a really good example. So going back to the analogy of the mouth being an ecosystem, you want that ecosystem to be more balanced. Yes. And to have that balance, you want to make sure, first of all, that the patient is breathing through their nose, not their mouth. Because when you breathe through your mouth, you're drying the saliva, basically the saliva or spit that lubricates the teeth and does clean their mouth. So breathing through your mouth will keep that plaque living longer on the gum. So there will be more decay. Yes. On teeth and also more inflammation of the gums. And you can see that when you're looking inside someone's mouth. Just again, and then how it all ties, ties together. If you want to think about someone who is anxious, even not a mouth breather, someone who is anxious is going to be breathing through their mouth. Like even during the day, even during the day, taking deep breaths or exactly. Or their default is breathing through their mouth. So you'll have tissues that are drier, more prone to decay, more prone to disease, and then more prone to ulceration. So educating, again, the patient, seeing your dentist, educating yourself about how to eat or when to brush, like even how you eat your food. And you can even use your food sometimes to control that pH in the mouth. That's so interesting. And so if you're having your visit with your patients and you might see there's an indication that they're breathing through their mouth, whether it's through sleeping or whether during the day. And it sounds like it's so great, right? Because you're really asking and querying them how they're feeling. Do you then connect with, you know, kind of other medical care team kind of members? Like you were mentioning, obviously, like, you know, you know, kidney health, but I have, I think this is such an important message that you are part, you know, dentistry is this essential vital part of your, I would just say primary care. That's exactly where we want to be. Good. So I have a lot of my patients. Again, my office is at UCLA. So I'll have many of my patients come. And then they're just coming for a checkup. And sometimes it's like the older gentlemen, they are the ones who are skeptical. So I look in their mouth, and then I'll say, so tell me about your sleep. And he's like, what's my sleep got to do with my teeth? You're looking at my teeth. And I will tell him, just humor me. How's your sleep? And he's like, I sleep fine. And then my second question would be, do you live with someone? And he'll be like, yeah, my wife, does she ever say you snore? And he will be, yes. She even sometimes sleeps in the room next door. So I'll tell him, okay, give me, I'll ask you one more question. Now, do you ever feel that you wake up and your mouth is a little bit bitter? Do you feel a bitter taste in your mouth? And he'll be, yeah, I'll have some GERD. I have some stomach acid coming up from my, I see my GI doctor for that. And then I'll tell him, okay, I know all that because I see where on your mouth, on your teeth. You're like, I can see exactly where that acid is coming up. Exactly. The acid comes up. And then when the acid comes up, the jaw tries to protect the airway. So the jaw goes forward, the teeth, at the expense of the teeth. So I see it in the patient's mouth all the time. So I'll tell the patient. And then, so sometimes the patient, that patient in particular had a GI doctor. Sometimes the patient comes to me and then I'll refer them to a sleep doctor. I'll refer them to their GI doctor. And the best thing is when they go and they'll tell me, yes, I went and I did the sleep study and now I do have a CPAP machine. And then I'll tell them about other options where you can do the CPAP and also the dentists can also give appliances that the patients can help the patients with that too. But I love it because then they, you know, then there's, there's interventions, there's behavioral modifications, and then you're going to see that the next time reflected in an improved, you know, exam or you'll see, you'll be able to see indications of how that's changed at the level of the mouth and oral cavity as well. And then of course, and then you see the patients like once, once their, their sleep physician or their, their sleep dentist helps them when that area, the patient sleeps better. They don't crave, like they don't have the cravings. They are, they have better relationships with everybody. Like it's all connected as we said. It's all connected. I mean, it really, it reminds me even just, you know, and why I was bringing up even the person, you know, just joking a little bit, but about going to sleep without brushing your teeth. But the expectations, I think sometimes that we have for our patients ourselves, you know, I think we just need to give so much grace, but also just knowing how things interact. I mean, I've had patients who are on, let's say multiple medications for high blood pressure and then their cholesterol, but if they're having feelings of depression, if they're very, very stressed and then they don't take their medications, then their blood pressure, you know, isn't going to be controlled. It's all connected. I love though, that this approach of asking these very multi-dimensional questions and it kind of then acknowledges and honors the people, our patients as multi-dimensional humans, right? A hundred percent. Complex lives. Exactly. And then something I stress for the patients and I stress for the students is when, when a patient presents to the office, it's a safe place. Yes. So that the patient is not there to be judged. The patient is there to be supported and helped. And we as a dental team and the whole medical team, everybody is rooting for that patient to become better and nothing gives us more joy than when we see the patient thrive. Oh my gosh. So tell me, tell me what it is then to come into your integrative dentistry practice, because I mean, I'm already breathing easier just thinking about it coming in. I'm like, take me through it. So yeah. So take me through it then. So again, at the first appointment, we do our full exam and we see what the patient's chief complaint is. And then I'll ask the patient and then it's always raises their eyebrows. Are you familiar with breathwork? Do you have a breathwork practice? And again, why are you asking? And I'm like, okay, just humor me. Let's see. And there'll be like, no. And I'll ask, are you open to trying? And most people do, are very open to trying. And then I ask, okay, now tell me, I have, how do you feel about aromatherapy? Mm-hmm. And again, most people are very open to it. So I'll tell them my collection would be like lavender, lemon, eucalyptus, peppermint. That's what I have. I want to say lavender wins most of the time, sometimes eucalyptus. And then I'll ask, what kind of music do you listen to? And they're like, just any kind of music. I don't care. And I'll say, no, no, just like, if you're in your car, just by yourself. I had a mom say, I just, Taylor Swift. And I asked her, is it Taylor Swift for you? And she's like, no, my daughter always makes me listen to her. And I'm like, no, I want you to think you're, it's just you. You are in the car. Who do you listen to? And we have also, I think, 80s and 60s, when in my craft and classical, my son had made me a list that I have for my patients. And then I guide them through four, seven, eight breath breathing technique. What is that? Tell me. So you want to do it together? I would love to do it together. Okay. So feet on the ground. I'm like, hopefully my feet reach the ground so I don't look extra ridiculous. So feet on the ground and just first try to connect to your breath just for a little bit. Just think about where your breath is going. Relax your shoulders. I'm making everyone who's listening to this do this as well. And then I need you to just exhale softly through your mouth. For everyone listening, my feet are on the ground, my hands are on the table, and my eyes are closed. Okay. And then take a deep inhale through your nose. And then hold your breath. And a slow exhale through your mouth. And then hold your breath. Now this time I'm going to count. So inhale, two, three, four, hold your breath. Two, three, four, five, six, seven. Exhale, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. So I'll do this for a couple of times with them. Typically while the topical is setting in, that's on procedure day. And then by the time we're done, I will give them the anesthetic while they're doing the breath work by themselves. And then the music is playing and I do what I need to do. And very anxious patients, they leave and they say, this was one of the most relaxing times for me ever. And when the treatment is done, they say, seriously, I will miss this time. I'm like so relaxed. I can't even put my glasses on. I have to say that's not only incredible from sort of a procedural perspective, but it's also really moving to hear about because it's just, it's so personal, you know, and it really, I think, just completely reframes the relationship to health as opposed to in healthcare, as opposed to being something that's like so stressful or I'm only going because there's a problem. The idea that you would go and actually enjoy caring for yourself and understanding more about your body, I think is, it shouldn't sound this way, but it feels very revolutionary. One thing that people do not realize, again, stress is, um, healthcare providers, they have their own stress of their life, their bodies, and then they internalize other people's, their patient's stress stresses. So every time a dentist gives the injection, the lidocaine for the patient, there was a study that reports that the blood pressure goes up by 20% for the, of the dentist. Just for administrating the med. Because you feel that you are so anxious, you don't want to hurt the patient. So that breath work helps the patient, it helps me, it helps my assistant. And that my colleague who asked for, why don't you come and help me do it? It's going to help her. Yeah, that's incredible. I mean, it makes total sense that these tools would help everyone. I mean, exactly. And that the care team would also need these tools. Of course, we have to heal the healers, right? Gosh, that's so interesting. And so you have all these patients who I'm guessing, right, who like you're, you're sharing are leaving and really expressing that this was just really transformative for them. I would imagine then that the breath work, these tools, the aromatherapy, again, the entire approach, right? There's nothing about this that sounds remotely, you know, performative. It just sounds incredible. But that this could be expanded, right, to the care team, to the physicians themselves, the dentists, the other medical providers. That is the dream. That's what we need to do. And we have to start here at UCLA Health. We have to take care of the providers, because with the schedule, with what we are doing, every, like, I speak it again, everything, sorry, everything I do is, is comes from my heart. My daughter is applying to medical school, and I do worry about her, because of all the stresses that I see my colleagues. Like yourself, we do so much, I have to, women and men, to help the patients. And if we cannot be taken care of, or take care of, know how to take care of ourselves, how are we supposed to help our patients? Again, being, working at the faculty practice, many of my patients are physicians. Yes. And it breaks my heart when they are, they are the ones who are helping, and they are the ones who are not sleeping, and they're the ones on tons of medications. And they're the ones who are suffering, their oral health is suffering. Again, the oral health is a mirror to what's going on in the mouth. So it doesn't have to be this way. Again, I'm someone who's positive. Yes, I love it. Where there is deficiency, there is opportunity. And it is thing that, the things that, the little things we talk about can have the effect to the person, and to the whole system. It's so beneficial. I was just going to say, because, you know, as a, as a provider, I'm affected if my patient is, you know, stressed. There have been studies we knew when someone's talking really quickly, and they're really anxious, then I become anxious just mirroring, you know, mirroring them. And that example of, you know, your own blood pressure going up, or your own stress going up by even just administering a medication. I mean, sure, it's the stress, but I like to think that there's this current of empathy as well. I mean, we're also connected to... It's co-regulation. Right? Exactly. So rather than us co-regulating to the very stressed, tired patient, we can bring the patient to us, to our neuro-regulation. While calming ourselves. Calming ourselves. We equilibrating, that's hard to say for me. Yes, exactly. I wanted to get back to something when you were talking about the ecosystem in the mouth, right, and inflammation. I do think that people will be very surprised to hear that something like plaque, which you were mentioning and going into the details about, are connected to things like heart disease, as you mentioned, and diabetes. Are there other ways that bacteria in the mouth might affect other parts of the body? You mentioned Alzheimer's. Anything else with women's health, even, for example? So for women's health, a woman goes through a lot of changes in premenopause, menopause, and one of the things that we have noticed is the dry mouth that happens. So you hear people talking about estrogen receptors, right? I have no idea there's estrogen receptors in the mouth. There are estrogen receptors in the mouth, and they control the saliva in the mouth. So with time, women will start having burning mouth syndrome, and they will have very dry mouth. Which is a big symptom that comes up. And I have to tell you, as a PCP, I have no idea what to do with it. So again, that's where we would, that is collaboration. It's all about collaboration. So another thing that happens in women above 50, the fat distribution in the body changes, and we start having more visceral fat. So the tongue composition changes. So women who did not have any obstructed sleep will start having obstructed sleep in their 50s. So you have, so now, because they were breathing fine before, now they're going to be breathing more through their mouth. I had no idea. I feel bamboozled that I didn't know this. It's, it's, it's, I'll blame myself, but I'm just like, but it's a lot, but we're here. I'm optimistic. But we're here. And I'm learning about it now. But we're here, now we know, now we know. And what you're doing, you are informing a lot of people. Yes, but also it characterizes things, right? I just, I like to get away from people blaming themselves, and more just giving them the tools to be like, no, no, no, we're getting more information. There's research, there's tools. Exactly. And there's also just answers sometimes. There is answers. And then again, I love that the solution, once we know, like knowledge is everything, right? Education, knowledge is everything. Once we know, we can help. So there are products that anybody with a dry mouth can use that can help them at night. There are products with xylitol in them at night. I want to say, as a disclaimer, anything in the right dose can be good for you. And anything in, if you get the doses wrong, can be toxic for you. Yes. Yes. So for dry mouth, let's say someone, let's go back to your question about sensitivity. Yes. Again, it's all connected. So when someone starts having, no matter what the age is, it could be women above a certain age, it could be patients with multiple medications, it could be younger patients. Now, post-COVID, we have a lot of patients with anxiety, right? And are medicated. So with that, you have a dry mouth. So what do we do for these patients? We will call them as a high caries risk patients. Is caries a fancy word for cavities? For decay. Oh, decay. Yes. Okay. Yeah, for cavities. So they are, there are more chances for them to get decay because of that plaque. Because now they do not have the lubricating, cleaning effect of the saliva. So we will prescribe for them. We want to make sure that they are using a toothpaste that does have fluoride in it. The fluoride in the teeth at the right dose protects the tooth structure. It binds to the tooth structure and protects the outer layer against decay. For people who do not want to use fluoride, I will still recommend they use it in the dentist's office. And there are other products. They are not as effective, but the studies are there, and they keep formulating new products. There are other products that can help with, that will have calcium and phosphate. So they will go into the tooth structure and they will try to remineralize the tooth structure. So that is another way that you can make the tooth strong. So this is thinking of the structure of the tooth, but again, it's an ecosystem. Yeah. So we want to think of the saliva. The saliva has bacteria and the bacteria in an acidic condition uses the sugar to attack, like uses the sugar, becomes more acidic, creates the cavity. So if you use products with xylitol, the xylitol tricks the bacteria, the bacteria goes to eat it, but it doesn't produce anything. So you're actually helping them out. So the bacteria cannot attack the teeth. Pretty sneaky, sis. I love the science. I love it. I love it. I will add one more thing. All of it. There are some foods that you can eat that are very high in a product, in an amino acid called arginine, that will change the makeup of the plaque to make it more basic. So for my students, they know me, I love pumpkin seeds. So if I'm snacking, I'm snacking on pumpkin seeds, walnuts, walnuts. I'm not snacking on spinach, but the greens, broccoli, they are mushrooms, cooked mushrooms. They will all affect the plaque in the mouth. So you have, and then of course you tell the patient to drink more water, stay hydrated, using sugar-free chewing gum. The chewing habit will also help you because it will make the body produce more saliva. Especially that chewing gum of xylitol. Exactly. Exactly. Guys, you see I'm learning. Yes, exactly. Mouthwashes? Yes. Some mouthwashes. Yes. So some people, so many, many patients come and they're like, I'm so good. I brush, I floss, and then I use mouthwash every single day, morning and night. And I'm like, it's great that you brush. It's great that you floss. We're going to talk about the timing, when to brush, when to floss. Yes. But mouthwash every day is somewhat on antibiotic every day. We talked about that 700 different strains of bacteria in the mouth. Yes. You are killing them all. Okay. So what's your rec about mouthwash then? So for mouthwash, definitely without alcohol. Okay. No matter what formulation you're using, without alcohol. For patients who do have a tendency for more decay, we do prescribe, it's an over-the-counter fluoride containing mouthwash to be used probably once a day. Probably it's not, part of that routine is not going to break the oral cavity, just as a prescription. Mm-hmm. So it's just like you're taking an antibiotic for five to seven days. It's not forever. Okay. And then, um, there are some water jets that you can use that, um, The Waterpix. Like the Waterpix. Sorry, Waterpix. Oh, no, no. I love what I'm just, I'm like, please tell me that's okay. Cause I just started mine and I love it. No, it's just because it's just because it's, um, it's the brand is Waterpix. Oh, sorry. I was kidding. Water, Jenner, things that sprays water in a hard, whatever that device is that sprays water at me hard. Um, what's the generic? A Waterjet. Waterjet. Yeah. So that's what I, like for me, when I see patients, I'll tell them Waterpix and they're like, what, what, that's the brand? And I'll be like, I don't know. It's Waterpix. So just preparing for here. Thank you. I remember it. So it's a Waterjet. Okay. So, um, Oh, so do you recommend those? So they're excellent. So what I would do, I would, it's an intentional use of the mouthwash. So for patients back to the patients who have xerostomia, the patients who have dry mouth, there are some formulations that have enzymes that are like saliva. And rather than swishing with them, you can either use in the Waterpix. So you are, um, you are kind of spraying the water between the teeth. It's not instead, it's not as a, um, something instead of the flossing, it is an added. Oh, okay. Like it's not either, like, it's not either or with the flossing wins. Okay. Okay. Flossing wins. Flossing wins. I'm so sorry. You want to live longer. You want to live healthier. Yes. Floss every day. I feel really positive about flossing. Yes. So good. See, that's how I care. Watch this. Yeah. Do my breath work about it. Okay. So you heard it here first, folks. Flossing wins. I'm kidding. You knew that all all along. Yeah. Flossing wins. Okay. How often should I be flossing? Twice a day. Okay. If you have to do it one time, at night. Okay. Do I floss before or after I brush? Uh, the, the, the jury is out. Oh, because I'll do whatever you say. Before. Okay. So I like, think of it, think of it as you're flossing. You're removing whatever gunk is under the gum and then you'll come with a brush and then you kind of clean everything off. And then I'm water jetting. I'm your water jetting. In addition to flossing. In addition, yes. Okay. Yes. I got it. And then we cannot move from this without talking about tongue scraping. Let's do it. So tongue scraping. Let's do it. Let's talk about tongue scraping. Yes. Yes. So tongue scraping. So you have, uh, many people come in and there's even if, if for their listeners, like, uh, just get a mirror or your phone, look at your tongue, and then you will see different colors on your tongue. Some people have very healthy tongues and some people will have white coating on their tongue or different coating on their tongue depending on their tongue depending on what they ate. So we want the, uh, the tongue scraper. I like the copper ones. There is some reported antibacterial effect of the copper, uh, tongue scrapers. It kind of removes the top dead layer of cells on top of the papilla. And that keeps your mouth fresh and keeps that ecosystem clean and kind of, uh, balanced. Gentle scraping. I just want to be very prescriptive with our patients. Very, very gentle scraping. And that, and then where in the routine is this? Sorry to get so tactical, but where in my dental routine is this? I think I do it at the end. I don't think it matters. Also twice a day? Once a day. Once a day. Great. Again, I don't want people to get lost in the details. If you, if you, if we give them like a big prescription of, of many things to do, they're gonna not do anything. I have a lot of optimism that we can all brush twice, floss twice before and scrape once a day. Yes. Gently. Gently scrape. And then brushing is first thing in the morning, not after your coffee. Okay. Remember anything acidic you drink makes your teeth weaker. So you want to drink, you want to brush before. Okay. And then you want to brush the last thing before you sleep. For patients who struggle with that, I'll just tell them, you know what I want you to floss right after dinner and brush before you go to sleep. I love it. Just kind of have them. I don't even need to go to a spa. This is how I can take care of myself. Yes. I, I, no, I really, I mean it. I really love it. Okay. And the scraping, these are, this is all incredibly educational. And I, and I, I don't mean to be over tactical about when, but I do think that confuses people and then they don't do it. So this is why like the, the, you know, the clear recommendation is so helpful, but also the positive framing. And again, like this is so connected to our overall health. As you said, it's the mirror. Um, and you mentioned, you know, all these even by, bi-directional relationships with certain medical conditions and your oral health. Um, why do you think that, you know, medicine, um, and dentistry have felt so disconnected all these years? Um, I'm not going to point fingers. Okay. But in our history, we, we do take a, like a detailed intake of the patient's medical history. And we do ask for a lot of time we do refer patients for their management of their diabetes or the management of their, uh, blood pressure. I think that, um, everybody's doing their thing. They're like, there are silos, right? Everybody's doing their thing and we're doing, but, uh, we, that's why, uh, it's great to have people like you who will extend the hand and, um, we, we need people to connect. We need more people who collaborate and connect because, um, the mouth is, is so integral. Yeah. Yeah. To overall health in a, again, it's an open wound. Like imagine someone walking with an open wound in their eye. Yes. Would, would you say just, you know what, just, it's fine. It's not connected. No, it's almost like a foolish oversight to not have it be completely fully integrated. One thing, and we'll save this, but for education, for my, for, for my colleagues and myself too, and for my patients is even just in changing our patient questionnaires when they're coming to a primary care visit, right? I mean, they're having two visits a year, right? If they are healthy with their dentist, am I right? The recommended two visits or every six months annual visit with me as their primary care doc, we should be asking them the same questions. Yes, definitely. And then I will add one thing like we, again, we do the detailed medical questionnaire. I working, preparing for this. I'm like, you know what? I want as many people to, as many patients to know. And for my colleagues also to know in the medical field, there are basic things. I, I respect so much the time, the, the, the time limit that physicians have now with patients with the way the system is now, but it's a 30 seconds. Does a patient have bleeding gums? That's easy, right? It can even be in the questionnaire. Do you have bleeding gums? Do you have a dry mouth? Do you have a dry mouth? Do you have, do you feel that there, there's a bad, bad halitosis? There's a bad odor coming from your mouth? Sensitivity. If, sensitivity. If a patient says yes to any of them, let's refer them to a dentist. Yes. Because managing the itis, because that patient is at a high risk for periodontitis. Mm-hmm. If that patient is managed early on, you control their glycemia, like the, the way their body metabolizes. We can help. Yeah. I think that's what's so empowering. Exactly. It's not just that we're finding a problem. It's that early warnings, symptoms, we can characterize them, figure them out, and make you feel better. And not wait until the patient we call hospital dentistry to extract that tooth before a major surgery. Right. No, thank you. Or what breaks my heart. You know what? The patient needs clearance for a kidney transplant, or the patient needs clearance for, for liver transplant. Mm-hmm. And then this is the time I see the patient? Yes. I'll tell you one thing that's mind-blowing. Yeah. But it's so true, because I remember when I was a resident too, we would call, we would have our dentistry colleagues come in, in a transplant situation. Mm-hmm. So before a patient receives a transplant, they would have a screening. But what we're trying to do, the two of us together, is go way upstream of these, of these situations of something like a transplant. This is something every day, every day self-care and health. When the patient is young and healthy and has all their teeth. Yes, perfect. Do you know that the life expectancy of people who are above 65, who do not have 20 teeth, drops by a drastic percentage? 20 teeth is the number. There are a lot of studies about it. And in Japan, they did, um, like a public health awareness thing, where they, um, it is called 20 above 80. So their aim was to try to get as many people to have 20 teeth in their mouth above 80. Let's talk about that. Like, like, literally 20 teeth is the direct correlation to longevity. To longevity. I think there's the World Leaders Study. They also talk about that number. So what, what they find, think about it. Someone who does not have teeth. Maybe we should mention for everyone how many teeth we're supposed to have. So with, with, with children, children will have 20 teeth. Okay. And then that's the, the deciduous, that's the baby teeth. And then by the age of six until the age of 13, they start losing them gradually. And we, they end up with 32 teeth. Okay. So the normal adult has 32 teeth. Okay. I just wanted to make sure that, wow. So we're only just trying to retain 20. 20 is a number that affects health. Okay. I think that's an incredible, an incredible statistic. Right. So even just with 20 teeth, it makes sense to me. Because think about it. Someone who has 20 teeth can eat good food and enjoy, and enjoy their food, enjoy their food. And they are not self-conscious about being around people. So they'll talk to people. Right. So they're not going to socially isolate. They're not, again, we go back to that wheel of wellness, right? Exactly. The community. They are more, they're probably going to be strong enough to walk. Right. Right. So it is all tied up. Not to mention not having inflammation. I mean, am I the only person like I have the smallest thing in my mouth that feels so magnified? Of course. Right. So your mouth is hurting. It's inflamed. It's sore. I mean, I'm going to be in a very bad mood. Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. You know, this reminds me too, because 20 teeth makes me think that if I had 20 teeth, I would need some intervention. So I think a lot of people think about procedures as cosmetic things, like, you know, implants or orthodontics, but I'm guessing these are connected to oral health as well. Yes. So again, it's just reframing everything and setting the right intention, right? The right scope for everything. So yesterday at the school, there was a patient that presented with one of my students and the patient had a lot of crowding. He was a gentleman in his fifties, I have to say, some crowding in his teeth and then missing two teeth in the back. And the crowding is in the anterior teeth, right? So, um, so I asked him, do you ever think about straightening your teeth? And he's like, no, I'm like too old. I'm not going to say 50 years old. It's not super young, but I'm like, I'm not too, I'm too old for this. I do not worry about my smile. I'm not going to do it. And then I told him, okay, so let me put it for you this way. If you straighten the teeth, you will be able to floss between the teeth. Because right now I see a lot of plaque and hardened plaque on the teeth, on your teeth. Now you're 50, you are able, cognitively, you're good. Your tactile sensation is good. You're not doing it correctly. Now you are struggling with it. Now I want you to think 10 years from now, is it going to be the same or is it going to be worse yourself cognitively or manual dexterity? Is it because what I see in your teeth now is not going to stay in your teeth. It's going to go all over your body. So then it sounds like things like orthodontics, implants, it's not just about vanity. No, 100%. It is your restoring function. I have to bring up this patient that one of my students saw yesterday. So the patient comes, he is in his early 50s and he has crowding. So his teeth on the bottom, he has trouble flossing them. There is a lot of inflammation. He has two teeth missing in the back. So I tell him, do you think about straightening your teeth? And back in dental school, they would always tell us, again, education has to happen on both sides, right? So they would tell us, you always ask patients if they, nobody is old to straighten their smile, their teeth. Nobody is too old to have a great smile. But my approach is different. I do not look at the smile. Of course, everybody's smile is unique and their own, right? But for me, it's about function. So someone who has a lot of crowding in his 50s and he's not flossing, he's struggling with the flossing. I see the inflammation and the buildup now, even though at the school, we keep them on a tight schedule of the cleaning. So he is struggling with it. And he does have bone loss. I can see longer teeth in his mouth. So it means that he does have that bacteria. What happens in that patient? There is, we have atherosclerotic changes already happening, distal to the teeth. Sorry. Right. So meaning like there's like hardening and plaque of the heart, arteries in the heart, arteries in the heart, far away, distal. In the brain, we do not know how each body is very unique. So that is already happening. And so for him, straightening his teeth, cleaning that plaque can help him live a healthier life. Absolutely. So, so I asked him about that. And he's like, Oh, if you put it this way, sure, I'll go, I'll go and listen. And then as far as getting implants, the more chewing surfaces you have, the better foods you can eat. Exactly. Right. So once you put that, I feel sometimes dentists are at a disadvantage because when they talk to their patients, patients feel like they're selling them something. That's right. That it's like elective. Elective. Right. Elective. And if there is no pain, no problem. Right. It's such a disservice. But then that inflammation we see is like a check engine. Right. It's clinically warranted to get your teeth straightened. Exactly. So it is a medical necessity. Absolutely. So that's why we need to bring the mouth back to the mouth, to the body. The whole body. Basically. You're reminding me that henceforth, I will refrain, I will reframe flossing as I don't have to floss. I get to floss. That is, that is amazing. You like it? I can come do that for your students. Thank you. Thank you. We have to start a campaign. You get to floss. I'll tell you one thing, how the, how the thinking change changes. Back in the early 2000s, we had one of the best periodontists say, you tell the patients, you, when patients ask, what teeth should I floss? Do I have to floss all my teeth? You say, well, you floss the teeth you want to keep. Yeah. And it's on you. It gives you agency. It is agency. Right. You're like, I'm not staying up all night worrying about your teeth. Exactly. Right. It gives you agency. Right. But then you're not flossing for your teeth only. You're flossing for your body. Yes. And for people who are healthy, you are flossing instead of for anti-inflammation. Right. And to keep yourself healthy. Keep yourself healthy. Right. For vanity. Right. The same way you would screen and get a mammogram, you should keep your oral cavity healthy. Exactly. Let's jump into some audience questions. There's many. We talked a little bit about mouth breathing. So it is something to worry about. I can already answer that one myself. Should I try mouth taping? I love mouth taping. You do? Tell us. Yes. So going back to the ecosystem, so you want that basic moist oral cavity to stay moist and basic throughout the night. Okay. At night, everybody's salivary glands work less. They get lazy. So we do get dry at night. Once you tape your mouth, you have that moist space to protect the teeth. Let's talk about nasal breathing. When we did the breath work at the beginning in the episode, we talked the benefits of nasal breathing go beyond the mouth. It goes to all the body. Right. So noses were created, were made for breathing, mouths for eating, kissing people we love. We don't want anybody breathing through their mouth. Just let's... So the world according to Rana. Yes. I love it. Okay. I'm into it. So the nasal breath will change the ambient air into nitric oxide. The nitric oxide that is so important for body relaxation, for the cardiovascular health. Smooth muscle relaxation. Smooth muscle relaxation. So patients will wake up refreshed. They will wake up beautiful. And then I will... For the person who asked, get that xylitol lozenge. To moisten the mouth. Moisten the mouth. You put it in your mouth. You do the mouth tape and you go to sleep. I'm guessing too, I mean, because this is where everything is so integrated. You know, we can always bring in our sleep medicine specialists too, just to make sure there isn't something else going on. Of course. We always have to always check with your physician and anything we say here. Of course, it is general advice. No, no, it's just perfect. It just reminds me that again, all these like, we need to integrate all these conversations. Yes. So helpful about the mouth taping and inexpensive. Inexpensive. And if you don't like it, it's inexpensive enough. If you don't like it, you can just not do it. And many times you will wake up and the tape is off your mouth. Just to explain to our listeners, you are not duct taping your mouth. It's when they're... Actually, I really appreciate you. So, so, so, so in that, like I started talking about, it was mouth taping, the expression was, and I have to give, um, uh, Mr. James Nestor his book. When I read it, it kind of got me thinking that way. So he talks about the importance of nasal breathing versus mouth breathing. And after his book, I started doing it myself. And then I had my, my, my family do it. But at the beginning, when you talk to patients, you tell them, I want you to mouth, how about you try mouth taping? And they'll be like, Oh, what are you talking about? And then it is not actually sealing of all of your lips. You're just making it easier to, you want, you want the nose to do its job. It's just gets lazy. Right. So it's approximation of the lips together. Now it's not mouth taping, it's lip taping. So you approximate the lips together. Got it. There are different designs on the market. Try a couple. It's inexpensive enough that you don't like it. You don't have to do it. Right. And or go talk to you about it and your colleagues. I love it. Um, we mentioned, um, the metal tongue like tool. Um, but clearly the algorithm on YouTube thinks I have bad breath. Um, cause I keep getting fed videos of people using it to clean their tongue. Um, you mentioned what it was already, but will it also help? You mentioned that it will do that gentle scraping. Will it also help my breath? Yes. So the, the bad breath comes from a bacteria that produces sulfur and it can also indicate stomach problem or sometimes post nasal drip. So if the problem is in the mouth, then the, the gentle scraping of the papilla of the tongue will kind of get rid of the bacteria that produces that sulfur. And then you'll have a fresher mouth. Can you just define what the papilla are for? Okay. So the papilla, so, um, every, like, uh, if you run your tongue against your teeth, you will feel a little, it's not going to be very smooth. You have little, little bumps. So the bumps are the papilla that will give us the taste. It will help us enjoy the food. And it has the amazing bacteria that are, again, we're going to loop over again to the nitric oxide, the bacteria that helps the mouth produce nitric oxide, the bacteria that we, we want to keep fresh and we don't want the mouthwash to kill. To eliminate. Exactly. So we eliminate it just by the scraping and then we have the ecosystem balanced again. I love it. Um, I'd love to go back to, um, your office ambiance, which, you know, you described with the music and the aromatherapy and just the discussion in itself, um, and the breathing, obviously, which I'll be doing in about 10 minutes again. Um, Annie, our producer went to the dentist recently and it was integrative dentistry as well. And they took her blood pressure before she started. Yes. Is that something you do too? Yes. So we do that at, at least at the first appointment for every patient and for patients who do have controlled hypertension, we will always monitor their blood pressure because depending on patients come to the dentist anxious all the time. Yes. Right. So we do not, there is a limit where you can not see the patient. You might some, and then we differentiate between anxiety that is white coat syndrome, which I struggle sometimes to understand if it's controlled, even it should go down immediately. It shouldn't stay for long anyway. So yes. So we do that. And at the school, we teach the students to do that. I mean, I, I like it for many reasons. I mean, I think first of all, I just, again, I think of this is all primary care, you know, just our essential preventative care. Um, I feel like again, you should have a longitudinal relationship with your dentist, the same way you have a longitudinal relationship with your primary care doc. The blood pressure I think is, again, is another reflection sometimes often, right. If there's other medical conditions, but also your current stress state. And I would think that that might inform to, um, these larger, you know, these larger conversations and this really healing environment. Exactly. And we have a lot of patients that we teach the breath work. And then again, next time they'll come and they're not anxious anymore. Yeah. Cause you're like both calming, but also healing. Those are two different things. Yes. And education is everything. So when I frame it for that, for patients, when they patients say, it's like a spa environment, I say it is, but this is not why I'm doing it. I am doing it because it is science driven. You are biohacking, if we can say that term, you are biohacking your body. You are teaching your brain another way. We are reframing the experience in your, in your mind. And you're using the smell, you're using the music and you're using the breath. And that is all agency. I was going to say, and it's all agency. I think that's just so brilliant. Similarly, um, tobacco. I mean, I feel like that's kind of obvious, but I feel like it, why not? It's very repeating. So it's very, so again, people, people who smoke are a higher incidence for oral cancer. Sure. For sure. But as far as the gum, it is very deceiving because nicotine is vasoconstrictive. So the, the, someone with a lot of inflammation, inflammatory markers is not going to have a lot of bleeding, not because there isn't when you take x-rays. The vessels get constricted, so smaller and narrower. Smaller and narrower, but you have the, the inflammation markers are up in the roof. You will still have the loss of bone and a lot of periodontal disease. So definitely. So just like it's so bad for everything. It's so bad for your mouth. It's so bad for your mouth. Are you disappointed when you examine me and you can tell I'm, haven't flossed? So again, today. But do you think less of me as a person? No. So today is all about reframing. I am your coach and I meet the patients where they're, they're at and, um, um, no one is perfect. And just not flossing that day means that let's talk about what is happening, how we can, um, it's the dentist wears so many hats. You are, you are a psychologist sometimes. You do listen. We also like don't flatter yourself. I'm not thinking about your flossing all the time. Right. So no, no, for, for me, when, when I don't see the patient that flosses, I'll ask them. And again, I going back to integrative training, I use motivational interviewing. Yes. I'm already motivated. I mean, for sure. It feels very different. So where do you have the floss? Let's see. Where do you have the floss? Is it out next to you? Or is it some patients will be like, I have, I have the floss, but I don't do it. And I'm like, okay, so where do you have the floss? And they're like, it's in the cupboard. Yes. Like, okay, let's put it outside next to your toothbrush. So, um, there's no shame. It's a safe space and we only want to see you be better. I love that personalizing. I mean, I, I know a lot of people who brush their teeth in the shower, you know what I mean? Whatever. Use the water jet, water jet. Um, um, anyways, that's, that's helpful. And I feel reassured. Thank you for saying that. I was asking for a friend though. Okay. I believe you. Uh, lastly, um, I think there's a lot of just conflicting information about toothpastes. Um, can you just give us some general sort of guidelines about how to choose one? Okay. So, um, generally look for the ADA seal. Okay. The ADA stands for the American Dental Association. Perfect. There are different products for different people. For many in the dental world, we still feel fluoride at the right dose. It can protect you the best. Okay. Things, there are other options. There are other products that have xylitol. You want, you want to, to look for products where the first couple of ingredients will have xylitol. Okay. We'll have fluoride if you're, uh, uh, if you want to go that way. Nanohydroxyapatite, uh, baking soda, arginine. So these are, there are a lot of mouth, uh, toothpastes that have this, and these are good for you. Great. Things you do not want in your toothpaste. You do not want, um, charcoal in your toothpaste. Okay. Again, be wary of fats. Don't follow fats. Uh, charcoal is too abrasive. It was marketed a couple of years ago as being, you're getting bright teeth. It's basically, you are using sandpaper, rough sandpaper on your teeth. You're going to get bright for a little bit and then you drink your coffee and then the stain. Now you have all these open enamel, uh, rods that are going to stain worse and you're going to have more sensitivity. Another product that, um, be wary of if you're someone who will have more ulcers, it's called SLS, sodium lauryl sulfate. Many patients who are prone to getting Aftus ulcers, they react to that product and it's the foaming product. Okay. Many, there are many on the market that do not have this product. A while back, there were some toothpaste. I'm not sure because, uh, hopefully our audience are all around the world. There are some, um, toothpaste that have triclosan and it is, uh, it was banned in Europe, I think 10 years ago, a couple of years ago, it was banned here, but it is an industrial material that you do not want in your toothpaste, but it was just banned a couple of years ago here. This is enormously helpful. Um, and we'll list all of these and these will be guidance in our, in our show notes. Thank you so much. Um, uh, we've covered so much ground here. I, I truly cannot believe how much you have taught me. I do want to make sure that I give you a chance, any last minute takeaways for the audience. I mean, you've given us, as I said, so much just expert, um, guidance and honestly, just coaching, which I think is just above and beyond. I'm so happy to be here. I, I just want simple does it. Yes. Don't complicate it. I love it. And so, and visit Dennis twice. Then is that visit dentists, uh, once a year for your checkup, follow the recommendation for how many times you need to get the cleaning done. I love it. Be an advocate, advocate for yourself, connect your primary care, your dentist together, agency, agency, agency. Um, you are just amazing. I just can't thank you for this conversation enough. I can't wait to bring you back. There's so many more topics. I can't wait to work more closely with you from a, you know, primary care level as well, but you're just so insightful and compassionate. The world is very, very lucky to have you. Um, for my fellow physicians and, and other medical colleagues, I just literally looking forward to partnering more, um, to our listeners. Um, in case no one reminded you today, um, floss, you get to floss. Um, as I said, links to evidence-based resources, show notes, those are all in the episode description. And until next time, stay curious, healthy, and we'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. Thank you so much.