Good morning. My name is Gotfred Ketchnney and I'm a professor of medical oncology and gynecologic oncology at UCLA. And I would like to share in this webinar today an update about a new class of drugs which are called PARP inhibitors. Some of you may have been treated with these drugs and some not yet. But I'd like to give you background information and an overview of the clinical data that are available today for this important new class of drug which has really changed the way how we treat ovarian cancer in 2019. I encourage you to ask questions through Twitter uh and YouTube and the hashtag number is listed here. Any questions that you submit will then be presented to me at the end of the webinar and I'll be very happy to answer any questions that you have. The objectives of my talk today are first I'd like to review the mechanism of action so that you really understand the value of this drug and how it particularly targets vulnerabilities in uh your tumor. Then I'd like to chronicle the recent development and the FDA approval of three PARP inhibitors that are now available in clinic. I'd like to review how these BA mutations can drive your treatment decision in the sense that there are some patients that benefit more and there are some patients that benefit less. And that sometimes is an important piece of information when weighing the benefits towards the risks of a treatment that you are taking. And I'd like to describe best practices of how to manage toxicities because many of you may have experienced some toxicities uh with taking these PARP inhibitors on a daily basis. But I do want to tell you there is a way around that and there are ways that you can take this drug in a safe uh way without major side effects. First of all, u the mechanism of action. You don't have to be a biochemist to understand that. And I'm trying to really um give you a broad picture of how these drugs work. In some patients that are diagnosed with ovarian cancer, there is a genetic predisposition which has been well described and that means that you inherit a gene from your mother or your father that predisposes you to this disease. And they are listed here and two of them may be best familiar to you. That is the PRAA 1 and BRAA 2 gene. But there are others like RAD 51 or ATM ATR which are less frequent. But they predispose you to develop ovarian cancer during your lifetime. If we look at a pie chart of patients with ovarian cancer, you can see it's about a quarter of patients that carry these mutations. And there is a distinction between those that carry a germline mutation that you inherit from your mother or your father or those that actually have that mutation that's in the tumor only in the tumor and not in normal cells. If we look at the numbers shown here, how frequent are these in a patient cohort that is very typical for Los Angeles, you would see that about 18% of these patients have germline Brocka mutations. And about another 7% have these mutations only in the tumor tissue. That means not in your normal healthy other cells. So about one out of four patients have this genetic alteration that can predispose you to the development of ovarian cancer. But most importantly is a very important predictor for excellent response to this new class of drugs. And why? Well, we have uh many ways of repairing DNA damage that occurs as a natural result of being exposed to sunlight to any kind of toxins. And you can see these are either classified as single strand breaks, as double strand breaks, bulky adducts or so-called mismatches. And we have a very intricate DNA repair mechanism set up to maintain normal function of cells. The double strand breaks are very critical for the efficacy of a PARP inhibitor. And the BRA one and BA gene and associated genes guarantee that anytime the double helix, the hardwired DNA that codes the genes is broken gets reannealed and fixed without an error. What happens when you take a PARP inhibitor? Now PARP does not affect double strand brake repair. It affects single strand brake repair. PARP is critical for fixing a single strand that's broken. If you inhibit that, cells grow and duplicate and you make a copy of that strand and suddenly a single strand always turns into a double strand. Not a problem for a cell that has an intact double strand brake repair because it fixes the double strand break further down the line. But when you do not have an intact double strand break repair, you have lost the backup mechanism to repair DNA damage, this first insult becomes what we call synthetically lethal, critical because you just can't repair that. So using a PARP inhibitor would only kill a tumor cell that has a deficiency in double strand break repair. In the next slides, I'll show you a few few uh summary slides of what led to the approval of three drugs that we now have available. And the three drugs are listed here. Many of you may know the trade names better than the generic names lin parza, rupra and zigula which are rupaper and nuraper. Olap is approved in a couple of indications. One is actual treatment for patients with recurrent ovarian cancer that have had at least three prior lines of chemotherapy. Rubraa is approved for patients as treatment in patients that have had at least two prior lines of chemotherapy both in those that have germline or somatic mutations in braa and neuroparup is now obtaining its approval and these data are currently being approved by the FDA for treatment. All three in addition are approved for maintenance therapy. Now maintenance therapy means when you have suffered a recurrence, you have completed chemotherapy and your surgeon or your uh oncologist says you've had a very good response to chemotherapy. I would like to maintain that. I would like to stabilize that. So I will continue on an oral pill which is a PARP inhibitor. in this maintenance setting uh is probably the most common use of PARP inhibitors and I I I would think some of you in the audience have been on these drugs or are on these drugs. Now in the treatment setting this slide summarizes uh the three PARP inhibitors uh and the data that led to the approval. These are relatively small studies between 55 and 137 patients. And you can see that in these patients that received prior chemotherapy in either 34 or 54% of the patients, the tumor shrank significantly, decreased in size by nearly half. We call that a partial response or even completely disappeared such as a partial uh complete response. This data was convincing enough to say this is a very active drug in patients that have BRCA1 or two mutations and led to the approval of two of these three and one pending. We've learned a number of things in the past now and that is where best to use a PARP inhibitor. And this graph depicts the efficacy of a PARP inhibitor in dependence from the number of prior chemotherapy regimens. And you can see from one to six prior chemotherapy regimens, the more chemotherapy you have, the lower the percent of patients is that response to the drug, which is described as the objective response rate. You can also see that there's a difference between the black curve and the blue curve. And the black being platinum sensitive, meaning those that responded to prior chemotherapy overall have higher response rates as opposed to those that are resistance. So response to a PARP inhibitor really tracks to fewer lines of prior chemotherapy, but also the fact whether you're platinum sensitive and platinum resistant. And that led to a completely new development of the drug in the sense that we saw hm if you respond to a platinum you may respond to a PARP inhibitor. And the explanation is quite simple. The efficacy of a platinum such as carboplatin or cis platin depends on deficient DNA repair. You intentionally damage the DNA. If you can't repair it, it leads to sustained tumor cell death and slow recovery. So they both have efficacy based on a very comparable pathophysiological mechanism and we've used that in these larger studies that are uh listed here which led to the approval of PARP inhibitors in the maintenance setting. study 42, solo 2, study 10, aerial 2 was actually a treatment study, but aerial 3 was the maintenance treatment with and the nolva study with the three different PARP inhibitors. I'd like to focus a little bit on maintenance therapy and why do we think it's relevant? Uh ovarian cancer is unfortunately a disease uh where you are commonly suffering from a recurrence. Even though initial treatment is very effective, most patients obtain a complete remission disappearance of any detectable disease. However, it is unfortunately all too often that patients do suffer a recurrence and it's now known that this can be a recurring pattern more like a chronic disease. Unfortunately, the intervals between these recurrences could get shorter and shorter. So if there is a drug that can extend the time between chemotherapies and change this brief period often significantly that would be of great value to patients. So the FDA really looked at the progression free survival as an important endpoint and I'd like to show you some very intriguing and and and encouraging data exciting data and how we have now changed the treatment landscape of ovarian cancer. These are patients that suffered a recurrence. They have a germ line or a sematic broch mutation. They were treated with chemotherapy. They obtained a complete or a partial response. Were then treated with the actual drug or received a placebo. So a randomized study. And if you look at the outcome data here depicted in what we call a Kaplan Maya curve where you look at starting point you have 100% of patients that are well but the further out you move here on the time you see that the curve drops. So patients do suffer a recurrence and the quicker the recurrences occur the quicker the curve would drop and you see a difference between those that received the dummy drug or the placebo and those the actual drug. The dotted line is the 50% line. That means half of the patients, 50% suffered a recurrence after just five months if they did not take the PARP inhibitor on this study. However, if they took the PARP inhibitor, the median progression free survival occurred at about 20 months. So there's a four-fold increase in median progression free survival, which is highly significant. That means a patient without a PARP inhibitor would may have a recurrence after one year but being on the PARP inhibitor it is now approximately at four years. This was now also studied in the frontline setting. That means in patients that were newly diagnosed with ovarian cancer that received frontline chemotherapy and then received frontline chemotherapy after the initial surgery and then received maintenance therapy either the real drug or the placebo in the so-called solo one study. My colleague Kathleen Moore has presented this very recently and you can see a striking improvement in progression free survival without the pill. At average there's a recurrence within about 15 months 13.8 months with the PARP inhibitor. The average hasn't even been reached. There's about a four to fivefold improvement in progression free survival in these patients which is very meaningful uh for the life of these Now I'd like to move on to the efficacy of a PARP inhibitor beyond patients without a brocha mutation because it does actually only occur in about 20 to 25% of patients and the majority do not harbor such a strong predictor. If you remember about a quarter of patients had the RAA mutation either in the germ line or in the tumor only a sematic mutation and the other patients they're well characterized in the meantime they have a number of other molecular alterations that may help us inform future treatments but what's striking is that about 50% of these patients have brokaike mutations other mutations that lead to the same result that is deficient double strand break repair. So we now know that it's not just a mutation but it can be epigenetic silencing. you turn that gene off, it's not functioning. Or it could be mutations in others such as I showed you on the first slide. Remember RAD 51C, P10 and others, PLB2 that can contribute to the same end result. And that is something that we're now doing in the clinic is that we're studying patients that not only have BA mutations, but that have BRA like tumors. And you can do that by just going through and sequencing the tumor tissue for the presence of BRAA one mutations or a long list of others that result in the same end result of inefficient double strand break repair or you can do something which is similar where you just study what is the end result if you can't break or repair double strand brakes. Well, then the DNA gets repaired in what we call an errorprone way. It has mistakes. It has duplications, losses, it gets messy. And you can study that when you line up the chromosomes from one to the 22 that you have. You can see on on the top line, this is not a straight line. There are areas of these chromosomes that are gained and lost. And when you then quantify that and I'll show you a patient with a bronco mutation has a lot of these breaks gains and losses. The gray areas are shaded makes up about 15 20% of the DNA. You have someone who is braa wild type has very small areas that have these gains and losses. And then there are the braike ones. We don't really know what mutations they have but we see the same pattern. So we can characterize this and there are tests available now in clinic such as one from foundation medicine that will sequence your tumor but it will also give you something that's called homologous re combination deficiency score. So it'll give you basically the bracka likeness and the cutoff that has been defined in studies is 16%. So this is something that will not only give you information on the germline mutations, but it will give you more information and it will more likely help uh patients beyond those that have broco mutations. And I'll show you some of the data. This is the nolva study. I haven't reported that yet, but it was also a maintenance study where patients received neuroprip as a maintenance therapy after chemotherapy for recurrent disease. These are the patients with germline brocoa mutation. Very similar. A significant improvement in progression free survival. There's no question this is an effective drug. But then these are patients that do not have a brocha mutation but they're bracaike. They have other mutations that confer the same DNA repair deficiency. This is an effective drug. not quite as effective in the sense that there's a four-fold improvement in progression free survival but there's a doubling. Then there is a group of patients that was actually treated as platinum sensitive disease that has neither bra mutations nor related mutations such as uh homologous re combination or double strand break repair deficiency. And here the difference is much smaller. You can see it amounts to just 3 months difference 3.8 versus 6.9. So there is a gradual benefit of PARP inhibitors and I think it's important to know how much will you benefit from it especially when you maybe experience some side effects. Um these are a summary of what I call the difficult to treat HRD negative tumors. These are all patients that have platinum sensitive disease because of the same underlying mechanism. They should respond to a PARP inhibitor but they don't have a brocha mutation. And you can see yes there is a mild improvement. This was enough to grant the approval for this. But as a physician and patient, I think we have to be sure uh to give accurate information of how great the impact will be. This is particularly important when we talk about side effects. Now, I would say overall these are well tolerated, but patients can experience significant side effects. And this is unfortunately really fine print but I'm going to guide you through in detail the three PARP inhibitors rukaprip neurap and they're very comparable across PARP inhibitors except neurapr which I'll comment on a little more in detail but the table really summarizes three main side effects one is gastrointestinal side effects meaning 70% approximately 70% suffer some nausea that can be mild The other main side effect is fatigue. About 70% do suffer from increased fatigue and the other is about 25% of patients do suffer a drop in red blood cells anemia that can occur during treatment. Now most of these side effects are mild. They're graded as grade 1 to four toxicity. And if you focus on the grade three or four, those are the severe side effects. There's a grading system. Severe side effects are very very rare. So most patients don't have severe grade three or four fatigue or grade three or four. However, this is a maintenance therapy. This is given every day and even a mild side effect can be something meaningful for patients such as mild nausea. So I think we have to really guide patients through these side effects and address things uh on a personal level on an individual basis when we manage toxicities of these drugs rather than really just looking at the statistics and looking for severe toxicities. If you look at laboratory abnormalities again I think drop in red blood cells is the most predominant for neurapr. The drop in platelets has been described and I will show you some data how that can be addressed. Um other than that again it is the fatigue the gastrointestinal side effects that are mild nausea sometimes leading to to vomiting and it is the laboratory parameters that change in general that affect the red blood cells hemoglobin in some cases with neurop the platelets. White blood cells are generally not that affected. There are some less important side effects that affect the kidney value of the creatinin which can be elevated but that is not a reflection of renal insufficiency. It is um an issue of competitive drug elimination in the kidneys. So your doctor will monitor you for these side effects. Uh but what you can anticipate is to probably experience some mild fatigue and GI uh symptoms when you start this treatment. Now the key thing is um to look out for severe side effects and it is known that chemotherapy can lead to severe side effects life-threatening side effects as do PARP inhibitors and these are summarized as myisplastic syndromes or the acute myocyic leukemia and they have been reported with PARP inhibitors because PARP inhibitors inhibit DNA damage and have the potential to be genotoxic. The data shown here are reported for lap about 1.5% that means one to two patients out of a 100 that take a PARP inhibitor could develop myodisplastic syndrome and they're very comparable but it's important to keep in mind that most of these patients or have also received chemotherapy and for chemotherapy the incidence rate is comparable and it is probably a mild increase from 0.7 to one to 2% when you add a PARP inhibitor. So your clinician and your doctors, they will look out for a delayed recovery in your white blood cells or your platelets or your red blood cells. And if it takes too long for them to recover, they may do more diagnostic tests to screen for these side effects. This summarizes the side effects again across the different trials, one with neuroprip, therap. You can see in bold about 70% had mild nausea. 50 to 60% mild fatigue. The anemia was very similar around 25 18% here lower 7% and this was the grade three meaning they required blood transfusions. Overall this led to a number that I really want to point out dose reductions. Nearly 70% on the trial had to reduce the dose. Nearly 25 with a lap reduce the dose. Nearly 28% on another study, study 19 with the elap. And about 55% of patients on the aerial 3 had to reduce the dose. Why? To overcome the side effects that could be fatigue, nausea, anemia, drop in platelets. And this is the critical take-home message. There is a proven benefit in appropriately selected patients for PARP inhibitors. But if you run into side effects, it's not the best advice to stop treatment, but really continue at a reduced dose level because most of these side effects can be circumvented by appropriate dose reductions. And this just shows you the neurop study, the nolva study that I showed you. Starting on month one, all patients took the full dose. But quickly after 2 months, about half of them had a lower dose. And then going out to one year, you see it's about 23 that actually took two dose reductions. That's 100 milligram versus 200 mgram and 300 milligram. Despite dose reductions, this retrospective study showed that there was no difference in outcome. So it's safe to say when you take a PARP inhibitor and experience these side effects in an untolerable way, you are already treating at the maximum tolerated dose and it's safe to reduce slightly lower. There are some quality of life studies that have been reported that show uh by providing patients with questionnaires that carefully record how they feel. And these studies have not shown when appropriate dose reductions or counseling has been provided that there is no decrease in quality of life going out to up to 14 cycles uh of treatment. Here there is one caveat. These questionnaires however are built around chemotherapy and these chemotherapy questionnaires may not capture the daily toxicities as well. So um we will be seeing new data that may even do more accurate assessments of quality of life. But it's safe to say that there is no detriment in major life quality uh when appropriate steps are taken and these were done in the studies. Now, some of you in the audience may have been treated with a PARP inhibitor and um despite an initial success have noticed that the drug stopped working or is not working anymore. And we're just learning more and more about this interesting topic about acquired resistance to these PARP inhibitors. And I just want to give you a highlight in summary of some very uh interesting uh changes how the tumor can adapt to this pressure of inhibiting PARP uh with in combination with double strand break repair. And one of it is about 20 to 25% of patients that don't respond to a PARP inhibitor can develop so-called reversion mutations that through an incident coincidental event the mutation just gets reversed in that another base pair gets introduced and this is then a clone that proliferates and survives. This can be tested in tumor tissue. This can be tested in circulating DNA in blood. There are other epigenetic and hypomorphic braa mutations. There are other now mechanisms um that can be upregulated that can compensate for actually broa loss. Uh and we will hear more in the coming years and we will more importantly use this information [snorts] to develop novel treatments after you have failed a PARP inhibitor in the diagnosis of a vein cancer. Other mechanisms are drug elapat pumps. They can be upregulated. They just pump that drug out of the cells immediately and giving it in conjunction with medications that inhibit the drug pumps, you may be able to increase the efficacy. These are all mechanisms that are leading to novel clinical trials that will be exploring PARP inhibitors in combination with other drugs and your cancer centers or your institutions around you may have some of these trials open that should you have benefited from a PARP inhibitor you may be able to go on to. So in summary uh again PARP inhibition is what we call synthetically lethal. It is a targeted therapy that is most effective in those that have deficient double strand break repair. There is a tiered efficacy that is most pronounced in those that have broka mutations. Those that have broka-like mutations, there is a highly relevant efficacy but somewhat less impressive. In those that are platinum sensitive but are do not harbor a bronco mutation or broccolike uh mutations the efficacy is small and I think it's really an individual decision to say whether you would like to take this pill for that benefit and weigh it against the side effects. Um I do also think that the drug is less effective in those that have platinum resistant disease. Simply these are patients that have less frequent broco mutations less likely to have double strand break repair deficiency and um it it should be uh carefully thought through if you treat someone with a platinum resistant disease uh with a PARP inhibitor. I would advocate for that if there is a mutation in bronco one or two uh otherwise not. And again there are ongoing trials at your cancer centers uh throughout Southern California that will combine PARP inhibitors with novel inhibitors to restore the dependency uh that was critical for the efficacy of these pills in the first place. Um and um with that I'd like to conclude my overview. Um I believe I may be on time maybe a little late. I apologize and I'll be very happy to answer any questions that you have. Oh, thank you. I I I have a iPad here where some questions are listed. Um I was on a PARP inhibitor and my disease progressed. My doctor is offering offering me treatment with a different PARP inhibitor. Does this make sense? Yes. So, this really ties into um the last part of my talk is um if you've been on a PARP inhibitor, should you be retreated with a different PARP inhibitor? That may make sense. Um, and I would say under one condition if you've responded to your treatment with the first and PARP inhibitor. And what does respond mean? Well, that means that if you received it as a treatment, there was a shrinkage or if you received as a maintenance, uh if there was a significant duration that you were on the PARP inhibitor, let's say more than 6 months or more than 12 months, that mean that that that PARP inhibitor was effective and may have lost in some sense its efficacy. and retreating you at a later time point, be it as a single agent with a different PARP inhibitor or in combination with another drug may make sense. Uh if you're asking me whether there are differences between these PARP inhibitors, one better than the other, um uh from a clinical standpoint, there are no head-to-head comparisons. However, the data that are published do appear very similar in the benefits that these different patient populations have. And uh from a clinical standpoint, I think they're very comparable in their efficacy. There are pre-clinical data, meaning in the laboratory and in cell cultures where there are different mechanisms of actions and it is currently being investigated in clinical trials whether these differences in mechanisms really carry over into differences in clinical practice. And as of today, I don't think there is a better or a worse PAR inhibitor. There are subtle differences in their side effects that can be important for picking one over the other, but we have to stay tuned for further studies, especially regarding um the role of a different PARP inhibitor after failure of a prior one. There's another question. I'm on a PARP inhibitor but had to stop the medication because my red blood cells have dropped. My doctors want me want to put me on a lower dose. Should I continue on my original dose? Yeah. Um that pertains to the question if you experience a side effect that we would call more severe like a grade three or grade four do you immediately reduce the dose generally if it's the first time I would hold the drug until the side effects resolve and I would rechallenge you because you don't want to light-heartedly reduce a dose that may be important but um again there is no clear right or wrong. It's always an individual uh case decision. But if um you've recovered well, I think it's safe to reexpose you to the same dose. But if it happened a second time that either your platelets dropped or your red blood cells dropped, I would then probably not um not uh uh go back to the same dose and take a lower dose. Considering the data that I showed you that even with dose reductions, we don't see necessarily if you dose reduce because of side effects a um decrease in efficacy. Another question, what are the risk factors for taking PARP inhibitors? Um risk factors for taking PARP inhibitors, it's a good question. Um, one one of these PARP inhibitors has been studied uh and that is the nuraper in uh in the nolva study and a retrospective analysis showed that patients when they started taking the parinhibitor that weighed less than 77 kilo meaning were lighter were higher were at higher risk to develop a drop in their platelets or side effects. Also, patients that started out at baseline with platelets lower than 150,000 were more likely to develop severe thrombocytoenia. So, the guidelines have come out. Um, and however, this is not an FDA approved guideline. This is more or less a clinical recommendation to safely give the PARP inhibitor if your platelets are below than 150,000 or if you weigh less than 77 kilo. um you would usually start at a lower dose of neuropaper 200 versus 300 milligram. This does not apply to the other PARP inhibitors or lapar or recap. So far we have not seen data uh like this. Now the FDA will not use this as an unlabelled dosing recommendation until they've looked at the data that are now maturing and that will be presented in about two weeks in a meeting in Barcelona where this dosing schedule has been prospectively studied meaning looking forward patients were on different doses and they're looking and to compare the efficacy but it's a real world u uh we're out there and you want to give the drug safely. So if you're using your raprip, you want to uh be careful if the platelets are low when you start or if you're of lighter weight. I think I hope that answers your question. Do we have any more questions? No. Then I would very much like to thank you for joining the webinar and and submitting questions. I hope it was a little helpful for you and I very much look forward to being back. Thank you.