we would like to introduce a patient of ours Tom Townsend and Tom has been the focus of the case presentations throughout the day and we've gone through a story from when he was a stable font and patient to an unstable font and patient to a failing font and patient and eventually through the heart and liver transplantation which he has gotten now tom has been with the UCLA CHD Center since he was 18 years of age 1983 he was referred from Children's Hospital he was taken care of by dr. pearl off by Pam Minor by John child by myself by members of our team and you know we've grown to known to know him very well and to just absolutely adore Tom and his wife Gina and his son Logan as well are here so Tom we would love for you to just come up and for a few minutes tell the audience here about your journey and how you're doing now come on one other thing I should mention his Fontan operation which was done here in 1983 was done by that man there dr. Hillel axe and his his heart and liver transplantation were done by doctor Kaldas dr. Van Arsdale and dr. bin wali just total bit about my story and I did come here in 1983 and why was going to Children's Hospital and they were actually gonna do a third shunt bypass Blalock shot and my mom had actually heard about this program from someone at Daniel Freeman Hospital not Children's and so we switch and that's when I first met dr. Perloff and dr. childs and dr. Lacs and they proposed the Fontan procedure and at the time I was kind of seemed like a cure-all like that was gonna be you know the definite cure to the my single ventricle and so we went ahead and made the decision to leave Children's and come to UCLA and underwent the Fontan and unfortunately something happened they closed up or something they had to redo it two years later but after that things started really picking up and I was able to go off to college and everything and then I went through the rythme I started a couple of years later and and then made me I had a blood clot a few years later and but all the time going through the program with dr. childs and dr. pearl off and sorry we got to my life was going good I was working full-time my wife started a family um you know over probably a 20-year period and then we started talking about actually dr. dr. Pearle Offit first retired and then dr. Charles retired and and dr. Allison and dr. Reardon came on and and one thing I want to say is about the program as dr. childs and dr. pearl laughs Dale he's kind of let the patient be himself and I think that really they allowed me to do whatever I know if go off to school ride motorcycles and just live a normal life play golf and dr. abolition career they stuck with that and I think that's what's kind of helped me so much over the years and then probably a couple years ago we started talking about the possibility of a transplant and went through the whole evaluation process which is like a two-year two-year process did that and as things we noticed the liver was starting to kind of fail a little bit and the kidneys were starting to fail and so that was the time that we all kind of decided it was time to go in and we we went in put me on a drip for the kidneys to try and help those and I was in waited for it was seven weeks to the day and we got a heart deliver and we did the transplant I'm everything's going good everything's going well I'm back working full-time just started riding mountain bikes just bought a mountain bike last week so start doing that now you know I've got haven't quite got all my strength back completely but it's getting there and the infections I've had a couple infections that have been hospitalized and the potassium has been a little bit of a trick and the kidneys seem to be trending in the right direction so everything everything went well had a little during the procedure I had a way I was positioned I had some nerve damage in my leg and it caused a severe drop foot and so took about six six months and I finally got a brace and now I'm able to I really increased my mobility and and made my recovery that much better because it was kind of hard to walk in the beginning and hard to for my recovery to to start happening but once I got the brace and my mobility I could start walking around and doing more things and wanting to go out more everything's just seems to be good and I just want to really say thank you to everybody especially dr. Avalos and dr. childs and dr. Lacs and dr. Van Arsdale and doctor Kaldas it's just I'm here and I'm living a normal life you know my day-to-day I work full-time and looking forward to my son growing up and riding my motorcycle and everything else so mmm that's pretty much my story I just want to say thanks to everybody in this room because you guys really helped me