Hi, good morning, or good afternoon! My name is Christopher Tarney. I'm the Co-Director of the Center for Women's Pelvic Health here at UCLA, and I have the great honor of being joined by my colleague and friend, Dr. Vic Nitti, and today we're going to talk a little bit about pelvic organ prolapse, a personalized approach to treatment. Welcome everyone. We think that this is a very important and pertinent topic, and what we hope that you all come away with is to understand a little bit about what pelvic organ prolapse is and the different ways in which we can treat it and individualize that treatment for a given patient. So, for those of you following on YouTube live, feel free to ask questions on Twitter using the hashtag #UCLAMDChat, and we'll get to those at the end of our short presentation. So what topics are we going to cover today? Well, there are a few. We're going to talk a little bit about what pelvic organ prolapse is. Why does it occur? How common is it? Who is at risk to develop pelvic organ prolapse? What symptoms might this condition be associated with? And how can we treat pelvic organ prolapse? What we do know is that prolapse is an under-diagnosed and underreported problem in women, and when we talk a little bit more about what pelvic organ prolapse is, you'll understand that some women will find it embarrassing to even broach the subject. What we want to do is try and take that embarrassment away and allow you to just be free in discussing problems or symptoms or anything that you think you may have that could be associated with this. It is a condition that exclusively affects women, so we're talking to women when we talk about this condition, and it most definitely can be responsible for a reduction in quality of life. It can limit physical activity, cause discomfort, impact intimacy, and erode a sense of body image and self-esteem. All right, so what's pelvic organ prolapse? It basically happens when one or more of the organs of the pelvis drop from its normal position in the pelvis and its normal supports and pushes against the walls of the vagina. It's fundamentally a hernia, but a hernia exists that exists in the vagina, and there's a bunch of different terms and names that we use to help describe these. When the bladder is herniating into the vagina, we call that a cystocele, or anterior vaginal prolapse. When the uterus is not supported and it's descending into the vagina, it's called uterine prolapse. In women who have had a hysterectomy, the bowels or the intestines sit on top of the vaginal cuff and the pelvic structures, and it can herniate into the vagina, and that's called an enterocele, and then lastly, if the floor of the vagina or the posterior wall of the vagina is herniating, the rectum can push into the vagina, and so cystocele, uterine prolapse, enterocele, or rectocele. These are all terms that help describe different types of vaginal prolapse. And what causes it--it causes downward pressure. There's a short video, this is a side view, and you can see that when the walls here are weak or broken after an injury or delivery, it allows the organs to herniate down, and we're gonna talk a little bit more about those and why that occurs right now. So the other important issue is women often don't bring this up readily. It's an embarrassing condition, as Dr. Nitti was pointing out, and I want to talk about their problem, and even with their health provider they're reluctant to talk about it because it can be embarrassing, and they're not sure that anyone else is struggling with this, so part of what we want to talk about today is opening up the conversation, and frankly, we're not great at bringing it up either. Now, certainly at our specialty, this is something that we're keyed in on and looking for, but providers, sometimes, it's hard to bring this up. And when asked if they've talked to the patients about pelvic floor disorders like prolapse, the majority of doctors don't bring it up. So it's something that, if it's bothering you or you're concerned about, feel free to bring this up with your provider. And as I pointed out, times are changing. We want to start about starting a conversation, and part of that is, I think, a erosion or a wading away from some of the challenges and social paranoias about talking about this. So, we've got celebrity spokespersons for things like menstrual cups. We've got new products for bowel control, butterfly pads, even for incontinence, celebrity spokespersons talking about accidental bladder leakages and even female sexual dysfunction. It's not all about erectile dysfunction with guys. There's now a conversation that we're able to talk about sexual issues with women, and there are products to help them. So in this climate of increasing openness and the ability to discuss, we hope prolapse will be a part of that conversation. So, let's talk a little bit about the anatomy. So on this particular cartoon here, you will see the various organs that can be responsible for pelvic organ prolapse. Here's the uterus, the bladder, the cervix at the bottom of the uterus, the rectum, down here is the anus, and of course, this is the opening of the vagina, or what we call the vaginal introitus. So what we'll see on this video is that sometimes, the bladder will prolapse down, and you can see there, the uterus coming down a little bit, but the bladder actually coming out of the opening of the vagina. That's what Dr. Tarnay referred to as a cystocele. We can also have a situation where it's mostly the uterus that comes down, and you can see here. It's mostly the uterus, but it does bring the bladder down with it somewhat, so it's our responsibility as healthcare providers and as experts in this field to explain to patients exactly what is going on and what is prolapsed. Lastly, we have a rectocele, or when the rectum will prolapse out the vagina, and you can see here the rectum is coming out of--or the bottom of the vaginal wall that covers the rectum is coming outside of the vagina. The last cartoon--and just to echo what Dr. Nitti was describing, one of the real important things that we do in our examinations and visits with our patients is to help them understand what is actually going down, what is going on down in that area. It can be really frightening and scary to see a large vaginal bulge-- I'm gonna go back to that. This is an example of a woman who's had a hysterectomy, where the top of the vagina is prolapsing, and there's this large bulge turning out. Now, that can be extremely frightening to patients, and so part of the visit that we spend a lot of energy on is helping patients understand what's coming down and what is it. I think that Dr. Tarnay makes an important point. We don't expect that you, the patient, would necessarily know just from your symptoms what's happening, just that something's there, and that's when you need to bring it to someone's attention. Well, how common is pelvic organ prolapse? Well, almost half of women between the ages of 50 and 79 will have some form of pelvic organ prolapse. Now, that doesn't mean that they're bothered by it, and that doesn't mean it needs to be treated. In most cases, it's mild and may not cause any symptoms at all, and that is no cause for worry. In fact, many women who have mild degrees of prolapse don't even know they have it until perhaps the gynecologist or other health care providers mention it to them, and this generally doesn't require treatment. So just because it's there, doesn't mean it needs to be treated, but a little over 10% of women will undergo some sort of surgical intervention for one of the forms of prolapse that we just described. This just goes to show--this graph just shows the relative in incidence with cystocele or bladder prolapse being the most common, then rectocele, and then finally uterine prolapse. But again, when we talk about most common, we don't mean that it needs to be treated. So, just that some of these prolapse orders may exist without symptoms--significant symptoms and don't need to be treated. Alright, so a real common question patients ask us all the time is, "Why did I get this?" or "Am I gonna get this problem?" And the biggest risk factor by far is a history of having a vaginal delivery. There are other risk factors, but vaginal birth in particular, it resonates the most in terms of the mechanism for why women struggle with pelvic floor disorders and pelvic organ prolapse in particular. And if you've had a vaginal delivery, you're more likely to develop pelvic organ prolapse than if you've had a cesarean delivery, or a c-section, and this cartoon just basically illustrates the normal attachments of the vagina. So you can see here, this is a cross-section. So here's the vagina, here the bladder's in front, and the rectum is behind. As--during the delivery process, when the baby's in the birth canal, it puts stretch on all these support structures, and-- tremendous stretch, and at times that stretch is so significant, and it can actually disrupt some of the fiber muscular connections and the muscles that are attached to that, and even if the patient doesn't express herniation of those organs at that time, it's the long-term sequelae of chronic injury and chronic upright mobility that can actually cause those organs to herniate over time. So, sometimes we don't see the manifestations of a pelvic floor injury until years, or even decades, later. Other risk factors, as I was mentioning, certainly deliveries, one of them-- menopause--as women age, the tissues that are estrogen dependent can become weakened after the withdrawal of estrogen after normal menopause. It appears that women who are white have higher rates than in women of other ethnicities. Certainly being overweight or obesity seems to be a risk factor for pelvic organ prolapse, and lastly, smoking. And another important feature, sometimes it's just genetic. We have no idea what some of the--we are still just starting to understand some of the genetics around the incidence of prolapse. We still can't explain why a patient might have three or four vaginal deliveries and have no herniation of pelvic floor organs and one woman maybe has a single delivery, a six-and-a-half pound baby, and she's struggling with significant or even massive prolapse. And so this is one of the challenges in moving forward that we're looking into, to try to understand who is at risk and how to modulate those risks. So how do you know if you have prolapse? Symptoms of vaginal bulge--like I said, this is a hernia of the vagina-- patients will feel or see something protruding to or beyond the vaginal opening. So as Chris said, a vaginal bulge, heaviness or pressure--sometimes you may not actually see or feel something extending beyond the opening of the vagina, but you'll just feel that pressure, and because the bladder and the rectum might be involved, you can get bladder symptoms, such as urinary frequency or urgency or even some leakage, either associated with urge or associated with movement--coughing sneezing, etc. It can be difficult to empty the bladder if the bladder is significantly prolapsed. You can almost imagine that from those videos that we show that you can get a kink between the urethra, which is the tube that the urine comes out of, and the bladder, so it may be hard, and some women have to push the bladder or push the prolapse back in order to urinate, and the same can happen with bowel emptying. So as we mentioned, and we want to be very clear that many women have no symptoms at all, and if that's the case, and the prolapse is not severe, it doesn't need to be treated, and again, we mentioned some of those other symptoms--it just sort of reinforces that. So, what symptoms might you have that aren't necessarily caused by prolapse what may be associated with it? And as we said, urinary frequency and urgency, leakage, constipation--now, sometimes prolapse can be the cause of what is perceived as constipation, and it's usually when women have a difficult time evacuating the rectum and sometimes may even need to use a little bit of pressure in the vagina to help evacuate stool. There's also just global constipation, and that sometimes could feel associated with causing prolapse from chronic straining but doesn't necessarily mean that by fixing the prolapse, constipation is going to go away--although, sometimes it does. Difficulty or pain with intercourse-- usually, prolapse doesn't interfere with intercourse, but sometimes, depending on its degree and if there's irritation associated with the walls of the vagina or the cervix, if it's prolapsed it can cause some pain. Frequent urinary tract infections--again, sometimes caused by the prolapse, sometimes just associated with the prolapse. You know, I was thinking, the other issue that patients will sometimes describe in relationship to their prolapse is a low back pain or pressure, particularly when we have posterior vaginal prolapse or rectocele, it is a associated feature but not usually the main cause of back pain. But we have seen in some patients. If you can correct that fullness and that heaviness down there, the back pain will go away, and I wanted to echo one more thing that Dr. Nitti was saying about the prolapse. Oftentimes, patients are identified by their providers, during an annual exam, that they have a prolapse. In the absence of symptoms, you don't have to do anything about it, and that hernia can just sit there as long as it's not bothering you. All right, so we wanted to talk a little bit about when and why should prolapse be treated. So, it's usually, prolapse is treated based on how bothersome the symptoms are, and I always say, "Listen, whatever treatment we're gonna do should be commensurate to how much their bother is or how severe the symptoms are," and so a lot of the visits that we spend are trying to sort of tease some of that out. Is there limitations? Is it affecting your ability to walk, to sit? Is it affecting your ability to participate in activities fully? Is it impacting intimacy? So these are all the questions that we and our colleagues will go through during those visits in our new center. What I always tell patients is, prolapse is not life-threatening, but it is quality-of-life threatening. In other words, if one find that she is struggling with discomfort, just even doesn't like having the bulge there, these are all reasons that you can do something about it, and rarely will prolapse cause issues that require more immediate treatment, but every now and then we'll see it, and the main one is inability to empty the bladder. In other words, that prolapse is so severe the patients are struggling to empty their bladder, and they have a backup of urine, which can actually lead to a-- Dr. Nitti was talking about urinary tract infections, incomplete bladder emptying, and if that's left chronically, it can actually cause kidney issues. Pain can also be a big problem, especially if the prolapse gets large and the blood flow can get prevented from moving in and out of those structures, and they can cause quite a bit of irritation and pain. All right, so when should it be treated? If she's suffering from symptoms, there are a lot of treatments that are options, but the first treatment is do nothing if it's not bothering the patient. Treatments can be customized to meet the needs, concerns, and expectations of the individual, and I think this is the critical thing that we both share. A complete vision on this is that we've got to tailor care to our patients, we have to understand what their conditions are, what symptoms they're suffering from, and try to fit a treatment plan that will be best for her. And individualized therapy is I think the most important feature. Would you agree, Vic? -Absolutely. Very important. So, many women, as this goes right along with what we were just saying, many women have no symptoms from their mild to moderate prolapse, as it's simply discovered by a provider. Some women will have--they do have some symptoms, but they really don't feel like treatment is required after going over the treatment options that we're gonna discuss in a moment. They don't really feel that treatment is required. It's very reasonable, however, once a prolapse has been identified, particularly if there's some degree of bother, women may elect to set up periodic appointments with their health care providers so that the degree of prolapse can be assessed, and also that a woman can tell their healthcare provider, "This is how things have changed in the last six months," "There's been no change," or "It's more difficult for me to urinate," or "The bulge is more bothersome," or "It's starting to interfere with this activity or that activity." So, it's sort of, once you're being monitored for it, it can be useful in some women to have those periodic checkups if you decide not to treat it. What are some proactive strategies that you can do to either prevent it from happening or to possibly prevent it from getting worse? And you'll notice that this slide is entitled "Proactive Strategies That May Prevent," and we want to be clear on that. I'm not going to tell you that if you have prolapse, and you lose 20 or 30 or 40 pounds it's definitely going to get better, but it may. Following a diet rich in fiber and fluids to prevent constipation and straining--this can help prevent prolapse, help prevent it from getting worse in some patients. Avoiding excessively heavy lifting--now, by the way, we don't mean that somebody should become completely inactive because they have a little bit of prolapse, that doesn't make any sense at all. We want to be clear on that. Quitting smoking-- quitting smoking is always a good thing to do for your overall health and can help both in preventing prolapse and preventing it from getting worse, and also for optimizing a surgical outcome, if you decide to treat it that way. Seek prompt treatment for a chronic cough, cough which is putting extra pressure on your pelvic organs, and then regularly performing pelvic floor or Kegel exercises. These exercises are done to strengthen pelvic floor, they're great for overall pelvic floor health, and a woman can help with urinary symptoms of frequency, urgency, and incontinence, and there is some pretty good evidence to show that in some women, it can help prevent progression and even help, in some way, relieve symptoms of pelvic organ prolapse. Okay, so we were talking about treatment. No treatment was an option. Proactive measures that Dr. Nitti was just speaking about. The one important non-surgical option we have is a pessary, and pessaries look like this. These are basically intra vaginal support devices intravaginal support devices. Many women are familiar with the concept of a diaphragm, like I kind of would say it's like a firm diaphragm, but it works in a little different fashion. They come in many different sizes and shapes. The type and the size that we use is completely dependent on the type and the size of the prolapse. Not every woman is the same, not every woman has the same prolapse, and so we literally have patients come in, and we do a pessary fitting session, and one of my mentors used to say it's like trying on shoes. We try it, trial and error, have the patient walk around, if it fits properly and the patient is comfortable and her symptoms are alleviated. It is a really effective long-term non-surgical option. There are some caveats that come with it, is they have to be removed and inserted by the patient, or if the patient is unable or unwilling to, she comes into the office, and we will clean and replace that periodically to help maintain it. It also requires a maintenance gel or a cream, and it can be a hormonal cream or a non-hormonal, depending on the desire of the patient. This is a picture of what it looks like. It basically acts like a vaginal support, so it sits in there, it props up the vagina using the distension of the banjo cornices and the bony structures of the pelvis, and when fit properly, patients don't know what's even in there. The only thing they know is that their prolapse isn't hanging out anymore, and it's extremely gratifying for them to be able to manage this without a surgery. However, it's not a fix. A pessary is like having like a knee brace. If you had a knee injury, you can either have a knee brace or you could have that fixed surgically. The pessary is the conservative coping strategy. It can be very effective. So, there are a number of different types of surgical treatments that can be done. We have vaginal surgeries, we have abdominal surgeries, we have laparoscopic and robotic surgeries, so certainly prolapse can be repaired in a minimally invasive way, either through vaginal or through laparoscopic or robotic surgery. The approach that is chosen really depends upon the type of prolapse, in some cases, the age of the patient and what the patient expectations are. So what we generally do with patients who are interested in surgery is we go over the various ways that-- first, explain what the prolapse is, what's prolapsed, go over the various ways it could be treated, and then depending upon the patient's wishes and desires, as long as it is a way that is reasonable for that patient's prolapse, we can customize the treatment. And it's really important, we feel, that patients consider all relevant options for their particular type of prolapse. We don't believe in the one-size-fits-all approach to correcting pelvic organ prolapse. So, as I said, there are minimally invasive procedures where there are no visible incisions, vaginal surgery or robotic or laparoscopic surgery where the incisions are very tiny, and when they heal they really can't be seen. Often you get back to work within a few weeks and back to activities early. We used to have this philosophy that when we did prolapse repair, that patients should be relatively sedentary for long periods of time, and we don't really subscribe to that philosophy anymore. So vaginal surgery really is one of the minimally invasive ways that prolapse can be fixed, and Dr. Tarnay is going to talk a little bit about laparoscopic and robotic approaches. Yeah, so very, very similar to what Dr. Nitti was talking about the vaginal approaches, one also has the option for a laparoscopic approach. These do have incisions on the abdomen, but there's small, keyhole type incisions, we like to say, and similar to vaginal surgery, they can be done in the same day or even in overnight. It can be back to work within just a few weeks, and back to full-time activities sometimes within a month, and this is what it kind of looks like if we're doing it laparoscopically. Sometimes, we'll add this robotic platform, which helps us do more intricate, more dexterous maneuvers when we use the laparoscope, and this is what it looks like, where the robotic platform is set next to the patient, and surgeons are sitting on a console operating this robot to help us do more refined, very extra smooth movements that allow us to do more refined surgery. This is a video of what we look at when we're doing the surgery, and they have instruments that have wristed instruments, and we're able to have 3D viewing because we have biocular vision on this laparoscope that we're using. The instruments themselves can be moved in 360 degree motion to allow a wristed activity. So, some of the limitations that we have with traditional laparoscopy are overcome with this type of device, and this has allowed us to offer patients more significant surgery, but with a minimally invasive approach. And so, we didn't want to talk about some of the other considerations, and I think both Vic and I spent a lot of our energy talking to patients that we have to customize their procedures and their treatments, there's a lot of concerns when we talk about doing surgery, and one of them is "What do you do when the uterus is prolapsed out? Do you remove the uterus? Do you leave the uterus? What about the ovaries, and what about the tubes?" and there is a lot of data that we have now that demonstrate that actually, we can offer uterine sparing procedures, and that's whether we're doing it vaginally or laparoscopically. So, in other words, one need not have one's uterus removed. However, there are instances where it may be of benefit, particularly when we talk about durability of repair, some of the procedures may actually have a benefit if the uterus is removed rather than leaving it behind. In terms of ovarian removal, ovaries need not be removed in almost all cases. I'll say it again, ovaries need not be removed in almost all cases. There-- especially in premenopausal patients, the ovaries serve extremely important functions for a woman to maintain bone health, cardiovascular health, and preventing these symptoms of menopause. And nowadays, we're removing tubes, and we know from our oncology data that we can actually reduce the risk of ovarian cancer and not remove the ovaries. We can reduce the risk of ovarian cancer and not remove the ovaries simply by removing the tubes, because about 30% of ovarian carcinomas actually originate in the tubes. So by removing that, we can actually help improve a woman's long term health without any impact on menopause or onset. That's a really important point, because you can keep all the benefits of your ovaries and take away some of the risk of keeping your ovaries. And you know, that's something that we've learned through good data and good science over the last couple of decades. Okay, here is our team, and this is the team that we have assembled at the Center for Women's Pelvic Health at UCLA. Dr. Tarnay and I are Co-Directors of that Center, and we are very proud of our colleagues in the group that we've assembled. We have our campus on the Westwood campus, also in Santa Monica and in the South Bay. We are all board-certified in the specialty called female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery, or urogynecology. So, each of us that are in the center not only holds board certification in our primary specialty, obstetrics and gynecology in Dr. Tarnay's case and urology in my case, but also in--and it's an additional board certification in female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery, or urogynecology. Okay, well that's all we had for our first portion of the webinar. Georgiana over here was fielding some questions, and feel free to follow or add questions as we move along. We'll spend as much time as they give us today. All right, so "How would you suggest choosing between a UCLA urogynecologist or UCLA urologist for prolapse surgery? Are both kinds of specialists the same at UCLA, and do they share similar training?" So, we all do share similar training. I think our differences are where we come from in our basic specialty. I think when we talk about pelvic organ prolapse, I think that all of us at the center are well-versed in taking care of prolapse in a variety of different ways. Another thing that I really love about our center is if a woman has a problem that is not necessarily related to her--maybe related to her prolapse or unrelated, and it's something that might be more urological or more gynecologic, we have specialists that we're working side by side, so we can really offer comprehensive care. Yeah, I very much appreciate this question. What is really one of the benefits of working in an integrated program is, at the center, we have specialists in urology, we have specialists in gynecology, and we can leverage both of those in order to help the patient along the way, and we work under the same roof, we rely and lean on each other all the time, even with--and we have--some of our providers have years and years of experience. So I think it's really one of the benefits of this type of model and one thing that I'm particularly proud of, to be associated with it. Another question is "What are the risks of not treating prolapse?" Well, usually there aren't any significant risks as long as you are aware, and what I mean by being aware is if your symptoms start to become worse, if you're having more trouble emptying your bladder, we mentioned you can get issues with incomplete bladder emptying, obstruction of kidneys, etc. Most of the time that's going to happen with a quite advanced prolapse, so I would say once a prolapse gets to a point of significance, if you decide not to treat it, regular follow-ups should avoid any major problems. Now, certainly you can develop an ulceration or abrasion of the walls of the vagina, which could bleed or be painful, but outside of complete neglect, I think the long-term risks with regular medical follow-up should really be limited if you choose not to treat it. Okay, we have a few more questions here. All right, so, "Does prolapse cause any problems in the peritoneal cavity, such as inflammation, low pressure, etc.?" So, it's a good question. There really aren't any intra-abdominal processes that are impacted adversely by having prolapse. In other words, one can have significant vaginal herniation, and the body is pretty amazing and tolerates it just fine. So, as opposed to having a hernia in the abdominal wall, in which the bowel can actually get caught and cause a problem, there aren't any long-term sequelae having a vaginal hernia, where the bowel is herniating down. It's just simply the inconvenience of living with the bulge and some of the challenges of maybe struggling with bladder or bowel emptying. I think those are probably the issues, but no real concerns about inflammation or cancer or anything like that with having prolapse. "Does prolapse normally get worse without treatment? Can bladder prolapse in a 75-year-old be treated effectively without treatment?" or maybe that's without surgery. You want to handle that first part, "does bladder prolapse normally get worse without treatment"? So, that's a great big maybe. Sometimes prolapse will get worse without treatment, sometimes it will stay the same, and sometimes it actually may even get a little bit better over time. What I always tell my patients is that if a prolapse is getting progressively worse, it's worse this month than it was last month and was worse last month than the month before, I would say it's reasonable to expect it to continue to worsen to some degree. If it's relatively stable, I would tell a patient you don't need to treat the prolapse because you think it's going to get worse, you should treat it because it's bothering you to a certain degree. Now, I agree, the second part of that was, "Can bladder prolapse in a 75-year-old be treated effectively?" and I'll answer that in two ways. So, some of the concerns patients have is, "Listen, my mother"--or the patient herself is, "Listen, am I in an age where I can be treated?" The answer is yes, always. Certainly, pessary is the first option that we offer patients. If pessary isn't the long-term solution, we do have very effective, minimally invasive surgical options that can be done. But again, this is really a part of the conversation that we have with the patient and their family in order to make sure that we're picking the right treatment and actually managing expectations properly. Well, I think it's important to know that if somebody is older, or even a frail elderly person, that there are treatments that are available that can significantly improve quality of life at a relatively low risk to the patient. So, just because you are older, or even frail, it doesn't mean that you have to live with a condition, particularly if it's very bothersome, where you--we've had patients that have come in that can't walk, and if that's the case, things can be done in a way that's acceptable for that patient's overall health. Listen, it's one of the benefits of a center like UCLA. We have the expertise, we have a cadre of providers that can provide support to actually prepare patients who are frail for surgery, and we have extensive experience and operate on that patient group if need be. There are some more questions that are coming in. Okay, "Are there any options for prolapse or incontinence that consist of PRP or stem cell treatment?" It's a good question. These are both very active areas for research and scientific advancement. We are using progenitor cells in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence-- the urinary valve, the sphincter, is a muscular structure, and we're able to actually harvest muscle cells from one part of the body, usually the leg, and we can actually implant those at the level of the urethra, so it can actually grow a new urinary sphincter, and there's a lot of trials that are underway currently, at UCLA, and if one is interested, one can simply go onto our website, and you can find a link to that. If you're interested in terms of PRP, what do you think, Vic? Well, you know, I think with any of any of these sort of types of treatment like this, anything that developed, I think it's really important for patients to know, as Chris was saying, if there are any of these advanced type of therapies, they're gonna be in clinical trials first. And if you are interested in any such treatments, you really need to do it under a clinical trial. You shouldn't be mislead about any great advances in different types of treatments that aren't proven. Now, that doesn't mean they won't be great treatments in the future, and if you are of the mindset to say, "You know what? That sounds really interesting, and I understand the risks and benefits of a clinical trial in any of these therapies, whether it be stem cell or PRP," or you know, I think it's important to do it in the right circumstances at the center. Okay, all right, "After surgery for bladder prolapse, how long until you can go back to work and do sports like tennis, flying, or travel?" So, that's a real common question, and it's one we entertain every day with our patients, and I think, in summary, that the short answer is the following, is once you have surgery and leave the hospital, you're eating, walking, going to the bathroom right away, the critical part is to allow your body to heal. So, just like an orthopedic surgery, we are repairing one's tissues. Those have to heal, those have to scar in, and we don't want patients pushing the envelope by immediate return to activity, because that can actually undo some of the work we've done. But the long term play is once all that healing has taken place, one can expect a resumption of full activity and the only caveat, I'll say, is some of the weighted squats and kettleball and some of the core fitness, those are the death knell of some of our prolapse repairs. But one can swim, run, bike, play tennis, and golf without limitation, moving forward after surgery. I think that's important, I think, you know, getting back to sort of normal activities is important, and you know, when people talk about exercise, as Dr. Tarnay was saying, there's a big difference between going for a walk around the block and doing squats with 20 or 30 or 40 pounds in each arm. So, sensible is important. Yeah, actually the worst thing you can do--the worst thing a patient can get in trouble with after surgery is constipation, that creates the most amount of abdominal pressure, and the weighted squats pale in comparison to that. So, constipation avoidance is really--I wish we spent a lot of time on--but full activity is, I think, a realistic goal. "Do muscle relaxants exacerbate this condition?" No, so, not to the best of my knowledge. So, you know, use them with caution, but no, there shouldn't be an issue. And then there are one of our questions, here. "What are your thoughts about using mesh to repair prolapse, especially with all the concerns?" Yeah, let's talk about that--and this is a really important issue. So, "Do I need mesh for my prolapse surgery?" And the answer is no, it is not required for the repair of prolapse. We have--the important thing is, at the center, we have experts who have an entire tool belt of treatment options that can be offered to the patient. We're not sold on any one particular procedure. It's not our way or the highway. It's your way. The patients have, really, the final decision, after we give them all the information, and mesh is not required. Vaginally, we never use mesh to help support the vaginal compartment. Native tissue repairs, or these traditional repairs that we utilize use your own tissue with suture using your own ligaments for support. And I would agree. You don't have to have mesh. There are certain abdominal or minimally invasive repairs where it might be elected. That's a very different operation than vaginal mesh, which, as Dr. Tarnay said, it's not something that we use, so if somebody has an aversion, or it's not appropriate for them, or is that high risk, absolutely can have your prolapse repaired without using mesh. Yeah, and you bring up--the question brings up some important points. There's a lot of controversy and a lot of information. A lot of our energy is spent on helping educate patients about what the facts and what the fictions are, related to the materials that we use in reconstructive surgery. And the critical thing is not to shy away from them, but to provide proper information, so patients have context and can understand without the fear, and we provide educational information so that patients can make a better informed decision. The other question that comes up, and I'm gonna skip this, is "Do I have to have a hysterectomy if I have a prolapse surgery?" What do you think, Vic? No, you don't have to have a hysterectomy, and as Dr. Tarnay said before, there are times when it may be the best option, there are times when it's not the best option. But it's never the only option, and that's something that we will sit with our patients and discuss based on their conditions, the pros and cons of having a hysterectomy, and what's really important to us is the patient's input. How does she feel about that? And is it particularly important--is uterine preservation particularly important? And if the answer to that is yes, we have a number of different techniques that we can use to fix prolapse and to fix uterine prolapse that do not require that the uterus be removed. However, if it turns out, in a particular patient, that that's the best thing, the patient is not averse to it, then hysterectomy may be done. So, again, a decision between the physician and the patient. Yeah. I'd say one more thing about this is, we have to be really clear. In patients who are still not done with their family, or not yet family complete, we really discourage any form of prolapse treatment or repair. It has to be really significant and severe circumstances for us to intervene. When patients are family complete, then patients have the option for uterine preservation or not. The important thing that I instill in all patients is that hysterectomy has nothing to do with menopause. In other words, it's the ovaries that have everything to do with menopause, and as we talked about earlier, ovarian preservation is the default for us. We leave normal organs in, and the only time we're taking ovaries out is if there's a risk for cancer or a strong family risk or genetic risk. Leaving the uterus or taking the uterus won't have any impact on hormonal function and no impact on onset of menopause. The decision if one wants to maintain her uterus even after the menopause is certainly an option for patients. One just has to sort of sort out, "What are some of the ramifications about the treatment?" and the treatment options and some of the durability that may be impacted of the repair when the uterus is left in place. And we specialize in these things. All right, and this is the other question that came up. "If I have a hysterectomy, will I go into menopause?" I think we just covered that, the answer is no. A hysterectomy doesn't mean ovarian removal, and one need not worry about any change of natural menopause with the use of a reconstructive surgery. Great. Well, you know, that was terrific. I'm happy that we were able to get so many good questions from those of you that have been watching. Those were really good and insightful questions. So, I hope that what we've done in the last half-hour or so has been informative, educational, and I want to thank each and every one of you for watching us. Yeah, this is way cool. Thanks for coming along with us. Hope this was helpful to you, and certainly feel free to continue to ask questions afterwards, and we'll try to get at them and answer them offline.