Hello, I'm Dr. Andino, a urologist fellowship trained in sexual medicine. Today we're talking about erectile dysfunction treatment options that many men don't hear about until much later than they should. Penile implants. If pills and other treatments haven't worked for you, this could be the solution you need. Especially for men who have had prostate or other pelvic cancer treatments. It's an important part of cancer survivorship. Let's break it down together. What they are, how they work, and what you can expect. A penal implant, also called a penal prostthesis, is a device placed inside the penis during a short surgery. This is a functional surgery like a knee or a hip replacement meant to restore intimacy. It allows a man to regain control over his sex life without having to use medications. The device is placed completely inside the body and placing it often only requires a small incision on the scrotum which is barely noticeable once healed. Penile implants are a permanent long-term solution for erectile dysfunction. They're often chosen when other treatments such as pills, injections, or even vacuum pumps haven't worked or aren't a good fit for someone's lifestyle. There are two main types of implants. Inflatable implants, which are the most popular options. In these, you squeeze a small pump in the scrotum that helps generate an erection. When you're done, you press a button on the pump that helps deflate it. But there are also malleable or semi- rigid implants. And these are bendable rods that keep the penis firm enough for sexual activity. And you simply point the penis upwards when the time is right. Most men choose the inflatable implant because it feels and looks more natural, but both options can be very effective. It depends on your needs, your medical and surgical history, and what you feel most comfortable with. The procedure is done in the hospital or an outpatient surgery center. Usually takes less than an hour. Most men go home the same day or the next day. You can be on your feet the day of surgery. You must limit your physical activity for a few weeks. Then about four to six weeks, most men are cleared for sexual activity. Your doctor will guide you every step of the way. After healing, it takes some men a few weeks to become comfortable using the implant. The surgery or the device shouldn't affect your ability to have an orgasm or feel pleasure. Though some men will notice that there have been changes over time. It's important to note that your penis will not get bigger or longer, but it will be firm and ready whenever you want it to be. Some of the benefits of a penal implant include a high satisfaction rate. Over 90% of men and their partners are happy with the results. It's discreet and completely hidden inside the body. There's no need for pills, medications, or planning, and it works on demand, restoring a sense of control and confidence. Now, like any surgery, there are some risks such as infection or device malfunction. But these risks are low, especially when the surgery is done by a fellowship trained urologist who knows how to optimize outcomes from this procedure. Implants are built to last. Many work well for 10, 15 years or longer before needing any adjustments. Penol implants are usually recommended for men who haven't had success with other ED treatments. They want a long-term lowmaintenance solution. They are healthy enough for surgery and general anesthesia and in some specific cases they may actually be needed such as a priapism when an erection has lasted too long or those who have had prostate or bladder cancer surgeries and the doctor couldn't save the nerves. If you've been living with ED and feel frustrated or discouraged, don't give up hope. A penal implant could give you the confidence and the control you've been missing. Come see me at UCLA the men's clinic so we can discuss whether an implant is right for you. I'll walk you through everything. But remember, only you can make a decision to proceed. My job is to give you information. Those who are motivated and see sex as an important part of their quality of life often proceed with this elective surgery. Thanks for watching. If this was helpful, share it with someone else who might need it. You are not alone and we're here to help. Take care.