Hi, I'm Dr. Jesse Mills. I'm a professor of urology at the David Geffin School of Medicine at UCLA and the director of the men's clinic at UCLA Health. I want to talk to you about a condition that affects around 10% of men. It's called Peryon's disease. This condition causes an often painful curvature to the penis. Abnormal scar tissue in that tough fibrous membrane surrounding the penis causes this curvature. It can impair normal sexual function for men. It can also cause penile shortening, unstable erections, and erectile dysfunction. It can be a psychologically devastating condition and often affects patients abilities to have relationships. In terms of treatments available today, oral medications have shown limited success and are not FDA approved. Many doctors offer a trial of triple therapy. This includes two prescription drugs penttoxifilene and tedataphil or seialis and a supplement called lcitrilline. This treatment shows a modest improvement in stopping the progression of the condition. In less frequent cases it has even shown regression but remember this is not FDA approved. We therefore use it off label and that's important for you to realize. Many urologists also recommend mechanical therapy or penile traction. This treatment involves wearing a stretching device for an hour a day to encourage the penis to straighten. Surgery to straighten the penis is another option for Peryon's disease. In fact, it's been around for over a hundred years, but side effects limit its usage. Possible side effects include loss of sensation and penal shortening. A skilled surgeon like ours at the Men's Clinic can decrease these side effects. Talk to your doctor about whether you're a good surgical candidate. There is an effective FDA approved therapy for peronis disease called Zofhlex. Zofhlex has been FDA approved for over 10 years. Ziflex is a biological enzyme that dissolves the abnormal scar tissue. The treatment consists of eight injections over the course of 4 months. After numbing your skin with a local anesthetic, the specialist injects Zofhlex directly into the plaque. Zoflex is very effective in my practice. In fact, 80% of patients have a positive response to therapy with around 20% needing additional injections to achieve their goals. In my experience, only about 7% of patients will need surgery after trying Zofhlex. Even with its success rate though, it does have potential side effects that are very important for you to realize. About half of patients will experience bruising and discoloration. Less than 1% of patients may experience a corporal rupture. This is where that tough membrane tears and causes dramatic swelling and bruising. Corporal rupture must be evaluated within 24 hours to make sure surgery isn't needed. Most corporal ruptures from Zapllex do in fact heal without surgery. To find the best treatment for you, make an appointment. Boardcertified fellowship trained specialists at the men's clinic are here to help.