Here's a MRI of the of this patient. So you can see this is the diffusion weighted imaging um and imaging. You can see the um the big mass which you can see it here in the involving the Sarah and then also supraera component. This is very bright and homogeneous in T1 weighted imaging. And then this DWI imaging you don't see any restriction. Uh it's much uh less dense than uh brain tissue. So but it's not uh totally fluid because CSF intensity and the DWI is like much darker. So it's much more thicker material than CSF but it's much less uh dense than the brain tissue. And as you can see the the margin is very very clean and then pretty much homogeneous and there is no fluid fluid level or there is no nodular soft tissue component within the mass and then you can see the flow of the cell almost right here is some soft tissue intensity here and this may be um the normal normal pituitary and then if this is a normal pituitary then the mass is above the pituitary gland. So the usually the mass arising from the pituitary gland is pushes the pituitary normutary in peripheral portion superior to anterior portion and if this is arising above the pituitary st or superior to the pituitary gland the mass pushes down the normal pituitary. So that's that's one thing you can um use this as a diagnostic crew and the mass is sort of multi-lobulated and then try to find a way to extend um so the part of the mass go to the prepontent system on the right posterior portion here and then you can see the again the in T2 and flare imaging the the internal content is very clean if this is a hemoragic um pituitary macroenoma you usually you should see at some fluid fluid level or some hemorrhagic content. So it's very clean region. Um this is a pre-contrast on the right side left side and this is a postcontrast because this is spontaneously homogeneous and hyper dense postcontrast that it doesn't really show much difference except most inferior portion of this tissue here which I thought this may be the normary tissue enhances like pitutary gland um I can't really tell where exactly the stock is if this is a normal pitutary maybe stock is kind of displaced in one way to the other and then stretched uh tremendously. You can see the uh stretched optic kayazm here and then this is the right side and left side is much more superior extension. So that's why the maybe left side is more affected. Um this is the again showing the chronal T2 and sro and this is a very homogeneous very bright T1 both T1 and T2 uh signal intens. So the differential diagnosis is either cranialoma or ratkis graph cyst. Um usually the rats graph cyst is much smaller than this size. He is 38 year old. Um the cystic type of cranioangoma usually happens in older population. We don't have a CT so we don't know if there's a calcification but if there is a calcification associated with this type of thing you may see some dark spot in T2 weighted imaging which we don't we don't don't see. So there's something very smooth um structural thing.