So, you heard from expert today that ADPKD basically is the most common monogenic inherited kidney disease and it basically characterized with accumulation of the fluid-filled cyst in the kidney and other organs including liver, pancreas, spleen and and has the incident of 1 in 400 to 1 in 1,000. And it progressively develop renal cysts early in life. But the manifestation of the symptoms might come up later during third or fourth decade. It might show earlier with hypertension, acute or chronic pain. Cyst or urinary tract infection, hematuria, kidney stones. Urinary concentration defects and loss of kidney function later on. Typically the symptom present in third or fourth decade of life. So, it will be overlapping the time of reproductive age for female individual with ADPKD and as Dr. Chapman discussed earlier the continuous destruction of renal parenchyma will be compensated with this hyperfiltration surviving glomeruli and it maintains the renal function in normal range for decades. They might have a still this normal creatinine while the TKV is on a higher side. About 5 to 10% of all patients affected by PKD eventually might need renal replacement therapy with transplant or dialysis. So, TKV or total kidney volume is the strong prognostic biomarker. And in a young patient with large kidneys and preserved eGFR which will be this female that mostly they are 30 year or younger and carrying the ADPKD symptoms and diagnosed with them while they are pregnant. The TKV of 600 ml best predicted the risk of developing stage 3 CKD within 8 years. And this corresponds to the population most likely to be enrolled in clinical trials for this young female of a pregnant population. Pregnancy itself does not seem to affect the growth of kidney cyst. However, we do not have a study that shows the TKV progression for the time of pregnancy and that would be a good target for future studies in this population. It appears to be the the slight increase in the rate of loss of kidney function in women with hypertension and four or more pregnancies. Dr. Parikh showed even worse outcome with three or more pregnancies. With regard to pregnancy, fertility is not affected by ADPKD in patients with normal renal function. As you see the massively enlarged kidneys posing a risk of intrauterine fetal growth restriction with occupying the abdominal and pelvic cavity. Early studies of pregnant women with ADPKD reported poor fetal outcome and elevated risk for maternal renal function decline. However, recent reports from observational data that happened at Mayo Clinic showed more favorable outcome. But that would that was attributed to a better prenatal care and increased surveillance with monitoring of nephrology and obstetric maternal fetal medicine team at the same time. Study of 255 women with ADPKD and 108 of their unaffected family members basically indicate that their pregnancy outcomes were comparable as long as pre-pregnancy blood pressure and renal function were normal. Risk factors like many other CKD patients who get pregnant hypertension and decreased renal function and extrarenal manifestations. Generally women with PKD who have normal blood blood pressure and normal kidney function at the time of entering the pregnancy, they deliver healthy babies. Some women with PKD will develop hypertension during the pregnancy and these population are more likely to have continued elevated blood pressure postpartum and after pregnancy finishes. The nephrology team and obstetric doctors at Mayo, they run this cohort of women who were under care of both nephrology and OB from 1975 to 2010. They performed this case control observational study to find out if the PKD is associated with poor fetal and maternal outcome. Diagnosis of ADPKD in that population was based on ultrasound. Basically a patient younger than 30 years, at least two cysts in one kidney or one cyst in each kidney. And patients age 30 to 59, at least two cysts in each kidney. The fetal outcome were basically small for gestational age which is described less than 10% and premature delivery earlier than 37 gestational week, neonatal death and abortion either elective, therapeutic or spontaneous fetal loss before 20 weeks of gestation. The maternal complications described as preeclampsia, eclampsia worsening of GFR and ESRD. Preeclampsia described as blood pressure more than 140 systolic and more than 90 after systolic with proteinuria of 300 ml or more per 24 hour after 20 weeks of gestation. The risk factors for poor fetal and maternal outcome described as preexisting renal insufficiency which was decreased eGFR. It was not based on TKV. Hypertension and at advanced maternal age which is usually 35 in other OB definition. But in this population count as older than 30. Increased fetal prematurity rate were found in those who had preeclampsia. And ADPKD had no significant impact on fetal demise or infant death. But we need to interpret this data with caution cuz this population were under care in tertiary hospital with a high level care of neonatal, maternal fetal and the best nephrology team. So, the outcome might be significantly worse for ADPKD patients who do not have adequate prenatal care or surveillance of control of blood pressure and the renal function. So, this is study data suggest that increased rate of renal insufficiency, proteinuria, hypertension and preeclampsia in ADPKD pregnancies nearly 1/3 of ADPKD patients develop either gestational hypertension or worsening of the chronic hypertension which existed before pregnancy. So, it should be definitely a close maternal monitoring for this population and the evaluation for early clinical signs of preeclampsia. One more data that found out in this cohort was the higher incidence of urinary tract infection in PKD population compared to control pregnant patients. In conclusion, ADPKD is considered with increased maternal complication during pregnancy. But it only has a slightly potential increased rate of fetal complication. As we discussed earlier and hoped study showed RAS blocker is the best antihypertensive agent in ADPKD patients. However, pregnant patients cannot be on RAS blocker and after delivery they have to resume these agents right away if they are not lactating and if they are going to breastfeed then still we need to continue with either labetalol, methyldopa, hydralazine. But we highly recommend to resume the RAS blocker as soon as the pregnancy or breastfeeding terminates. So, it is risky for these patients to be pregnant but we are not saying that you are not able to get pregnant. Bottom line is we need more of surveillance and follow up with nephrology and obstetric team to monitor blood pressure and early sign of preeclampsia. Dr. also assessed pregnancy outcomes in ADPKD population and compared to those of their unaffected family member and they suggest that fetal complications rates were similar between ADPKD and non-ADPKD women. I wish you all enjoy a beautiful sunset at Santa Monica Pier if you're staying here with us tonight in California. Thank you.