Thank you for trusting us with your care. You are watching this video because you are scheduled to have a procedure at either the UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center main operating room or the Santa Monica Surgery Center. This video will help you prepare for your procedure. We'll share what to expect before you arrive as well as during your check-in, admission, and recovery. On the day before your procedure, you can expect a call from your care team. If your procedure is scheduled for a Monday, we'll call you the Friday before. We'll let you know what time to arrive, what to bring, when to stop eating, and which medications are safe to take before surgery. Please leave all valuables, including jewelry, watches, and money, at home. UCLA Health is not responsible for any lost belongings. If you're staying overnight, you may request personal hygiene items such as deodorant, a toothbrush, toothpaste, and shampoo. Please bring a small bag of personal items, including a credit card, ID, insurance card, phone charger, and loose- fitting clothes to go home in. Please check the address for your procedure as the hospital and surgery center are separate locations. Valet service is available at the main entrance of the hospital at 125016th Street Monday through Friday. Valet accepts cash or check only. Parking garages available on both 15th and 16th streets accept credit cards and are open 7 days a week. Detailed parking instructions and costs are available on the UCLA website at transportation.ucla.edu. When you arrive, check in with security. Then you'll go to the admissions office located on the first floor. At Santa Monica Surgery Center, you'll wait in the admissions office until we call you into the pre-operative area. At UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center, we'll direct you to the surgical waiting area on the third floor. Once your care team is ready, we'll call you into the pre-operative area. In the pre-operative area, you'll meet your nursing team, anesthesiologist, and surgical team. This is the time to bring up any concerns you have or any changes to your medical history. We do our best to stay on schedule, but delays can happen due to emergencies or other circumstances. A member of your care team will check your name, date of birth, temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, and oxygen levels. They'll also talk to you about safety, preventing infection, pain, and nausea. After your procedure, your care team will move you to the recovery room where nurses will oversee your immediate care and comfort. Our staff will keep your contact person updated about how long you might be in recovery. As you recover, your care team will check your discharge goals, provide discharge instructions, and make sure it's safe for you to go home. We limit visitor access to provide the best care after surgery. At UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center, you can have two healthy visitors before and after your procedure. At Santa Monica Surgery Center, you can have one healthy visitor before and after your procedure. Wireless internet is available for all patients and visitors. You can use your phone inside your room or outside the unit. However, cameras and photography are not allowed, and please do not use phones in the hallways. To prevent the spread of infection, fresh flowers and plants are not allowed. Visitors can bring cards, non- latex balloons, or personal photos. You need a responsible adult to accompany you when you leave. Please arrange transportation before the day of your surgery. You cannot use ride share such as Uber or Lyft as transportation from the hospital or surgery center. We also recommend that a family member or a trusted friend stay with you at home for 24 hours after your surgery. Patients under 18 must have two healthy, responsible adults accompanying them. For children transported in a car seat, two adults are required to bring the patient home after surgery. Thank you for trusting us with your care at UCLA Health. For more information, please visit our website.