Welcome and thank you for choosing UCLA Medical Center Santa Monica.  In alliance with the Orthopedic Institute for Children, we strive for continuous excellence to achieve leading edge patient care, research, and education. Our hope is that this video will help answer any questions you may have. Preparations for your hospital visit begin before you come to UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica.  If you have not been contacted by our Preoperative Evaluation Center, also known as PEC, please call us at 310 3194742 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., one day before surgery. A registered nurse will tell you what time to report to the admissions office for your child's surgery and will answer any questions you may have.  If your child develops a cold, fever, or skin irritation, please call the surgeon's office.  It may be necessary to postpone the surgery.  If you speak little or no English, we offer interpreter services at no cost to you.  Please notify our PEC staff the day before surgery.  Surgery and hospitalization can be a stressful time for children, as well as for their parents. Fortunately, our child life specialists are focused on improving the hospital experience for you and your child through developmentally appropriate education and preparation.  Regarding all aspects of your stay in the hospital, the Child Life Team is available for guided tours, pre-admission and pre-surgery throughout the hospital.  And to answer any questions you may have, you can find information about the Child Life Tracking program and how to prepare your child for hospitalization.  On our website www.ucahealth.org/alchildlife. ORG/al Child Life.  If you think you need additional help, please contact the Children's Life office at 4242598219. Depending on your child's age and the type of surgery, what they can and cannot eat before the procedure varies.  Please discuss your child's specific fasting instructions with the PEC nurse before coming to the hospital.  All patients must take a shower and wash their hair the night before surgery.  If your surgeon provides you with cleansing towels or special soap, follow the doctor's instructions for their use.  Please do not bring any medication from home unless you are given specific instructions to do so.  Before your arrival, however, please continue to give your child their medication as prescribed, unless your child's doctor gives you other instructions.  Remember to give only a sip of water with your medication. Ask your doctor if you should bring any medical records to the hospital, including MRI, X-ray, or CT scan results.  On the day of surgery you will be asked to sign the surgical procedure consent form and the anesthesia consent form.  Infants and children under 18 years of age must have a parent or legal guardian available to sign the consent forms.  If you are not the parent or legal guardian, please bring valid identification and documentation that proves you can give consent.  UCLA Medical Center Santa Monica is located at 1250 16th Street, half a block from Wilshi Boulevard.  From Wilshi Boulevard head south to 16th Street and the hospital will be immediately on your right.  Wallet parking is available at our main entrance.  For other parking options, please visit our website www.uchealth.org.  Please bring only essential personal items and leave any luggage in your car overnight.  You will be able to bring it to your child's room after the surgery.  Upon arrival, enter through the main entrance and continue straight ahead.  Turn right at the end and you will find admissions on your right in room G314. From there you will be directed to our surgery waiting room in room 3500 on the third floor.  Your child will be prepared for the procedure in the procedure treatment unit, also known as the PTU.  There, they will dress him in a hospital gown and constantly monitor his vital signs using a blood pressure monitoring bracelet and a pulse oximeter that slides onto his finger to measure oxygen levels.  If you will be staying at the hospital during your child's surgery, you will be provided with a person locator to keep you informed about updates on your child's condition.  Please note that the range of your locator is only one mile.  Your child will have the opportunity to meet their doctor(s) and get answers to their questions.  The anesthesiologist will begin with an intravenous injection to administer the medication to put your child to sleep.  This might be an anxious time for your child, but you can help by telling them that any discomfort will quickly pass.  Let him know that the intravenous injection will ensure that he falls asleep so that he feels nothing during the surgery.  A child life specialist may be available to assist in preparing your child, explaining what is about to happen in words the child can understand.  This can also include games and toys to help keep your child occupied.  When it's time for surgery, your child will be taken to the operating room.  Monitors will be placed in it to continuously check on the well-being of your child.  He or she will also wake up surrounded by this monitoring equipment in the recovery room.  Anesthesia will be administered in the operating room to ensure your child is fully asleep and comfortable during surgery.  Following the procedure, your child will recover in our post-anesthesia care unit, also known as Pacu.  Visits are permitted on a limited basis.  Please contact your nurse for more information.  It is common for children to wake up irritable and disoriented from anesthesia.  A familiar item from your home, as well as physical comfort, could help you feel safe and better. After one to two hours, your child will usually feel more awake and alert, but recovery time will vary depending on the individual patient. Depending on the surgery, your child may wake up with a cast or brace.  The nurses and therapists will answer any questions you may have about .  If your child will be admitted to the hospital after surgery, he or she will be transferred to our pediatric inpatient unit.  We recommend that your child pack a small travel suitcase with their familiar belongings and favorite activities from home.  For surgery related to spinal scoliosis, you can expect to stay in the hospital for approximately 5 to 7 days.  For hip and leg surgery, you can expect to stay in the hospital for approximately one to three days.  Each patient room has space for a parent or legal guardian to sleep during overnight stays. Parents and family members are welcome to visit during hospital admission hours .  All visitors will need to check in and obtain a visitor pass at the entrance of the pediatric unit.  We require that no visitor under the age of 18 stay overnight for safety reasons.  The pediatric unit has 25 private rooms, each with its own bathroom, sink and closet.  It also has a supervised playroom.  Your hospital care team consists of many people.  Your child will be assigned a registered nurse, RN, and CCP clinical care associate on each shift.  Your child will likely be visited by a pediatric social worker , a clinical case manager, a physical therapist, and a child life specialist.  All members of our staff will wear an identification badge.  Please do not hesitate to ask anyone who enters your room who they are and what their role is.  One of our primary team members will guide your child about the entertainment in their room and review our safety guidelines.  Each room has a communication board that is updated daily with the names of the team caring for your child's health.  During the staff shift change, a report will be completed and placed next to the patient's bed in their presence.  This is a good time to ask the nurse any questions and get involved in the events. Once your child is allowed to eat , he or she will be able to order food from the room service menu according to the diet recommended by the doctor.  If your child needs to use the bathroom, use the alert light to request help.  We do not recommend that your child get up without assistance.  It may be helpful to simply use the urinal or bedside commode immediately after surgery. Our team places vital importance on infection prevention.  We have a practice of washing our hands before and after contact with patients in order to protect our patients and ourselves.  After your child's surgery , we will focus on pain management, deep breathing, fluid and elimination, mobility and safety, and infection prevention. After surgery, your child is expected to experience some pain.  It is important to keep the pain at a tolerable level so that you can comfortably progress towards recovery. Your surgeon and nurse will review the options for monitoring.  Other age-appropriate alternative pain management techniques such as distraction, play, and pet therapy are available.  When the pain is controlled, your child will sleep better, move better, and ultimately feel better.  We ask that you take an active role in pain management and communicate your child's needs to us.  Taking deep breaths and coughing is important after surgery to exercise the lungs. Good nutrition is important in the healing process.  After surgery, your child may feel very hungry or not want any food at all. To maintain hydration, your child leaves surgery with an IV until he or she can drink and eat without problems. Pain medications can cause constipation.  Therefore, it is important that you drink beverages and consume fiber-rich foods and walk around the area. After surgery, we do everything we can to prevent infections.  Your child may be given antibiotics for a short period of time.  Remember to wash your hands and your child's hands frequently while you are in the hospital.  Your child may be evaluated by a medical therapist or PT.  On the first day after surgery, the PTE will assess whether your child can move around in bed, get up and walk, and whether they tolerate these actions.  Your child will be observed daily by the physical therapy staff while they remain in the hospital or until their therapy goals are met .  You will be instructed on basic exercises as applicable. The PT will assist you appropriately by removing and replacing the brace.  PT staff will help you improve your overall mobility and prepare you for hospital discharge.  This will include techniques for getting out of bed, improving their tolerance for walking, and training for turning corners and climbing stairs.  An assistive device such as a walker may be recommended as a safety measure when getting out of bed. Our medical case manager will assist you in obtaining any equipment needed for the child's use at home, in the car, or at school.  Prior to hospital discharge, we expect your child to be taking medication to bring pain to tolerable levels or even better and to be eating and drinking without restrictions.  Please make timely arrangements for transportation from the hospital.  We assure you that you will leave with all the necessary information to ensure that both you and your child have a safe transition home. Remember, if you have any questions at any time, please call us at 4242599620. Some of the best orthopedic surgeons, nurses, and health professionals in the world will make sure you have a great experience at UCLA.  We look forward to taking care of your family.