Thank you for entrusting us with their care.  You are watching this video because you have a scheduled surgery in the main operating room of the UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center or the Santa Monica Surgery Center. This video will help you prepare for your operation.  We will tell you what you can expect before your arrival during your registration, admission and recovery period. The day before the operation you will receive a call from your medical team.  If your procedure is scheduled for a Monday, we will call you the preceding Friday. We will tell you what time to arrive, what to bring, what time to stop eating, and what medications you can take before surgery. Leave all valuables such as jewelry, watches, and money at home.  UCLA Health is not responsible for lost belongings. If you are staying overnight, you can request personal hygiene items such as deodorant, toothbrush, toothpaste, and shampoo.  Bring a small bag with personal items such as a credit card, ID, insurance card, phone charger, and loose clothing for your return trip home.  Please verify the address where the operation will take place, as the hospital and the surgical center are different locations.   Valet parking is available at the main entrance of the hospital at 1250 16th Street from Monday to Friday.  The parking service only accepts cash or checks.  The garages on 15th and 16th Streets accept credit cards and are open 7 days a week. On the UCLA website, transportation.edu, Ley.Eduedu you will find precise instructions on parking and costs. Upon arrival, please register at the security desk.  Afterwards, you will go to the admissions office located on the first floor at Santa Monica Surgery Center.  You will need to wait in the admissions office until we tell you to go to the pre-operative area. At UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center, we will direct you to the surgical waiting room on the Third Floor.  Once your medical team is ready, we will call you to the pre-operative area. In the pre-operative area, you will meet with the nursing team, the anesthesiologist, and the surgical team.  This is the time to raise any concerns you may have or any changes in your medical history. While we make every effort to adhere to the planned schedule, delays may occur due to emergencies or other circumstances. A member of your care team will check your name, date of birth, temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, and oxygen levels.  They will also talk to you about safety, infection prevention, pain, and nausea. After the operation, the medical team will transfer you to the recovery room, where nursing staff will monitor your immediate care and comfort. Our staff will keep your contact person informed about the length of time you may need to be in recovery. While you recover, your medical team will check if you meet the discharge goals, give you instructions, and make sure you can safely go home . We limit visitor access to provide the best care after surgery. At UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center, you can receive two visits in good health before and after the operation.  At Santa Monica Surgery Center you can receive a visit in good operation.  All patients and visitors have access to wireless internet.  You can use your phone inside your room or outside the unit.  However, cameras and photographs are not allowed.  and he is asked not to use the phone in the hallways. To prevent the spread of infections, bringing flowers or fresh plants is not allowed. Visitors can bring cards, latex-free balloons, or personal photos. It is necessary that a responsible adult accompany you to the exit.  We appreciate you arranging your transfer before the day of the operation.  The use of shared transportation services such as Uber or Lift to travel from the hospital or surgical center is not permitted.  We also recommend that a family member or trusted friend stay with you at home for 24 hours after the operation. Patients under 18 years of age must be accompanied by two responsible adults in good health. In the case of children transported in a car seat, two adults are required to take the patient home after the operation. Thank you for entrusting your care to UCLA Health.  For more information, please visit our website.