Hi, I'm Hudson. I'm here at UCLA Mattel Children's Hospital to show you what to expect when you need a surgery. It's not as scary as you might think. You might actually like the people and maybe even meet some new friends. The doctors and nurses tell you what to expect before it happens. and make you feel totally ready. Come on, I'll show you everything you need to know. At Mattel Children's Hospital, they have a special group of people. They are called the pediatric perioperative surgical home or PPSH. Their job is to make your surgery as safe, comfortable, and easy as possible. They'll be with you the whole time, so you'll really get to know them. You and your parents can ask them any question about your surgery. They know everything. A couple weeks before your surgery, try to make sure you get enough sleep and eat lots of healthy food. If you think you're getting sick, it's really important to tell your doctor. Sometimes even minor illness such as a cough, runny nose, or fever can cause problems during surgery and anesthesia. The day before your surgery, your parents need to take care of some grownup stuff. So, make sure they're listening. Before 400 p.m., on the day before your surgery, a nurse will call your house. The nurse will tell you when to come to the admissions office or registration desk for your surgery. Tell your parents that if they don't receive a call by 400 p.m. to call as soon as possible. The day before your surgery, you only have one important job. it is. Do not eat or drink anything too close to the time of your surgery because your doctors want nothing in your stomach. Make sure you tell your doctor if you did not follow this rule because they might have to reschedule your surgery. If you take medications every day, make sure to ask your doctor to see if you can still take them. It's really important to ask about blood thinning, blood sugar, or inhaled medications. If you need to take any of your medications on the day of surgery, remember you can only take them with a sip of water. When you pull into the hospital, there's a valet right at the front. They give you a ticket and park your car for you. If you like parking, you can self-p park in the garage, too. When you come inside, you will first stop in at the admissions office. You'll check in and they'll give you a buzzer. You'll wait next door in Mattiey's room until a buzzer goes off and it's your turn. A staff member will take you and your family to the PTU on the second floor. That's the pre-treatment unit. You can watch TV, read books, or play games until it's your turn to go to the operating room. In the PTU, different people from your surgery team may visit you to make sure everything is running smoothly, like a child life specialist, a nurse, or a surgeon. You'll also have a special doctor called an anesthesiologist. They make sure you're asleep during your surgery and don't feel any pain. You might see a lot of things you've never seen before. If you don't know what that is, your child life specialist will show you exactly what it does. The child life specialists are just for you to make sure you feel good about everything before your surgery. They're pretty cool. Before your surgery, you may get a special medicine to help you relax. This might make you giggly or tired. But don't worry, the doctors know what helps. When it's time for your surgery, you'll get to ride a bed into the operating room. Your parents might not be able to come with you, but your child life specialist will be there until you fall asleep. In the O, you'll get another special medicine so that you can go to sleep and stay asleep for your entire surgery. While you're asleep, you won't feel anything. While you're in surgery, your family will wait for you in Maddiey's room where you first came into the building. This is a special place just for families waiting for surgery patients. Volunteers and staff are here to help them with anything they need. while they're waiting for you to wake up. Your parents have to stay in the hospital while you're in surgery. They can get food at the cafeteria down the hall or get some fresh air, but they have to stay close just in case the doctors have a question or you're finished early. When your surgery is finished, you'll move to the post anesthesia care unit or Pacio. You might still feel sleepy, but that's totally normal. You have plenty of time here to wake up. Someone from your surgery team will let your family know that you're ready to wake up. They can answer any questions your family might have. When you wake up, there might be a lot of tubes or machines on your body. Sometimes they beep or make sound. These things are checking your heartbeat and breathing and even giving you special medicine so you don't feel any pain. You might get pain medication as a pill, as a liquid, or through an IV. Depending on your surgery, you may go home when you wake up or you may get to stay overnight in one of our pediatric units. Before you leave, make sure your parents ask lots of questions about these things. If you're leaving the same day as your surgery, you have to ride in a wheelchair. You might not think you'll need it, but it's kind of fun. Now you know what to expect for surgery. Bye.