Santa Monica UCLA Medical Center and Orthopedic Hospital has earned a reputation for excellence in patient care. We'd like to help you prepare for surgery before you walk through our doors. Hello, I'm Posie Carpenter, chief administrative officer of Santa Monica UCLA Medical Center and Orthopedic Hospital. It's my great pleasure to welcome you. Our goal is to ensure that you receive the highest quality care while you're here and that you receive the most outstanding service possible. This video is being made to help you to understand what the experience will be like before, during, and after you receive your surgery and your care within the hospital. We're here to meet all of your patient care needs. So, please don't hesitate to ask for help anytime, and we look forward to serving you. Good morning. May I speak with Mrs. Marilyn Tobin, please? Prior to surgery, you will be given notification about the date and time your surgery will be performed. And we have you scheduled for 12 noon for surgery is always performed on an empty stomach. So, you will be given instructions as to when to start fasting for surgery. and you're not going to have anything to eat or drink. On the day of surgery, please bring with you a current list of medications you are taking and a copy of your advanced directive. So, you won't need to bring any of your own medications with you for this visit. Please do not bring any of your medications from home to the hospital. Our pharmacy can provide you with any medications you will need. If you have a concern about a drug you take, consult your UCLA physician. On arrival to the hospital on the day of surgery, please proceed to the admissions department. In the admissions area, you will be checked in by our admissions staff and given an ID armband on your wrist. This is how every staff member will identify you when you come in contact with any of them. This ID band should be checked by every person who comes into contact with you during your hospital's stay. Everyone who comes into contact with you must also wash their hands or use a hand sanitizer. If they do not, we encourage you to ask them to do so. I thought it was terrific from A to Z. As far as the entry uh reception, it was handled beautifully. um very comfortable because obviously I was quite nervous and um after the surgery the staff the nurses were attentive. I never had to wait. Uh everybody announced their name. Their hands were always washed the minute they came in. So for me it was like the four seasons of hospitals. I I truly thought it was terrific. Once this admission process has been completed, you will be directed to the procedure and treatment unit. It's also called the PTU. Get started. In the PTU, you will change into a surgical gown. You will meet your nurse and anesthesiologist and surgeons. Your belongings will be bagged and placed in a locker and returned to you in the evening unless your belongings remain with your family members. Don't bring any valuables. Your blood pressure was 136 over 67, which is perfect. Your nurse will check your vital signs, review your medicines, allergies, and medical history. An IV line will be started to allow administration of medication. Your surgeon will assist you in marking the surgical area and you will sign your informed consents for surgery. Just need you to sign right here for me, please. When you are ready to be moved into the operating room, your family members will then be directed to the surgical waiting area. Harie, love you, too. Your surgeon will speak with your family once the surgery is over. After your surgery, you will be moved to the post anesthesia care unit or PACU. While you're here in the PACU, you'll be waking up from surgery, and when you're comfortable and stable, we'll be taking you to your room. You may not remember being here, but over the next several hours, you'll be gradually awakened. When certain parameters are met, you will be transferred to your room. Thank you. So, how you doing? Good. Thank you. Okay. Welcome. And since your nurses aid today, once you are settled into your room, your care partner will show you how to use the call light to ask for assistance or some questioning for your medication. The nursing staff will monitor your heart rate and blood pressure on a regular basis. You are likely to experience some pain related to your surgery. Our goal is for your pain to be tolerable or better. Pain medication can be administered in a variety of different ways. medication. We will ask you to rate your pain frequently and please tell us any time if you are experiencing pain. If you feel pain, you can push these buttons. Push on the end here. In addition to any medications you take at home, you will receive antibiotics, blood thinners, and medications for nausea, constipation, and insomnia as needed. Once you are able to eat, generally the evening of your surgery, you will be able to order meals from our room service menu according to the diet your physician recommends for you. And a hot openf face turkey sandwich. While you are in surgery, drains and catheters may be placed to remove urine and surgical drainage from your body. Most drains are removed by the second day after surgery. The nursing staff empties drains of urine and fluids on a schedule. If you have any questions or concerns about your drains, please ask us. Your IV will continue to be used for fluids and medications throughout your hospital stay. Although by the second day after surgery, it will be capped and used only as needed. Capping of the IV and removal of the drains gives you more freedom in your mobility. To prevent lung congestion, you need to breathe deeply and cough frequently. You will also be given a device called an incentive sperometer which helps you exercise your lungs. The nursing staff will provide you with instructions for its use. That's good. That's long that the white is going out is so perfect. To prevent blood clots after surgery, your surgeon will direct the nurses to provide specific treatment for you. Treatments may include compression pumps, support hose, medications, exercises, or a combination of these therapies. Okay, good. All good. If you need to use the bathroom, the nursing staff will assist you. Thank you. Sometimes it may be helpful to use the bedpan or bedside commode immediately following surgery. Please use the call light at any time to ask for help. This side here, both hands. We do not want you to get up without assistance. Move yourself that way. Okay. One, two, up. Every morning, the phabottomist will take a small sample of your blood as directed by your physician. All right. These samples will determine medication doses and the need for any blood transfusion. Depending on your particular surgery, you may have activity or mobility precautions you need to follow to protect the surgical area while it's healing. These will be reviewed with you by our team members. In most cases, you will be evaluated by a physical therapist the first day after your surgery. The PT will assess how well you are able to move around in bed, stand up, and walk as tolerated. You can put weight as much as you want. Then let's stand up for a few seconds until you get used to it. The PT may recommend you use an assistive device such as a walker for your safety while you are out of bed. You will be instructed in the basic exercises. Don't hold your breath. You will be seen by the physical therapy staff every day while you are in the hospital or until your physical therapy goals are met. The physical therapy staff will help progress your general mobility and prepare you for discharge. This will include techniques for getting out of bed, improving walking tolerance, curb and stair training. You may also be evaluated by an occupational therapist who will assess how well you are able to complete general activities of daily living including dressing, bathing, and toileting. You will be instructed in the use of adaptive equipment as needed as well. Our goal is for you to return home directly from the hospital with appropriate home health services and equipment, but placement at a skilled nursing facility for a period of rehab may be arranged if needed. A case manager or discharge planner will assist you. Okay. And how have you been doing in therapy? Do you feel like you can manage at home? As you are progressing toward your discharge day, our team will be encouraging you to get out of bed for all your meals, walking to the restroom, and performing prescribed exercises. Some eggs for me. Increasing your activity will benefit your digestion, circulation, and breathing. Keep in mind that rest and activity need to be balanced. Before you are discharged, we expect that you will be taking oral pain medication to relieve your pain to a tolerable level or better. That you will be eating and drinking without restrictions, and any constipation will be resolved. Barbara, how you doing? You look great. Thank you. Discharge time is 11:00 a.m. You will leave our hospital with all the information you need to ensure a smooth transition to home or rehab facility. Our goal is to help you resume a normal, active lifestyle as quickly as possible.