So, um, our next speaker is Dr. Kirsten Tillish. We've all had the pleasure of meeting her yesterday when she shared her expertise and experiences on how to manage difficult IBS patients. Dr. Tillish is an associate professor in the division of digestive diseases. She is the head of the clinical studies for the neuroiming program of the Gail and Gerald Oppenheimer family center for neurobiology of stress. Her clinical interests are primary uh functional bowel disorders such as IBS, functional dispsia and cyclic vomiting syndrome. Her research interests include brain gut interactions, the role of microbiota modulation on emotional processing in the brain and the role of mindfulness-based stress reduction in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. Today she will be giving us a nice practical overview of the role of probiotics in GI disease. Welcome Dr. Tish. Thank you. Um the short version of this talk is sort of um piggybacking on what Eric has talked about is that this is an incredibly exciting area of scientific inquiry and it's an area as a researcher um that I'm very interested in. Um on the clinical side, we are stuck with a lot of sort of a mishmash of small studies and not a lot of good practical conclusions. But I'm going to go through some of the data with you and sort of my conclusions that I've come up with based on that. Um uh so as an overview, Eric talked a bit about the the gut microbiome. Um I'll I'll also talk about that a little bit and how it's particularly relevant to probiotics and why it makes sense that probiotics might be useful. And then I'll talk about probiotics in health. Um, it's a common question that I I know I get and probably you guys do as well. Even for people who don't have irritable bowel or inflammatory bowel disease, they just wonder, should I be taking this probiotic? I heard it's healthy. We should all have them. Um, and then in specific disease states. So, as Eric mentioned, we are more microbiota than we are human. Um, but we have developed together. uh and and we need our microbes. Um and the the the structure of our microbiome can really impact our health. Um we we've known that there are multiple factors that help us develop our microbiome and probably our genetics, how our genes create the proper uh niche for these microbiota to take hold is really important. But there are other factors as well. Um whether we're vegetarians or carnivores may drive the way our microbiota or either structured or how they behave when they're in our bodies. Um what medicines we take, whether people have been on long-term antibiotics, recurrent antibiotics can change the uh the structure of the microbiota uh or other medications may play a role. Um and also things in the environment. How much exposure have you had? you know, with the sort of um you know, uh uh the germfree environment that people try to live in with lots of hand sanitizers and staying away from everything and and our our clean environment where we have less parasites has changed uh our microbiome in ways that may be good in some ways and bad in other ways. And then the the the chief way that it seems that we get our gut microbiome is is from our mothers. And as a mother, and that's me when when my kids were born uh seven years ago, it's a lot of stress. You know, we're we're responsible for giving them microbiome really that develops in children and that microbiome develops over the future in a way that is fairly permanent. So, uh even uh prenatally, the mother's microbiome and that that she she gives to her kids is important. We there's there's been literature about what type of delivery a child has. So the the high number of cesarian sections in this country may change the overall microbiota of the population over time. And is that important? There's really controversial literature on this. Some studies saying that it's a it makes a big difference. Others saying if you if you go past a few months, the difference really may not be so important. What about nursing? Are are kids formulafed or breastfed? and what will their microbiome be like in those different conditions and will we need to supplement kids? So, this is an area of intense research now. Should we be giving probiotics to kids who are born by C-section? Should we be giving probiotics to kids who are formulafed and not nursed? So, so it's a lot of pressure for for moms um because we're we're responsible for this. Um, so probiotics, live microorganisms that are ingested to confer a health benefit. Now, most of the probiotics that are on the shelf at Whole Foods, they've never been tested for a health benefit. We don't know if they're probiotics or not. What is generally uh accepted is that there are a number of different types of bacterial uh uh gener species that are good bacteria and seem to be helpful and the ones that we come down to usually are lactobacillus and bifidobacterium and those are usually the common ones that are in uh in probiotics. uh some streptococcus species uh which are also one of the key species in yogurt uh as well as sacchroyces bulardi are also often seen um but it's important to notice that that most of these are not clinically tested they're assumed to be helpful and we can get probiotics in a lot of different places uh oral supplements yogurts fermented foods so even those of us who aren't taking supplements often will be eating foods you know I like the sauerkraut Someone else may like the kimchi, tempeh, all a whole host of foods that are in people's diets have probiotics. So, in terms of now, I don't know if I have a pointer. Yes, I do. Uh, so, but I don't know how if I can really I can't really use the pointer. I'll just talk you through it. So, in terms of the proposed mechanisms of benefit, um, immune regulation is one of the key ones. So in terms of development of our immune system, immune tolerance development is is probably um mediated through our microbiota and then as life goes on, the type of microbiota we have will allow us to have a better competition against pathogens. So um along with the responsibility I always take credit for the fact that my kids have only had one episode of gastronuritis in in seven years because I gave them some good microbiome that has kept them healthy. This microbiome is competing with those pathogens and keeping them healthy. So that's one of the things that we think um probiotics may help with. uh in terms of antimicrobial peptide production, the microbiota interact with the epithelial cells of the gut lumin and actually encourage it to secrete antimicrobial peptides. Um there are many products that the the uh microbiota produce and in particularly those things that we take in probiotics uh bacteria that will help us make short- chain fatty acids, things that make our intestinal permeability uh lessened uh that we can use metabolically for energy production um and and overall uh improve uh improve our health. So there's a good rationale for using probiotics. So in health maintenance, do we all need probiotics? Um my I mean my personal way of dealing with this is I just ask people do you have any you know do you have any problem that you're trying to treat? And if they say no I don't then I should say don't take any. You probably have all the good bacteria you need already within you. And if you take something in addition you may end up with a problem. I've seen people come to me and say can you get constipated from a probiotic? And I was like, "Sure, these these are organisms that can affect your motility. They don't always make everything better." Uh, and so we shouldn't give them so much credit for being being perfect and normalizing. If things are normal, if it's not broke, don't fix it. However, in uh people who do have some mild but subclinical simp GI symptoms, stomach upset, bloating, some alterations in bowel habits, there have been a couple studies, both of them not huge studies that looked at fermented milk products. So, basically yogurt versus a non-fermented milk product and so showed that people feel better uh when they take a probiotic. So the first one being a study done by Danon and the second one as I recall one being done by um the company that makes the occult. Um and and people saying that they did feel better. Um one of the hot topics now is can it change your mood? Can your bacteria actually make you feel better? So there's a fair amount of of preclinical research showing that the type of microbiota that a mouse has can change its behavior, particularly its anxiety like behaviors or its depression-like behaviors. And I'm a little bit of a skeptic of the anxiety depression models in uh in rodents, but but it's done a lot. And and so there there have been two studies and one of them quoted here where they actually looked at this in humans. Um they looked and they saw that people who were on a combined probiotic with lactobacillus and bifido bacterium and these were healthy people without clinical anxiety or depression actually felt better in terms of anxiety and depression symptoms. um not replicated at this point. But something that's interesting in my own work with our group at UCLA, we've looked at uh a yogurt probiotic and saw that the emotional processing within the brain when people look at negative imagery can be changed by a probiotic. So I do believe that something happens within the gut that is translated through uh through the nervous system and and probably through uh many of the neurotransmitters and other products that go through our circulation that affect not just bowel symptoms but also things that are happening throughout the body um in terms of immune function. So often people will say well I take a probiotic so I don't get sick. Um there's not a lot of data on that, but there are a few little studies that suggest there may be some benefit in kids at least. Um in one study of a lactobacillus species, they they looked at immune parameters and cytoine production and really saw no change with a probiotic, but a very specific uh species and strain. Another study looked at a combined probiotic in kids and showed that in a randomized control double blind setting, if you give half of the kids uh a placebo and half of the kids a probiotic, those that got the probiotic missed fewer days of school and had less symptoms of respiratory infections um suggesting that there may have been a benefit in kids. Um in another study that looked at similar things in elderly population and nursing homes, they didn't find this. and and looking at kids and elderly is a particularly useful I think way to look at it because these are the extremes of age where the microbiota may have some problems um it may not be fully developed. So I I do think that as Louie Prestor towards the end of his life came to after the obsession with the microbecame to say it's it's not the microbe, it's the soil. Um our our bodies and our our our coexistent microbiota being the soil. What we we present will help us sort of decide whether when that infection comes through whether or not we may be uh whether or not we may be susceptible to it. So now to the data of can we intervene. So that whole precursor is the stuff that I find interesting that there is this scientific rationale for for uh why our microbiome is important and how pro probiotics could help. But do we know if they do help yet? Irritable bowel syndrome I I guess more than some areas there there's a little bit of data. It makes sense. We think that there are alterations in the microbiota in IBS. um not well studied enough. It's not a mature enough science for us to explain what those are, but they seem to have a decrease in microbial diversity. And probiotics are thought to help those symptoms that that patients with IBS have. uh in the re most recent meta analysis of 18 randomized studies so over 1500 patients um they showed that with a primary outcome of global GI uh global IBS symptoms or pain uh that there was a improvement in symptoms with probiotic uh this replicated the general findings that had been in the last ACG technical review uh showing that it appeared that there was a benefit to probiotics And I think the number needed to treat sort of similar in this case four. Um what was different in this more recent meta analysis is whereas the ACG technical review suggests that bifidobacterium is the type of probiotic you should use in IBS as opposed to lactobacillus this one did not show a difference. So it appeared that but multiple types of bacteria could be helpful. Uh they also showed uh some results on other symptoms. So unfortunately bloating which is where we often throw we bring up the probiotics they showed a non-significant trend to improvement. So no miracle cure for bloating flatulence was decreased pain uh was decreased adverse events not well described but appear to be safe. So takehome probiotics appear to help symptoms at least a little bit. They appear to be uh safe. Uh when you're going to use them we don't know what dose. We don't know exactly which probiotic. seems like lactobacillus, bifidobacteria, maybe streptococcus, maybe yogurt, those things could all potentially be helpful. Um, how long you need to take them, we don't really know, but we think that you need to continue them and that as soon as you stop the probiotic, you're going to go back to however you were before. In inflammatory bowel disease, um, it makes sense. We we think that the immune system and the microbiome communicating is a really important factor in development of inflammatory bowel disease. So it makes sense that that these things should be uh these probiotics should be useful. We think probiotics have an immunom modulatory effect. So great. There's some nice clinical uh some nice pre-clinical studies in rodents where you do induce the colitis and then you give the probiotic and they get all better. But as often happens in these animal studies, this is not what happens in humans. So I've condensed the slides in your slid set a bit. So you you you may notice that I don't have all of the slides just for the sake of time, but basically in Crohn's disease, there's no current evidence that probiotics are of any utility. Maybe it's just that the studies haven't been good enough or large enough, but so far not recommended. In ulcerative colitis, there has been a fairly big meta analysis, 23 randomized uh control trials over,700 patients. It appears that there's a small benefit of probiotics in uh increased remission rates compared to placebo. So possibly uh some benefit in pouchitis um there smaller uh smaller series of trials but it also appears to be some benefit in pouchitis with um both uh improvement in acute episodes of pouchitis and uh decrease in recurrence after treatment with antibiotics. So there may be some benefit there. So take home with IBD. We know from the data that a third of our patients with IBD are taking probiotics despite the lack of evidence in some of these situations like Crohn's disease. And so this should be a conversation that we have with our patients. We know that they're taking them. Do they really need to? Are they wasting their money? And so it's useful, I think, to have a conversation and say, you know, there's the evidence for Crohn's disease. If you want to take it, maybe it's safe. Some studies have actually shown worsening of symptoms with probiotics. I would say don't do it at this point. Um, in ulcerative colitis, maybe there's additional benefit, but is it worth it? Not really clear at this point. Poutitis, more likely uh could be a benefit. In infectious diarrhea, there have been a few clinical studies um control trials that have shown that giving a probiotic will uh reduce the length of time that patient that kids in particular have infectious diarrhea and on a worldwide sca worldwide scale where this is a big killer of kids and a really important problem even a small benefit could be worth it. So I would say in in the meta analysis that was done of uh over 8,000 patients, they showed that acute diarrhea duration decreased by just one day, but they also showed that the stool consistency improved by day two of the diarrhea. And so there may be a benefit um for use of probiotics and infectious diarrhea, though it's not incredibly dramatic. Uh obesity is an area that's a sort of one of those hot topics. So since 2005 when Jeff Gordon and his group uh presented data that that humans and mice who are obese had a different balance of the fil bacteria the which are these major types of bacteria under which the probiotics are just a tiny little piece that these major structures were different in people who are lean and obese. Uh people have been very interested in this and following up on that the idea that you could take the microbiota from an obese mouse and put it into a lean mouse and that lean mouse would become obese made it all the more interesting. We've yet to see the uh results at least I have of any fecal microbiota transplants any fecal transplants uh in uh lean people uh into obese people to see if it makes a difference. But certainly I'm sure people are trying that at home because it is such a important issue. Um there's some sort of tantalizing evidence from a recent study that looked at abdominal atyposity and body mass index and found that they were able to reduce these very difficult to change factors in 210 adults who who took a fermented milk product which is the scientific way of saying yogurt uh for 12 weeks in a double blind randomized control trial. They looked at them within four weeks they reverted to their previous atyposity in BMI. So it's a small study. It's not been replicated but it is sort of positive to think that there may be something that we can change in our diet or in our microbiota that could help control the major problem that we have in this country and in the world uh which is obesity. Uh so our current limitations we really just have insufficient research to to determine many many things. the dose, the duration, the mode of administration, um, and and who should get what. So, it's a frustrating area for, uh, gastronurologists who are having these questions asked of them. And I'm sorry not to be able to make it a lot simpler. Um, there are a few commercial preparations that have been tested to assess the viability, the dose range, the efficacy in irritable bowel syndrome. Uh, probably the best studied is, um, a line, which is a strain of bifidobacterium infantis. uh in IBD probably the best studied is VSSL number three which is a a cocktail of four different uh uh of seven different uh probiotics. Um cost is an issue. These can be quite costly from 50 cents to $5 a day depending on what kind of exotic preparation our patients are on. They're not covered by insurance. I think that makes sense at this point. Um we should be able to give patients an idea of whether they're they're wasting their money or not. Um though in all honesty they're they're they're taking them regardless. I think the future um is exciting though and in in in 10 years if I give this talk again it'll be um much more useful. I think right now we're still defining what normal is in the microbiome. And once we can individualize and have people's stools sent out and say, "Oh, you know, you you're a little short on this, this, and this, and we can replete that, or you got too much of that, so if we give you this, it may interfere." Um, that's where we're going. We really need to be able to personalize this and tell people which probiotics would be most useful for them, uh, both in health and in disease. um study of the microbiome, gut brain access is an area that's of great interest in functional GI disorders uh as well as neuroscychiatric disease. There's a lot of uh enthusiasm about uh looking at effects of the microbiota and giving probiotics or bacteria back in uh in treating anxiety, depression, uh aging, uh dementia and autism. So, it'll be an area that we'll probably have a talk on at uh or several talks on at every GI meeting for the next 10 years. And hopefully it'll be be uh um something that'll be more and more exciting as time goes on. So, thank you for your attention.