Hello, my name is Robert Reiter. I am a professor of urology at UCLA School of Medicine and UCLA Health, and I am the director of the prostate cancer program and chief of the division of urological oncology. I'm here to talk to you today about a new program at UCLA where we are using the most advanced forms of molecular imaging of prostate cancer to help guide us surgically to remove any sites of spread of disease or metastatic disease. So, PSMA PET imaging is is something that we've been doing at UCLA for almost 7 years right now and was recently FDA approved in 2022. It's now gaining a greater acceptance worldwide very much in part because of the work that we've done at UCLA over the past 7 years that led to the FDA approval. So, what is PSMA imaging? PSMA imaging is a form of imaging in which we can identify any site of prostate cancer based on the presence of this gene called PSMA or prostate-specific membrane antigen on the surface of a cancer cell. So, it enables us to really see where prostate cancer might be in the body much better than we ever could before and it really is changing the way that we see and manage this disease. And I'll just show you right here on the the right, this is a patient who had a traditional bone scan to see if he had metastatic disease to his bones and you can see that he indeed has metastases to his rib and his shoulder. But with the newer form of PSMA PET imaging, you can see unfortunately that this man has much more widespread disease and that is because this test is so much more sensitive than our traditional imaging. And so, we were able to see much more and consequently nowadays we are finding more men who have one or two or three sites of metastatic disease even at the earliest points after diagnosis or after a patient may have a recurrence of their cancer after radiation or surgery. So, just a couple of slides on PSMA PET imaging. Again, this is a test that's approved for the identification of sites of metastatic disease in men who have had prior treatment for prostate cancer and have a recurrence. And the question we clinicians always have is where is the disease and if we can find it, can we actually target it for treatment? So, this is some work from the paper that we published together with the University of California, San Francisco and UCLA showing that depending on the level of PSA or prostate-specific antigen in the bloodstream, we could detect spread of disease or the location of disease in anywhere from 40 to 100% of men. Before the advent of this imaging test, we could never identify the site of disease really until the PSA was much higher. So, this is radically changing what we see and how we see it. In addition to men who have a recurrence after radiation or surgery, it is also useful in men who have newly diagnosed disease, particularly what we call high-risk disease. That is disease that we believe can be particularly aggressive. And what this study that we published shows is that in 40% of men who had disease outside of the prostate, this test enabled us to actually see it and localize it. And this is, while not perfect, is much better than the 5 to 10% that we historically could detect. So, the question has arisen, what do we do if a man has on a PSMA PET scan has two or three deposits of cancer, most commonly in the lymph nodes in the pelvis, which is a common area where prostate cancer spreads to. Before the advent of PSMA, we would not identify this disease, but now that we see it, the question is how can we treat it? And the two ways to treat it are either to target it with specific radiation and then the other potential way is to actually remove it surgically or robotically. So, the question is for men with a limited number of metastases, we call this oligometastatic disease, one to three sites of disease. Can surgery be used to remove cancerous lymph nodes in men with newly diagnosed or recurrent prostate cancer? And until the advent of PSMA PS the the current technology that we're starting to do here at UCLA and is being done in some places in Europe, it really wasn't very possible. So, this is a this is a paper that was published by another group and what they showed is that this is a man who had a PSMA PET scan and you see where the arrows pointed here, that was a single site of disease in a lymph node. The surgeon said, "Okay, we're going to go ahead. We're going to see if we can remove this because we know pretty much where it's located." And as this example shows, the patient underwent surgery and unfortunately the surgeons did not locate it because after surgery it was still there. And the reason is because we have hundreds of lymph nodes in this area and it's very difficult for a surgeon to tell which lymph node might have cancer from which lymph node might not. And then when they they actually looked, they could actually demonstrate that this was a common occurrence that the surgeon was unable to find the site of disease and consequently the surgery did not work. So, now the question is can we use a newer advanced technologies to do the same thing, to go in surgically, but now actually use the PSMA, the probe that we used in the PET scan, can we use it actually to find the cancer at the time of surgery in the operating room? And this is called radio-guided surgery. So, the question is can radio-guided surgery be used to remove cancerous lymph nodes? Now, what is this? So, I told you about PSMA PET, which is the test we use to diagnose it. And this is this thing over here. It's called a probe or a tracer. PSMA, there are two two different forms of this tracer that can be used by the nuclear medicine doctors, but what's done is that this little molecule that binds to the prostate cancer cell is linked to a to a proton-emitting radioisotope, either gallium or fluorine-18, that releases what are called beta-positive positrons, which can then be detected on a PET scan. Now, to do this in an operating room, there's no way to detect these emissions in a patient's body with a handheld tool or robotically held tool. So, there's another molecule also binds to PSMA on the surface of prostate cancer cells, but in this case it's labeled with a different radioisotope that emits a gamma gamma rays. And gamma rays have been used in medicine for probably 100 years. And it's because there are probes that can detect a gamma emission or a gamma signal. And then they could conceivably be used in an operating room setting. And it turns out there there are handheld probes that a surgeon can use and now we together with some partners have developed robotically held instruments that we can use to identify a gamma signal in the body. And another important topic that I'm not going to be discussing today, but it's very exciting, is again using the PSMA molecule, but in this case linking it to a therapeutic radioisotope, so an isotope that can actually kill cancer cells. The most common one being called lutetium and this was just approved for the management of patients with advanced prostate cancer. So, this is how it works. A patient has a PSMA PET scan as shown here. If there's a site of disease that's located, the patient then plans to have surgery. One day before the surgery, we give this new probe called PSMA INS and this is the gamma probe with technetium. And then one day later, the patient goes to the operating room and here this is a handheld probe, but the surgeon is using this probe to detect a signal which can be identified or can be heard or seen by like a Geiger counter basically. And then the lymph node can be removed and then the surgeon or the assistants can test the lymph node on the table to confirm that indeed it's emitting a gamma signal and that that actually is a prostate cancer lymph node. So, that's the way it works. So, I'm just going to show a few cases before we finish this webinar. So, this is the one of the first cases that we did. This patient, here you can see he had this is his technetium scan, so this is done the day before the surgery. And basically what we did is we confirmed that the patient had this lymph node seen here in yellow and this one seen here. And this this is the same thing seen in a different way, but you can see that there are a couple of different positive signals. So, because of this then a day later the patient was taken to the operating room and nowadays we do all these surgeries robotically, so we don't need to make a big incision. And we we have a probe that can be manipulated by the robotic arms as shown here. And basically in the operating room, the surgeon sitting here can guide this probe to the area of interest and using it can sense or detect where the signal is coming from and then remove it. Then on the back table confirm that it's real, and even go back in afterwards with the same probe and make sure that there's no residual signal because sometimes, even though we only see one lymph node on the scan, there could be other lymph nodes in the region that we might be able to detect with this probe. So, this patient underwent surgery. He had uh two uh two sites of lymph nodes that were identified, confirmed to be prostate cancer with the probe, removed, and then confirmed afterwards that there were two lymph nodes, as seen on the scan beforehand, confirmed to be cancer. And this patient's PSA afterwards uh declined more than 90%. Here's another case. Uh this is one of my favorite cases in a way because it shows the power of this new technology. So, this is a patient who had surgery a few years ago, and then unfortunately, his PSA started to rise. It was actually only 0.2, very very low, right at the threshold at which we could possibly detect uh the the location of cancer with a PET uh with a PSMA PET scan. And indeed, you can see with the yellow hour arrow here, one single site, very small lymph node, and it's located in a very hard-to-get area because it's located in fatty tissue near the rectum, not a place we usually look for cancerous lymph nodes. So, we said, "Well, let's see if we can do it." We took the patient to the operating room. He got the technetium PSMA probe the day beforehand, uh we used the uh intraoperative probe, and we were able to identify this lymph node even within all of this fatty tissue, very small, 4 mm, and it was confirmed to be positive, and it's the only lesion that we found in this man, and his PSA 3 months later was zero, indicating that we removed everything visible, uh and hopefully, it will remain zero, and he'll he'll be cured, or at least we will be delaying, we hope, uh his disease. And then, I think the final case I'm going to show is right here with a little video clip. This was a man also who had surgery in the past, uh then came back, his PSA rose all the way to 3.1, and you can see here on his PSMA PET scan, he's got actually quite a large lymph node located right here. This is the uh the the tracer that was given the day before surgery, confirming that it's there that we can detect it. He was then taken to the operating room, and in this exact area, we actually found four lymph nodes that were positive. So, we took out one, we still sensed that there was something coming from another lymph node, we removed that, and kept doing it until there was nothing residual afterwards. Um now, this patient, I'll show the video clip, but he did very very well. He went home the morning after surgery, uh but he did come back 3 months later, and his PSA was still detectable. And we got a new PET scan, and he had a small lesion that had not been seen before in one of his bones. That's being treated with radiation, but the all the sites of lymph nodes uh were were were were gone. So, we have removed everything. So, we're hoping, of course, that with uh the radiation to this one site of disease in his bone, he will do well. And this is just a little video clip. So, this is the robotically held probe that I've been talking to you about, and you can see with the robotic instruments, we're manipulating it. In the same screen, we actually have the gamma signal that we can detect. And you can see here, it's really really hot, with signals greater than 151, way above baseline. And this is actually turns out that this is the lymph node right here. This is the one that we removed, and we went back in, we still saw some more, we uh that we sensed some more, we took that out as well, and then ultimately, we were able to remove everything from this area. So, this shows how we do this actually in the operating room. So, I'll just show you a little data, and then I'll conclude. So, those are some of the cases that we've already done at UCLA. Uh we're doing them almost every few weeks now. Uh and this is uh one of two studies that have been published by groups in the in in Europe, both in the Netherlands and in Germany, where this uh procedure was first uh developed. And this shows the response in PSA uh after surgery, and you can see here that most men, at least half of men are getting declines in their PSA blood tests between 50 and 100%. Uh and uh this is very promising. Another paper from a larger series that was done in Hamburg, Germany, from a colleague of mine, Tobias Maurer. Here, he shows uh using the same exact technology, uh but this was done with an open surgery approach, not robotic. You can see here how many men actually had a PSA decline of 90 to 100%. And he was able to show that the uh that the response was predicated on having fewer sites of disease. So, if a patient had three or fewer sites of disease, they were much more likely to uh achieve this dramatic response than patients who had uh more uh disease present. And this shows basically the longer-term outcomes. This is recurrence-free survival after the salvage surgery in this German series, and you can see here that there are some number of men, probably 25 or 30%, who appear to be cured by the surgery alone. But in the other cases, the time until the patient needed a new treatment averaged 3 years. So, the idea is that a a fairly straightforward in a a surgery such as this may delay the need for any additional other treatments such as chemotherapy, hormone therapy, etc., and a patient still can be treated with radiation or other modalities if needed. This is still in in experiment, in a way. Uh we are the only site that I'm aware of in the US doing this right now. I'm sure more will be doing it eventually. Um but it is a a trial to see whether or not we can use the advanced forms of imaging to really improve the outcomes of men with prostate cancer. So, I want to uh conclude by saying the introduction of PSMA PET scanning is really redefining how we see and how we stage this disease. We're finding more men, unfortunately, who have small sites of disease beyond their prostate. PSMA imaging really can replace the alternative conventional forms of imaging. Radio-guided surgery is feasible, and the early results are positive. Uh the benefit does remain unknown long-term, and I need to stress that. Uh and it needs to be compared to other forms of treatment, uh but we are learning how to do this, refining how we do it, and I think it's an area of great promise uh that uh that offers patients a a single treatment uh that may delay the need for any subsequent treatment uh potentially forever. I want to thank, of course, all of the patients who have enrolled in our study and continue to be enrolled. Without them, we can't do any of this work. Uh and uh we do our best to treat them uh compassionately and and and thoroughly. And then, my team, this is just a small uh part of the team. Uh this is led by Jeremy Calais, Dr. Calais, who's a professor of nuclear medicine at UCLA, uh Magnus Dahlbom, who works in nuclear medicine and is a physicist in the uh uh and does much of the physics work that we need, and one of my colleagues in urology, Dr. Joe Shirk, uh and then many, many more, students, post-doctoral students, uh technicians in the operating room, etc. So, I want to thank you for your attention, and uh we are always uh available to answer any questions that arise from from the listening audience about this technology. Thank you.