Welcome to our first UCLA medical seminar in Spanish. It's a pleasure to introduce ourselves here, two Spanish-speaking doctors, one Colombian and one Mexican, with our topic: What does Alzheimer's disease have to do with my family? I'm Dr. Javier Cajigas, a professor here at the University of California, Los Angeles. I direct the bilingual service for our Latino community, providing cognitive counseling for the head in terms of diagnoses of mental and psychiatric problems. I'm pleased to have with me Lucas Restrepo, a neurologist. Neurologists deal with brain diseases like dementia, Alzheimer's, etc., and I'm a neuropsychologist, which some people call me a nerdy psychologist sometimes. Anyway, let's begin. We want you to know that if you'd like to ask us a question live, you can do so via Twitter: ulamd.com/tuk@uclamd.com. If you have any questions during the presentation, please feel free to ask. This is the best way to do it. So, initially, we're going to talk about the problems  These things normally happen with age. As we get a little older, there are changes in our brains that are perfectly normal. For example, there are occasional problems remembering names and certain words. For instance, we might say we have a word on the tip of our tongue, but it won't come out, and then a few minutes later, or maybe 30 minutes later, we wonder, "What is the name or the word we're looking for?" There's also a reduction in mental agility compared to what we were before. For example, when we were working, we were a bit quicker to speak, to walk, or to think. This reduction in agility is perfectly normal. There are also some difficulties maintaining attention when multitasking. There's an increasing problem doing several things at the same time, for example, cooking and talking on the phone, or watching TV while knitting or doing something else. The real difference between a neurological disease and old age is the ability to do the things one used to do. Supposedly, you have to do everything all day long, the daily activities, for example, uh, uh, eat, cook, get dressed, take care of your hygiene, pay your bills, etc., etc. Driving is one of the big ones. When there's a change in daily abilities, as Dr. Restrepo says, that's when we start to notice that maybe there's something to worry about, right? Well, then there are changes that are extremely frequent with age. For example, many people forget names, many people forget where they put things, many people forget what they said to another person, many people forget what they're doing at a certain moment and lose the thread of a conversation. So these things are normal. They don't necessarily mean that one has a brain disease. Now, a little bit about dementia, as we see. There are certain changes that come with the third stage of normality. You go to the refrigerator, open the door, and you don't know—that happens to all of us. You go to the refrigerator, try to open the door, you can't; you don't know you're in front of a refrigerator. That's something very different, right? So let's talk a little about what dementia is, Latin culture, despair.  When one uses the word dementia, one thinks of madness. It's very important to understand that dementia doesn't mean a person is crazy. Okay, many people who have dementia are not crazy at all. Okay, it means there is a gradual reduction in a person's ability. Usually, a change begins to manifest as dementia. There is a gradual reduction; it's something that comes little by little. One doesn't really know when it started, but it begins to arrive and leaves its mark, as we Mexicans say. These changes are related to the brain and manifest as changes in the person's behavior. The person then begins to have difficulties performing certain everyday activities, as Restrepo said earlier: problems managing, problems living more independently, cooking, navigating space, and speech difficulties. We're going to talk in more detail in a little while about what the specific cognitive changes are. It's important to appreciate that these are changes that are happening in the brain. And this is a very important point: dementia lets us know that there are brain changes that are...  Changes are happening inside the head that are seen outside in the person's behavior. It's important to appreciate that there are many different causes for a person to become demented or begin to develop dementia. The word dementia itself doesn't currently tell us anything about the cause of what we call the problem, the root cause of the problem; it only tells us that there is a current problem. So, what is Alzheimer's disease? It's a brain disease, more common than dementia. So, what is the difference between dementia and Alzheimer's disease? Well, as I explained, Alzheimer's disease is a form of dementia. Dementia is losing cognitive abilities to the point where one needs help with daily activities. There are approximately 5 million people in this country who have Alzheimer's disease. It's progressive, meaning it's neurological. Over time, there are risk factors for Alzheimer's disease. The main one is age. As age advances, the risk of Alzheimer's disease increases. When one is 65 years old, the risk is higher.  Or, by the time they reach 90, roughly half of people already have Alzheimer's disease. There are many other risk factors, for example, having diseases like diabetes or high blood pressure. That increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's. When you reach an advanced age, also, if you have a stroke, that increases the risk of developing dementia. Oh, and when you have a family history, when there are people in your family who have it, that also increases the risk of Alzheimer's. Oh, and also when a person doesn't eat well, when a person does n't exercise, when a person has very little mental or physical activity—all those things can alter brain function and increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. It's important to make a distinction, right, Dr. Rest? That typical Alzheimer's comes after 65 years of age, but there is also a type of Alzheimer's found in our Latin population, especially in Mexico and Colombia, that comes earlier. Could you tell us a little about that? Of course, most people with Alzheimer's disease are people who are  Elderly people make up roughly 98% of the population. However, there are some genetic diseases, that is, hereditary diseases, that are similar to Alzheimer's. For example, in Colombia, there's a huge family of almost 5,000 people who suffer from a mutation in a gene called presenilin 1. When people have this mutation, they start having memory problems around age 40. This is what's called presenile dementia, meaning it occurs before old age. Interestingly, Dr. Alois Alzheimer, a psychiatrist from Germany, described this disease about 110 years ago in a person who was around 45 years old. This patient had a genetic disease like the one we're talking about. But again, this is rare. We see it at UCLA because we're a reference center, but it's not really...  It's very common to see that; most of the people affected are elderly. Yes, we're going to talk a little about what we call the hallmarks of Alzheimer's. Okay, what are the changes in behavior and abilities that are seen with Alzheimer's-type brain tissue deterioration? The first sign is a loss of recent memory. These are memory changes that anyone who thinks of Alzheimer's thinks of, but it's important to understand that not all memory is lost. The more distant memories from childhood, adolescence, even the beginnings of adulthood are not initially affected by the disease; rather, it's the more recent memories. The person suddenly doesn't remember what they had for breakfast or dinner last night, or what happened last week. And as the disease progresses, it affects them, first the most recent memories and then the past, and years and decades are lost. The development of the disease follows a temporal gradient. But the main characteristic regarding memory change is a difficulty retaining new information, and just as quickly as it arrives, it disappears. After a few hours, in more severe cases, it spreads. That's amnesia; you can also see a disorder. As for aphasia, which is a language disorder, the person mainly has difficulty with language expression, but as it progresses, they can also have difficulty with comprehension, with expressing themselves, with saying what they want to say, when they want to say it. Dr. Restrepo says that he puts the words on the tip of his tongue and they just won't come out. Suddenly, my grandfather starts calling me "my dad," knowing that I am his grandson. They start confusing the names of people, the names of objects. We call this paraphasia. These changes can also manifest as changes in writing, changes in reading, also agraphia or alexia, and others that we haven't mentioned. There can also be apraxia, which is a deterioration in the ability to perform manual activities, to be able to do certain things, to drive a car, to use a computer, to be in the kitchen and not be able to put certain movements together. In the kitchen, you see a spoon and you can't...  She knows what to do with it. These changes we call apraxia, a change in the ability to handle familiar objects. There may also be agnosia, which generally refers to the difficulty in recognizing or identifying objects. If it's visual agnosia, it's true that one sees things but doesn't recognize them; one can't put together all the different properties of what one is seeing to truly understand where one is, who one is with. That's why many people get lost with Alzheimer's. Sometimes we think they get lost because they forgot where they are, but they can also get lost because they can't truly navigate space due to agnosia. There can also be stereoagnosias, which are a bit rarer, where the person cannot distinguish what they are touching or smelling in other sensory modalities. But the main one is visual agnosia. The other has a somewhat peculiar name: anosagnosia, where the person doesn't recognize that they have it. This is also one of the curious things about Alzheimer's disease: that the patient themselves doesn't recognize that they have the problems. When someone comes to my office, and the patient is the one who...  He's telling me that his memory has changed, and it's most likely not Alzheimer's, but with his wife, his husband, his children... Oh doctor, my dad says nothing is wrong, but let's leave it alone, right? That's an indication that it might be something that needs to be looked at more closely. Another possibility is acalculia, difficulty or changes in the ability to do calculations, work with numbers, mathematical calculations. This can also be lost, and aprosexia, or a change in maintaining focus. These are the different possibilities; we even gave you some that weren't on the list, in which Alzheimer's begins to manifest itself as certain specific areas of the brain change. Well, then, Alzheimer's disease is a progressive problem. It starts without any symptoms because it's a brain disease that requires many years before producing the first brain damage. The first symptoms of Alzheimer's disease are memory problems; a person forgets things, they forget things, but it happens regularly. And it starts to disrupt daily life, that is, what happens to all of us without needing to be elderly.  If you occasionally can't find your keys or something, that doesn't necessarily mean you have Alzheimer's. But when the memory problem is disruptive, then it's a symptom of Alzheimer's disease, and you might want to ask a doctor if it's a symptom of Alzheimer's. Now, before a person loses their mental capacity, there's a transition period between what seems like normal memory problems and a memory problem that seems more like a brain disease. This transition is called mild cognitive impairment (MCI). This is a risk factor for developing Alzheimer's in the future. People who experience this transition—in fact, one in six people who have this problem progress to Alzheimer's disease—but there are many people who do the opposite. They have this mild problem and go back to their normal state. So, it can go either way. It can progress to something bad, but it can also improve. Let's take a look back. It's important to remember that before these symptoms appear, changes in the brain begin...  The changes reach a certain point, and these brain changes begin to manifest in the person's behavior. Then we move on to what is already the mild or moderate form of Alzheimer's, right? Now there are more changes in the brain, and the disease becomes more and more apparent. So, a person has dementia. Then it's no longer just a memory problem; people realize that this person has a problem and needs help. So, a person with Alzheimer's disease needs to be reminded to go to the doctor, or to go to the party, or to get their medication, to dress well, to brush their teeth—things that we all do without anyone telling us. And of course, this is a change. A person who has been disorganized their whole life doesn't necessarily have Alzheimer's disease. They might be very careful, have a good memory, always remember their hygiene, and suddenly start forgetting things. This is a...  It's an illustration of the brain. The part of the brain that has more to do with recent memory and learning is this little part inside the brain, the hippocampus. So that's the part of the brain that suffers the most when someone has the changes of Alzheimer's disease, and that's why people with Alzheimer's have memory problems. Now, when we get old, it shrinks a little, it gets thinner. So, for example, the brain of a person—but the brain of a perfectly healthy 65-year-old, more or less, 800 Gs—so as we get older, we lose brain tissue, and the brain gets a little thinner. However, when there is a neurological disease like Alzheimer's, a brain disease, that loss of brain matter becomes more pronounced. So, for example, if we look at these images here, the cerebral cortex gets thinner and thinner. Yes, we can see here it looks almost normal, then we see that there is much more loss of space. So, when the disease is very advanced, more or less 10 years after the onset of memory problems...  A person is no longer able to speak very well; they are no longer able to speak clearly. People sometimes get confused when night falls. Sometimes people see things that aren't real, which are called hallucinations. Sometimes people experience urinary incontinence, meaning they can't control their urine and urinate in the toilet without going to the bathroom. Often they remain seated, unable to interact with family or other people, and sometimes they have seizures, even pneumonia, and die. By the way, Alzheimer's disease is one of the leading causes of death in the United States, and it progresses slowly, as Dr. Restrepo said. A decade can pass, ten years, and the person is still suffering and developing this disease little by little, but always with a downward deterioration. So why does diagnosis matter? Well, there's a huge problem in medicine, which is that we don't have a very clear way to diagnose Alzheimer's disease. For example, when one  If someone has high blood sugar, they go to the doctor, the doctor takes a blood test, and very easily, the sugar is high. So that's a very easy diagnosis. With diabetes, with Alzheimer's disease, we have to do a lot of tests, including brain imaging. Generally, a scan, also blood tests, to be sure that people don't have metabolic problems or kidney problems or other problems, etc. And when the doctor has all that information available, then finally they can decide if it's Alzheimer's disease or something else, for example, a stroke. Sometimes a stroke can be confused with Alzheimer's disease. There are also other behavioral causes that can manifest in a way similar to dementia, even to Alzheimer's-specific dementia. Depression is one of them. When an elderly person is depressed, they start to forget things, and they often have difficulty in their daily life, in living more independently. But when depression is identified and treatment is provided...  With proper treatment, the depression starts to lift. It's a miracle cure, and everything else begins to improve. That's not Alzheimer's, right? That's pseudodementia, something that resembles dementia, but the root cause is depression. Also, in our Latino community, there's a high incidence of sleep apnea. I don't know if you're familiar with sleep apnea, nocturnal apnea. You see, with the way we sleep at night, some Latinos can be a little heavier, right? A little heavier? Ah, there can be an obstruction while you're sleeping and trying to breathe at night, asleep, snoring. But the air doesn't pass through well, the oxygen doesn't pass through well, and that little seahorse that...  Dr. Restrepo mentioned earlier that the hippocampus is very sensitive to changes in oxygen concentration, and memory changes manifest if the diagnosis is made early. One can use a night mask that keeps the airway open, helping oxygen reach where it needs to go. And once again, it's a miracle cure; the problems begin to improve. So it's very important to go to a qualified doctor for a proper diagnosis because there are certain medical problems that are treatable. They give you thyroid medication, vitamins, a sleep apnea machine, or antidepressants, along with psychological therapy for depression, and everything improves. It's important to appreciate once again that the diagnosis of dementia, the diagnosis of Alzheimer's, is one of exclusion. We rule out all other options and see what remains. If we reach the point where there is no other explanation, then one has to start accepting that it will be a permanent, progressive change that will not only affect the person suffering from the disease, the patient, but also the entire family. The importance of having the tests done by a qualified neurologist, with the help of a neuropsychologist, someone who works with the elderly population, and also by the person themselves. Sometimes interpreters or translators are used. Even the family can ask the doctor to help them understand because the patient doesn't speak English well. And that can introduce more factors that can lead to an incorrect diagnosis. So, the best thing is to have a doctor, a qualified professional who knows the culture well and is fluent in Spanish. But if that's not available, at least you have the right to have an interpreter there to translate for both you and the doctor in both languages. Well, as we've said, this has an impact not only on the patient but also on the family. But before we get to how it has a strong impact on the family, Dr. Restrepo is going to talk a little bit about the available treatments. Very well. Ah, well, unfortunately, there is no cure or way to treat Alzheimer's disease at this time. There is hope that very soon, perhaps in the next few years...  In the coming years, we'll have therapies to slow the progression of this disease. Meanwhile, Alzheimer's can be managed with various treatments, including symptom management and dietary modifications. Oh, and perhaps most importantly, it's essential to maintain the best possible health. What does that mean? First of all, if you have a chronic illness, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or high cholesterol, these conditions must be controlled very, very precisely. Because healthier people tend to have better mental function and survive longer. This isn't entirely clear yet, but people who do n't take care of themselves, who are overweight, or who take blood pressure medication, are the ones whose brains deteriorate very quickly, in less than five years. Meanwhile, people who stay connected with their families, who go out, who are active, are the ones who live much longer and maintain good mental function. Now, there are also ways to manage certain symptoms of the disease. For example, the main symptom, memory problems, can be managed with medications like acetaminophen, galantamine, memantine, or mendace. There are also other medications that can help improve sleep because when you don't sleep well, as Dr. Cajigas said, you snore, you have insomnia. Well, it turns out that one of the most important things for memory is sleeping well. If you don't sleep well, then your memory will be very poor. So, that has to be treated appropriately, depending on the cause. As Dr. Cajigas said, depression isn't just feeling sad. Depression is manifested by feeling tired all the time, losing or gaining weight, increasing your appetite, feeling bad all the time, like you want to die, not sleeping well, having insomnia. These are the symptoms of depression, of being disinterested, of not liking life, of not being able to. And as Dr. Restre says, recognize these symptoms and seek help because depression is treatable, right? Exactly. And depression causes insomnia. Now, it's also a serious symptom of the disease; at least 50%, half of all people with Alzheimer's disease have symptoms of depression, and about 20%, one in five people with Alzheimer's have severe depression.  If someone needs treatment, then one of the things I do with my patients is always looking for symptoms of depression. When I see those symptoms, I start treatment aggressively because that's how you improve not only the quality of life but also memory, and both physically and socially. It's important to have regular interaction with family and friends, to be socially stimulated. It's also important to stimulate the mind, right? If you know how to read, play chess, dominoes, bingo, anything to keep your brain working, active, stimulating the mind as well as the body and social life. Now, that brings us to the puzzle of what's called the caregiver, because for every person who suffers from this illness, there are those people who take care of them. One of the main symptoms, besides the illness itself, is that these brain changes, these changes in the person's behavior, have an impact on their ability to live more independently, to function in daily life. So they require help from other people, and who are those other people? Usually, they are family, those caregivers, those relatives who take care of the person.  If someone with Alzheimer's suffers, the statistics are even harder to accept. As Dr. Restrepo said, a person can live 10 to 15 years, yes, many, many years. And those who suffer the most from physical problems are the caregivers. Yes, caregivers suffer more anxiety, pressure, low self-esteem, insomnia, and cardiovascular problems. And as for the immune system, they are more susceptible to the stress of ensuring that the person doesn't harm themselves or others, not intentionally, but because a person with Alzheimer's might start cooking and set the whole house on fire. We've seen on the news that a person with Alzheimer's can get behind the wheel and cause a terrible accident in a public place. So this causes a lot of stress for family members, for the people who care for them. This manifests in the person's body and also in personal relationships, in family dynamics. A son, a daughter, a mother taking care of her father, and the others seem to disappear. And this a lot of stress in the family can have an impact on relationships. If the woman is the one with the disease, can the husband take care of the woman, or vice versa?  Children often take care of their father, which causes a lot of stress in the couple's relationship. They spend so much time with other people that they suddenly find themselves very isolated and alone while navigating this disease with their loved one. It's important to recognize these changes in the caregivers' health, interpersonal changes, and the impact on the person's quality of life. It also impacts the family's financial situation, as this disease is very costly. Caring for someone with Alzheimer's can lead to job loss and constant supervision. It's important to recognize that caring for someone with Alzheimer's requires a lot of attention. As we Latinos say, prevention is better than cure. If you can recognize that you have to take care of yourself first in order to care for your loved one with this disease, you'll be much better off. Instead of one patient, there will be two, three, or four, and we doctors will have more work. But that's not the work we want. We want your families to be safe and have the resources to deal with this disease with dignity and in the most effective way. There are several sources of support available for caregivers and family members who are dealing with this.  With this disease, there are support groups where people get together to talk and share. You see, shared sorrows are lessened. Oh, and it's not always about just a little kiss, as they say. Alcohol can cause even more problems. No, it's about simply meeting up, sharing experiences about what works and what doesn't, and feeling supported. Right? Support groups are tremendous in helping families dealing with this disease. There are daycare centers for the elderly where you can take your loved one. They have activities, they feed them, the mariachi band comes, various things throughout the day. They keep them entertained, and you can go to work or attend to your responsibilities knowing that your loved one is well cared for. You pick them up at the end of the day, like a children's daycare, but for adults, and that helps a lot to alleviate the burden. Meditation, exercise, educating the whole family, and learning about the progression of the disease, what to expect in the future, and taking the necessary steps. Oh, legal steps, for example, having powers of attorney to make medical decisions when your loved one can no longer make them for themselves. All these things are important in keeping communication open, and we leave you with one last thing. Here's a picture of a woman putting on an oxygen mask. And sometimes, if you get on a plane and they tell you that if the cabin pressure changes, they're going to lower some oxygen masks, they don't tell you to put it on the person to your right or left, right? They tell you to put the mask on yourself first so you can help others. Otherwise, you're left holding the mask, unable to breathe. And that's the experience of many caregivers when they don't take care of themselves first. They're left unable to help their loved one, unable to help themselves, and useless to the rest of the family. So it's important to take care of yourself first so you can take care of others. We hope this has been useful for you, that you've learned something. We have some questions we're going to take now, but thank you for your attention and for supporting us in this first medical seminar provided in Spanish by UCLA. Oh, and I'd like to say one thing, which is that at UCLA, we're not just doctors who deal with... Our patients. We are also scientists for Alzheimer's disease. We are trying to find ways to diagnose it more quickly and effectively. We are trying to treat our patients in a culturally and linguistically appropriate way. So, perhaps not only think about bringing your loved one to see the doctor, but also think about donating so that there are advances in science, so that the scientific work we do at UCLA progresses, so that our culture, our Latino community, is provided, so that more and more services, more research, languages ​​other than English, can be provided so that we can all move forward together in terms of scientific and clinical progress. Here is our information; it will be available through the internet, the electronic network, and here is the Twitter hashtag. We have some questions here: What is the difference between dementia and Alzheimer's? Alzheimer's is a change in memory, a change in other brain functions, but it also has an impact on a person's daily life. Alzheimer's is the most common cause of dementia in the United States. How is Alzheimer's disease diagnosed? Well, as I was saying  Dr. Cajigas says it's a diagnosis of exclusion. It's not like you can just show up and do a blood test or an X-ray or something simple like that. Unfortunately, there's no single diagnostic method to know if a person has Alzheimer's disease. What you have to do is look at a lot of different tests, put them all together, see all the information: clinical data, brain images, blood test results. And when you include a lot of data, in the end, you can say with a certain level of certainty, "Well, this person has it." The way you can be absolutely sure that a person has Alzheimer's disease is to have a piece of the brain and look at it. Of course, that's not done. That only happens when a person is undergoing an autopsy. One of the things we 're doing at UCLA is trying to find much easier ways to diagnose Alzheimer's disease. For example, we have new technologies that we're trying to use at UCLA to see if we can diagnose Alzheimer's disease more easily. He only speaks English and doesn't understand this very well. Well, Tor Restrepo  This is a very complex diagnosis, right? It requires a lot of clinical attention and communication with the doctor. So, ideally, your doctor, the professional treating you, would speak your language so they could communicate. That keeps the focus on the patient, right? On meeting the patient where they are. If that's not possible, many doctors, unfortunately, who are bilingual and bicultural and can serve our Latino population, at least have to request, and are legally entitled to by federal and state law, an interpreter outside of their family. Because it's not good to have a family member act as an interpreter. This is a clinical, medical matter, and it requires a professional approach. So, yes, this matters, of course it matters. Because they can't do all the tests in English if you don't speak it, right? Or they can try to translate on the spot. You might not be able to express yourself well and give the doctor the right information if you don't speak English. So, one should advocate for language services, for services with a doctor or nurse, some trained professional who speaks Spanish to help you get a good diagnosis. Because without a good diagnosis, there won't be adequate treatment either.  If there isn't one, then one isn't going to have positive results, and if one doesn't have positive results, then what? One continues to suffer, right? Going without hope that things will improve. So, the Gnostic is truly the door that opens to other options, and having a diagnosis of the disease and what can be done... Dr. Cajigas and I have had the opportunity to see many patients who don't speak English, who only speak Spanish, who had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's by a doctor who wasn't able to communicate with them because in our country there is a great need for doctors who speak Spanish. There are very few doctors in the United States who speak Spanish. So, with these patients, we realized, simply through our ability to relate to them, speaking the same language and having the same culture, that they actually had depression. They had been taking medication for Alzheimer's disease for two years and had n't improved. We realized that what was happening was depression. We gave them the doctor who treats depression, and they improved considerably. That tells me that it's very important for a person with neurological problems to be seen by a neurologist and a neuropsychologist who speak Spanish, of course. Can a person with Alzheimer's live alone? Well, here's where the problem comes in: the person is losing certain abilities, abilities that form the basis for living independently and safely, without harming themselves or others. It's very difficult because in our generation, we Latinos are a young community. So we have our parents and grandparents, but on the other hand, we also have our children. And one is kind of divided between the two. A person with Alzheimer's, as the disease progresses, cannot live alone; they need supervision, they need help, both from their own insurance and from other people's. That's why it's necessary to expand the sources of support, the sense of community, to include other professionals, as we said, support groups, respite care centers, adult day care, etc., to expand that circle to have more support because the person can no longer live as  I used to live here. Oh, how can I help the scientists at UCLA who are trying to cure Alzheimer's? Well, there are many ways to get involved. Maybe send us an email and we can start from there. You can support our scientific efforts. elpo @m ucla u a G I gas @ m d n t. ucla.edu There are also the numbers for our [unclear/unclear] that offer a lot of attention. We hope you have learned something and God willing, and if the university [unclear/unclear]... we hope to be able to provide you with more of these various medical informational materials in Spanish. Thank you very much.