Hello, my name is Dr. Alejandra Casillas. I am a primary care physician and I am here to talk to you about what to do if you are diagnosed with Kobe 19. Please note, I am filming this. I am at home with only members of my family present. If you are diagnosed with Kobe 19, the first thing you should do is isolate yourself to prevent the spread of the virus to others. The isolation time varies depending on your vaccination status, your symptoms, follow-up test results, and medical history. Because these public health guidelines may change, please check the CDC and your local county websites for the most up-to-date information and consult with your doctor if you are unsure. If you test positive but have no symptoms, the same isolation requirements apply. To isolate yourself, choose a space where you can separate yourself from other people. Try to reduce your time in common areas, but if you need to enter these common spaces, be sure to wear a mask and wash your hands before entering. Everyone around you should also wear masks. Someone should bring you food. Also, store all your dishes and utensils within your isolation area and keep your dirty laundry separate from others.  An ideal situation would have a private bathroom, but if this isn't possible, be sure to clean all surfaces after each use, and everyone should close the toilet lid or faucet before flushing, as COVID-19 can be found in urine and feces and can be expelled with flushing or when the toilet is flushed. To prevent the spread of COVID-19 to members of your household, everyone should wash their hands frequently. Your primary caregiver should clean surfaces at least twice a day or every time they come into contact with them, and if possible, keep all windows open as much as possible. Now, this is very important: people in your household may need to be tested or quarantined according to updated CDC guidelines and local rules. Following these helps protect others and also reduces the spread of the virus. Everyone can experience COVID- 19 differently. Some people test positive but never develop symptoms. We call these people asymptomatic. Although you may be asymptomatic, it is very important that you be asymptomatic as someone with symptoms because you could be infectious. Follow local public health and CDC guidelines on  During the duration of this isolation, some people with COVID-19 experience mild symptoms. This may include nasal congestion or runny nose; some people describe it as allergies. You may have a mild fever, muscle aches, and feel like you have the flu. A small majority may lose their sense of taste and smell. Some people experience a sore throat, headache, or cough. People with moderate conditions may experience what they describe as the worst flu of their lives. They may have high fevers, very strong muscle aches, severe fatigue, and a very poor appetite. They may experience nausea or diarrhea, loss of taste and smell, and even chest pain or feel their heart racing even with minimal activity such as simply showering or walking around the room. Sometimes, there is shortness of breath and a feeling of heaviness or tightness in the chest. The progression of the illness with COVID-19 can vary from person to person. Some people will feel symptoms for a few days, others for the full 14 days, and others for much longer. Many people will feel better after 14 days. Keep in mind that throughout your experience with COVID-19, you may feel better only to feel worse hours later.  It is very typical, and we see it in many of our Kobe 19 patients. After recovering from Kobe 19, some people may experience flare-ups of their illness. A flare-up is when the original symptoms of Kobe 19 return after recovery. These can be physical or mental symptoms. We are learning more and more about these Kobe 19 flare-ups, and they have been called long Kobe or post- Kobe syndrome in the literature. We are not exactly sure how long they will last, but contact your doctor if you have these flare-ups of symptoms. If at any time during the course of your illness you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor, or if it feels like an emergency, call 911: shortness of breath at rest; new or worsening chest pain; two new or existing rashes; nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea; any symptoms of a stroke, such as loss of sensation in part of the body; slurred speech or facial paralysis; pain or swelling in the arms or legs. If you are in quarantine, this means you will not be able to work, do things, or run errands. Try to reduce your time outside, and if you are  It is not necessary to be outside. Wear a mask at all times. There are many things one can do to stay as healthy as possible at home. This includes staying well hydrated by drinking plenty of water, coconut water, electrolyte water, diluted juice, or anything that hydrates you. Many people experience a severe lack of appetite, so it is important to eat what you can. Fruits can also be a very good option. Try to eat vegetables, some protein, and generally maintain a healthy diet. You can take over-the-counter or prescription medications to control the symptoms of Kobe 19 at home. Talk to your GP about which ones may be suitable for you. We do not recommend specific herbs, supplements, or vitamins for everyone, but if you wish to take something, talk to your GP about it. We recommend doing some light breathing exercises, perhaps about ten times an hour. These include deep inhalations to expand the lungs. While not in bed, we recommend spending as much time as possible sitting leaning forward. This takes pressure off the back of the lungs and helps prevent the development of pneumonia. If you are reading this carefully, try to sleep on your stomach or side for the same reasons. Now, there are several SDA-approved medications for certain people with Kobe 19, as well as research clinical trials, are frequently changed in terms of criteria, availability, and effectiveness. So, please visit our website for the most up-to-date information or talk to your primary care physician. If you test positive for Kobe 19, you may want to monitor your oxygen levels with something called a pulse oximeter. This device measures oxygen and goes on your finger. If you are going to monitor it, you should do so at least once a day, or whenever you feel short of breath or experience any other concerning symptoms. You can have it delivered to your home, or call your primary care physician for further instructions. We understand that receiving a Kobe 19 diagnosis is very frightening. We are here to help. We made this video to guide you, but it is very important that you talk to your primary care physician about the specific details of your illness. Keep in mind that most people with Kobe 19 will be fine and will be able to monitor and manage everything from home. If you do not have a primary care physician, call 310-825-2631 to speak with a representative who can help you.