Hello, I am Dr. Juan José Andino, a urologist specializing in male fertility.  Today we're going to talk about basectomy reversal. If you had a vasectomy and now want to have children, you are not alone. Reversal might be an option for you.  In this video I'm going to explain what a basectomy reversal is, who might be a good candidate, how the surgery is done, and also what the success rates are and what to expect afterward.  Basectomy reversal is a surgery where the ducts called diverticula, which were cut or blocked during the basectomy, are reconnected.  Once these ducts are reconnected, the sperm can once again be released in the semen.  This can allow a pregnancy to occur naturally.  There are two main types of reversal surgery.  We choose which one to do depending on what we find during the procedure.  The first is a simple reconstruction.  It is the most common way in which we can join the ends of the different conduits. And this is based on the medical history and the evaluation of the fluid seen in the duct during surgery.  But there are also times when a complex reconstruction is necessary. If there is a second blockage, we connect the vas deferens to the epididymis, which is where the sperm are stored. This surgery is more complex, but it works well in expert hands with a success rate of 60 to 75%. Both are done with a microscope for greater precision and better results. You might be a good candidate if you had a vasectomy and now want to have children naturally.  You are healthy and can receive general anesthesia, and your partner can still get pregnant and has no fertility problems. There are also patients who want to try for a natural pregnancy before considering in vitro fertilization. Even if your vision was 10 or 20 years ago, it is still possible to achieve it, although sooner is better.  Before surgery, we review your medical history, perform a physical exam, and analyze your hormone levels. Depending on the case, we could also recommend a fertility study for your partner.  And the procedure, well, it's done under general anesthesia.  It lasts approximately 3 hours, but it is an outpatient procedure.  You go home that same day.  It is completed with a few small cuts in the scrotum and most men recover in about two weeks. Success depends on several factors such as the time since the basectomy and the type of surgery required. If less than 10 years have passed, sperm reappear in the semen in more than 90% of cases when performed by a specialist trained in microsurgery. After the surgery we analyzed his semen to see if there were sperm present. Sometimes I also collect and freeze sperm during the operation in case the couple needs in vitro fertilization in the future.  What happens after surgery? Well, you should avoid lifting heavy things or having sex for about two weeks. It is normal to have some pain or swelling, but this is relieved with common medicines.  And we check the sperm count starting between 6 and 8 weeks. The risks are low, but may include bleeding, infection, or scarring that blocks the connection. Basectomy reversal can be a great option for men who want to become fathers again, especially if performed by a microsurgical expert.  If you're considering this option, come see me at UCLA's Men's Clinic. We will evaluate your case and see what is best for you and your partner.  Thank you for watching this video.  If you found this helpful, please share it with someone else.  Take good care of yourself and I hope to meet you soon.  No.