 naringin, jaki dumpin co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co co Right. It's been around for forever. It's a bacteria. Again, sort of genital, genital contact, mucous membrane contact. It's it's of all of the sexually transmitted infections. It's the one that is the most. And I'm going to use this word very carefully. Purulent. Purulent means an infection likely to generate pus. I'm not using another adjective term that is based in the word pus, because if you spell it, it can be crass. So I'm not going to say. Do you like me? I'm like that. Yes. I love it. So pure purulent is the term. So, you know, it can cause a sore throat that can be very difficult to distinguish from strep throat in the genital area. There's often pus like discharge, not always pain with urination, vaginal discharge, pain with having a bowel movement. All are reasons to get checked out. Yes. And the diagnosis is very quick, very easy, non painful. It's a swab of that area or you can pee into a cup and make that diagnosis. It's done on a test called a PCR. It's often done in a packaged test with chlamydia just because they can mimic each other. Chlamydia, actually the most common sexually transmitted infection in the United States, but less pus forming. Same sorts of symptoms. Chlamydia can also have a more severe form, particularly in the genital region where it can get to the lymph nodes and be a much more severe disease called lymphogranuloma venerium LGV. So you have to sort of think about both of those in a package. Yes. The testing is often done. The testing is done together. Together. Exactly. The treatments are slightly different. Gonorrhea, you've probably seen in the news lately, is becoming increasingly antibiotic resistant, and that's gotten a lot of lay press attention. Oh, my God. Untreatable superbug. Let's be real. We are not at untreatable yet. We have not found a strain that is resistant to every therapy that we have available. But, you know, when people do go into their doctor and like, I need a Z-Pak today, and, you know, I need Cipro today for things that may actually not be bacterial infections, we are pushing the resistance of these bacteria further. And so just people just need to be, you know, just really aware that, you know, antibiotics don't cure all fevers. They don't cure all infections. Right. You know, they don't make all high white blood cell counts go down. And, you know, we need to be a little bit more thoughtful, I think, about how we use them. There were two new antibiotics that recently were approved specifically for the use of the treatment of gonorrhea. So we are working on making sure we always have an armamentarium. The most common antibiotic use, it's actually a shot in the butt. It's called ceftriaxone. We use it now at high doses. And that's treatment for most cases of gonorrhea. So it is treatable. Yes. But it is also highly transmissible. So you're reminding me, though, right, which is to go see someone if you have any of these symptoms and to not be shy about it. You're mentioning pus and purulent. I can barely say that word. One of our producers might have a question about the green discharge, right, which is green discharge, pus, et cetera. I think people get really freaked out. And then they get not only freaked out because you see that coming out of your own body, but then they're like, oh, my God, I'm going to go show, like, show someone. I just want us both to remind our listeners, we do not get grossed out by pus or discharge. We've seen it all. It stinks. It could look gross to you. It does not bother us. I cannot emphasize that enough. Thank you for bringing that up, Eve. You know, I think a lot of people get scandalized by pus, by pee, by poop, by vomit, blood. Here is the God's honest truth. Doctors literally are immune to being grossed out by that. Literally, I actually, and, you know, this probably comes with what I do. I adore pus. So here's why. No, seriously. Here's why. First of all. I love. Do you have that on your license plate? I should. It's like a great bumper sticker. I should. Pus under pressure causes a tremendous amount of pain and problems in people's bodies. And if you can get pus out of somebody's body. Your basic infected pimple. Well, don't pop pimples, please. It's a different story. But if it just spontaneously comes out. Same idea. Exactly. Yes. Sort of pus always better outside than inside. Yeah. Think of a volcano, right? When a volcano is under pressure and it erupts, it's releasing pressure. Yes. Right? Get the pus out. So I love that. And also, what is pus? Right? Pus is the remnants of your body's fallen soldiers in their war against an infection. That's why it's white, creamy, and kind of gross. I wish I could put a soundtrack behind your description of pus. Any Hollywood producer who would like to produce pus, the adventure, I'm here for consultation. Coming to a theater near you. Yes. Rated R. Definitely. But no, seriously. So pus is beautiful because it is your immune system working. Remnants. Right. Right. So please, as Eve said, don't think that we're going to be grossed out by that. We're going to test it. We're going to look. We're going to most likely what we call treat empirically, which means we're going to test and figure out what's there. But we're not going to wait for those test results to start treatment because you have an infection and we can see it. And you're going to feel so much better. You're going to feel so much better. Right. And not only are you going to feel so much better, then you're not going to transmit it to somebody else. Which is so important. Yeah. I love it. And so chlamydia, a little bit different, right? Same sorts of symptoms, often not purulent. And the treatment is different. It's a week of a medicine called doxycycline that you take twice daily. It's a relative of the medicine that we use to treat acne. So very safe, well tolerated. And you can also use a single sort of whopper dose of azithromycin, which is what's in a Z-Pak. But it can often make people feel crummy from a gastrointestinal standpoint. So we more often do the doxycycline. There's really a theme here. I mean, it just seems in terms of all the organisms that, you know, whether they're in our face, our vaginas, you know, on our skin, right? I mean, we have these, you know, classes of medicines that treat them. And just as a reminder, we're human beings. We're organisms, right? And we also coexist with all these other organisms. I wanted to go back to chlamydia for a second. You had mentioned that sometimes it goes to the lymph nodes. We hear a lot, and we as women hear a lot of the concern around chlamydia is if it's untreated, it can affect our fertility. Can you talk for a moment about that? Yeah. Really important point is there's a clinical syndrome. We call it pelvic inflammatory disease or PID, right? It's frequently caused by chlamydia. It can be caused by a variety of organisms. But any sort of infectious inflammatory process in the vagina can ascend into the cervix, into the uterus, and compromise fertility, particularly if left untreated. An acute infection where it's localized in the vagina and is treated quickly, very unlikely to progress to that level of concern. But that really is another reason, particularly for people who have vaginas, to make sure that if there are any symptoms or if they're likely to be exposed, to be tested regularly because you want to get it treated before it can get in the way of fertility goals. Yeah. Okay. Makes tons of sense. And then let's do syphilis for a moment. Let's. Also, I think for a lot of people, it sounds like it is in another century. I was actually just reading about Paul Gauguin, the artist, and him, all the amazing artwork he did, even despite having syphilis. But is syphilis still a sexually transmitted infection we need to worry about? It is. It is. And as much as we would like for it to be gone, it's not, right? The other classic story is, right, Henry VIII, right, and his madness, right, which may have been caused by either the syphilis or the mercury treatment. You know, full disclosure, spoiler alert, we don't use mercury anymore. But yes, syphilis is around. It's another bacteria. It's a kind of bacteria that's a little bit special. It's called a spirochete, which basically means it looks like a rotini under a microscope. Sorry, pasta fans. But yeah, so it also is sexually transmitted. And little known fact, more than even gonorrhea and chlamydia, it loves oral sex. So you can get any of those, you know, three greatest hits from oral sex. Syphilis, for some reason, particularly likely to be transmitted through oral sex, it often will be misdiagnosed or missed. In medicine, we call it the great imitator because it can show up virtually as anything. So you have to have a high degree of suspicion. And let me tell you, right now, you know, I mentioned that we're in an STI epidemic. In the clinic, everybody, well, everybody, a lot of patients that I see granted in an infectious disease and HIV clinic are dripping with gorgeousness. And syphilis is often a part of that. It is not a purulent bacteria. It causes, in the early stages, a painless ulcer. So you can miss it because you can think it's a canker sore or a something. And because it's painless, if you don't see it or feel it, you might miss it. And then that will go away on its own, even if it's untreated. And then it comes back in a second stage, which is often someone pretty acutely sick with fever and a rash. And they're highly contagious during that second phase. And they can be really unwell with a systemic illness. And that will also go away if untreated. And then there's late stages of it, which have, you know, most classically this sort of brain spinal cord involvement, like the madness of Henry VIII and other sort of neurologic manifestations. It can go into the great vessels of the heart. The aorta cause all sorts of problems. It can go to the joints, the liver, the urinary tract, everywhere. Again, the great imitator. So again, you need a high degree of suspicion. And the problem really is the testing is terrible, right? We're using a blood test that dates back to 1906. And we don't have anything better since. So, you know, if you think about what do we still use that's, you know, from 1906, imagine if your car was from 1906, you know, you know, people in LA would not be happy about that. But a lot of clinical suspicion, it's a lot of clinical suspicion. And it's this really crappy test that it's called an RPR, which stands for rapid plasma reagent. And it's still what we're using. And it involves fairly sophisticated interpretation of what we call titers, numbers that come back and you have to know how to interpret them. So there is a little bit of medicinal knowledge that you have to have there. You can't use your Google degree. Right. Or AI. Or AI, for that matter. Although, to be honest, I haven't tried, but I'm a little afraid of the fiction that might come back. But so there's that. It is highly treatable. It's usually one injection of good old penicillin. It's particularly dangerous. And we'll come back to this in a second. In people who might be pregnant, right? Or who are pregnant. And the reason for that is syphilis in a pregnant person can be easily transmitted to an unborn baby and cause really severe birth defects. And unfortunately, in the U.S. and in L.A. County, we are really seeing an unacceptable number and rising of congenital syphilis cases. And mostly in people who have not had intrapartum and peripartum care, haven't been in antenatal care, because it's part of routine obstetrical care in 2025 to be tested for syphilis multiple occasions during pregnancy, as well as HIV. Right. You just need to get the care, though. You just need to get the care. And, you know, because our health care system is so fractured and broken right now, a lot of people don't have access or have medical mistrust and aren't getting that care. But it's in terms of completely treatable, avoidable things that we need to find a way to intervene on, that is really close to the top of the list. It is just it is unacceptable in 2025. It's unbelievable to hear. And totally treatable. And totally treatable. And I'm so excited to talk about testing and screening, but I can't I can't ignore two viruses that I want to talk about, which is herpes and HPV. Yeah. Let's just talk about herpes first, because, gosh, talk about stigma. You know, even in my primary care practice, I get so chagrined when people come in and they're so upset or worried about herpes. Just break down a little bit of herpes for us or which is also HSV. Yeah, exactly. So when we when we say colloquially herpes, we're talking about HSV, which is herpes simplex virus. That's really important because there are a number of other viruses that have the word herpes in them. Yes. That can confuse you. But this is the one we're talking about. There there are two flavors, two types that are clinically important, ironically called herpes one and herpes two. Classically, herpes one affected the oropharynx. So like fever blisters, oral ulcers, things like that. And herpes two affected the genital region and they would be painful moon craters in the genital region. And often people will say, I know it's coming on because I'll get a tingling in that place. And then, you know, a little blister will come up and then that will pop and it'll be essentially a moon crater. And, you know, it'll often go away on its own. But it's incredibly painful when it's there. And the recurrence of this can be very variable. Some people get them extremely frequently when they're stressed, when they eat certain foods or when they're out in the sun. And and some people not so much. And it's much more episodic or or a one and done. And these these infections are highly treatable, but a little bit like HIV, not curable once you have it. About 70 percent of the world has herpes type one. About 30 percent of the world, depending on on sort of who you are and where you live, have herpes type two. And unfortunately, because of just the variety of people's sexual practices, herpes type one and herpes type two no longer only reside where they originally came from. They probably never did. It was probably just like such an academic explanation, right? Probably so. But I think of them a little bit as a fish out of water. Yeah. So like when one is down below, it doesn't reactivate as often. And when two is above, it doesn't reactivate quite as often. But it's treatable. You treat it with a medicine called acyclovir or one of its family members. And for people having frequent recurrences, you can actually go on a suppressive dose of it to prevent it from coming back. But it is one of the incurable infections. Now, everyone's like, oh, my God, I got herpes from so and so. You know, maybe yes, maybe no. You know, it is very common. And, you know, honestly, nobody's at fault. I will say... Nobody is at fault. Can we just pause on that? Nobody's at fault. Nobody's at fault. It's everywhere. Yes. And the thing that I would really emphasize is, you know, really the only thing you can do, again, talking about occupational hazards, is, you know, if there's an open sore on somebody's body, probably not good to have contact with that open sore. Short of that, you know, you can't do anything. And again, occupational hazard. Right. It's the cost of doing business. It is. And there's no vaccine. We're working on it. Yes. There's no vaccine. But I really appreciate you breaking it down because I think it's just important for people to know, you know, I even I just have, I think, a lot of patients who come in and they're so distressed and they're like, feel like they're afflicted with a lifetime condition. You know, yes. And but again, there's tools to manage. There's tools to suppress. But most of all, if we can just alleviate that stigma and just reduce the blame. And you're in great company with most of the world. Let's be honest. So please don't feel alone. Great. And then just a quick word about HPV, which is the human papillomavirus. Yes. So the so human papillomavirus, also a sexually transmitted infection. People get it often at the time. My favorite word, sexual debut. So so the bottom line is and really this is the bottom line. Taylor's new album. Oh, I think that's a spoiler alert. I heard she was going to make a musical next. Anyway, which I would be very excited about. But topic for a different day. No, HPV. You don't want it. Number one, because it can cause warts. Number two, because it can cause cancer. Right. It's one of these viruses that can lead to cancer. The most common one, cervical cancer, but can also cause anal cancer in the mouth. It can cause head and neck cancer, squamous cell cancers. So you don't want it if you can avoid it. Guess what? Spoiler alert. There's a vaccine. Yes. Really, the ideal situation is you get yourself vaccinated before the again, favorite word, sexual debut. But still, it's approved even for people who are past that. Yes. My kids got the HPV vaccine. Yes. I couldn't be more thrilled. Everyone should get it. Yes. If you're sexually active. Bottom line. OK, this is perfect. I what I really because we've talked so much about and I thank you for this primer. But let's talk testing. Right. And I really want to make a distinction for our listeners. And I'll let you do it between getting tested when you're having symptoms. Right. Pain, pus, rash versus getting screened, meaning in the absence of symptoms. Yeah. Yeah. So great question. So any symptoms like you just described or any concern like, you know, you were with somebody who then said, oh, hey, BT dubs. You know, I got diagnosed with X, Y, Z. Right. You know, that means go see your provider or go to an urgent clinic immediately. Immediately because the time is important. Time is important because also, you know, you don't know what you could be incubating. And it means that any sexual contact that you have going forward might put others at risk. So get diagnosed, get treated immediately in those circumstances. Routine screening. So I'm saying if you're asymptomatic, also really important, depending on. Asymptomatic means no symptoms. No symptoms. Right. Depends on who you are. Okay. So if you are a gay man or a trans woman, you might need to be, who's sexually active, you may need to be screened as often as every three months. If you are a sexually active cisgender woman, you know, maybe as infrequently as every six months or every year, depending on how sexually active you are, might be appropriate. And, you know, so you need to have a conversation again with your provider about what pegs are going in what hole because that will determine how frequently and also what orifices, mouth, vagina, rectum, need to be tested. Because little known facts for gonorrhea and chlamydia in particular, you don't test that space. You don't find the infection if it is in that space. Testing the front does not give you the answer in the back. Right. Or up at the top. Absolutely. Right. In the mouth and throat. Yeah. And again, so much stigma around these behaviors. Yes. That, you know, I will often say to patients, hey, should we test everything today? Yes. Because that's my default. While you're nodding at them. Right. Yes. Exactly. And, you know, if they're like, well, actually, you know, nothing and no one has been anywhere near my rear end, great. We can skip that if, you know, if there's no symptoms. But you're reminding me that we cannot make any assumptions about people and especially their sex lives. People in general and especially, you know, their sex lives and their health. And can I just normalize something? Yes. I think a lot of providers will not ask or suggest to a cisgender woman that there be rectal sexually transmitted infection screening. I think rectal sex for cisgender women is a lot more common than anybody wants to talk about. Sometimes it's used as a way to have contraception. Sometimes people just spice things up and like to do things a different way. And there is nothing wrong with any of that. But if you don't ask and you don't offer, you're never going to get information. You as the provider. Yes. Right. Exactly. And that's on us. That is on us. I want to say, you know, I mean, so you work at the UCLA CARE Clinic. Could you say what CARE stands for? Sure. It's the Center for Clinical AIDS Research and Education. So it is the HIV and sexually transmitted infection treatment and prevention specialty clinic in UCLA Health. But we also see many other infections also. But that is what we are uber specialized in. It's a fantastic, fantastic clinic. I'm a primary care provider, right? My office is here in Santa Monica. And feel free to educate me here. As part of the annual visits I have with my patients, so whether that means physical exam or just, you know, annual visit, I always say to my patients and tell me if I should be saying something different, we're going to, you know, I offer to test for, quote, everything. So meaning that in the absence of symptoms, if someone's saying I'm sexually active, and actually let's take a quick pivot. What's the best way to ask someone about how they are, if they're sexually active and how they are sexually active? Yeah. No, I think that's a great point. And, you know, I would be remiss if I gave you language and said use this language. Because the words that I use might not sit well in your vernacular. And the kind of conversations you have with your patient. So I do think this is a very individual thing for a provider. What I say to people are, are you having sex with anybody? Right? Are you sexually active with anybody? And, you know, tell me about that. Somebody that I know is in a relationship or their response is, you know, just my husband, just my wife, just whomever. And then I will always say to them, do you have special guest stars in your relationship? Because that gives people permission to sort of give you more information. My favorite answer once was when someone said, I mean, solo in the Internet. Matt? Happily, AI has not made that sort of interactions a risk factor yet. The Westworld interaction. Right. Right. Exactly. No, but it is helpful. I mean, but in terms of being, I think, complete, inclusive. Because sometimes asking the question in the most kind of, I think, detailed, inclusive way gives permission, in your words, to give a more thorough answer. I think that's right. And, you know, again, no matter what you say, people may not feel comfortable talking about it. And so asking it, as you said, every time you see the patient normalizes it. And so because I think to some extent that removes the, why are they asking me that question? I'll actually say this is things I ask everyone. Yeah. I think that's really helpful. I have found, just because, again, the society we live in where this is so stigmatized, a lot of people don't believe you. They're like, well, they don't believe me. Maybe you're significantly more sincere than I am, Eve. So they believe you. But, you know, it's also a little bit different because I'm working in, you know, a sexually transmitted infection clinic. So people, to some extent, expect to have those kind of conversations. I think it's hard in a lot of primary care settings. Yeah. No, it's so helpful. I mean, it just, it just, but I do want to remind our listeners, even if you, quote, feel fine, right? Get tested. Get screened. You know, release yourself. Release the crack and release the stigma. Right? Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, regarding HIV in specific, right? I mean. I always test for HIV. Thank you. Yes. I love you. Your check is in the mail. You know, the CDC. I'm not being political here before it became massively dysfunctional and was dismantled. I did recommend that any sexually active individual aged 13 to 64 be tested at least once in their life for HIV. I would generalize that further. Why put age limits on it? Any sexually active individual full stop end of sentence. 100%. Should be tested for HIV at least once in their lifetime and perhaps more often if they are sexually active. Number one, frequently. Number two, without condoms. Number three, considering being on any of these preventive things. Four, you know, having sex with people or any of these higher epidemiologic risk factor groups like gay men, trans women, people who have been incarcerated. People who exchange money or goods for sex. People from any country where HIV is endemic. And, unfortunately, that's a large part of the world. And it's only getting worse because, you know, our programs are really being decimated globally. You're making me think that, I mean, everyone deserves to get tested. Everyone deserves that level of care. Yes. Okay. On that note, because you've been so generous with your time and expertise, I'm like, I guess I have to let you go. But did I forget to ask anything? Was there any, you know, infection I forgot to ask about or anything you recommend that I test my patients for or my colleagues recommend to our audience that they ask to be tested about? Yeah. Not so much to be tested about more than anything else. But I just want to mention one other technology. Right. You know, we talked about PrEP and how highly effective it is against HIV. And, you know, my STI colleagues have always been really jealous of, you know, the prevention stuff that we've had. Like, we have meds that prevent HIV. What you got? They're like condoms. Awesome. Abstinence. People love that. Dental dams. Yeah. That works. So now there is a new technology. People may have heard about it. It's called DoxyPep. That's the colloquial name. So, again, this doxycycline medicine, the same one I referenced when we were talking about treating syphilis, now can actually be used prophylactically. So if somebody is having, well, the current guidelines say gay men and trans women who are sexually active without condoms should consider this. There's limited data so far in cisgender women for vaginal exposures. But I think if somebody's having condomless exposures, it's worth having in your medicine cabinet. Right. Because if you're with a new partner and you didn't use condoms and you don't know, within 72 hours of that exposure, you can take a double dose of doxycycline. And it's incredibly effective at preventing syphilis and chlamydia. Less so against gonorrhea because there's some intrinsic resistance in gonorrhea to doxycycline. But really high levels. Not perfect protection against chlamydia and syphilis. So why wouldn't you? You can have this in your medicine cabinet. You can have this in your medicine cabinet. Right. Doxypep. Ask your doctor or pharmacist. Do we have time for a couple of listener questions? Yes. And I have an additional one. Oh, OK. Wait. We have a question from our producer. I sometimes hear that boys do not need to take the HPV vaccine. Oh, great question. So the question was, there's a question out there that sometimes boys do not need to take the HPV vaccine. I'll take incorrect statements for 200, Alex. Yeah. Right. Absolutely. I mean, you know, unfortunately, HPV is an equal opportunity infector. You can get it in your penis. You can get it in your rectum. You can get it in your mouth. And, you know, last time I checked, most boys have all three of those. That's correct. OK. Wait. I have to ask a couple asking for a friend questions. I have to take advantage of you being here. OK. I'm in a monogamous, monogamish relationship. Do I still need to worry about STIs? This goes to, I think, when people are saying I'm only having sex the just. Just. Just with. Just with. Great question. This is one of my favorite questions. Right. So just so the listeners know what Eve is referring to is this is sort of my favorite funny, not funny hashtag joke is a monogamous relationship is only monogamous until somebody in the relationship figures out that it actually wasn't monogamous. And so we call it in the biz monogamish. That's the guest stars. That's the guest stars. Right. Because, you know, sometimes that's consensual on everybody's part. Super great. Then in that case, you definitely need testing and to be considering sexually transmitted infections. But, you know, the reality is, you know, sometimes one partner relationship thinks it's monogamous and and it's really not. And you don't want to be the last to know. That's right. So, again, this notion of no matter what you think is the status of the monogamy of that relationship. If you are being sexually active with somebody, it is worthwhile being screened. Yeah, absolutely. Here's I think this is an important note. I'm on the birth control pill, so I don't use condoms much. Do I still need to think about sexually transmitted infections? Absolutely. Your eyebrows went up like three inches. It was great. Yeah. Yeah. No, you know, absolutely. Right. I mean, I mean, you know, contraception is a phenomenal advance in sexual and reproductive freedom. And, you know, I cannot say enough amazing things about the myriad technologies that we have to give people options for contraception. It's fantastic. If only we had that sort of menu of things for everything. But, but, but, but. Yes. Right. The association with it is people have decreased their use of condoms. And as we said before, anytime there is condomless sex, there is risk for a sexually transmitted infection. Full stop. End of sentence. Yeah. Birth control is not a barrier method. Correct. For infections. Right. Right. Right. And it does not confer any protection against any of these. The same way PrEP or Doxipap doesn't have any protective effect for fertility. Right. Right. Right. My sibling has HPV. Can I catch it from a toilet seat or a swimsuit? It's vanishingly difficult. Vanishingly? Yes. I'm going to take that as a hard no. My partner is a cold sore. We talked a little bit about this. Can I get herpes from kissing? What about from oral sex? Yes. Yeah. Well, well, let's, let's say the, assuming that we know the cold sore is herpes, right? Cold sores can have a lot of causes. If someone is known to have herpes and this feels like a classic herpes, I mean, I think it's a generally a good principle. Don't touch open ulcers. Right. And if you have a new open ulcer, come on in. Yeah. Get tested. We'll figure out what it is. And, and that's the other thing. You didn't ask this question, but you know, a lot of people are like, can I get tested for herpes? Well, answer, right. Technically, yes, we can do a blood test, but what's it going to tell you? It can tell you if you've ever been exposed to herpes in your life. You mean if someone comes in and says, can I get tested for herpes, but they don't have any stores or symptoms? Right. If you have an active sore or symptom, yes, we can swab it and do what's called a PCR test and tell you absolutely yes or no, whether that is related to this specific HSV virus. Absent there being something to look at, can't tell you what that is. Okay. If you could shout one message from the rooftops about sexual health, what would it be? Take ownership of it. Be empowered. Know what you have the power to protect yourself against. Be informed and find a doctor who can talk to you in candid terms about it and that you feel comfortable disclosing as much as possible and going to if you have any symptoms or concerns. You're incredible. I hope you know that. Your patients are so, so lucky for you. You are incredibly kind to say that. And again, your check is in the mail. I'm serious. I can't thank you enough, though, I mean, not just for educating our listeners, you're educating me. It's incredible how you break down all these very complex, often misunderstood, right, and incredibly still stigmatized topics. And you do it with such clarity, compassion. And I'm going to say it, a lot of no judgment. Judgment does not have a place in these conversations. No judgment, no shame. To everyone listening, I do want both to remind them that STIs are nothing to hide, nothing to feel ashamed about. They're part of being human. We are human organisms, right? I'm going to venture to say that talking about them honestly makes us healthier. What would you say? It does. And intimacy and contact, these are basic human needs. We all need them. And joys. And joys. And it's supposed to be pleasurable. It's not supposed to be something to fear. So arm yourself with all the information. I love it. Yeah. And I think one of the things we've really talked about is that safe, safer sex. It's not about restriction, right? But it certainly is about freedom and knowing the tools. It is. It's about arming yourself and knowing what your options are and knowing when to seek care. I love it. And I love all the analogies, space invaders, remnants of soldiers, sexual debut, monogamish. Thank you so much for being here. To our listeners, there's trusted links, evidence-based resources in the show notes, references to Dr. Landowitz's care center, and all of us other just amazing work. And to everyone, stay curious, stay kind, stay honest, stay healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. And Rafi, I just can't thank you enough. Thank you so much for having me. It's been wonderful. Just amazing. Thank you.