 fracin,izophrenia, fracin,izophrenia, fracin,izophrenia, fracin,izophrenia, fracin,izophrenia, fracin, Hi, everyone, and welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Being a human being means we connect with each other, often in physically intimate ways, and that's a wonderful part of life. And because physical intimacy with others can involve everything from holding hands to exchanging bodily fluids, it's worth knowing how to make these experiences as safe and healthy as possible. So today we're having a candid conversation about safe sex, what safe or safer really means, how to protect yourself and your partners, and why less stigma, more education, and open communication are key to a healthy, happy, and infection-free sex life. Please note, this conversation is for everyone, all ages, all genders, all orientations. STIs, or sexually transmitted infections, are one of the most common health conditions on the planet. Most people are sexually active and will have one at one point in their lives. In part one, we're going to talk about what safe or rather safer sex looks like in 2025 and review some important sexual health basics. And then in part two, we're going to get into specifics around STIs, prevention, symptoms, and treatment. So here to chat with us is Dr. Raphael Landowitz, Director of the UCLA Center for Clinical AIDS Research and Education and Chief of Infectious Disease at UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine. Again, Rafi, thank you so much for being here. Thanks so much for having me. This is, it's a real honor to be here with you. I'm so happy. And before we get started, I mean, I'd love for our listeners to just know a little bit about you, if you don't mind sharing. I mean, let's just start with what led you into the field of infectious diseases. Yeah, no, thanks. I became really attracted to infectious diseases as a specialty for a number of reasons. First, it's a lifelong game of space invaders. The bugs will always outsmart us. And what I loved about infectious disease is infectious diseases can affect any organ of the body. They can happen to any body. And understanding someone as a whole person is really critical to understanding what might be causing an infection and how best to treat them. You can't just focus on the heart and it's three vessels or, you know, the lungs or what have you. Not that all specialists in those areas do that. But you can't ignore the whole body and the person and what they've been through in their life experiences and the shoes they've walked in if you're going to be an infectious disease specialist. And people also want us to be like the Sherlock Holmes of the hospital. You know, when no one else can figure out what's going on with someone, they call us. And so for all those reasons, I just thought it was sort of never going to be a boring place to work. And I've been proven correct about that. That's so awesome. I always say that, too. I'm like, the bugs let us be here, which is important. Have respect for the bugs. We live in their world. We do. Right. That's fascinating. I mean, also, you know, I know that you specialize in HIV and AIDS research. What made you specialize there? Yeah. When I was a medical student, I had a formative experience. I was I was in Boston and I was working at Mass General Hospital and we had admitted a patient with advanced HIV disease, severe immunosuppression and and had a brain infection called toxoplasmosis, which you can get from exposure to either raw or undercooked lamb or cat feces or a number of other sort of animal exposures. And and the the patient hadn't been tested for HIV for many years and so had gotten to that level of immunosuppression. And one day we were rounding and the patient's outpatient doctor was there on the floor and being a naive, impudent medical student. I went up to him and I said, why didn't you test this guy for HIV in the past? And he sort of looked at me over his glasses and he said, I don't do AIDS. And I thought to myself and I, you know, again, I was young and somewhat upstart. And I said, what does that even mean? You know, does that mean it's too complicated? Does that mean you don't know what to do if you find it? Or does that mean that you're not comfortable caring for the kinds of people who are often associated with HIV AIDS? And that really disturbed me. And it was in that moment I said, I'm going to be the best HIV AIDS doctor that I can possibly be for everyone. And I'm never going to let something like that happen under my watch. That's how I got interested in it. That's amazing. You are amazing. And you have done that every single day. I have tried to live by that principle every single day. I can say that as your colleague, you do that every day. You do AIDS, you do infectious disease, you do leadership, and you do human being every day. I'm amazed by that. You know, you're very kind to say you're amazed by it. But I think, you know, in our division, in our department, in the medical school here at UCLA, I think we all try and embody that. And that's why I came here 19 years ago and stayed. I have to admit, you know, I'm from New York and trained in Boston. And if you had told me that I was going to build my career at UCLA, I would have said, you're crazy. I'm not a Southern California person. I'm going back to New York. But I stayed because of the people and the esprit de corps and care of patients that sort of lets everyone provide the kind of care that they really believe in. I love that. And we'll get into that care. But I just I now will never be able to unsee someone looking over their glasses at you. And I think, you know, I really think this dovetails into today's topic, because I think, you know, what we care a lot about on this podcast is destigmatizing. Right. And also understanding that everyone gets sick. Right. You know, illness really democratizes the human experience. I mean, maybe, you know, having access to certain treatments, you know, which we'll get into certainly comes up. But the idea that you wouldn't do or treat, you know, certain illnesses or ignore certain groups of people, I think is pretty much anathema to, I think, what we like to think of in terms of what it is to be a doctor. I completely agree. And it's really unfortunate that even in 2025, infectious diseases and sexually transmitted infectious diseases and even more specifically, HIV are still so stigmatized. And so it complicates people being tested, people seeking care if they have one of these infections. And even there are these very powerful medicinal tools that we have now to prevent people from getting these sexually transmitted infections. And people will not seek them out, again, because they are terrified of the stigma associated with even being considered in a category of person likely to encounter these infections. And it's one of the greatest shortcomings, I think, as a society that, you know, we've not been able to get past is the need to shame people around something that is sort of a beautiful, intimate, pleasurable part of everyone's existence. Right. I mean, and I think, you know, stigma, I think, starts a lot with language. And that's another thing on the pod we're really into is talking about language. I think the words that we use in medicine, especially in medicine, right, really matter. They shape how people talk about their health, how they talk about themselves, whether they feel seen, supported or judged. And, you know, even just using the word sexually transmitted infection versus, and I'm just going to date myself, which is fine, versus STDs, which was sexually transmitted diseases. I mean, can you talk about what the difference is and why does the terminology matter? Yeah, I think you actually hit the nail on the head. Words matter. And we're saying that, you know, in sort of the current environment so much where I think there's a movement that is sort of trying to sort of erase certain populations. And if we don't use words that describe people and actions the way they want to be described and talked about, then we're really erasing them and sort of really stymieing the conversation. So I think you're exactly right with this evolution in terminology because a disease, right, immediately has a negative connotation. And sexually transmitted disease, I think, historically has blamed the person who is diagnosed with that infection. And they are infections. So let's call them what they are. The overwhelming majority of them are treatable, not all. And we're going to come to that, which is why it's still worth protecting yourself against them. You know, antimicrobial resistance is making some of the treatable ones more complicated. So there's still things you'd rather not have if it's possible to avoid it, which is why both understanding how you might be exposed to them, what the symptoms are, how to get treatment. And also, if there's a chance that you're going to encounter those situations recurrently, how might you take advantage of these really powerful new preventive technologies to prevent them? And I think it's like the worst best kept secret, you know, that the field really has progressed to the point where we have these tools. And people either don't appreciate that they might be able to take advantage of them or that they exist or know how to find them. And so that's something I think is really important, along with the choice of these words that allows people to not feel shamed even by the term. I mean, exactly. I mean, I personally don't think there's anything shameful at all about having an infection, by the way, or a disease. But I do think that sometimes there's a negative connotation where I think people feel like disease has this sort of notion of more of an identification. It's like your identity is that you're diseased, as opposed to, you know, like a well demarcated infection. But either way, I'm going to vote for no stigma for either. But it's just interesting. I've noticed that that has evolved. I've also, you know, remarked in preparing for our chat today, how at least in the 80s, when I took health class, 90s, whatever, that we used to say safe sex. And I'm seeing now more people are using the term safer sex. Are you seeing that? Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, everything, I think because the idea is you want to use the comparative adjective. I love it. Throwing myself back to 10th grade English. Because, right, you know, what's safe in 2025, right? Crossing Wilshire Boulevard's not safe. I know. Right? And, you know, so everything is relative. Right. And, you know, I like to think of it, honestly, when I talk to people about occupational hazards. Right? And, you know, if you're going to be sexually active, and most of us are going to make that choice. You know, you want to understand what the opportunities are to be exposed to various infections. And then you have a conversation with your doctor or your provider. What's going to be an acceptable risk? And the perfect example that I always come down to, and, you know, all sexually transmitted infections, it's all about plumbing. And what I mean by that is, you know, literally there are anatomic parts that go into anatomic potential spaces. Right? If you want to sort of devolve it to sort of children's toys, it's what peg goes into what hole. Yeah. Right? And honestly, if you talk to people in those somewhat humorous, deconstructed terms, it takes a lot of the uncomfortability with taking a sexual history out of the picture. And when we talk about oral sex, I actually don't know of anyone who thinks that it is acceptable in terms of their decisional balance about risk for infection acquisition and pleasure to use a condom for oral sex. I don't know anybody who does. And, you know, listeners at home, you know, if you do, would love to hear your experience with it. Yeah, come on the pod. But you have to understand that there are risks associated with oral sex, and that is potentially an acceptable occupational risk for a given individual. Talk to your doctor, your provider about what those risks are and how to balance them. But that's sort of an example of occupational hazard and the way I talk to people about this kind of thing. I love it. And I will make my children listen to this podcast and listen to you. No, but it's true. I mean, it's it's to me, it's very empowering and freeing to be educated. Right. And then to know that we have these tools. Right. So that you can practice sex safely, assuming that you will, if you're lucky, have a sex life. Right. And I think we all aspire to that. Yes. And you should. And be safe and healthy about it. Exactly. No, that's that's I think that's super helpful because I think that I don't think it's very helpful to talk about just safe sex as an absolute term, because then it's like, well, sure, if you want to live in a closet, you know, great. And not ever connect with anyone. Yeah. Maybe that that's just an absolute, but that's not helpful. Right. Right. And, you know, you know, you certainly could stay at home and wrap yourself in bubble wrap and never touch anyone. And some people some people make that choice. And that's a great choice for them if that's what people actually want. But if if there's fear or lack of knowledge that is driving that decision, then it's worth having a conversation. Right. And and, you know, unfortunately, we are in a world right now where we are in a little bit of a sexually transmitted infection epidemic. Right. The rates of gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis are all at sort of unacceptably high levels. And so knowing sort of who is potentially going to be exposed to that, what the symptoms you should watch out for, how to seek treatment in a nonjudgmental setting. And again, what opportunities there are if you plan to be in situations where you might be recurrently exposed to these infections, knowing what preventive options there are available. And and, you know, everyone's like, well, what about condoms? You know, and yes, condoms are a mainstay, a staple of prevention of all of these infections. But as we already talked about with oral intercourse, there are eight million reasons why people and I always come to these three buckets. People can't, won't or don't use a condom. There's all sorts of reasons. And if you as a provider, when I'm talking to a patient, getting judgmental about what those barriers are is never going to get you anywhere. Right. You can talk about what condoms are successful at preventing pregnancy and every one of those infectious diseases. But they're still not perfect. Right. You have to know how to use them. They have to not break. You have to have them on, you know, on hand in the moment. And and they do reduce for a lot of people the pleasurable component of sex. So, again, eight million reasons why people can't, won't or don't use them. And so you have to meet people where they are and talk to them about, OK, so what are the risks? And, you know, do I need to worry about gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, herpes, warts, you know, HIV? And and what and what are the things that I can do to keep myself safe? So let's let's let's talk a little science since you just since you just listed off all those STIs. It was like when it like a commercial side effects. You're like, let's just start with transmission transmission, meaning like if you just break it down for me, how do I get an STI? Yeah. So genital genital contact. Right. Right. Is the easiest way to get an STI. Right. Somebody has to have it in an orifice or in their body fluids and you get exposed to it. It's very difficult to get it through intact skin. But importantly. Right. We have these parts of our body that we call mucus membranes, which are even though they're quote unquote intact skin, they're sort of this softer, less well armored. Like the inside of your mouth. Like the inside of your mouth. Inside of your rectum. Right. The inside of a vagina. Right. All are are mucus membranes. And so they are much more susceptible, even if at least visibly intact, to transmission of infectious diseases. So body fluid in contact with a mucus membrane, the easiest way to do it. People always also ask me, well, what about kissing? Right. And holding hands. Holding hands, I think, is probably the safest thing we have. Right. It's very difficult to get something through for holding hands. This is a big. This is a strong, intact barrier. It is. It is. And, you know, you could go down a rabbit hole and believe me, you know, you know, there's an exception to every rule. Let's not go there for now. We don't. Right. So, you know, let's talk about the real things that people should be concerned. In terms of what puts them at risk for exposure to sexually transmitted infections. And, you know, genital-genital contact is sort of the most common way. And that, again, hearkening back to the children's toys analogy. Yes. Peg in hole. Yes. Right. Is the easiest way for that to happen. And a lot of people say, you know, does there actually need to be exchange of body fluids? Or how long does there have to be that contact? And the answer is, you know, it's a little bit like calculus. It's area under the curve. I'm sure, like, half of the listeners just started checking their Instagram account and turned it off. Because you said the word calculus? Because I said the word calculus and area under the curve. Sorry. Right. Exactly. So the idea is, you know, the longer the exposure, the greater the risk. The more fluid that's exchanged, the greater the risk. But there is no absolute, right? If there is contact, there is some risk. And contact would include anything from just rubbing, right? Correct. Right. And I want to just hone in on this for a second. Because it's, again, we're talking about these sensitive skin, sensitive mucus membrane services. Correct. So the more rubbing, I don't want to say aggressive, but like the more that there's just contact, right? Yeah. Abrasive. Abration. You know, again, it's just friction, right? Is going to increase that risk of exchange of cells, fluids, etc. Correct. So to your point, Eve, right, these mucus membranes are particularly vulnerable because often they're as thin as one cell thick. And so it really does not take much abrasion, rubbing, friction to disrupt that. And so the barrier between the inside of your body and the outside of your body very easily disrupted. And that's where the susceptibility comes from. And I just want to remind our listeners, and I think you would agree, that thin layer of cells, like we're not telling you that to freak you out, but it's just to sort of just really educate you. Again, you shouldn't have to go to medical school, know how your body works, like just know this. And then it just helps you ascertain that risk and, you know, form your own calculus about it. See, see, I like the theme here. I have a question, though. So does something like lubrication help enforce that barrier and lower that risk? It does. It doesn't enforce the barrier, but it does reduce the friction. Yes. So, yes, it is helpful in reducing that risk because it is less likely, not zero, but less likely to disrupt that layer. The one thing you really need to be careful of, though, with the lubricants is a lot of lubricants also have chemicals in them, particularly ones that are intended to prevent pregnancy in particular. Have chemicals. There's one called ninoxinol 9 in particular that actually can be more irritating to these sensitive, fragile tissues. And when a tissue gets irritated, then it's actually even more susceptible to an infection. And again, not to scare people, but just know what you're using, right? You know, a water-based lubricant, a silicone-based lubricant, as long as you're not using latex condoms, you know, all good. Just make sure there aren't additives or chemicals in there that could be irritating to these very sensitive areas of the body because that does increase risk. I just want to do a quick callback to our menopause series when our experts recommended coconut oil. Just a quick callback. Yes. But that definitely does not decrease the risk of transmission of a sexually transmitted infection. This is kind of a trick question, but who's at risk for catching or transmitting an STI? So, yes, trick question, because anybody who's sexually active is... Everyone. Anybody. Right. And literally anyone. And, you know, I think, again, because of groups of people who have disproportionate high burden of these sexually transmitted infections, there's this idea that if I'm not a member of one of those groups, I'm not at risk at all. And that's just not true. And when I talk to medical students in particular, I always try to make that point by saying, okay, how many of you actually have kids? And many do. And I say, well, then why aren't we testing this person for sexually transmitted infections? And they're like, well, they're not a gay man. They don't engage in sex work. They haven't been in jail. They don't inject drugs. They don't use recreational drugs. And I said, well, the last time I checked, the most common way you have a child is through condomless sex. And therefore, isn't that person at risk for a sexually transmitted infection? And I get this blank look. It's sort of like you then you see like a little light bulb start to glow over their head and then it sort of becomes brighter. And they're like, oh, right. Good point. And, you know, everything is about understanding what peg went into what hole. And, you know, people can only control their own actions and behaviors. And, you know, unfortunately, you know, in some circumstances, right, assault, people can't control others and they can't control what happens to them. That's a different circumstance. And I certainly don't want to minimize that. But just remember, you know, taking ownership of your own health is something that everyone should feel empowered to do. And you can't control what other people do. You can control, in most cases, what you do. You know, in talking about, you know, who's at risk or transmitting, I mean, you're reminding me that I think it's a real disservice when people other, you know, who they think, you know, are at risk. I mean, and it's also just such a disservice. I mean, you know, to your earlier point, you know, for example, about the patient who you saw in medical school, right, who, you know, you correctly, right, diagnosed with HIV or advanced AIDS, the one with toxoplasmosis. It's a disservice to the patient. It's a disservice to yourself, right? If you have an infection, if you think it only happens to other people. I think that's exactly right. And, you know, I think, you know, providers in 2025 have so many competing priorities when they see somebody, right? There's whatever acute problem somebody's come into the office with. There's all sorts of health maintenance and prevention stuff. And then to have a conversation about sex. I think we all get hives at the thought of trying to inject that in, no pun intended, in a limited amount of time because it deserves space. It deserves a full conversation. And your level of comfortability as a provider is going to completely determine what someone in your office is going to be willing to tell you. And if you don't ask, you're not going to find out. So I think we have to normalize both for providers and for patients that it absolutely is appropriate to ask, how's your sex life? Yeah. You know, sexual health is health. Are you sexually active right now? Tell me about it. Right. If your throat hurt, you would tell me, right? If you had a throat infection, we would talk about it, right? If you something was bothering you on your knees. So the same way, just normalize it. Yes. I love it. Okay. Let's talk. Let's talk specific STIs. Let's. Let's start with HIV. Yeah. My impression, but I want you to correct me if I'm wrong, is that the medical community has made enormous developments in the treatment and suppression of HIV. And I use the word suppression. Maybe you could define that for everyone. But in your mind and expertise, is it true that HIV is no longer a death sentence for most people? Yeah. Perfect question. So true, true, sort of. Okay. And what I mean by that is, so HIV is a virus, right? Human immunodeficiency virus. It is transmitted sexually or by exchange of body fluids or really blood and blood products, also breast milk. And it used to be a death sentence when we first diagnosed or identified the virus and were able to diagnose it in the 80s. It was almost universally a death sentence. Because what it does is, and remember, viruses are not alive. They're robots. So you can't kill a virus. Little known fact. You can inhibit the mechanism of a virus. So your immune system can clear it out. But you can't kill it. And many viruses sort of go to sleep in the body. So you can't actually ever completely get rid of them. HIV is one of those. So if you are diagnosed with HIV, the first thing that happens is it goes to sleep in certain parts of your body and it sits there. And that's why it's uncurable. And I say that with an asterisk because there are a handful of documented cases in the medical literature where people have been cured, but overwhelmingly it is a lifelong disease that is incurable. And what you're saying is, yes, it is treatable. And treatment is a combination of, for lack of a better word, in hardware terms, a monkey wrench that you throw into the gears of the HIV robot that prevents it from mechanistically replicating itself so your body can gain superior control over it. Getting the amount of virus that you can measure in somebody's blood called the viral load down to undetectable levels. And when that happens, the immune system, which has been previously under siege from the virus attacking the immune cells, it recovers. And it can recover almost to normal levels. It's never 100% normal, but it can recover almost to normal levels. And the other fascinating thing we've learned over the years is not only do these cocktails, if you will, of monkey wrench medications, they're good for the person who has HIV, but they actually render them non-infectious. So if you have an undetectable viral load when you're on these medications, you are non-infectious to sexual partners. Little known facts. And that's depression, right? That is. You can't transmit it to another person. And you can get to those undetectable levels with medication, with these cocktails, with the monkey wrenches. Correct. Correct. And it's still a lifelong disease, except in these extremely rare cases that I referred to. And it has certain complications, right? It does accelerate really the aging process. And so all the things that people are at risk for as they would get older, you know, cancer, diabetes, cognitive deficits, you know, liver problems, kidney problems, et cetera, right? They're all accelerated. We see them earlier in people with HIV. So there's like, there's a cost to the body always being in a fight or flight readiness position, even with the medications that are keeping the virus under control. That posture of fighting a chronic incurable infection accelerates all of these diseases. So it's a little bit, the best analogy I can come up with is it's a little bit like diabetes. It's treatable. You can lead a nearly long, normal length life with it. You have to see doctors regularly if you take medications. You would still rather not have it if you had the choice. Right. And I think that's a really important point, right? These it's incredible. These tools that, you know, you and your colleagues have developed over the years. But you don't if you don't have to have it. Right. Let's not. So let's just talk about that. And I want to make it ask you a question about protection. Right. And I think by that I mean barriers versus prevention. Yeah. What are you thinking? Yeah. So under the umbrella of prevention of let's talk about just HIV for a second. You know. Yes. Right. Barrier protection is one highly effective method. And what we mean by that, we're talking about condoms. Right. Condoms highly effective at the prevention of transmission of HIV. You know, that assumes that, you know, as we were saying before, you've used the condom properly. It didn't break. It didn't slip off. Right. All of these things. But extremely effective. Can I interject really quick? Please. Is there female to female transmission? Because there are, you know, barrier methods. Yeah. You know, as well. Yeah. Great question. And the answer is yes, but it's really hard. And it usually has to involve usually a sex toy or some sort of implement that, again, coming back to this toy analogy, would be peg and hole. Right. So it's very difficult otherwise with sort of rubbing or friction, you know, without some sort of penetrative act. Okay. Okay. So that's prevention. Yeah. Right. So that's barriers. We were talking about like more barrier, I guess, protection. Correct. Right. But talk to me, I guess, a little bit about vaccines and also PrEP. Yeah. Great question. So vaccines, you know, are a little bit the holy grail in HIV prevention. We would love to have a vaccine that would durably protect people against acquisition of HIV. We're 40 plus years on in the epidemic. And unfortunately, I don't, again, a lot of my colleagues might throw potshots at me for saying this. I don't think we're any closer 40 years on in the pandemic to having a vaccine than we were at the beginning. We've learned a lot about immunology. The problem is HIV is a really wily, smart, obnoxious virus. And it to date has learned to evade every sort of immune mechanism that we understand. So people have been quite clever at trying to design vaccines and they just haven't worked. How obnoxious. How obnoxious. So you might say, OK, so what's plan B if we don't have a vaccine? And I say plan B only with a slight bit of irony to, you know, it's contraceptive meaning. So plan B really are, it turns out that some of these monkey wrench medicines that are used in cocktails to treat people who have HIV also work in a preventive capacity. You don't need a full combination cocktail. You can have smaller numbers of the medication, usually one or two. And we figured this out because early on in the HIV epidemic, when health care workers would be like drawing blood on a patient with HIV and they would stick themselves with that needle after drawing the blood, you know, there was sort of, there was nothing to do except take any available medication and give it to the person who had been stuck with the needle and see if it worked. And there's one really not scientifically awesome study that showed an 89% reduction in a person who had that kind of needle stick exposure in getting HIV after a stick like that if they took a course of this medication afterwards. And we call that post-exposure prophylaxis. And that has sort of evolved into, you know, if somebody either gets a needle stick in a sort of occupational setting at work or if they have a sexual exposure to somebody they find out or are concerned might have HIV and not be on treatment themselves, that you can take 28 days of one of these cocktails and it's highly effective at preventing that exposed person from getting HIV. Its ability to do that really dependent on the time from the exposure to dose. I think we all have it in our idea, like, God forbid, you know, somebody's having a heart attack or a stroke, the faster we implement treatment, the better the outcome. Same is true here, right? And so if there's an exposure, a clock starts ticking. And we generally think that certainly after 72 hours, that technology unfortunately probably won't work. And the sooner the better. So again, you're going to hate me. You're absolutely, you and your listeners are absolutely going to hate me because I'm going to, I'm going to make another math, like calculus. I love it. I love it. I love nerding out with you. So if you think, if you believe me, that exposure to dose of these monkey ranch cocktail medications, time, really important in prevention of HIV acquisition, you say to yourself, what's the math problem that would allow me to absolutely minimize the time from that exposure to that first dose? If there was a likelihood that I was going to be exposed and I knew about it. And the answer is, what if the medication was in my body before the exposure ever happened? Light bulb. And that was the idea where this thing called PrEP was born, right? So if I think I'm somebody who is likely to encounter HIV occupationally, sexually, who knows how, and your provider agrees that that's actually a real risk, you can take medication. It's a subset, a piece of these full cocktails that we use to treat people with HIV. And that's called PrEP, pre-exposure prophylaxis. And it turns out, and a lot of us had concerns about this when it was first being studied. We're like, don't do that. You know, side effects, cost. What about, you know, and if it doesn't work, what about resistance, right? Are the viruses that get through, are they going to then be harder to treat? But the people who originally conceived of this idea, way smarter than me, they had the last laugh because this is wildly effective. So brilliant, too. Wildly effective. So now we have pills that you can take. And the best analogy that I can make is like, it's a little bit like contraception options, right? You can take a pill every day. You can take a shot every two months. Just recently, we have a new one, a shot every six months. And these are like incredibly effective for all routes of sexual exposure. And we think also for injection drug use exposures. We have less data about that. But you have to take it. You have to ask for it. Well, you have to know about it. You have to ask for it. And ascertain your risk, meaning just, and what does that risk mean? I think we've tried to say is that you, you know, you might have a higher risk than you think. Yeah. Right? And that's okay. And talk to your provider about that. Yes. And, you know, I think as on the provider side, and I know we're talking to people who might be consumers a lot, but it's hard. A lot of providers aren't quite up to speed on how powerful this is and how to do it. And they get, you know, I said hives before. They get hives at the thought of not only having a conversation about sex, but they're not comfortable with these medicines that are in this toolbox of wrenches. And they're like, oh, I'm not going to hurt somebody. You're not going to hurt somebody. You know, it's very difficult to. On the contrary, you're helping. You're helping. You're absolutely going to help. And people say, well, they didn't have any risk factors. Yes. You're not going to hurt somebody. You know, it's very difficult to. On the contrary, you're helping. You're helping. You're absolutely going to help. And people say, well, they didn't have any risk factors, so I didn't want to prescribe it. And my approach is if somebody asks for it, even if they're not able to enunciate to you what their risk is, I will almost never say no to somebody. You know, do you find yourself in any of those situations? And somebody says, no, but I still want PrEP. My assumption is not that they're a worried well person. It's that there's something that they're just not comfortable telling me. Exactly. And, I mean, talk about meeting people and patients where they are and giving them this tool and that it empowers them to then use it, you know, at their discretion. Right. And put them in control. Yeah. Right. I think that's exactly right. And we sort of alluded to this earlier. Right. Taking control of your own health is like one of the most powerful things we can do as humans. Right. Again, it's so hard to control anybody else's behavior. We know that in so many circumstances, but you can protect yourself. Yes. Yes. And no judgment. And if you want to do it with oral pills, with an injection, with or without a condom, you know, depending on your choices, it's your choice. It is. And again, you know, as providers, I think we do people a huge disservice by shaming them for those choices. Right. You know, so, again, as you said, and you're 100 percent right. And I cannot emphasize this enough, you know, you are a consumer of health care. And if somebody is not meeting you where you are, you need a new provider. We say that all the time. Break up with your doctor. Yes. Or your nurse, whoever. Seriously. You know, it has to work for you. It has to work for you. And if you don't feel like that provider sort of is sophisticated enough with these technologies that we're talking about, find somebody that is. I mean, first of all, you're educating me. I mean, but I feel really comfortable, by the way, even asking you, you know, all of these questions, but also just acknowledging that I need to be educated. Right. I have no problem with that. Well, I think it's really hard. Right. Medicine is and science is progressing at, you know, a dizzying rate. And the amount of new information that's out every day is massively overwhelming for anybody. So nobody can keep up with the advances in in every field. I would not presume to know how to treat most cancers. Right. I certainly would never prescribe chemotherapy. That's not my area of expertise. So, you know, it to some extent, it's not fair to expect everyone to know all of this. So I just would encourage all the listeners to just know where to go. That's right. Get this information. And most sexually transmitted infection treatment clinics, most sexual health clinics. Yes. Any infectious disease clinic, which I don't love that these sort of preventive things are often married to infectious disease specialists. Right. And I think that's where the expertise often is because, again, people don't want to be associated with a disease. Right. Right. They want sexual health. Yes. And that's part of overall health. I'm going to just give that sore throat analogy. I mean, right. I mean, I'm a primary care doc, as you know. And if you have a sore throat, come to see me. If you have strep, I will treat it. Right. And if it's recurrent or you get abscesses, then I'm going to be like, you know what? I've got a lot of expert colleagues. Go see my head and neck specialist. Similarly, though, and we can move on to gonorrhea. But I really have the humility to say with my patients, listen, I don't know the answer to this. Let's look together. Let's ask my expert colleague together. Yeah. But it is my job to educate myself so I can educate my patients. I love the idea of giving them those freedom and tools so they can make choices and they have the control over their lives. Yeah. I think that's when the best patient doctor or patient provider relationships happen is when, you know, there are these conversations that really are shared decision making. Yes. I'm going to provide you with the data and also be very clear about what we don't know. Yes. And I think, you know, that's something that's fairly recent in medicine is sort of making it okay to say we actually don't know the answer to that question. Here's my best guidance. Here's my judgment. But let's be honest. There isn't science that guides us in this field. And I think when you're honest with patients in that way, it actually builds trust. I agree. I agree. And acknowledging that, you know, we don't have all the answers all the time. But also acknowledging, I think, that patients are individuals, right? They're not just a recipe that we can, you know, apply to. So it's great. Absolutely. And I think the more people feel seen, and you had alluded to this earlier. Yeah, with language especially. Right. Right. Exactly. That's going to broker the best therapeutic relationship. I agree. We're going to take a quick break. Stay tuned for part two where Rafi and I get into STI specifics, prevention, symptoms, and treatment. And Rafi, thank you so much for being here and all the amazing work you do with patients. What's your job? Thank you.