It was April 7th 2015. Two days after Easter. I was getting ready for work. I got a phone call for my mother saying that Jorge was in a big car accident. My car just hydroplaned. It was the first rain of the season and it caused an SUV to t-bone me. Things were rushing in my mind. Will he be okay? Will he ever be able to walk? Will he ever be get out of the hospital? It wasn't until 2am in the morning that a doctor came out and said that they have to prepare for a couple of surgeries to pretty much rebuild Jorge's pelvis. I ended up spending about a month in the hospital. From beginning to end, I needed about 50 units of blood for all the surgeries. The only reason why my brother is alive it's because people donate blood. I donated blood ever since the beginning never thinking that I would be the one who would need it. So I’ve experienced being both the donor and the recipient. I never before thought that when I donated the blood actually went somewhere. But now I know it does and I learned that first hand. I was amazed by the whole crew, by the people, by their warmth and the way they welcome you. From that moment on, I knew that this would be my mission in life. Taking care of the donors is everything for us. For those who may come in to donate, we give them the option of receiving movie tickets, campus meal tickets, hospital cafeteria tickets. Our staff’s job is to make sure donors are having a good time, they're comfortable and they're happy because we need them to come back. Our patients need them to come back. Blood is such a complex component. It’s life for us. It carries oxygen. It protects our immune system. It hydrates us. It does everything. It’s life, and it cannot be synthetically made. So we need blood donors to come and donate to save people’s lives. I know that there’s always a need. There’s always going to be a need for people to donate. It’s a very simple process. It’s for a good cause and it's actually kind of fun to do. I've had two liver transplants here at UCLA and I've received 92 units of blood. That's pretty much 92 donors that came out, donated blood, and saved my life. After my accident and seeing how much blood I needed, I understood that none of what the doctors did, none of what the hospital did would have been possible without the donors who donated their blood. This is something that you do for others and you don’t know, maybe life throws you in a situation where you would need someone’s help. You’re changing someone’s life in such a beautiful way. Can you put a value on that? Impossible.