Welcome back to Medically Speaking, a UCLA health podcast. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. Welcome to the final installment of our three-part series on women's health after 40-ish. Um, and if you haven't already, please check out parts one and two of this series, Perry Menopause, Rethinking the Narrative, and Menopause 101. Today, we're going to talk about a topic that's rarely discussed openly, so again, a big opportunity later in life, sexual health. It's about intimacy, identity, hormone shifts, and most of all, empowerment. Joining us today are returning experts and friends to the pod. Dr. Regina Patel and Maya Zapata. Dr. Maya Zapata is a board-certified UCLA OBGYn dedicated to inclusive, patient- centered reproductive care with a focus on helping people navigate every stage of their health journey with clarity and compassion. Dr. Regina Patil is a certified menopause expert. She's also the founding director of our UCLA health comprehensive menopause program, driving national change through clinical innovation, research, and advocacy in women's care. Doctors, friends, let's get into it. Uh so let's just start with what actually changes for women around 40 um physically, emotionally, and socially. Um can you walk us through how the physiologic you know the biologic changes um that pmenopause and and menopause um affect in our body how does those manifest in our in our even our bodies and minds. >> Do you want to start questions? Yeah, there's a lot to talk about there. >> Um you know there are estrogen and progesterone receptors in many organs in the body and there are definitely estrogen receptors in the entire body. So um when the hormones are changing and fluctuating in menopause in the transition to menopause I should say um and then they also are just low um later on in menopause. It definitely affects a lot of the organ systems and for each person it's very different. Um it can cause symptoms of menopause. So you can have you know mood changes, you can have hot flashes. There's multitude of symptoms that you can feel. Uh and you can see some actual physiologic changes in your body that are because of the lower estrogen levels and the lower progesterone and and even the lower testosterone levels. Can you talk about what some of those changes are specifically? >> Um specifically those can be if we just start with one or the organ that's related to a female body is the vagina. Um it can it physically changes. So, as as estrogen levels decrease, the vagina, which is covered in a mucosal layer, that's the skin of the inside of the vagina, it actually changes. It gets thinner. It gets less flexible, less stretchy, less elastic. Um, it doesn't hold moisture as well. The body's normal um responses to sexual arousal where there's lots of lubrication that's made that is that changes that's less. Those changes can then sometimes lead to sensitivity. So the physical structure that even if you look at it looks totally normal might become more sensitive. It can be painful sometimes when it's touched or um in for example if someone's having intercourse. So that's just starting in that organ. Physical changes that you can actually see and feel just related to estrogen levels being lower for people. >> I really want to emphasize that you mentioned these changes in the vagina and you used words like thinning, right? Um or less moist, right? a lack of lubrication. But we didn't say words like atrophy, shriveling, right? So changing. Yeah. The the exact diagnosis code that many people might see on their statement or in their medical chart will say the words atrophy cuz that's the oldfashioned word that is used as the diagnosis code. And so that's what we have to build. But it it is there's physiologic things happening and the word atrophy has all these like connotations that come with it like you're withering away. And >> yeah, we're not move away from that. We're trying to really just say that their genital, urinary and sexual changes that are happening. And I think for every person that's different and so not everybody has and feels that dryness, for example, or has that sensitivity. Um, but it is very, very common. >> But even just starting then with the with the vagina, like you're saying, if there is dryness, right, and especially, you know, I always say to my patients as well, like it's often skin, right, or a mucosal barrier. So if there are changes or thinning or that barrier isn't as strong let's say anymore there's right there might be more likelihood of sensitivity or even um inflammation or an infection but again I mean we're talking about sexual health dryness lubrication so not everyone might experience this but if this is maybe one of the more common symptoms of um these um hormonal changes um that's a real it seems like something that might be really related to how you feel about having physical contact, having sex. If you had sex and it was uncomfortable and maybe you weren't really aware, but likeh it was uncomfortable. It makes you not want to have sex again. So being able and if every time now it like just things aren't working the way they did before. It makes self-doubt happen. It makes you wonder like is something wrong? Am I not as aroused? Like there's this whole cascade of things. It would be easier almost if your brain automatically went to oh I'm having permenopausal symptoms and my vagina is changing. >> Or if your vagina had a brain. >> Yes. And it could tell you. It could give you the answer, but that's not what our brains do. So, a person might have had a very normal for them sex life, arousal, um, lubrication, sexual experience that might have been amazing. All of a sudden, it doesn't feel as good. It's even uncomfortable. Something feels different. They don't even want to now. And then the cascade of things our brain will do will make it negative. Maybe it's my partner. Maybe it's me. They don't feel good about their body. My partner noticed that I'm not getting as as lubricated as I usually did. Does they think I'm not into them? Like all there's is complex. >> It's complex. There's a lot of factors and and there is the factor that testosterone levels drop. And so that's another factor and and the fact that, you know, half of the testosterone is is actually made from the ovary. But there's still another organ system making testosterone because a lot of people, you know, think, oh, I don't want to have sex anymore because my testosterone levels are gone. That's not necessarily true. They definitely drop. But um you know we're and wanting sex is so multiffactorial. Some of which is biologic and can be like I don't want to have pain. Why would I want to have sex? I have pain. Or it could be that yeah the testosterone levels are lower and that's purely all that's really driving their the lack of wanting to have sex. >> But then we talked about this in the in the other episode is sort of talking about the fact that there's a lot of things going on in a person's life during this time. Um, so there's a lot of there could be menopause symptoms, but there could also just be lots of stressors. Um, more, you know, just having room and space for something like that. You're getting you're worried about getting a promotion at your job or you're worried about losing your job or you're worried about your child getting into college or moving away or your parents who are ill. That doesn't leave a lot of space for intimacy and even focusing on sex. It's like, I'm just trying to survive. This is a time in a lot of people's life where they are like trying to keep one nostril above the water to to doggy paddle because it's so much happening or maybe they're responsible for a lot and that does not always leave a lot of space even when your body is working exactly as you want it to for sex or sexual arousal or intimacy. Sometimes that's one of the things that sometimes can get deprioritized. And so then when you add together physiologic changes plus stressors of life and all of these other things, it can sort of be amplified. Yeah. And I I also just want to say like like people always assume that sex means penis vagina sex right and I think that that is another thing that doesn't that doesn't mean sex isn't always having a healthy sexual life or feeling like you are satisfied with that part of your life doesn't mean you have to have penis vagina sex >> or orgasm orgasm. It can just mean it can mean a lot of things. So, it just depends on what your your body, you and your partner or you yourself um define as feeling sat satisfied sexually and that really can mean lots of different things for people and or just not even necessarily prioritizing that. There are some people that like it's not a priority for me >> and that's not pathologic. No. Also, it changes over your lifetime. How you feel about that, what your priority on it, what you want from it um can change. um you're not the same you you're not the same as you were when you were 20 just like you're not the same when you were 30 in terms of lots of things in your life and so why would this aspect also stay the same that's a really common thing sometimes people will will say like but it didn't used to be like this when I was in my in my 20s or my 30s this is how I felt and uh we all sort of will compare different phases of our life and I agree like why would you your life is so different now why would you expect that to be exactly the same that doesn't mean you can't still feel fulfilled and satisfied, but maybe we change how we frame it and change what our expectations are and what's meaningful to you, that person at that time in your life. >> Yeah, I definitely think it's important is I think our society really kind of puts this what we see is like, oh, people are just spontaneously like wanting to have sex all the time and and that you must have an orgasm and it must mean penis or vagina sex. And I think that is where um that's a societal pressure. And I think that um people start to feel like there's something wrong with them when they don't have all those things or and they may not it may not be that distressing to them, but they feel that they should be >> having all those three things, you know. And um I think that one of the things I always tell people is look, if I lined up 10 of you, I think that personally I think that eight people would not be feeling like they want to just have spontaneous sex all the time. Most people are libido neutral. I love this term. I want you to tell me about this term. It's such a great term. >> So tell me more. Yeah. It's kind of like this, you know, you're walking around. It's not like Okay, I kind I'm going to just start with exercise for a second. Okay. So most people don't walk around being like I cannot wait to exercise. This is like I'm just so weighting to get my outfit. Like I got to go exercise, but they do it and then they look back and say, "Wow, like I really am so happy I exercised today. I need to do that more." They never regret exercising. Right. >> Usually you feel good. You're like, "Wow, I have some energy. I'm a little sore. I can feel my muscles. Those that was worth my time. >> Good. I feel much better about myself. I prioritize myself. I prioritize this." So similarly, libido is kind of similar like at this point you may not have this spontaneous desire to have sex, right? But the the even if the testosterone is lower or there's a lot of stressors going on if you give space and presence and you're in the moment and you know there's nothing wrong with the ability to orgasm first of all or to enjoy the the experience. So most people when they do have a sexual encounter don't look back and say, "God, why did I do that? That was just something I don't want to do ever again." and they're more like, "Oh my god, I feel so much closer to whatever it is that I would, you know, myself or to a partner or whatever. I feel good. I feel like I should do that. >> More relaxed. Look better." >> Yeah. I want to do that more. Right. So, it took some I think looking and thinking about it that way and that maybe there's an initiation or reciprocation that you might want to do and and it's an active effort. it's not pathologic and that you are just prioritizing it and you are making space for it and um you will feel better for it and so whatever that is doesn't have to be penis or sex but I think that's what I mean by libido neutral right and also right because I mean sometimes I think we default into this heteronormative not we the three of us but often society might default in this very heteronormative penis vagina framing of sex right and so right my vagina has to be so lubricated it has to be and by the way and how my vagina is is going to affect how my partner feels. >> Um, so I love libido neutral and then also I think it gives permission, right, and space to expand, right? I think kind of this definition and version of what sex, sexual health, intimacy can be. So what do you say to your patients too? Do you say all of this to them? How do they receive that? I do I I because I number one I want to understand. Okay, so there's certain factors we definitely want to address, right? Like if it's like look the main thing that's bothering me is pain, right? That no one should have pain, right? There are things that we can help with. There are actually things that work um and and they work very very well and there's almost no contraindications to most of every all of these things and we can get into that. >> So contraindications just for a listing. So like thing that would mean that it's dangerous for you to use it. So whether that's a medication hormonal or non hormonal we have we can give you a list of all those things physical therapies that sometimes need to be done. So generally those are safe things for most people to use. >> Yeah. And they work. They work. >> Um and so I I will start with sort of you know look we moisturize our face every single day. We that's an active effort that we do right. It doesn't just moisturize itself usually. Um so the estrogen used to do that for our vagina. And so now it's no longer kind of doing that. So we have to moisturize the vagina. And so that's an active effort but it will pay off in the sense that you will not have that discomfort. And then we have a discussion around lubrication and sort of the right kind of lubricants that we want to be thinking about to make things comfortable if there's going to be penetration. But yes, it's also just reframing, working on reframing like what does sex mean to you? What is it? What is it that you want? What is it? How much of a priority is it for you? Have you had that discussion with your partner? You know, because a lot of times they're like my partner just thinks it's something about them and it's like hard to get them to understand that it's there's a biological situ there's bi biology that's changing but there's also other factors and it's not about them. >> Yes. I think another really good question that we ask patients too and we talk about is about intimacy like even just stopping in this in this group we've done together with centering menopause we've had these group sessions with women 10 women going through these 10 visits to educate them and learn about menopause. One of the sessions we talk about sexual health, reproductive health dur your your sexual organs during this phase and um one of the exercises is just talking about like what what does it intimacy mean? Like just and have a conversation with the person next to you. What does that mean to you? Most people are blown away because they haven't really ever used words to describe it or really thought about what does that mean for me in my life or for my partner. Um, and some of the things that you know people say or reflect on, it's like being seen, feeling heard, having being listened to. It often has nothing to do with actual sexual type encounters or or touch that might lead to that, but that but intimacy. So, we're talking about um sex, but also the other piece is intimacy. And sometimes when people don't want to have sex, there's or whatever type of sex they had had in the past, there's often a piece about intimacy that is either lost or is changed. And so it's not just the focus on making this organ work the way it worked before, but how do you have space to reflect on that intimacy? How do you work on that with the partner, the person you want to be intimate with? How do you have tools to like change that, work on it, um, enhance it? and articulating a definition for yourself, right? And again, giving again that might change over time. I think you're right. I don't think um people take the time often. I mean, I think this is such an invitation to center yourself, center ourselves, ask us these questions, right? Center our relationship with our self, right? Right. And then and then you mentioned this as well when we were speaking before about you know partners if you have a partner or don't have a partner but how important bringing partners into this conversation and the communicating about it. Yeah. >> Right. Yeah. Because I think that you know I welcome that in the Yes. Because it's so important for them to understand it's not just like some biological change only and it's not about them. Yes. And and that it's it's much more complicated than that and they have a role in that. A huge role in that. Um, the other thing I really like that you brought up and you were kind of alluding to was just how you feel about yourself. Yeah. >> Right. Like that is so what does intimacy mean? What does sex mean to you? What is a priority? But like also how do you feel about yourself? Right. There's a lot of changes that are happening during this time. Um, there are a lot of things going on in a person's life during this time. But feeling sexy, right, is sort of starts with yourself also, right? So you're self complicated. That can be complicated, right? And so it can be what is it? Maybe it's self-care. Maybe it's um you know where you are with your your mental state, where you are with your stress, like but how you what are the things that make you feel good about yourself, right? And you're and there is some reality about look the body is changing. So how do we we need to talk about that, right? like a lot of it is um acceptance and also those those words are just about to come out of my mouth was like if you can't accept that there's changes happening in your body and you're fighting against that and you're a this and just from talking to patients for so many years if you're angry that like I have to now I have to put this medicine in my vagina to keep it working right and that's so much to do every day yet like you mentioned you might do so many other things to care for your other parts of your body or your kitchen or cook things or to care for your car but yet when it comes to your own body if you're just if you're focused on well I have to do these things to to care for if you can accept my body's evolving these are the things I have to do to maintain it if you care about those things that might not be the same for everyone >> and normalizing right and realize you know I have three daughters and all they do is skin care that takes forever doing my skinincare regimen so okay I'm doing my vaginal regimen but like let's just talk about it yeah let it be normal >> but also I think reframing right like what's feminine and then you know talking you know I think unfortunately there's this um but it's again accepting that this is kind of our you know our society is what's considered feminine, right? And the vagina looking or feeling a certain way. So, this is an opportunity to say, look, >> there's you can be sexual, you can have intimacy, you can uh be sexy, attractive. It doesn't have to conform to right this very rigid definition of what's feminine. Yes. Yeah. bodies at this stage of life may have had lots of years of doing all kinds of different activities, serving you in lots of different ways, may have produced offspring, may not have, may have um undergone, you know, surgeries, illnesses, like there's so many things that have happened to our bodies and especially that part of our body and being, you know, grateful that it >> Yeah, we are taking that with us. Like that is part of our little tree, right? our trunk that we are taking with us and we are still going to grow branches and leaves and buds and all these flowers and things and like it's just a change but it's it's not you we still need to be grateful for what all we had but then let's live in the present but then also think about how we want to live our future selves too right and so what are we doing today um to make ourselves feel >> happy like exercise this is investing Absolutely. I also I mean I'd like to think that if we can start with our own comfort, right, and conversations with ourselves, we can then encourage our friends, our partners if we have them, right? Our our offspring, your your offspring partners or Yeah. being in involved as well. I think there's a an activity that um >> we haven't even talked about sexual health sort of therapist and people might even help um a couple or a person really manage some of the things that come up for them around sex libido um but there's an activity that I had learned from um some sexual health therapists for a person and so around this not not wanting to have sex or feeling like they have less libido um the idea of reconditioning so many of our things around sex intimacy arousal are conditioned our brain, we are just one large conditioned response. >> Yeah. And so acknowledging that as we've mentioned earlier, your sleep, the stressors of life, your job, illnesses, family members are all conditioning sort of what's happening in your life, your relationship, how it's evolved. And so taking giving this tool to patients. So I'll tell them learned from these amazing physical these sexual therapists, let's just take sex or some kind of sexual activity off the table. It's totally not an option for some set amount of time. So like giving this to patients like I want you to go home and talk to to your partner about this. Like this is a way to say to start a conversation to say I want to enhance or have this be better or maybe how it was before but I want let's work on this together. So sex can't happen for some amount of time. Maybe that's a month, maybe that's two months. Here are the things that are on the table. We're allowed to hold hands. We're allowed to be naked together. We're allowed to kiss. We're allowed to snuggle. um we're allowed to talk. These are all these things, but it can't lead to sex. Like it's absolutely not an option. And just take some time to do those things and recondition because many people will describe the feeling of like uh if they even like maybe >> insta clench insta clench. They're like, I don't want you to get the wrong idea, right? I don't want to go down the penis vagina. That's that's everything that used to maybe just be a kiss on the forehead or a handholding might be a little retracted cuz you're like I don't want to give them rang idea. And so using this opportunity where it's not one of the factors at all to even just rebuild with that person's partner some intimacy and just reconditioning what those responses are so that holding hands could really just be I want to be close to you. I want to hold your hand and that might be enough like yeah then that's okay. and then you can readress in a month or two. And that's something that's free, maybe an easier way to start a conversation. Um, that couple could still do other things. That person could do other things on their own, but between us, this is this is what's on the table and okay, and reconditioning. >> I do think it brings up also like it by doing something like that, it also addresses like what is getting in the way. >> So, cuz I think that, you know, there's all these factors that can lead to dissatisfaction for someone or not leading to whatever they want, right? But sometimes doing the some these other things that don't involve, you know, just actual a sexual like actually having sex, but like are these other things that are maybe they didn't want to do because they thought it was going to go down that route, but it's still potentially addressing and helping them address in that relationship. You know, what are the things that are potentially barriers for myself, barriers for the relationship without having to worry about having penis? And maybe that same couple wouldn't have had sex anyway for a month or two, but now it's they've changed the conversation and and maybe they've been able to say, "I want this is something we work on this with me together." And that totally changes the dynamic too. I want to be able to have an experience with you and I let's let's do this together. That's different feeling from definitely >> just closing them out, >> right? And collectively identify the dread together if there is dread. Um, but I think what's also so reassuring is I think often when when things don't feel right and you don't see a pathway, right, or a plan, it feels even more stressful and overwhelming. So, even just knowing like there's tools, there are tools, >> there are therapists, there are things to work on, I mean, I think that's incredibly >> reassuring. I mean, it's an enlightening, but also a person can do it with a partner. Um, there's there are therapists that worked with couples. There are apps on your phone. There's a really great app that just is the closest thing to a sexual therapist in in an app that people can work on on their own accessible. Yeah. things. >> I would say one element that's definitely that that therapists work on a lot is this idea of mindfulness and being present in the moment um and sort of having space, right? And so this is something that >> it's it's a sexual therapist can do it, but honestly you don't need to go to a sexual therapist, right? So it's more like how it's all these things that also reduce stress and sort of how do we enjoy the present and so that is sometimes the problem that can be a lot of the problem because at this time people are so busy there's a lot going on to-do list while you're trying to have a sexual experience and then they're like I can't I can't reach orgasm I can't climax well if your brain is on this list like orgasm is not a thought it's not like that you don't get to it by necessarily having a concept in your mind and so if you're busy thinking about your to-do list that does not facilitate um sexual arousal or that satisfaction >> which underscores a point you make a lot about that we have to have a holistic approach to ourselves. We are not just one organ one body. >> Yeah. You know and that same person when they were 20 or 30 maybe had a different they didn't have as much on this to-do list but maybe in their 40s and their 50s their to-do list is really long. So how do you have some tools to turn your brain off be present be in these sensations be present >> practice it. You have to practice it. It's not like something that just comes naturally. Yes. Some people, most people, you actually have to practice it. And so that's part of what we do in these centering sessions is sort of practicing mind body >> practices to like be mindful, be in the moment. So whether that's and it's frustrating to patients when they reach this phase of life. So they're like, why do I have to work so hard for all this? I didn't have to work so hard. So it's so as we're g we're like there's all these things you can do. At the same time, it's like that's not fair. I don't want to have to do all those things. So I acknowledge that This all takes effort. >> But are you seeing with I mean are your patients um telling you that with this work you know comes some of these rewards? >> Yeah definitely. Um and I think look there are there are other options on the table right like if if that's that may not be enough. It depends how distressed they are right how much is it really affecting >> um their functionality and um there are medications we can use to help improve libido. Um not that many. There's nothing actually FDA approved for women, but we know there's no like correlary for Viagra for women. >> No. No. >> And why not? And if >> I wish he had some research dollars, it would probably cost a lot of money and Viagra would be almost free. That is just an aside. Yeah. >> So true. >> But you know, I think for most people when you have the conversation that first of all, normal understanding that they're not a pathology. This is not going to fix you >> and that there's nothing wrong with you necessarily. I think a lot of it is also just like having the conversation and really giving the space in the visit to really talk about libido and talk about the factors and what are all the things and giving them tools and then you can talk about other medications including testosterone >> but a lot of patients are like you know what I'm actually no I'm actually okay like I don't actually need testosterone right now I want to work on some of these other things can we talk about testosterone I have a lot of confusion I'd love to clear it up so what are people asking about testo testosterone. So, I think we talked about, you know, testosterone, you know, being produced, you know, um, a lot from from estrogen, but um, what are patients asking for? I mean, and again, we don't want any sort of medication or therapy, right, to be a magic bullet, but what is the role for testosterone or not? >> Yeah. So, well, I know that a lot of people are getting testosterone and it is very confusing what of the information that's out there, but I can tell you that there is no really good data for use on testosterone other than for people who have low libido that are very very distressed by it and enough that they want to use something in the studies that were on testosterone and libido um it does increase libido significantly over placebo so over basically in those studies so there is definitely some significant improvement in you know desire for sex >> if if a patient identifies like they selfidentify I am super distressed by this and we've looked at all the identifiers We want to look at all the other factors. If they're having pain, we want to address that. We want to talk about relationship factors, all the different other things that might be going on that could be um contributing to why they are not wanting to have. And let me clarify, that's not just because of a number, not because someone did a lab test, right? As your testosterone is this level, thus we are giving you this medication and then that's what increased your sex drive. That's not how these studies were done. And I want to be really clear because so many patients based on what you hear or what maybe a doctor had told them is about like let's check that level and then that level is why things are a certain way. People can have very low testosterone levels and have wonderful normal function and not have any deficits or feel distressed in any way and someone else might have a very normal testosterone level yet still have all these symptoms. >> Yeah, there we don't want to resort to labs to be using to be guiding. I >> think that's a key point. So when some when a patient comes and says I have low libido, we don't >> routinely check a testosterone level. >> The reason to check a testosterone level is if we're going to use testosterone because there are some thing there is no long-term safety data on use of testosterone in women for this purpose um more than like couple of years honestly. So for that reason we do and we do know that there's some risk with potentially liver changes and cholesterol and voice the voice changes can irreversibly lower. You can get yeah unwanted hair growth, unwanted hair loss. There's and they might be small >> but again there's your personal calculates shared decision making. So good information and then decision. Um are we talking oral testosterone meaning you take by mouth or cuz sometimes people are talking about creams. >> Yeah. So no this is so first of all there is no FDA approved version for women. Um the only FDA approved version for men is really like a gel form and so we're using oneth of the dose that a man uses. So now this is very it's very hard to do that cuz I can't even eyeball one of anything. >> It's like and we're asking patients to use that you have to eyeball take a PS size amount of a packet and use that daily skin. So it's very like it's upsetting right because like why don't they have something like this when we know it works for this purpose? There should be an FDA approved version for so that is why people resort to compounded medications cuz they're much easier to use. Um, but the problem with compounding is that we don't know, there's no regulation over the purity, potency, and the efficacy of the product. So, most likely they're safe, but we have to watch the levels of testosterone every 6 months um to really make sure that they're in the physiologic range. We're not looking for super physiologic ranges. And I will just say that even though we start someone on testosterone, it's not like a slam dunk that it's just going to fix everything. all these other factors need to be addressed still if there are if they are they exist and then secondly after about 6 months of using it I mean we really want to say like okay help if it's maybe don't keep don't take it right and we're not looking from zero to 100 in the libido like it's a small but significant increase in you're really centering the patient's experience right like their distress right their psyche in this decision cuz I do think sometimes patients come and they're like I done at all. Right? Again, I want to feel 30 again. I want to feel sexy. I want all these things quote fixed, right? And so, again, you know, we talked about a you're not broken. We do want to acknowledge if there is distress that might be impacting whatever your self-image, your identity, your confidence, maybe, you know, maybe your relationship and in in all of its shapes and forms. But I think this is important because I think sometimes patients feel like their providers are remiss if they're not giving them, for example, um some of these therapies. So it's help it's really helpful to hear you go through the thought process on your end as well when you're considering you know when to give these therapies but also when to reeval reevaluate them right and see if you still need them and the risks and benefits. Yeah. And I think that you know like we spent the first part of this discussion really talking about all of like reframing. Yes. Prioritize understanding what is it that they need and want what are the factors all of these things. That is the first really discussion point. Yes. And then it's like you know if that's enough we don't always talk about testosterone but a lot of people really want to talk about it. And so it is like well look we just have to give the information around it. Absolutely. And I would say that out of 10 people, it's really like one or two people that end up deciding that they want to try it. Um, and you know, a lot for a lot of them, it works really well. And so for others, no. And we just need a lot more science in this area, honestly, cuz it's it's really, you know, there's just not enough dollars or resources been put into the space. And I think that there's we need to have other options for people um that don't exist right now. There's no >> just men's sexuality matters, women's sexuality matters. Sorry, I can't hear you. Right. Please. Yes. Yes. >> And sex doesn't stop after like the transition to menopause. >> No. No. People can have really fulfilling, wonderful sex lives. Um, so it's just a matter of supporting their bodies, their life, reflecting, and being able to let them continue to optimize how they want that part of their life to be. >> I almost lost my mind yesterday. I was reading about um sexual health after, you know, later later in life. And um a very esteemed university that shall remain nameless. Speck East um said in like patient material said nature didn't intend women to have sex after menopause. >> Wow. >> Which really blew my mind. Also speaking of punch in the face. But um Right. It again it's sort of also we're getting away from sex only having a role for reproduction. >> For reproduction. >> Yes. It's the same intimacy. It's the same thing with like the societal worth >> on a person after their ovaries are not a capable of reproducing. >> It doesn't mean that the purpose for the person is now withering away, right? Like um there that is one organ that is one aspect of the full body. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. We're so much upsetting. >> Isn't it upsetting? I thought it was upsetting. I didn't want it anywhere. Um so and then just speaking of I I think going back to um because one of the first symptoms you mentioned was um a vaginal dryness right or sensitivity. Um you mentioned some of the lubrications. Do you mind just going into a little bit of the detail about kind of what kind of lubricants you know we we recommend. >> Yeah. Well I think for Okay. Okay. So, for lubricants, right, um we in general water-based lubricants don't work as well, okay, as sort of the that's kind of the main stay normally, uh when there is estrogen around, but um afterward, it's really oil based or silicone based lubricants. >> That means you have to read the label. >> Yeah. Yeah. You got to read the label. But I do have like this funny thing that I tell everybody and um I don't I think I've told you probably too probably but I tell people look you don't have to go pay for this really like you just can go you probably have coconut oil in the home. >> Yeah, I learned that from you. Yeah, I tell people too, but it's I learned it from >> so coconut oil make make coconut balls in the fridge, right? They can it congeals oil congeals in the fridge. Make coconut balls. Put a bunch of balls in a freezer bag and stick it in the freezer and then 10 minutes before you have any kind of penetration. Just put it in put a ball in the vagina. It melts right away. >> Smells nice and it works. Use a tiny melon ball. In case someone's not like nifty in the kitchen, you just a little tiny melon baller. You can use that or a little scoop. I can't wait to see these sold on Etsy. Coconut bowler coconut bowlers DIY. >> A whole what's in your freezer. Um >> yeah, coconut ale smells nice into the body. Totally safe. Free, not going to harm anything. Like even when patients have sometimes patients have actual skin conditions in their or vagina or medical conditions where lots of things can be irritating. Coconut oil is one of those things that it's like cure all probably not going to bother most people even when you have stuff happening in your body. >> Great advice. Get it at Sprouts, Whole Foods, wherever grocery store, organic coconut oil >> or whatever. Just anything pure. Yes. But works fine. You know, any kind of oil works really great. But there are sil if you use a condom you cannot use oil based because it does degrade the condom. So then you know silicone is really your way to go and there's plenty of silicone based lubricants. Now again that's just lubricants and these are non hormonal. >> These are non hormonal things that you can do as needed for lubrication with sex is the top the products we're talking about. >> Yes. And this is again anything penetrative. Yes. Right. >> Anything or even just to to have touch be with ease. Sometimes she just might use a lubricant. If there's any kind of touch on the outside or the inside of the vagina, these are things you can use in that moment, oil, something you buy, um a lubricant type product. >> Yes. But that's different from moisturization. So the moisturization piece is the part where we're like, okay, this is going to take some active effort of sort of ongoing maintenance therapy like you would your face, right? Or your body. >> Yes. Just like you put lotion on your body. So this is now we have non hormonal options and hormonal options. >> Okay. So the non hormonal options, the best are going to be if they have hyaluronic acid in it because it kind of really dermatologists use it all times. And most of our face moisturizers moisture holds like 100 times its weight as a molecule of water. Like it is it's magic with science and it works really really well. And so there are many or uh brands out there, but you basically they come in little inserts and you can put them in the vagina and two to three times a week. Works great and really no risk. So that's more of a regimen though something got to do. But remember we need both right like so you need the mo you need the moisturization >> and then that's the ongoing piece but then you need the lubrication as need moisturization helps that that skin of the vagina be a little bit more flexible a little bit more elastic and so that's important for sometimes just people's comfort during the day cuz totally separate from any kind of sexual intimacy a person might just be feeling uncomfortable like they're sitting and they're like I just noticing my vagina it feels they might describe as itchy they might describe it as just uncomfortable. And so something like this type of product makes it so that they're just comfortable all the time. They're not No one wants to notice their vagina in that way, right? It should not be top of mind throughout the day um because it's >> Yeah. And some people even feel it on the outside on the vulva area. And so you can use coconut oil um or any kind of emollient even just during the daytime to help again moisturize the the vulva area. >> Where does one get the vaginal moisturizers though? Yeah. >> Um a lot of them are online. Okay. Um I don't know if we want to drop brands here. >> Yeah, exactly. But they're just look for something with um hyaluronic acid in it. >> I don't think these are discussed a lot. Look at my blank face. Look at my blank face. I'm like >> if if one were to search on the internet and put in hyaluronic acid vaginal moisturizers. So many will come up and show you images of like here are brands that you can purchase. Here's places you can get them from. You don't have to walk into a store and awkwardly stand in an aisle. You can just have it come to your home and you can try some different products. >> Yeah. And there's a a wide range of costs. So >> should it doesn't have to cost that much and so people should try some different products and see >> this is great and again this is a regimen right the moisturizing regimen. >> The moisturizing regimen and you can do non hormonal or you could do hormonal. Okay. So hormonal option really the main stay is going to be estrogen. So again just replenishing back that estrogen that is bioidentical estrogen back into the vagina. And I will put a plug in for the bladder here too because you know it does the bladder also the bladder sits right on top of your vagina. So it's right it's very close vagina adjacent. >> Yes. Vagina adjacent. So anything you put in the vagina hormonally like that has a little bit of effect on the urethra the bladder that's sitting right there. And many eurog gynecologists will use it for the purpose of the bladder sometime >> because the bladder elasticity also it gets a little bit more rigid. there's less it's less um the the muscle is affected by the loss of estrogen. So sometimes people get more urge feeling like they have to go to the bathroom all the time or they have a little bit of incontinence um or they get recurrent UTI. And so um this really actually helps is giving vaginal estrogen. So vaginal estrogen for moisturization for the vagina but also to deliver to the bladder can really help. And that's again usually a two times a week regimen and that can come in many forms. So you can have a cream, you can have a tablet, there can be an insert. Um they're very the benefit of this is that there's very low to almost no absorption into the bloodstream. So it's very different from like systemic menopause hormone therapy. We're talk about for like hot flashes or for other symptom management. Totally different. So almost no contraindications to using this medicically complex people who have medical conditions that otherwise maybe they couldn't use hormone treatment for hot flashes, they can still usually use vaginal estrogen. So systemic we mean like oral or even a patchmic >> or oral or any sort of thing that we're using for systemic symptoms. Okay. Um this is even happening throughout your whole body. This we're using a tiny bit of estrogen that is formulated in a way that it doesn't get absorbed in your body. It's prescription. It's prescription and it's it's formulated in a base so that it stays local as opposed to if I were to prescribe a patch or some other type of gel that's a FDA approved product for estrogen on your body. It's formulated in a way that's meant to be absorbed right into your bloodstream so that you get a level in your body. And this vaginal product is formulated in a way that it stays in the vagina. And so if we when they did studies it checking blood levels in patients, it's minuscule. >> Yeah. like so much so that even most breast cancer patients can use it. >> An amazing option. >> It's an amazing option having this opportunity to describe cuz we describe this to our Yes. often they're like so it doesn't go it's not like my whole body this doesn't equal you know hormone treatment for my whole body. No. Well, there's two things on that. So number one, even people who use systemic hormone therapy mostly most of the time have to still do the vaginal estrogen to get the relief for the symptoms there because the delivery to that area it's it's it's harder through a systemic product like a gel or patch or a pill. And some people need more. Some people just by using the patch that they're using to treat their hot flashes, they notice, hey, my vagina feels more normal again and they're very happy. And others are frustrated because they're like, but I'm still having discomfort when I have intercourse. Like why isn't this working? Well, it is working maybe for your hot flashes, your sleep, but you may need a little bit additional extra. I want to put another plug in for an ongoing dialogue with your provider just because, you know, you might like I might come to see you and I have this amazing first visit and we start, you know, some new therapies, some new treatments, some new behavioral therapy, >> but it just it's so important, right? We see how it goes, come back, talk about it, right? The symptom might have changed, maybe I need to go up on, you know, a dosage, maybe I need to take something away. So I just I really want our listeners to hear that it's the dialogue and the constant sort of feedback, the shared decision-m that's I think really instrumental to if you have symptoms, right, as helping control them and helping us just feel better. >> Absolutely. There is some role for also androgens or things like testosterone or DHEA down in the vaginal area. Okay. There are receptors down there that very much are are helping not only with moisturization but really for sexual satisfaction and sort of um there's there's androgen receptors and so there is some role and some evidence around using testosterone down there specifically but also a product that actually is is vaginal DHEA not oral totally different but vaginal DHEA which converts to testosterone down there but also to estrogen. And so it kind of does two things in one. It's hard to get coverage here in America right now for this product, but it's getting better. >> Something to look forward to. Yes, more. We need more body. Our bodies are so um are so so remarkable. Okay, it's time for asking for our friend >> again. Let's see what questions Let's see what questions have been prepared for me. >> Um okay, this is this, you know, this is kind of a little bit of a reprisal, which is how can I talk to my partner, if I have one, about the changes I'm going through without making them feel shut out? >> Answer. Well, yeah. I I think even just being willing to talk about it is a way to make them not feel shut out. They in in or any relationship generally people cannot read your mind. And so even though a person might be having an inner dialogue of maybe it's about how they're feeling about their own body, all their partner can sense is that I feel you pulling away or you seem not interested or perhaps there's some other things coming up. So just having the willingness to talk about it and talk about maybe what you are feeling or experiencing and maybe they have no idea what's happening in your body. They don't know what you are managing and what feelings you're suppressing and rage that you might be trying to soften. So having the dialogue and letting them know what's happening for you so that you can then work together on how you want to optimize and maybe work together on a solution. >> Absolutely. And I think that it's the communication that just starting that is is huge and then bringing them in for also to a visit uh when we're going to be discussing it. I think those two things are like a great start. >> It's vulnerability. Being vulnerable enough and hopefully in this relationship you might both be willing to be vulnerable about how you feel, how it makes you feel, how you can be better partners for each other. I was going to say I like to think that and again not that all the emotional labor should be ours but I like to think that if you are open and communicative that maybe it gives permission to acknowledge how complex again if you have a partner that what they're going through >> right and and kind of start that conversation. >> Um is it true that I can hold off menopause if I have more organisms? Does enjoying sex make you live longer? >> Orgasms. >> What did I say? Sorry. Organisms in your body and in your body. Sorry. I mean, I was hoping I could have more orgasms. >> Um, if I have more orgasms, can I hold off menopause? >> It's okay for you to debunk. >> No, if that's the case. I mean, one should have as many orgasms as they want. >> Yeah. I also feel free to not have them or not. Um, but it's not going to No. No. It's a biological process that's happening. And um you know when you're in menopause, it's not like there's some wild fluctuations happening, right? It's just it's it's just a new norm, a stability. It's stable, not imbalanced, >> and it doesn't affect your longevity. >> No. Well, so let that's a deeper that's a deeper conversation. >> Yeah. So we can talk about we're going to talk about menopause. We will talk about bone health, cardiovascular health. But the orgasms alone, >> right, without organisms are not going to make you live longer. No. >> Okay. No. >> Um I just thought I'd ask um is it is it true um in that women in their 50s hit their sexual peak? This is sort of an interesting question I think just about identity and sort of celebration. But here's what your thoughts are. >> I think a lot of people do talk about that and it's it may be related to this liberation that like a place of a phase of acceptance that people accept their body. They accept where they are. they accept so many things about life that they it liberates them in a way that they can ask for what they want. Um do things in a way that feel right for them as opposed to this is just what I thought I should do or how I thought it should look and that changes someone's experience. >> Yeah. They're not I think at this stage, you know, people aren't trying to please people anymore, right? It's like they've sort of they're at this point where they've kind of they know who they are. They know how they got there. They're this is a new journey. This is a place where they get to do things for themselves. is they they're not trying to prove to anybody anymore. Most, you know, and I think that's liberating. I think that's also like exciting. Yes. And I think that does probably um kind of percolate to sexual health and sort of how that can be, right? Is that look, I have all I'm so much more free of all these other things. I feel I know who I am. I feel grounded and um I get to focus on me and I get to enjoy what I want >> and not have to think about proving myself. >> Such a more expansive view of ourselves. I love this time. Isn't everyone else jealous? Um, okay. Before we go, just a takeaway from from both of you if you don't mind, just for our listeners. I know we again, we've talked about so much. It's so illuminating and reassuring. Any just kind of a quick takeaway? >> I would recommend or think about, you know, just taking a moment to reflect. What does intimacy mean for you? Just, you don't have to say it out loud. You don't have to tell anyone, but just maybe think about for yourself, uh, what does that mean and what does it look like? and give some opportunities for it to change and to be flexible and evolve. >> Yeah, >> I totally echo that and I think it um you know it really starts with you, right? And so how you feel about you and how you feel about um yeah, just your your relationship and your um your health and where you are and and of your body. And so I think it's just taking a moment to really kind of accept yourself and sort of um think about what you want. >> Um I love it. I can't thank the two of you enough. I also just want to acknowledge the menopause marathon that we just ran together. Um I our our team, we're just so infinitely grateful to you cuz it's really it's truly it's no small thing to share your time, your generosity, your wisdom, and really your person with all of us. It just makes all the difference. Um I do also want to thank our listeners for joining us for this um vital series. So I think from all of us, keep learning, keep talking and keep owning and enjoying your evolution. Thanks you guys. >> Thank you for letting us. >> Yeah.