 jayel, Hi, everyone. Welcome back to UCLA Health's Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. Today, we're diving into a topic that has come up again and again on this show, shared decision-making. And it might sound like another piece of medical jargon, but it's actually one of the most transformative ideas in modern healthcare. And if our podcast has one goal, to demystify medicine, make it sense for real people, then this conversation is at the heart of it because shared decision-making is about exactly that, helping doctors and patients make medical decisions together. Here's basically how it works. Patients reflect on their personal goals, lifestyle preferences, and they share that information with their physicians or their providers. The physicians, in turn, share potential treatment options based on their medical expertise and experience. And then taking both sets of information into account, the patient and the doc determine which of the paths forward is likely going to result in that best outcome. And it sounds intuitive. It's like something that should be happening all along. But actually, in medicine, this type of joint decision-making is relatively new. And so today, we're going to unpack how and why shared decision-making came to be, what it looks like in practice, and how it's changing the culture of care for everyone involved. Joining me today are two experts, Dr. Chris Seigel, Professor and Vice Chair of Urology at UCLA Health School of Medicine, and Lori Smith, who's worked in the private sector to bring these really amazing and valuable decision-making tools to market. Chris, welcome back for your second appearance on the podcast. And for anyone who hasn't had a chance to listen to Chris and our in-depth conversation about men's health, be sure and tune into Health Below the Belt, a guide for every man. Lori, so good to see you. Welcome. And I'm really just glad you're here. Let's jump in. Great. Okay. So you both heard my very quick take on what shared decision-making means. But I'm going to ask you both, how do you define it? And Chris, maybe I'll just start with you. Sure. Well, there's literally hundreds of definitions out there. The National Quality Forum, I was part of that effort to sort of have this consensus definition. And really, what it is, is a process of communication where clinicians and patients come together, use evidence to make optimal medical decisions for patients that aligns with their goals and preferences. So that's really the standard way to look at it. It's a process of communication. I like the word process a lot, right? It's not static. It's like this dialogue. What about you, Lori? I think of it as really a patient and their care team bringing their unique sets of knowledge together to make a better decision. And that's a decision that the patient feels comfortable with and can stick to, which means they're likely to have better outcomes. And I'm guessing, too, if they are more likely to stick to it, there's better quality to that decision, right? And less regrets than kind of going forward. That's correct. As you're saying that was making me think that. Yeah, there's really high-level evidence, like randomized evidence. When you use this process, decision quality outcomes are higher. Patients are more satisfied. They're more knowledgeable. They're more likely to stick to their decision. And their decisions tend to be aligned with their goals more. Right. And again, I really like the word process because it makes this seem like we're allowed to change our minds. We're allowed to continue to have discussion. And I really want to focus on that word unique, too, as we go forward to this personal aspect to these decisions. And when we say patients bring their goals or their preferences to the table or to the conversation, what kind of things are we really talking about? Well, I can take that. Sure, yeah. Basically, the goals you have in any medical decision relate to the possible outcomes and side effects of that decision. And typically, they're in the light of what your life goals are. So, for example, if you are the family's sole breadwinner and you have decisions to make about your health and one decision is it's a one-day treatment and maybe there's a little bit higher risk versus a six-month treatment of lower risk, you might say, I can't be out of work that long. So, it's really aligned with where your goals are and what's on offer in terms of treatments. And so much context. Right. Right. Any examples you can think of of just sort of what people bring? I mean, I think the most relatable set of examples is anytime you're thinking through choosing a medication, right? There's lots of trade-offs with medications, many choices. And so, typically, you might have a choice of five different things. Some might perhaps have evidence of a chance of weight gain or causing you to lose sleep or they might be very expensive. Those sorts of things, different people are going to have different reactions to. So, I think that's sort of the simplest one that my mind goes to for every person. Right. Simplest, but so common. Right. I have to say, I mean, just at the start of this, these types of personal value-based questions, I don't think are what people typically think of, like even when they're meeting with someone like you, Chris, as a surgeon. I'd love to ask you both, you know, how did you first get interested in shared decision-making? Tell me, Lori. Well, this is the origin story. Well, the origin story relates to Chris and to UCLA. I was working here at UCLA in the Institute for Innovation, which was really focused on either partnering with external companies to bring innovative practices into UCLA or scaling internal innovations to improve things at UCLA Health. And I worked with the urology department on a study of the patient experience in benign prostate hyperplasia, BPH for the acronym. It means like when your prostate gets big. That's correct. And you can't fully empty your bladder. It's typically the symptom. So, we mapped the entire patient experience from your first consult all the way through receiving and then recovering from treatment. And what we found is, you know, you can map it in a series of 20 or 30 steps. And then you can map it not just linearly, but negatively and positively. And in terms of, you know, how negative or positive is that node of experience. And what we found was that the most negative points in the experience related to making the decision. And then your stress leading up to getting treatment because you're not confident about the decision. And it just so happened that around the time we did that, around the time that we did that project, Chris was just, I guess, coming out of stealth mode with, uh, very mysterious, uh, with something that he'd been testing in his clinic around shared decision making. And so, um, we found that we could deploy that as, you know, something to address the patient experience around decision making across a bunch of different conditions. Do you think it's interesting that this came out of like an innovation context? Yes. And I want to like get into that after Chris, you kind of tell us your origin story, because again, it kind of something that seems sort of intuitive, like it should be there all along. It's like, let's brainstorm and think about like, what's really great for patients. Oh, that we collaborate with them and, and, and we, and we communicate and it's revolutionary, but it is, it is. And you know, it's really wild because I think, you know, not to speak for you, but one of the things I remember about that whole experience was, you know, how confronting and scary the idea of having to have a catheter was. Yes. And, uh, Chris and his colleagues, you know, urologists are some of the most fun people to partner with and the most empathetic, um, uh, specialists. And they all said, well, gosh, really a catheter is scary. Well, that's like brushing your teeth. So it was sort of this aha moment where there's, you know, you think you understand, but you really don't have any idea unless you ask. Absolutely. Like getting a catheter, it feels like going to space for, right. You know, for a lot of people and for you, it is like brushing teeth. That's right. But when did this start for you, this interest? You know, I think it's a couple of origins. I mean, certainly in residency, I saw, um, one of the benefits of residency, you see many different, different faculty do, um, their take on how to treat a disease. Right. And I began to see, especially in prostate cancer, how many different approaches there were to the same type of patient. And I was wondering why that was like, why does everyone have a different slightly view of how they're going to treat this person? And I got interested in health services research. It was almost from a systems point of view. Like I began to read about the literature around how, you know, depending on where you live in this country, what county you live in, um, you're more likely to get one type of surgery or another. It's true for heart disease. It's true for urology conditions. And, you know, it's really the doctor you see that is determining the treatment you get. And that's called practice pattern variation. And so, um, what we also at the same time learned was there's a lot of inappropriate care happening to people. Um, and so I began to think, how can we address some of that? And the, um, the, the part that was never really brought into this was the patient. Yes. And, and, you know, as we have, you know, there's, there's the other element is socially, I think there's much more democratization of information at the same time. This is in the nineties patient, the internet came online, basically they began to read about their conditions and also feeling more empowered that there was, they had some knowledge, right. And, um, so you can leverage their, uh, burgeoning ability to be participants, right. They aren't as afraid to have that discussion. They have the knowledge, um, but they have their values and that's what really drives that appropriate care. Um, so it became like a, a way in to fix some problems in our healthcare system and improve the quality of care. And I mean, and also the clinical medicine has changed. We have a plethora of treatments for any one condition. Right. And, um, you know, at this point, you know, even if you're, you've got a knee pain, you've got heart disease, there's like many, many treatments that all have trade-offs. Right. And it's really exciting that there's so many, but as a patient, it's really overwhelming. That's right. Information overload. Right. So, you know, the doctor's role has shifted considerably. So when you were a resident, you, it's interesting, right? Cause when you're a resident, you're in training and so you're noticing all of these variations in approach, you know, right. But probably in the hospital where you trained and then also nationally. So you noticed that from a trainee perspective, did you also ever notice a patient who was kind of struggling with the decision-making all the time? You saw that all the time too. All the time. Especially in cancer, especially prostate cancer care is emblematic because there's so many, I mean, we were learning about the different ways to treat that, like active surveillance is becoming a thing. So yes, patients really struggled because they're not, they weren't familiar with cancer care and decision-making that a little bit of knowledge and they didn't understand their role in it. Yeah. You know, it takes a lot of empathy though, to kind of even notice that you were noticing that, that tension because it's not just what's happening clinically. Right. But it's like what you're noticing what patients are feeling inside of a decision. And again, it's not just a moment usually. Um, and again, you know, going back to innovation, we were, we're, we're talk so much about shared decision, um, being a major advancement in healthcare, which I believe it is. And especially culturally. Um, it might be helpful though, just to kind of fully understand why it's such a big change and why we're still kind of adopting it, you know, both locally and nationwide. Um, can we rewind a little bit? I mean, kind of a little bit, um, what do you think clinical medicine looked like before shared decision-making took hold? Yeah. This is a, I think a good one for you. Yeah. The history of decision-making. I'm also older than you, right? Yeah. So, sure. So since he's in his dotage and all, like, well, yes, exactly. Right. Yeah. Well, I'd say, you know, it's, if you look at, you know, let's say the fifties. So there's a movie called cat, not when you were not alive. Right. There's a, there's a, there's a movie called cat, not hot tin roof. You might've heard it. Yes, of course. From the fifties or like Elizabeth Taylor. Yeah. So in that movie, there's a character, big daddy who has cancer and the doctor says he sees, he's got this cancer. It's unethical to tell him. That's what he has in the movie. I remember seeing the movie thinking, wow, it's unethical to tell him. Wow. Even the big daddy, right? Even big daddy, big Southern grandpa. Wow. It was medically, it was actually considered ethical because there was nothing you could do for a lot of folks. There was no screening for lots of cancers and limited options. So it was considered as cruel as someone had cancer because they were just going to die. And we still see that sometimes today and patients come in from other countries where there's not as many resources and don't tell grandma she has cancer. That's right. Death sentence. And so I think part of it historically is, as we've been able to treat things more, there is need to have that discussion. And also there's been changes in the medical legal structure. So informed consent became a thing. Like you can't just, you have to tell people what you're going to do, what the risks are legally or you're liable, right? So for doctors, it became a thing about information. And then, you know, the, the, the, what happened, I think, was people began to talk about options, but the doctor still told them what to do. Mm-hmm. And are we talking about like, like, I mean, I think a lot of times we describe medicine as, or our shared decision-making being kind of the, I'm going to call it an antidote, but kind of being the the flip side of paternalistic medicine, right? So based on that, like, pater father, you know, like doctor knows best, right? Right. And so, right. So this is part of that kind of social, social change. Thank goodness. Exactly. Yeah. But it is interesting too, especially that you bring on, bring up like the cat on a hot tin roof, right? And like the big daddy. Cause right. I think like we, it happens often. Exactly. We see sort of people who are like, let's not give agency, right. Or autonomy to, to grandma or grandpa, they're old feeble, again, all based on, you know, assumptions and, and not according agencies. So, um, but the informed consent, again, these are things I thought always kind of existed, but when did that, that kind of the informed consent come up? Do you think that 60, 70, 70? Yeah. I think so too, which is fascinating. Yeah. Oh, it's, it is fascinating. I mean, we, doctors really had carte blanche and yeah, of course they were all well-intentioned. I mean, they were a medical culture where that was their role, but, uh, you know, I think there's just in general, the relationship of people to experts has changed and, um, information has changed. So physicians have evolved over time as well. Right. Why do you think the relationship has changed though to doctors? Well, I think access to information is so much greater for patients, right? Right. Um, people can go and find whatever answer they want, whether it's right or wrong. Right. Um, and so I, I, you know, I think that's part of it is, um, and, you know, um, physicians are changing and patients are changing at the same time. Even the demographics of physicians themselves. That's, that's correct. Training is changing a little bit. Yes. Um, you see programs like narrative medicine, Columbia and so forth that are really about drawing the, you know, drawing the story out of the patient. So I think those things are all good and, uh, and changing. Um, I think the other piece of it, of course, is, um, you know, for better or for worse, pharmaceutical advertising. So you're having people see things on TV or hearing them on the radio. Right. And going in and asking. Yes. Uh, about these things. You of course have chat GPT now where you can, or any other platform where you can ask your questions and something reasonably professional comes back again, whether it's right or wrong, but you, you know, there's a lot of information seeking already happening. And so in some respects patients are pushing, even if their physicians weren't changing, patients would be pushing their care teams in that direction. And I want to add one thing to this, though, is, I mean, shared decision making is not about the doctor saying, here's your options. What do you want to do? Right. I mean, patients do want an opinion from a doctor and they deserve one, but they are free to take that opinion or not make a decision. Right. I mean, you're the doctor. And even if a patient says I'm so overwhelmed right now, emotionally or information wise or whatever, I want the doctor to make the call. That's okay. Sure. But the doctor, you can still tell the doctor what your goals are. So that's the key thing for a patient who feels that way. If you don't feel comfortable making a big choice, you just tell the doctor, here's what I need in my life, X, Y, and Z. The doctor should be able to hear that and interpret the data in light of that and give you a recommendation. Right. And give a recommendation. Yes. Exactly. Yes. A key piece of it though, I think, is that patients may think the doctor knows what their goals and values are already. And in fact, what we've seen in the research is that if you ask a physician, if they haven't had a shared decision making conversation, right, take breast cancer, for instance, ask a physician, um, this patient a here, knowing her age and clinical milieu, what do you think she cares about most and her priorities are, and they'll give a list. And then you ask the patient and she gives a list and the mismatch is often pretty stark. I bet. Um, and so unless they're having a conversation around what is relevant and what is not and what is high priority and what is not that mismatch could persist throughout the counseling about what to do. Right. And I'm guessing not only have an effect on the outcome, right, but her feelings about that outcome that are going to last way longer than whether it was a surgery, right? Whether there was reconstruction, whether she decided to do chemo, right? I mean, just, that's decision regret. Right. Decision regret just sounds terrible. It is a terrible thing. And it's like, something like, like, it's a very high number in women after breast reconstruction, 12% in men after prostate cancer decision making. And so, you know, it's important to get to get them, uh, get that that patient aware of these things that could happen and they, they can deal with them better if they're expecting them. So what decreases, like what's, what would decrease decision regret? It really is a patient engagement, shared decision making in the decision. Right. And again, I want to say this too, is because Lori, as you're saying, you know, we're going to ask you what your preferences, values and goals are right now again, but I would think you want to keep on asking that right at repeated intervals, right? We have to give, I always bug Chris about this. I'm like, we have to sort of give people, not that he doesn't, but like when we, you know, for example, tabulate information and an electronic care record, I want to make sure that we're asking things repeatedly because we need to give people the grace to change and evolve and someone's decisions or how they feel about a surgery at 20 might be different than 40, 60, et cetera. Right. That's right. That's right. There are trade-offs to every decision. Right. And your feelings about those trade-offs are likely to change as your life situation changes. Yeah. And when you study patients and doctors having these discussions, there's scales you can use to measure shared decision making. Oh, okay. Yes. And like the doctor feels they've done their job, but really the score is low for shared decision making and that's because preferences weren't asked about. Right. And that's the biggest missing. The doctor's really doing informed consent and not doing that preference like discussion with that patient. Right. Right. Informed consent is more like what we would call a pro con exercise, right? Right. Well, here's the risk. Here's the benefits. Right. And you know, you're going to have this surgery. These are the risks. That's mainly what it is. Right. Like an informed consent, for example, before a colonoscopy, right? Yeah. Bleeding, infection. Right. It's legal. But you're having the colonoscopy. Right. Right. You've already made the decision. It's sort of like right before you have it. Yes. Right. Right. It's, again, I really remark on this paradigm shift because I think it sounds like in this era, and it's interesting because it's kind of reflected historically since we're talking about like the 60s, 70s, you know, where there's a lot of questioning, I think, of authority across the board, not to completely generalize about history. But now then we having doctors kind of being forced to kind of come down from their pedestals, you know, into a conversation. I mean, hopefully it's been positive for doctors, too. I think it has been. Right. I mean, also doctors, I mean, we're also overwhelmed with choices. Yes. Right. So it's like we're all suffering from the same cognitive overload to some degree. Exactly. And a structured process is helpful. I completely agree. And tools, which we'll get to. And, Laurie, you mentioned, you know, you know, information. And so, again, now now we're into the advent of the Internet, right, where access to information has exploded. And I think overall very positive. But, you know, a lot of people then suddenly have this like virtual degree courtesy of Google. And then that changes a little bit, the doctor-patient relationship. How is that featured into kind of the shared decision making conversations or any recommendations, you know, to bring that into our tools? What the patient learns online on their own? Yeah. Yeah. I think the best thing to do is really to take advantage of the patient's natural curiosity engagement and provide them an environment where it's curated and high value education. That's the best thing you can do for someone so they don't get overwhelmed. I agree. But I like that you're encouraging the curiosity because no one should be scolded. Like, of course, I'm thrilled that you're looking. Totally. And if anything, like, let's, I always say, like, let's Google together. Right. Right. And I mean, what we find is that, you know, when patients are educated before they see the doctor, it makes that visit shorter for the doctor. The doctor has a win for that. The patient's happier after they leave. That's a shorter visit and it's a higher value visit. Right. So everybody wins and it's worth it, I think, for the patient to have the opportunity to really get clear about options and context. But in a way that it's not like, um, pseudoscientific or things that are extraneous that sound relevant, which causes more anxiety. And what's that phrase that, you know, Dr. Google is an oncologist, you know? So, I mean, I'm sure you've seen a lot of that. So, you know, two weeks to your doctor and you're thinking you're, you're dying of something, which is, you're so relieved it's not a cancer. Right. You know? Right. I suppose your results with it are, highly attuned to who you are as a person. That's right. If you catastrophize, you will be looking for catastrophic. That's right. And CHAT-GBT will be like, oh my gosh, you're catastrophizing. It's so well articulated. Right. Lean in. Exactly. Sick of phanty being here. Now, um, you know, it is really interesting. Uh, it, and it's, it's great for, uh, physicians to really know the patient in front of them and, you know, what their level of curiosity and desire for agency and control and the decision is. That's sort of something that, that's measured in, in the academic research around shared decision making is this controlled preferences scale. Right. How much involvement does the patient want vis-a-vis their physician in the decision? Um, you know, for me personally, I've, uh, I've left visits at UCLA with a physician saying, I know you're going on PubMed. Let me tell you the search terms that you should be looking for. I love it though. Let me tell you, you know, what authors you're looking for. Go read these articles, come back to me and we'll discuss. I'm not your ordinary bear when it comes to, to that sort of thing. So I think we do need tools out there that sort of, I don't want to say constrain, but, uh, direct patients to what is most relevant. Right. As it relates to the research, the pros, cons, trade-offs around the different options. If there are options that aren't available to them, here's why. And then, uh, engages that patient in, you know, what are their goals and preferences and priorities and how does that relate to or match up with their options and tools that do that in advance of the visit or before a decision are really what you're looking to, um, trend toward. Right. In practice. I mean, that must just feel, and again, this shouldn't be revolutionary, but it, it does feel revolutionary, but it's such a powerful shift. I think for patients to realize that not only do they deserve just, you know, clinical care, but they're entitled to detailed communication and they're entitled to, um, making sure they understand. Right. And they're participating and they're contributing in this, in this care plan because it is them. It's patient centered. Right. It's the ultimate personalized medicine. Yeah. Because your values are just as important as your biomarkers. Right. Of course. I mean, and I, um, I mean a quick pivot and then we'll get back to patient centered, but I mean, it, it is related. Um, and the three of us have all talked about, um, you know, business and economics of healthcare. Um, I'm guessing this plays a little bit in a part and if it, in a constructive way, um, how so would you say in terms of the, the business? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think you talked about variations in care, right. Even that you were noticing as a resident. Right. And that might just look like a variations of just like clinical, you know, style, but I'm guessing actually that those have real repercussions for Right. So economics. So there's, there's different methods you can use to assess whether a treatment a person got was appropriate for them, uh, uh, net positive, let's say, and consistently, uh, there's overuse of a lot of treatments in this country, which sounds like, like a very bland academic topic, but we all pay a health insurance premiums. Yeah. And so we all talk about, right. And the cost of healthcare is, uh, quite substantial. Um, so how, so when we're paying for things that aren't helping people, that's an easy way to make our system more efficient and more affordable for patients and for everybody. So that's this kind of approach or decision making, it tends to make sure if you're getting a treatment, it's the right one for you. Uh, so that kind of wasting system goes away. Um, it's not like a top down thing saying, no one can get this form of radiation therapy or this pill. It isn't like a administrator saying, it's like the patient deciding on an informed basis. So in that sense, it's true, it's true consumerism. Right. Right. Uh, but we can all go to the grocery store and decide if you want to, you know, this kind of banana or this organic banana. But you know, when you're talking about healthcare, you need something as a patient in addition to the doctor to get you ready for that decision. So the, the goal here is to help the healthcare system, help the patients and help the doctors function better. I think it would help to be explicit, give some explicit examples. Great. Some of these. So for instance, um, when you're making a decision about whether to have surgery, um, and I'll, I'll, I'll pick on knee surgery, knee replacement surgery, although it's one of the most successful surgeries in the history of medicine. In many cases, people could get a lot of benefit from losing weight and complying with physical therapy and getting, you know, the muscles surrounding the knee and the tendons surrounding the knee stronger and more, uh, more fit. And you could maybe get 80% of the way there. Many times people don't realize that. And so they don't try that before they just go straight for surgery. And so, um, you know, asking someone is, uh, you know, is weight loss something you're willing to try? Have you tried it before? Has it worked for you? Has it not worked for you? Are you willing to, are you willing to try physical therapy or many of us have a hard time complying with that, right? To schedule it. Yes. Yeah, exactly. So, you know, seeing where people are in their journey already and where they're expecting to go with this and making sure that a big decision like a surgery aligns with that, um, so that they're not just jumping to something that's not going to meet their needs and ended up being very intensive and expensive. So that's one example. So I guess like carrying out this example, then just to get really practical. So if I have a patient, if I'm the patient and I'm, you know, need to, I'm getting told I need a knee replacement or I have terrible arthritis in my knee that could be right. Either go to PT or, um, who has this conversation with me? Like what's the tool? So you guys are so beautifully kind of scripting this, but do I have a script as a primary care doctor? If my patient comes to me, how are these tools employed? Sure. Yeah. That's a conversation that could take a very long time in clinic. And as a primary care physician, you're probably dealing with an average of eight to 12 other issues. That's right. Given what the visit is. And so, um, the best, the best way to do this is to really give the patient the time and space to learn about, uh, what the options are, what the pros and cons are, and then reflect on their goals and values and how they relate to the decision. And so, uh, what, I don't know if I can mention it, but so we, uh, our company, uh, that we have developed with underlying technology from Dr. Seigel here actually has an approach that engages patients in that educational process and in that self-reflection process. Using like digital software. Using software. Yes. It's an online, secure online experience. Right. So it really augments then the conversation. It's a compliment. It prepares them to make a decision and you can do it before the visit or you can do it after the visit and then just talk to your physician. And it's not replacing, it's augmenting these other conversations. That's correct. Also because I'm guessing, right? I, I mean, at least I'm not a surgeon, right? But I'm guessing that when people are coming and they're considering surgery, you know, it's really hard to remember what people are telling you and you're first just, you know, it can sound very overwhelming. Again, even just getting a catheter can sound overwhelming. So they might get some information, go home and then wanting to think about it. Exactly. Even engage in their own decision making. I don't think a lot of people do that formally. Yeah. Right. Kind of enough that formal sort of interrogation with yourself. Right. So I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. So, okay. I was just curious sort of what the kind of practical, how it plays out. That's how, that's typically how it plays out, right? Right. Is that you're, then you come back together and make a decision and the conversation has jumped forward 20, 30 minutes, maybe even longer. And you're feeling more confident as a patient that you know what you want and your physician feels more confident that you've really thought about it and, and you're coming at this in an educated way. Right. And at UCLA, the physician gets like a one page report of your values in this decision. Yes. Evidence based options. So they have a little diagnostic. Right. Of who you are in that visit. Right. It's like a vital sign, like to me, like what your values are, you know, your personal preferences again, and it can wax and wane and change, but it certainly is a snapshot of, in my opinion, a vital sign. Yeah. Yep. And the more you do this across the more decisions. Yes. The more you learn about your patient just intuitively. Right. So it's not just about surgeries. Sure. It could also be about your, your approach to your cardio metabolic health, for instance, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia. Um, are you willing to address this with diet? Have you already tried? Um, if you're going to go for medication, what have you tried? What do you want to pay as your copay? Sure. Those sorts of things. Oh, I bet even when people are deciding to have genetic testing and screening, I mean, that's probably a really big one. Yeah. Or hormone replacement. Hormone replacement. Yeah. Those sorts of things, you know, these are longer conversations where the patient should be really involved. There are medications and approaches that you're going to use probably for the rest of your life. Absolutely. Um, and they are squarely in the primary care office. Yeah. Yeah. Which is a short, busy visit. I don't know what you're talking about. There's, I mean, there's a variety of pre-visit shared decision-making approaches ranging from brochures to software basically. Right. So I think, um, it's the general class of things that we can do for patients. And this approach specifically also draws in the probabilities of things happening to you, personalizes it based on who you are, what your age is, your comorbidities. Yes. Um, and can you translate comorbidities for us all? So if you're a person with diabetes and high blood pressure, it's possible that your outcome on this medication might be, uh, you might have a higher risk of a complication, let's say. So it factors that in the analysis, which is it replicates the mental model of an expert essentially. Right. And it helps you to, because it isn't just like what your preferences are in terms of, I really don't want to have this rash and I really want to have a better blood control. It's basically the chance of those things happening. Right. Like I can deal with diarrhea, but I don't want to rash. Right. And you often like imagine you probably have this problem too. I was saying for a friend. Yeah. Sometimes like if you're in clinic and you mention a medication to somebody and you say, well, here's the side effects. And like you mentioned some of the more rare ones, but they're pretty bad. Right. And there's just, I don't want to have that problem. Fixating. Yeah. Forget it. Yeah. And, but then you realize it's a 1% chance, but there's a 90% chance it'll really be helpful. So the, the models that we use take into account the chances of things happening and it weighs how badly you hate that small thing, chance of things happening, but it gives you a rational. It's so helpful. I have to say though, it's so helpful for the providers as well. And I know you've, you've, you both have already, you know, said that, but there is, as you mentioned, there's so much information, even for providers, half the time I'm like, let's just learn together. I mean, I have nothing but, you know, humility, humility about it, but I really, it just keeps on just striking me that when we take our patients goals into considerations, remembering that they're the expert of themselves, right. And combining their expertise with your expertise. Right. And again, allowing that to, you know, marinate and grow. I mean, and again, then affect kind of even not just the decision for, let's say an episode of care, like a surgery, but then episodes of taking medications, episodes of if they're going to sign their advanced directive. Yeah. Right. Yep. Totally. I mean, and we're in a data rich environment. We're in a learning healthcare system. Yes. So we're all learning the doctors and the patients from each clinical encounter. That's the goal to a better job of the next patient based on what happened on this patient. And you know, there's an economist, Herb Simon won the Nobel prize. His, his, his, he had a theory about bounded rationality that basically when you have a decision where there's lots of choices, uh, and time constraints that essentially you quickly exceed the bounds of what your brain can process rationally. So software is a great way to augment the bounds of that. So we can be even more rational in a sea of information. Yeah. Fast and slow thinking. Yeah, that's right. Um, so, I mean, um, Lori, we were talking just about like, you know, I was, thank you for thinking, reminding me to ask you about examples. Oh, sure. You should be the podcast host. Um, but I guess I just remind everyone, there's several options, right? So we talked about that. There's brochures, there's pre-visit education, because again, this is all about also meeting patients where they are. I think it's a different conversation, but when we talk about health literacy, meaning how you, well, you can ingest and understand, um, information about, you know, health, there's also obviously people have different access to different media or not media. So I think, um, we talked about online videos that people can watch any other, um, kind of options besides, you know, to assess, um, kind of this decision making milieu besides brochures, surveys, online videos, um, that we use. Well, I mean, software and software that that's the spectrum of things. I think if there's a decision aids, I mean, you know, in the nineties, they would use CD-ROMs, but I think those were kind of long. So, um, and sometimes, sometimes there are patient navigators. So there's human beings that get hired by a system to help patients, nursing, you know, uh, phone calls, those kinds of things ahead of time. And we, UCLA, we have, we have the wiser care software and that's, that's actually already integrated into our electronic health records. So it's in my chart, which is our, which is our patient portal. That's right. And some people are getting it automatically depending on a condition that they might have or whether they have a care gap, which is just means that they're due for a screening, those sorts of things. So, um, we are sort of automatically delivered where it makes sense for the patient and then, um, more judiciously delivered if a conversation is coming up around a specific decision. That's great. And we have videos that are just, um, videos and links embedded in the software that people can self-serve if they want more information. Right. And then of course, we're working on delivering in other, you know, other modes of interaction, uh, for patients such as chat and voice. Yeah. Why not? Um, I'm always interested too, if, you know, through, let's say you do multiple modules or you have multiple decisions to, to make, you know, and let's say using the software, if at one point I, as a patient can gain insight or I, as a provider can gain insight about this particular person, how they make decisions, you know, and those, the best sort of ingredients that go into their decision-making that I, that we just kind of can remark over time. Yeah. Maybe that's too abstract, but I think it's interesting. Decision-making styles. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Like if we notice that, like, I always have a patient who like does really well with, you know, a certain amount of research, right? Like take Lori. I have my patient's Lori, you know what I mean? And I really noticed that. And again, some of it is just intuitive and observational. And so I know that Lori likes her PubMed articles, but again, that's just like my, my observation as opposed to, wow, I really noticed that you usually like to talk to this many people. And this is your family member who you'd like to consult with. I don't know, just to be even part of that. Yes. You gotta, you gotta, everyone has their own style. Yeah. And some people like, you know, they, the, their spouse is a very important component to that, what their spouse thinks. Some people, it could be a religious, you know, guide, priest or rabbi or whatever. Um, and for some people, uh, you know, it's funny, there's an emotional context of decision-making and there's a study, there's a certain part of your brain that when it's damaged, um, you know, you're kind of, uh, um, it's, it's emotional regulation part of your brain, but you also are unable to make decisions. Like if you had a lunch with someone like has this problem, they could look at a menu and be perseverating on the chicken salad or the hamburger, but they literally, if there's an, there's because there's an emotional feeling that's required for the, for the decision to feel good. And that's that system one, I think that we were talking like there's two ways to think about it. That's fascinating. Yeah. I think it's the anterior cingulate gyrus that gets damaged. Right. And, um, that makes me worry then if someone has made a decision in the past, right, that they don't feel good about, right. And have felt traumatic, then how is that then again, play into future decisions? Right. And that's important to unpack as a doctor. Right. Because I think we do, also that's the other thing we do see is people have had an experience with their, uh, family member that was very searing, right? They had a negative outcome from something and it, you know, that radiation thing was terrible. I'll never do that. And it may be unrelated to what they're facing, but the emotional context is super important. So you got to hear that, acknowledge it. Yeah. That's really bad. And let's talk about what's real for you. Yes. You know, and, and that is just, yeah, but you can't like say, don't, don't think about that cause it's always in your mind. Of course. You know? So the emotional context, very important. I think it's, it's different people need different things to come into place to get that feeling, but that feeling of, okay, it's the right thing to do. And when I tell patients always, there's a decision psychologist, Ellen Langer, who says, don't, we're about making the right decision. We're about making the decision, right. So the process that you've done everything possible, there's no way to know the future. You know, you may be one of that 1% of people has a complication, right? But you've done everything possible to think about it and make the best choice possible. Now, you don't know what's going to happen and you know, but you've done all of your work. Yeah. That's a very work. Yeah. You've done the work and that's a very generous, compassionate, um, remark. I, I think probably hard to implement for oneself. Yes. Um, if you, you know, unless you're a person that never second guesses yourself, but it's almost a gift to somebody though. Yep. Yeah. It's a good goal and a gift. You can, you can tell, you've seen a million people go through the same thing. I know. Right. So you can say you're doing a good job. Yeah. You've done your, you've, you've done your process. Yes. This is right. You know, and it, this regret thing, it's interesting for robotic surgery and cancer. So when the robot came out, there was a study that, that looked at decision regret after prostate cancer surgery, it was actually a little higher in patients having robotic surgery, although it was a miracle technology. And I'm pretty sure it was because patients' perceptions were, this is a side effect free approach to treating my cancer because it's sold that way. But it really, I mean, it's a, it is better in some ways, blood loss, incisional pain, those kinds of things. But some of the side effects still occur. And so when that happens and you weren't expecting it, that's when you feel like, oh my gosh, what did I do? So it's really preparing yourself mentally. I think having your doctor be your coach to say, you know, you are on the right track. Yes. Like that's, that's an important feeling to give them. That is a support you can give a patient about decision making. It's fascinating. Yeah. It really is. Do you think there's any challenges that come with shared decision making? Yeah. I mean, I think, well, certainly for the physician, this is what Lori was referring to. I think the, the, the time overwhelm can be a question because our business. I mean, spending the time with these, these conversations and questions. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The eight people that are in the, the eight topics that get over with the patient and like everyone requires it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think there's, uh, I think the, the time is the big challenge and that's what we're trying to address with the software. Um, you know, training is another piece of it and, you know, just sort of the natural inclination of, of, um, physician education to sort of tell rather than ask that is, uh, resolving. Right. Really over time as education. Yeah. I was hoping like this is something we're, you know, inculcating with our, at the med school levels, because I have to tell you, like, I mean, I was, I'm not that old. I mean, so when I was in medical school, what I graduated in 2004, I don't remember the words shared decision making coming out in any one of anyone's mouth. I'm not going to say that it was very humanist. We had a very humanist. And as you mentioned, the narrative medicine approach, but no one said those words, they weren't sort of codified as an approach, right. I would say a science, right. And then obviously then with all these accompanying tools, they were still in the academic realm, right? I would say at that time. Yeah. And now maybe we are not talking about it as shared decision making, which seems quite wonky. I don't know. Everyone has not everyone. Honestly, though, everyone has mentioned it that has come on unsolicited. It has come up in every conversation. Am I right? From, you know, from advanced care directives to transcranial magnetic stimulation. But what's happened is because in professional societies, so as doctors, all of us belong to a national society and those societies make guidelines. Yes. And those guidelines are all about shared decision making for like, you know, at the end of the day, for most of the conditions. So it filters down through the faculty that are teaching and our guidelines, this, at this end point of the guideline, it's a discussion with a patient. Yeah. So that's kind of like, I think it's filtering into medicine in that way with students, right, which is super healthy. So healthy. I think another piece of it too, is how we're measuring quality. Different, whether it's NCQA or whether it's HEDIS measures. Can you just break those down? So what's NCQA? National Coalition on Quality Assurance? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just organizations that monitor quality. I probably have gotten that wrong. Yes. It's okay. I never remember. Organizations that monitor quality. Right. Including CMS. Right. Medicare. Medicare and Medicaid. Yes. They are starting to bring these requirements in around shared decision, did shared decision making occur around certain decisions. Asking on surveys whether patients felt heard and understood in the visits. Paying for and giving quality credit for having someone do their advance directive and or having a discussion around it in the visits or as a telemedicine visit, for instance. So there's all of these different kind of structural, inside baseball incentives that are really letting people know, hey, this is important to do this with your patient and we're going to give you incentives and reasons to do it that go beyond it just being the right thing to do. Right. I like that. I like these incentives. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, I'm into those. I have a question for you. AI, friend or foe? Both. Frenemies? Do you want to start? And I'll... Yeah. I mean, I think the unwalled garden of AI can certainly be... It's very poetic, Chris. Yeah. Well, I'm a urologist. Have you met Chris, my urologist? I'm not really bored firing over here, but... The unwalled garden. Yes. It's definitely... It can be probably too much. Yeah. You know, it's... And also the ability to trust what you're reading. You've got to triangulate that. Yes. So even, you know, I have friends that do this all the time and I like to triangulate what they're telling me by doing my own research. So it's kind of like a little bit of make work. Right. I think what we're trying to do is create a bit of a more walled garden. Yes. Where it's a vertical into... And I think most chat LLMs, if you have a vertical into a topic, they're much less likely to hallucinate. Yes. And so that's kind of where I think the future is going to be with that. It's really curated, trained on specific types of information. You're going to get more accurate and naturally engaging discussions with the chat bot than you might with an unstructured approach. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, in terms of just the unstructured models that are out there now, the output is highly dependent on the prompt you put into it. Yeah. Just like any other task we might give it. And so it's highly suggestible. It's likely to hallucinate without clinical guardrails, like Chris is talking about. And so you really, if you want to be tapping those resources, you want to be tapping resources that are vetted and designed to support medicine and support specific areas within medicine. Yeah. And so that's sort of, that's what we're developing. And to be honest, Wiser Care's approach has always been based on that sort of intelligent agent approach. Right. Where we take what is relevant and apply it to an individual and we dispense with what is not relevant. Yes. And what you're going to get if you just go in and have a free for all with chat GPT on a decision is a lot of stuff that isn't relevant. Yeah. Right. And doctors have like open evidence as a similar Yes. Yeah. For doctors. Although I've heard that's very good. I've heard that it's a quite an improvement over some of the legacy. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. All right. Let's ask a little asking for a friend Oh yeah. Moments. Yeah. The first, our mom, our family banned my mom from WebMD. I'm like, does WebMD still exist? She looks everything up and always assumes the worst. Should we intervene? Intervene on her web access? Yeah. Right. Well, I think that what I would suggest is to direct her to like whatever the condition is, go to the national guidelines for that condition or the society that covers that topic, the American Cancer Society perhaps, or something the NIH like has that is basically very, you know, curated, um, and also encourage her to talk to her doctor. Yes. I think it's a nice distinction between this question reminds me of between like there's health curiosity and then there's health anxiety. Um, and sometimes unfortunately when we go down, all of us go down those rabbit holes, we just really lose track of good information. So I think it's, I think it's really the focus on the trusted, resource, but again, there's the trusted resource. It's a yes. And sure. Like go there. Sure. Go to the guidelines and have a conversation with your doctor. And at least again, start these conversations that are based around shared decision making. Because before you're, I'm guessing, making a decision together, first you're just thinking together, right? And you're talking together. Right. Exactly. And you know, reflect on the last time, if that was my mom, I'd say, you know, you went to the doctor after three weeks of perseverating about this horrible problem you think you have. Right. In five minutes you were relieved. Why repeat that? Right. Why? Yeah. For all of us. Right. Um, and actually it reminds me too, because we, we've been talking about the patient and obviously we're it's autonomy and patient of the individual, but I do like to remind people, I mean, cause a lot of, as we've said, people make decisions with their patient and with their friends, their family, or even, but bring them into, right. I'm guessing these software and these surveys, I mean, those can be very, very helpful too, like not just supportive. I mean, again, not to take away any agency from the person making the decision, but lots of times, you know, the community and the friendship and the partnership is really important. Yeah. It's a huge piece of it actually. And for some of, for some of our modules, we offer the opportunity to invite a friend or invite a loved one. Oh, you do? That's great. To see your answers. Yes. Reflect on your answers, ask their own questions. And in some cases, for instance, advanced directives, complete their own. So we try to have that network effect on the patient. I love that. It's important. And the physician. So for that specific scenario that you're mentioning, let's say that, uh, that a, an online tool isn't available and you're just dealing with an organic family situation. What I might tell my, my friend's mom at that time would be, why don't you reach out to your doctor and ask for some specific resources to read? Mm-hmm. Um, and then when you go in for your visit, have a prepared list of questions so that you can stay focused. Mm-hmm. I'm just going to say, call Lori. Yeah. Because it's really excellent advice. There's stuff on all the show notes. And I think, you know, I think to that question too, because this comes up is that sometimes then when people do finally get into see their provider is another question is, I get so nervous. I barely remember anything, you know, what's your advice? Uh, come in with a, yes, uh, come in with a list of prepared questions. Yes. Also, if you've already been doing research, you should be prepared to give the source of the research that you've been, that you've been doing, um, because your physician may ask, you know, like, oh, where did you read that? And, uh, if, if it's a, um, if it's a less than reliable source, you need to be ready to give that to your physician or if it's the Mayo Clinic website. Right. Right. You know, that really, um, affects the weight. Yeah. That, that we ought to put on. And helps the physician too, because, you know, we don't, we definitely do not know everything. But it sounds like homework is encouraged. Yes. Right. For sure. Yes. Focused homework. Yeah. Yeah. And then, you know, go in with your outline and your questions and definitely don't wait until the hand is on the doorknob and it's a by the way sort of situation. Um, I think it's always best to give a heads up to your physician if that's what you want to talk about it. And I've noticed UCLA has started asking what is the most important thing you want addressed in the visit. They often ask that in your pre-visit questionnaire. Yes. So give some thought to that. Sure. And be sure that you, um, if you have multiple issues, know that you might, you know, either need multiple visits or you might need some follow up by phone or, or my chart message. I think that's a really important point for both the providers and the patients, which is, it's not always about the time constraints. It's just that sometimes requires, we start talking about this and then we both are going to go think about it and we'll come back together. But it's the ongoing dialogue, you know? And I think about this, even when we prescribe a medication, this isn't over, like we prescribed it and then I want you to come back and we'll talk about it or I'm gonna expect an email from you. Let's continue that. Uh, you know, going back to even just, um, you know, AI, for example, sometimes I do notice that my patients are using, um, chat GBT or other, other forms of AI to at least just organize and their questions. Great. And I'm like, great, let's do it. I mean, I think it's, I think it's all interesting. And even my patients who have, you know, going to social media, great. I go, let's look at it together. Tell me why this interests you. Tell me why this, you know, fascinated you or worried you. And let's, but let's talk about it together. Right. Why did this sound right to you? Yes, exactly. Exactly. I'm not into scolding people or judging their material. Um, okay, here's one. Um, I'm about to have knee replacement, um, surgery and I haven't told my doctor that I live alone and I don't have anyone to help me with basic care transportation. And it's just, I'm embarrassed to bring it up. What should I do? Cause that's playing into the decision. Yeah. I think that's a critical thing that maybe the doctor assumes about you. And I, we have certainly had that problem or that a patient with that problem before, and it is so helpful for the doctor to understand your social situation. Yes. So helpful. You re I mean, the thing to do is to trust your doctor. It's not embarrassing. Um, you know, as a physician, like you're, uh, you're there to help the person and we have the full spectrum at UCLA and all people that are unhoused to people that are living in Palisades mansions. So we need to understand who you are so we can help you. And there's always ways we can help. Yes. We definitely have an effort, as you well know about like helping folks that need more help and community resources we can help them with because those things often determine how they do in terms of their care. So we, we are absolutely interested in hearing about that. Yeah. I can't tell you. I mean, we, you know, we talked about social drivers of health on this podcast. We had Nikki Miller and Jasper Kump on, and a lot of the conversation was acknowledging that these social factors, you know, transportation, you know, with whom you live with or don't live with. Um, I mean, that is as important, if not more important to how you're going to overall do then, you know, what anesthesia you get. Yeah. That's so, um, so tell us, but we, you know, we, we really want to know, but you can see how that's plays into decisions, right? Even decisions to consider the decision. That that's right. I mean, there are so many resources that you as UCLA health can connect people to, to help improve their situation ongoing, as well as with their particular decision or treatment that they need to have. Right. But they'll never know to connect you with it if you don't bring it up. And then of course, there's certain things that just aren't available if you don't have a ride home because they're not safe. Right. So exactly. For instance, when we, when our wiser care module takes people through, um, colorectal cancer screening, if it's appropriate for a patient to have either a colonoscopy or a fit test, uh, but they don't have a ride home, well then a fit test is really all they should be considering. Right. And, you know, that's almost just as good. It needs to be done more frequently, but that's a great option too. Right. I'm just going to, and just for the audience, the colonoscopy as we we've done colon cancer a little bit, that's the, you go in, you get a little anesthesia, the colon goes up, takes a little look around. Um, but it does, it does require that you have a ride home and it can't usually be, um, Uber. Yeah. Um, versus the fit test, which is when you just apply some stool to a card and mail it in. So very different, right? Very different approaches, approaches, not just clinically, but what your day is going to look like and how you need to arrange your day and organize it to either undergo the colonoscopy or do something at home in your bathroom. That's right. Either way you're getting screened. That's the most important. Yes. Right. What's the, what's the best way for you to do it? That's exactly right. For you to do it. Yeah. Um, is there anything I didn't ask you about shared decision-making that you wanted to tell our audience? Um, I would just say that, um, you know, patients definitely have an increasing role to play. Mm-hmm. Um, patients should definitely think when they go to the doctor's office, um, their values are super important to hear about. The doctor needs to know them. Mm-hmm. Um, and, uh, you know, feel that, uh, you're an active participant in your care. Doctor can tell you what to do after he or she hears what you have to say. So don't, don't feel intimidated about that. That's what doctors kind of expect. Yeah. At this point. So, um, definitely feel that in your, uh, your, your belly when you go in the doctor's office. Yeah. I love that. Thank you for shouting that from the rooftops or from inside your unwalled garden. Yeah. Yeah. I think, um, as important as educating yourself on, on your condition and your different options, taking the time to think through what's important to you and what your priorities are and lead with that. Because many times there's going to be a bunch of different options and the thing that is the best choice for you is the thing that aligns with your goals and priorities. And if your physician doesn't know what those are, uh, and you haven't told them, then you could end up a little bit lost. So that's what I'd say. There's always choices. Yep. There's always choices. Even, even if you want to defer a decision, that's a choice you can make. That's exactly right. Even if you don't want to make that particular decision. Yeah. But it's up to you. That's a big piece of it too. Yeah. Take your time. I need like a shared decision, um, like module, wiser care module for like when I take my car in. That can be different. I'm sorry. I mean, I mean, I have no, I'm like, sure. Do whatever you want to me. Of course. Do whatever you want to the car. Yeah. My goal is to drive to work, replace the framistat if you want to. Exactly. I'm like, of course I need all four tires fixed. I mean, you know what I'm saying though? And then I have decision regret and wallet regret. That's right. So I just want to say you guys are doing great work. Thank you. Automotive is next. I just want to say, especially what I really love about the conversation is that it just really reminds me as always that medicine works best when it's a dialogue and an ongoing dialogue. And I've certainly felt this and I know that is for you as a physician and you as an advocate and business woman for this work is that, um, when doctors and providers really listen to their patients and vice versa to each other, better care naturally follows. And, um, I'd like that we're getting away from it's not just like who knows the most. It's like, how can we know together? Mm-hmm . Uh, I thank you both so much for coming on the pod. Your work honestly gives me so much hope that this approach of sharing and alignment, partnership, collaboration will become increasingly common. And I know it is because people are talking about it, but I think the more that it just gets into our lexicon, then hopefully even for our listeners, that it's an expectation. Yep. Yeah. And as a leader at UCLA Health, thank you for making this discussion happen. That's great. Are you kidding? Thank you so much. Um, and, uh, we have links to all of our evidence-based resources, show notes are in the episode. Um, and to our audience, I just want to remind you, I hope that you're kind of walking away, feeling less intimidated about sharing your personal goals with your doctor. You are honestly who we care about, um, most. And I hope you feel really empowered to get questions, um, to ask questions and get answers. I'm Dr. E. Glazier. Thanks for joining us on Medically Speaking. And until next time, stay curious and healthy. Thank you, Chris. And thank you, Lori. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah.