 and alfalfa. Hi, everyone, and welcome back to UCLA Health, medically speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Many of us associate organ donation with loss, one life in exchange for another to continue. But there are also many stories that are about sharing life, when a healthy person chooses to donate an organ to someone in urgent need. Today's story is about exactly that, living kidney donation and the extraordinary intersection where science, trust, and humanity meet. Joining me today are three people who have lived and are living this story from three very different places. First, we have Dr. Anjay Rastogi, a nephrologist here at UCLA Health, and the medical director of the core kidney program, which is a comprehensive approach to kidney care, spanning prevention, treatment, and transplant. We're also joined by Nanette Zumwalt, who has lived with polycystic kidney disease for years before she received a life-changing kidney transplant. She's a passionate advocate for kidney health, bringing both her professional expertise and personal experience to advancing compassionate community-based care, as she's also president and CEO of Hired Power, a leading concierge behavioral health and recovery support organization. And finally, Phillip Palmer, longtime news anchor with ABC7 Los Angeles, community leader and living kidney donor, who in 2007 donated a kidney to his friend Dale. And Phillip's experience as a donor has inspired him to support others and raise awareness about kidney disease, connecting deeply with the work of Dr. Rastogi. Thank you all for being here. I'm deeply honored to have this conversation with you. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for having us. It's our honor, congratulations. Thank you so much. Anjay, let's just start with some basics. And for those who haven't listened to it already, Anjay did join this podcast before talking about the basics of the kidneys. But why don't we start out this conversation? Remind us what the kidneys are, what they do. So we have two kidneys and they're in the back, right below your ribs. And I do want to stress we have two of them. So we'll come back with that. Yes. Next question. Because at least one of the people here has this one kidney. So we'll talk. It's a complex organ that, among other things, purifies blood. And it comes out as urine, those waste products. But it does a lot more than that. It's what we call endocrine organ. It's involved in hemoglobin, the red blood cell production, vitamin D activation, blood pressure regulation, and a lot of other metabolic factors. So it's a very important vital and vital meaning that you can't live without. But as you sort of hinted, maybe we don't need to live with two. And I think that surprises a lot of people that you can live with just one kidney and live well. I guess just backing up, why do we even have two kidneys to start with? So that's a nature's question in my opinion. But in our system, as you know, in physiology, we have a lot of redundancy. We have extra things that are backups. So I do want to say that you can live with one organ if you're healthy. That's a key thing. If you're unhealthy, then you really need both of your organs. So helpful. People who don't know a lot about kidney disease, why don't we just start with why kidney failure, or if the kidneys aren't working well, why is that so life-threatening and why do we have to do something about that? So I think I'm glad you asked that because, first of all, kidney disease in majority of patients is asymptomatic. Meaning no symptoms. No symptoms. They don't feel anything. Actually, it's maladaptive. They feel things, but it's so slowly progressive that your body maladjusts to it. But the other important things are one in three are at risk. And I've seen that said that before, one in three adults are at risk. And we can see a number of people in this room, right? One in seven have kidney disease, but only one in 10 know it. So nine out of 10 people who have kidney disease do not know they have kidney disease. And this is even people who have advanced kidney disease. These are people who are going on dialysis, and they walk into my room and say, well, why are you telling me dialysis? I feel just fine. So testing, testing, testing. I think that's really the key thing. We talked about that a lot too, which was the screening. So in the absence of having kind of overt or really blatant symptoms, we talked about coming to Miami Primary Care Provider for you, Nanette and Phillip. It was about getting screening tests, having a urine analysis done every year, and really kind of even just the awareness about kidney disease in the first place. But so just knowing this though that you can donate a kidney if you're healthy, that your reality alone makes living donation possible. I think that there's a lot of confusion, and I'm so glad that the three of you are here today. And I do want to just sort of ask very briefly before we kind of start and hear the stories from both of you, what do you want people to understand quickly with what it's like to live with one kidney and why that's possible? Yeah. So, well, you know, there are patients who have just one kidney. They don't know that. To start with. Yes. But if you're healthy, you know, and we'll be going over some of those factors as well, then you can live a healthy life with one kidney. The important thing is that you keep maintaining that healthy lifestyle post donation as well. And I think that's a very important thing that people need to know. Okay, great. Well, we'll definitely get into that. Yeah. Nanette, maybe we could start with you. You lived with polycystic kidney disease. This is a genetic condition that, and I saw you nodding, can quietly progress for years. Could you take us back when you first kind of learned that you had polycystic kidney disease or PKD? Sure. Well, I was aware of polycystic kidneys as a child. My grandfather, my uncle, my mother all suffered with polycystic kidney disease. So it wasn't a general topic because back then it wasn't a general topic. So we knew my grandfather went to the hospital. We knew my uncle got a kidney transplant, but we didn't really put any weight in that. It wasn't really discussed as a family. It was something that just happened. So it wasn't really until my mother got very sick that the doctor said, you should all get tested. And it was, you know, we were in our teens. So the pattern wasn't even kind of discussed before then or no? No. Oh, interesting. No, no one, it wasn't talked about. It wasn't discussed. It wasn't acknowledged as a genetic disorder until my mother got very sick. And my youngest sister was the first one identified with polycystic kidney disease. And it went right along the lines of 50-50 each egg has A-50-50 chance genetically and out of four children, two of us, and two of us did and two of us didn't. Can you tell us what it was like kind of to, I guess when your sister got diagnosed or how you got kind of diagnosed or what were your first symptoms? I mean, it sounds like they were slow and kind of slow to progress, but what we first noticed, it was like to kind of live with that, knowing that your mom had had it as well. It was really knowing with living with the knowledge. When I was first diagnosed, I went to be tested, the urine and the blood test, because my mother's doctor instructed us to, but I didn't have any symptoms at that time. So it really, again, I was an adolescent. So what did you think? Like was it just so abstract? Yeah, it didn't really mean much. You know, and we got the lecture of the genetics. So it wasn't really till my mother got sick and was facing dialysis. And again, never an option of transplant, never a discussion of transplant, even though her father was and her brother were transplanted, which is such a weird family system experience that I hear happens more and more. You know, like someone else in the family could have a transplant, yet this person is now facing it and has no knowledge. So for her, it was it was a knowledge thing of not having a transplant accessible to her. Yeah, just not being offered, just being told to go directly to dialysis. And so she never went through that transplant process. And maybe I could ask you just to time in here and kind of just explain to our audience, you know, what dialysis here kind of versus transplant, if you don't mind. Right, absolutely. So dialysis is a machine. I mean, it also is exactly a biochemical procedure, but it dialyzes your blood. That's where the term dialysis comes from. And, you know, it is a life saving measure. I want to put it out there and there's a lot of pictures. There are more than a half a million adults in the U.S. who are on dialysis and it serves a purpose. But at the same time, you know, a lot of people think that dialysis is a replacement of the kidneys. It's not all the function that I mentioned that kidneys do. It does only one of them and that just get rid of the waste products from from the and that too, the amount of dialysis we provide or can provide replace only 10 to 15 percent of what the kidneys do for just for purification. The other thing it cannot do. So it's it's it's stress on the body. You can go for in center three times a week. You can do it home. And that's at UCLA. We've set up a very big home dialysis program. But at the same time, it's it's it's it's it's a stress burden. And for for me and at UCLA Health, it's if we can get a preemptive transplant, that means bypass dialysis completely. But at the same time, I will see dialysis as a bridge if they have to go on dialysis to transplant your ultimate goal. If you can is to get a transplant. OK, and I mean, you did mention preemptive transplant. And it sounds like I'd love to hear kind of how you got to a preemptive transplant. But maybe we should explain right. I mean, sometimes a transplant is preemptive, which sounds like what it is. But I'd love to know how you kind of progress to the preemptive transplant. So were you ever on dialysis then? I was not. OK. By the grace of God. And like Dr. Stoggy said, I don't look down at dialysis. A lot of people are saved by dialysis. I don't want to discourage that or make that be something that is a positive. But for me, a preemptive transplant is really what we wanted. My husband is the one that took a very proactive research and found Dr. Stoggy at UCLA about 15 years ago. OK, I did want this origin story. I'm so glad to finally hear it. So I entered into a research study for Tolvapden. My sister and I both entered in and got to know Dr. Stoggy, and that's how we got connected with CORE and UCLA and have been big advocates since then. So where were you in kind of the kidney journey when you met Dr. Stoggy? Like were you having symptoms of the polycystic kidney disease at the time? Where were you kind of symptomatically or not when you met him? Sure. So blood pressure. High blood pressure was a symptom. You know, since a teenage year and then pain, flank pain. I was an athlete. I was a high school athlete as a college athlete. So of course, I was encouraged not to play sports, which I don't think depending on the contact sports, not really discourage that anymore. But so I was very aware of the disease around the pain and the high blood pressure, but didn't have, you know, I was running 100 miles an hour as a college athlete. I was, you know, and then I started a company and became a mom. And so, you know, you like Dr. Stoggy said, as your kidney function goes down, you just adapt. So I wasn't cognizant of how exhausted I thought everyone was exhausted. Right. You're like, I'm a mom. I'm working. Right. Yeah. In America, we all run exhausted. Right. Right. So that was normal. And then, you know, I got to the age of metapause and I was like, well, it's this, well, it's that. So it was always, I thought something other than my kidney disease. And so at what point did kind of transplant become part of the conversation for you? I think we came into UCLA research. Knowing, you know, my mother had already passed at that point, knowing that that was the lane we wanted to go in, but obviously looking for how to postpone that through research study, through medication, through Dr. Stoggy and his team's support and guidance. So transplant was always the way we wanted to go. And it was always preemptive, meaning before dialysis. Yes. So, but it came faster than I wanted it to. Oh, yeah. I mean, needing it. Yes. Yes, needing it. I mean, and so, I mean, let's just go right into, I mean, your transplant story, which is amazing, you know, just this really, the story of fate and family is just incredible. I mean, from what I know about it, and I want you to tell all of us, I mean, your transplant story really was very unpredictable. Can you tell us about, you know, a family trip to Barcelona that ended up kind of changing the course of your life? Sure. Even before I knew I needed, you know, I was still outrunning my transplant at that point. And literally, my younger son had graduated from UCLA and was going to do a boys trip to Europe, which is kind of a big thing they do. And so my youngest daughter and I went along and said, we'll go the first couple of weeks and then you can go with your boys. And so I wanted to go to Budapest and Prague and they wanted to go to Barcelona. So we landed in Barcelona and the first night we went out, my son met this young girl, very sweet young girl. And the first thing she says to me is I know you. And I, that's what I said. No, honey, you don't know me. I just got here and she said, no, I know you. You're in my dreams and we walk on the beach. And then I went, that's what I said. Okay, you met my son in a bar. You're making all these crazy things, right? And she stuck with that. I've known, I've always known you. And she stuck with that. And then seven years later, she's in the US, her and my son are married. I need a kidney transplant. And she says, my mother is your match. And I said, well, does your mother want to be my match? And she said, yes. And she's your match. And so we got connected with Dr. Restobi and she got tested. And lo and behold, she was my perfect match. That is incredible. It is. I've goosebumps everywhere. I mean, even saying this every time. Yeah. Can you believe it? No, it's like, if you don't believe that there's a power greater. You tell that without crying. I know. I don't very well. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, and just that she rushed through it, you know, as I know that. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, you know, the fact that this, you know, woman from across the world is my perfect match. And seven years earlier, we happened to meet her daughter who says she's always known me and here I am with her mother's kidney by the grace of God, having a good life. Oh my gosh. That's just incredible. And she never faltered. You know, my donor, I was going to ask you, you know, Phillips going to be able to share that. But, you know, first, for me, it was a very difficult ask. You know, how do you ask someone for it's not like, Hey, will you cut your hair? Or could you give me a pint of your blood? It's like, Hi, can I have your organ? It was, you know, and I had a very difficult time asking. I actually forbid my family to put it on social media. I am an employer. I was responsible for a lot of people's paychecks. I was very concerned that if people knew I was sick, that would change their response to utilizing our services. And so there was a lot kind of in my head that was at stake with being known I was sick, aside from the fact of not wanting to be seen as vulnerable. Were those the things that went into though? How difficult was to ask her? Or is this just on top of it? On ask it all. Yes. Yeah. Just ask it all. Ask it all. And so it wasn't until one of the court kidney members, you know, I'm like, my family can't put it on Instagram and I'm not talking to my best friends if they tell people and he just looked at me because you need to get over yourself if you want to live. Andre said this. No, the court. One of the court. Yeah. And, and, you know, my husband tried to say that and Dr. Stoge very respectfully as my physician tried to say that, but it wasn't until another recipient right who had gone through the journey was like, what are you talking about? Like you have to ask you have to talk about Mrs. Swerve and it was just really hard to do. Yeah. And then so when she came, I kept thinking, ah, she's going to change her mind or, you know, this isn't going to, it's not going to happen. What's your donor's name? Diana Diana. And she's an angel. Of course. Angel. I mean, they really are like earth angels. Like, if you could go back and tell yourself something different, you know, what would you tell yourself, you know, in terms of trying to get over. And I'm always saying that for people who might be in your place. Now, and who don't want to ask for that help, like, what would you, what would you say? Whatever, you know, what I would say, um, being that I'm a person, you know, my family's always been in service and law enforcement, medical, you know, social service. So, um, is that if I couldn't do it for myself, I need to do it for those who need to hear it, right? Cause I could have done it for someone else. But at that time it was like, how do you ask someone? You know, it was just a really hard and truth bottom line is I was afraid. Yeah. You know, I was very, very afraid. Afraid of all of it. Of all of it. Yeah. Yeah. I've actually needing the transplant. I'm actually acknowledging that I needed it, actually asking for it. And then what, you know, what would life look like after, you know, what kind of quality of life was I going to have? And if I only knew now I'd be like, run girl. Well, that's why it's so helpful. I mean, that's why I'm so grateful you're talking to us. I mean, because people are listening, you know, and I think that's what's so helpful. And even if it's your younger self. Yeah. I mean, so much too. I mean, and I think we all, you know, there's the miracle that is obviously Diana, right? And then, but also just how grateful we are to have the core kidney program. And maybe we could kind of get a little bit of information before Philip. I get your story, which is how lucky we are, right? When we find the right care and the care team. So it seems like a good moment to kind of get introduced to the core kidney program, if you could tell us a little bit about it. Yes, please. Is there anything out there like core? Yes. You know, I mean, I work in healthcare. I work with providers across the country. My company goes national. There's nothing like core that does the research, the education, the advocacy that has people like Philip committed to the cause who continue to show up to talk to someone else who's might possibly be a donor or myself talking to another patient who has to go through, you know, where we've been. There's just nothing like core. It's so special. It is. So it is so special. So special. I'd love to hear what you did with core. It was core. Core already existed when you and Annette met. It was, it exists. It was pre-core. Okay. I would say because it's the, the, um, she always operated. Yeah. Right. Yeah. That's the right. In that framework. Yeah. It was always his philosophy. Yeah. And, uh, and Christina and I, and she was one of the founding, you know, members of core along with, with Philip. Um, and the whole idea core, it was stands for clinical excellence with that C because I always say the patients. We can, you can do all the research and education. What matters to her and her family is the care that she gets. And she's going to talk about her care at UCLA health. He lived in Orange County, which I don't think he mentioned. She drives all the way from there for all our care. She has a very deep connection with UCLA beyond core. I mean, her kids went to, you know, played football and national, you know. Um, so, but the whole light of core, which outreach, research and, and education is about patient support. Um, and very early on, you know, and I was born and raised in India. Uh, uh, there's a place called Jabra was just there. And when I came to here, you know, right after medical school, one thing that, that, that occurred to me is it's always reactive and proactive, right? Medicine. Yes. Yes. Often and fragmented care, right? And then the support system. And I also always say that I know about kidney disease. I know about PKD. I, I know about, you know, dialysis and transplant, but I'm not on dialysis or transplant. I still remember we, our first kidney fair that we did as Santa Monica Beach. There's a guy who flew in with PKD flew in from Australia. And I said, and he came to me afterward and he says, I've spoken to all physicians, but the biggest support that I've gotten is speaking to other PKD patients that I will be okay. And that was a genesis and, uh, things have grown, uh, quite exponentially. And I'm very grateful to people, you know, leadership, um, are, uh, you still have leadership, Dr. Masiota and Joanie, especially, I mean, you guys have been so supportive. So core is doing well. We are trying to do a lot more, but it would not be possible without a healthier system like you see. And, and Joanie said, Dr. Masiota, who are very, very supportive and involved. Yes. You know, I mean, involved. You have an event and there's the CEO and there's Dr. I mean, the fact that they show up and are interested and supported is, is very, very special. No, it's really emblematic of, you know, this patient centered care. And, you know, you're talking about patient support. I'm hearing you, Nanette talk a lot about it. Sounds like there's support for your family too. I mean, I, if you could expand on that a little bit, but it sounds like your husband is even the one that even identified, you know, on day in the first place. Yes. Yes. I have a very proactive husband who did not let me remain with my head in the sand. Good. Good. But it really was the, the core members. Yes. Brian Gillam, who is one of our lead ambassadors, he was the first to have a conversation. My husband called him. They met for coffee and, you know, because we're high school sweethearts. Oh, so, you know, when I got sick, he was like, well, you know, your family too, right? Yeah. Yes. I mean, yeah, he's, he's been part of all of it. Yes. Yeah. You know, Brian walking him through was so powerful for him then to help me. Yes. You know, because I needed him to guide me and push me. Yes. You know, there's not a lot of people that can push me. I'm kind of stubborn, but to have him, but also have other members of core could push me in a way that my husband or my position or my sister couldn't. Yeah. It's really the beauty of this, this multidisciplinary team that you know, that you've grown and again, talking to people, I think, and meeting them where they are. Philip, I really, you know, Andre has described this incredible program and now that I just, I'm still getting over everything that you've shared just about Diana and receiving this. There's so much more to ask you. I do want to ask you, Philip, you know, you, you've been living inside this, you know, system that has been set up and years before you ever donated a kidney. You know, I've, you can tell me, but I, my impression is that you heard a story about an athlete. Oh yeah. Alonzo morning. Um, and that transplant made, you know, his life possible for him. I'm curious what was the moment for you that planted a seed about, um, donating your own kidney? Um, well, yeah, I was, uh, and this is, I think one of the reasons why it's important to be a part of core. It's because you never know what words, uh, will ring true with someone, someone, um, what the effect you might have. I always liken it to a pebble in the water. Um, you, you throw it in there and you don't know the ripple effect. Um, I have since met Rick Riley, the guy who wrote the article in sports illustrated and, um, played golf with him and told him he saved a guy's life that he didn't know. Just by writing a story. Yeah. And I mean, I can still picture the room where I read the article. Um, and, uh, I, you, you, you talk about the emotion. Uh, I, I, I called my mom and I said, you know, mom, uh, this is, this is, this is kind of crazy. You know, when I, I, I prayed about it. Um, and, and, um, my prayer was not that a friend would get sick. Um, but I said, you know, God, um, I know how I am that I get inspired to do something and then I forget about it. And I said, I just don't want to forget about this. And, um, I bring up my mom because, um, his mom's rock. Well, that's, that's the one that gets me emotionally, because, um, when this all happened and Dale got sick, I, I, I called my mom and I, I, I was like, okay, this is going to be a tough conversation cause she's not going to, she's not going to like this. And, um, she, she was like, okay. And I went, wow, okay. Well, um, all right. Good. And I said, I got to admit, I'm, I'm a little, little surprised that, you know, you're, you're just all on board. And, uh, she said, don't you remember the phone call? And I went, uh, I said, um, I, um, no, and, and she said, you called me and she said, if you prayed about this, who am I to say no? And I was like, okay, well, here we go. I will say, I've talked to Anjaye about this. I said, I do think the transplant coordinators need to come up with a different language though. Cause when they called me and said, you're the most negative. And I said, well, I said, I do know I'm most negative. And I was kind of bummed that I wasn't going to be the one to do it. She goes, well, what do you want to do? And I'm like, well, you just told me I was the most negative. I'm not going to do it. And she goes, no, no, no, that means. I'm going to can I like, oh, okay. Well, let's, let's go. But yeah. So, uh, so I had written an article. I read an article and I didn't forget about it. And I will say that when I was listening to that story, uh, and I would say to anybody that's listening, it is so incredibly common for the person who is sick to, um, foxhole themselves to pull the blanket over their head and say, I'm going to do this on my own and I'm not going to, uh, ask for help. And, um, Dale, um, didn't even call me. Um, I found out, gosh, all of this, all of this gets really so crazy. But, um, my friend Rob Pugazaki, um, uh, I also works at channel seven and he's the one that called me. And, uh, I remember I was in my truck driving along and he says, Dale's in the hospital and I'm like, what, what do you mean? Cause Dale said the same thing you said, um, after the fact, he says, I just never understood how we could all go play flag football and everybody wanted to go do something and I just wanted to go home and go to sleep. And, uh, so yeah, he, he would do the same thing, just adjust and normalize it. Yeah. And, and, um, Rob called me up and said, um, he's in the hospital. He was having these headaches. So, you know, I called him up and he goes, yeah, I need a kidney transplant. Just like that. Yeah. And apparently, um, he was about to have stroke. And, um, it was an eye doctor that figured it out. Uh, that said, you, you've got to go to the, you got to go to the hospital. Um, but I said, well, you know, it's going to be me. And he goes, what do you mean? I said, where do I go? And he goes, no, no, just don't worry about it. I'm going to figure this out. And I said, Dale, this is going to be me. I know it's going to be me. I'm ready. And, um, so he goes, well, you can go get tested. And, and go to this is go to St. Vincent's. This is where you go. And, um, we were in the same blood type and yet I ended up being enough of a match, thankfully due to the medicines and everything that, that you can take. Um, we, you know, we were able to do it. And, uh, I always say that I got a lot more than he did, you know, cause I got to help a friend. I mean, it's just incredible. I mean, I think a lot of, I think people describe donors as selfless, um, which obviously is true, but I mean, it just seems like the experience is myriad, you know, details even more. I mean, it's, it's just incredible. And this was by no means impulsive. I mean, it just is amazing that story of you calling your mom. I still get, uh, I mean, for sure. That's how powerful it is. It's, so it really is. Yeah. Because it's every, it's every day purpose and you're like, connect to it every single time. Well, but understand there's 7,000 people just like me every year, um, that, that, that are living donors and, um, I will, I will, to, to, to our point about talking about it, um, and one of the things about core that's so important, um, when I donated, there was another person, uh, who had donated roughly the same time, Sara Faden. She's an LAPD officer who had given to her husband and her and I met through different organizations in this wonderful opportunity. And she told me one time, cause you know, I, at some point I just, it's so nice that Anjaye and the net think of this, you know, think of me in certain ways, but it's, it becomes, you know, it's like, you know, I told Dale one day, I said, you've got to stop calling me and saying, thank you every day. I said, we didn't talk every day. So I said, you know, this is, I'm glad we were able to do this, but you know, say bad things about me on occasion, cause you're used to, um, but Sara told me one time, she goes, you have to talk. She goes, and I have to talk. She goes, because nobody knows. Yes. Says you look at her and you look at me. Nobody knows I did anything. You can't tell. She goes, so where is anybody going to come from? How's anybody going to know it's okay? How does anybody know this is a doable thing? If you don't tell your story. And that much like you talk about with people at core who will tell you things and would tell me things. And then I can tell, but I like to talk to people who are donors. About what they will expect after surgery. And, and who do they turn to if we're not willing to tell our story. Right. So that's, Sara, Sara was a very powerful voice for me, um, to say, Hey, you know, you got to stop it.  and you gotta be willing to talk about it. What other questions come up during the story? Do people have questions about... You obviously felt very resolved to do this. Did you have any misgivings or concerns or fears or family? Well, faith was a very big thing for me. And it was a prayerful experience. That's not the way... And it's not for everybody, but it was mine. And there was... It wasn't like I was gonna back out, but the girl who's now my wife was my fiance at the time. And I was... Great girl. Yeah, she's pretty cool. We were sitting in the hospital and I had already gotten the IV and I was sitting there and Dale was in the hospital room. They had a curtain between us just on the other side. And he was in there with Rob Fugizaki. And this one always is really hard. Now you guys have heard this one, but I got scared a little bit at that point. I was like, whoof, here it comes. And I told my wife, I said, you know, I need a prayer. And so we kind of held hands a little bit and I just asked God for some strength. You know, I said, you know, just a little strength to get through this. And it was right in that moment. Then on the other side of that curtain, I heard Dale and Rob start to laugh. And they were just laughing. And I opened my eyes and I looked at her and I said, there's your message. I'm ready. And because that's why we do this, you know, the reason I do it is so that he could watch his daughter get married and now he's a granddad. You needed help and you found somebody to help and she wanted what she wanted for you. But it's just an opportunity to provide some normalcy, you know, because we talked about dialysis and Dale was lucky enough to only temporarily be on dialysis because we were able to very quickly get through the process and get to the donation. And as Anjaye said, dialysis, while it's life saving is brutal on the body. The living donor element also makes for a more successful transplant because while deceased donors are also angels, just transplanting a viable living organ is just generally more successful. And it's just, I didn't want Dale on the machine. You know, the machine would have saved him. It did save him. It gave us that bridge. But that was one of the things for me. And so for that little prayer to be answered in that moment with that laughter on the other side of that curtain, I was ready. It was like, yeah. So he could keep laughing. I remember that pre-surgery. I had a similar, but again, being in that stage of denial, right? I was washed. I was gowned up. Dr. Sotni is on one side. You know, this is on the transplant day. Yeah. And I'm laying in the bed and these two nurses come in and they've got their scrubs on in their hats and they say, what music do you want playing in the OR? And I looked at that one. The OR? And I said, yes, what music can I go, what do you mean? What are? And the doctor went, and I was out. But I hear you're on the down drop playing Dr. Stoge is there. The anesthesiologist is there. What do you mean OR? I will say, to your point, I think, to some of the things that we do need to share in Mars, those are our stories of operating days. I think one of the things that's always funny to me is how one minute you're awake and the next minute it's like eight hours later and you're awake. I woke up feeling like a champ. Well, that's the funny thing. She wakes up feeling great and I felt like I was in a car wreck. So it is a slightly different experience. However, the questions that people ask, and this is one of the reasons Cora is so great, it's like from the patient experience, from the transplant recipient, from the donor. For me, one of the things I would tell people is like, hey, walking is your friend. He's sudden motions. And some of that, God bless the doctors because they have dedicated a life to getting us healthy. But they don't know post-operative. I felt good enough that when I went back for one of my follow-ups, the doctor asked me, so how do you feel? I said, fine, I'm already back. I'm back in the gym. I'm doing this. I'm doing that. And he goes, wait, wait, wait, wait, stop, stop, stop. And he said, no, no, no, no, you could get a hernia. And I'm like, maybe you should have told me that. Because I felt good enough that I thought I could go back to the gym and start, you know, you blow, you know, when you have one of those surgeries, I felt like, well, you know, I got to get the ads back, you know, I'm getting married. So I tell people, I said, you know, hey, take it easy on this and try not to do that and make sure you're doing these things. Diana, mine was during quarantine. So we were our quarantined pod, as they used to call it. So it was Christmas. The bubble. It was Christmas day and I was home for two days from the hospital and Diana and my son and daughter-in-law come over and Diana's in jeans and a belt. And I looked at her and I go, what are you doing? I can't even wear underwear. You know, and she's like, I'm good. And I go, are you taking pain meds? And she said, Tylenol. And she was cooking dinner. And I'm like, okay. So you know, and again, I know it is much harder for the donor because I started it. I'm apparently not Diana. Well, I started it at 10% and woke up at, you know, yes, over 50. They started at 100 and wake up in half. So their body has to catch up. But even that, it was like, I just was looking at her like, what are you talking? You know, that's amazing. You know, when I knew my family was fine because, you know, your family gets really worried. You know, my sister came, my mom came. My now wife was all doting and everything. I guess I had a surgery on a Wednesday and then I was out of the hospital. And then I think it was the following Monday. I think, you know, once I was out and I realized they didn't get off the couch because dancing with the stars was on and they let me go to the kitchen and make my own soda or whatever. And I was like, I was, I quite literally was in the kitchen going, well, okay, well, they think I'm okay now. But yeah, I was dancing with the stars was Monday night and they were all like, okay, he's fine. He can get his own food. Well, and even the summer, Diana and I, Diana and I were comparing scars. You know, I already, yeah, I mean, I have a pretty small scar considering what my uncle had this big huge round the back, big curve J thing. And I have, you know, this small little scar, but she has like a little three inch scar that, you know, is covered by her bathing suit bottom. Right. But we were, you know, comparing like how crazy that these little things saved a life. Like, Well, that's, that's something that people need to understand is the advancements of the donation process for me, for you, for the recipients. Right now, many people might know this, not know this, if they need a transplant, they often don't take the kidney out. They just simply stack them right on top of there. So she has three, you know, it's, it's, it's just a faster process and, you know, easier process. I think it'd surprise a lot of people to know that you were home after two days. Yes. And I was doing well. And I was, you know, my doctor said, you need to walk 10 minutes out and 10 minutes back from day one. Yeah. You know, they get you up the day of surgery and have you walking. And it's like you said, the move that air to move that loading. And I was walking by the end of the month, you know, and my doctor said, I was walking, you know, up to five miles, but I felt, I felt really good. Yeah. Did that surprise you? How good you felt? Yes. Because I didn't know how bad I felt. Exactly. Yeah. You know, I do look like I, yeah, I had lunch with another recipient on Sunday, a friend of ours, Chantel, another core member who was in another system and we convinced her to come over to UCLA cause she was waiting and waiting. And, and we were talking about, like I said, I remember being on the floor of my office in the afternoon thinking, how am I going to get to my car? This was at the end. And I knew we couldn't call my husband because I was, I wouldn't be allowed back to the office. It would have been the end of going to the office, right? So the reality was of being where I didn't even, my body just kept up to where it could no longer keep up, you know, and, and then all of a sudden I woke up and I'm like, I'm ready. Let's go. And, and it has, you know, it was three years, December 20th. And if I didn't take meds twice a day, I forget I'm a transphobetian. I do, I forget, you know, and when I get a little tired and I'm like, I'm tired. My husband's like, right, you know, but what a miracle. What a blessing that I get to live this full life. The everyday, the everyday blessing. On the gift of, and you can say I can quit calling you an angel, but I never will because I live on the gift of someone, you know, very much like Philip who just had that passion and, you know, I get to live it every day. I'm so, I'm so glad. I mean, and it's true. I mean, the court kidney program too. I mean, it's, I hear both of you sound like you have wonderful families, you know, and, and I hear that in the support system. I also am always impressed by the court kidney program because it's this infrastructure of, of a system support, right? To get you through it, right? To all these people who don't family. I mean, where do you feel like the, you know, core really kind of supported, you know, in the net and, you know, patients like Dale and, you know, but both, you know, both recipients and donors to kind of get through these processes. I think they sound very, when you describe them, it just sounds, it's, it sounds doable. I think for a lot of people listening, I think it still sounds pretty just miraculous and incredible, and it is those things, but it's also really doable. And I do feel like core is kind of that piece. And it's not a miracle that everyone can't have. Right. Right. It's not like, Oh, she got that, but I'm, I won't get that. Right. It is a miracle that everyone. But you have to, that the thing is you have to be willing to, to, to let somebody help you. I mean, that's the thing. If you're not going to ask, and that's why core is so important. And I don't mean to jump in for Anjaye, but that's somebody that you can call. Yes. When maybe you're uncomfortable calling a family member, you know, you can call and say, what do I say? How do I do this? Maybe you don't want to post it on social media. There's, there's health things that I have that I'm not quite ready to just start talking about. But I want you can call somebody and, and they have answers for you. And support and support, you know, because not everyone has a blessed family. You know, we have core members that came to us because they didn't, you know, one of the things when you're looking for a transplant to qualify for the list is you have to have providers who are committed to being there with you post surgery. And we have had core members that came to us because they didn't have those people. And so they came to core to help build. Wow. So you really joined a community. Yes. It is, it is a community that we're building. And it's his, it is, I want to say it's his brainchild, but it's really his heartchild. Kidney child. It's his heart child. But I do want to say a few things. And I just want to go, I'll start with, with Philip, who obviously everybody knows how much I admire him as a human being and a gift that keeps giving. I want to go back to your mother. You know, I was raised by my grandmother and I get very emotional. I talk about her because she raised me and she was not surprised. And we know why she wasn't surprised. And she, because she raised you and what a wonderful human being she has raised. So let me tell you about Philip a bit, because I think I've met a lot of wonderful people. You know, I'm surrounded by a lot of a, but there are very few people I like to talk to who I like to talk to. And the reason I would say that is because, and I've said that at our Gala events, every time I speak to him, I say, you know what, I can be a better human being. It's always, always. No, this is, and, and, you know, it was something that came very naturally, you know, because that's the way you were raised by your mother. But also he's always there. Today, today he had to go to his, at work, he has his daughters, high school, but, but this was an important thing to get the word out. He's going to share his journey that other people feel comfortable, right? And I do want to point out, you know, the next husband, Rick, who's also a very dear friend of mine, and he has his own story that hopefully will cover one day in one of these, these, but he, he applied to be a donor. Yeah. And he went through a very rigorous, you know, screening and at the end he was declined. So the point that I want to make is that, that we are very careful, especially at use of the health, who we accept. It cannot be at the risk of the donor. And if we see that there's any risk to the donor, we decline then Rick was not happy and Rick is an expert, you know, and my conversation with him was that unfortunately you're not a donor. And I, you know, he was ready to fight. Like you're taking my kidney. It was tough. So I do want to point that out that there is, but going back to people like, like Phillip and, and Diane and what they're doing is priceless. And we call them angels, a donor. And let me, and I've said that I'll say that again, when you give a kidney, you know, you are not just helping a person. You're not just helping the family. You're helping society. We have a member who's a CEO of a very influential mental health company. This is what we gave. So a donor does a lot more than just a kidney. They change society, you know, and, and I think that's really important. So that's why we had the rose parade float. The first one, a gift of life, a tune that never fades and both. Phillip and, and, and, and we got our princess wave down. Oh, I'm so jealous. So, so I think it's, it's really important about awareness. And I do want what one thing that both Phillip and, and, and then it said, is if you don't ask, you don't get that as simple as that. So when, when a core kidney member called Nanneten said, get out of it, that you need to share floodgates opened. There were so many calls you say the health was getting that we're going to keep up with that. Yeah. So what, what Phillip is doing, getting the word out, making feel more comfortable. Right. So you have to have a provider that strongly believes in that, but this is, this is knowledge about it. Has knowledge about that. A lot of nephrologists are not talking about transplant. They did. And that's, that's something. And that's where I think, you know, look at, you know, Phillip, I mean, he is a kidney donor. Right. They're like Phil said, I mean, there's 7000 other people, right? Any year in the United States. And there's, right. But every time you talk about it, right? That's what's generating that number to grow. Yeah. There's a hundred thousand people waiting. Yeah. And that's just living. Yeah. Just living though. Yeah. Because the families of those and, and those that pass, we don't, I mean, we, we focus on living donor and preemptive because that's where we want the future to be. But there's a lot of families that are angels and giving their loved ones. Very much so. In many ways. And so I don't want to minimize their, their, you know, their miracles that they're providing every day as well. And that's something, you know, that's, you know, I, I work a lot with donate life, one legacy and, you know, we've always had that conversation. And, and that's one of the conversations also with this is you, you, you don't want to have to make the decision about whether you do or don't want to be a donor when the emotional moment comes. You want to have already made that decision. And I think that is one blessing that I had when Dale got sick. I didn't have to think about it. I'd already made up my mind and I'd already become a donor, whether it was one, like, you know, whether it was, you know, post mortem or whether it was living. I knew I was going to do it. And I've always said that with, with organ donation in general. Um, talk to your family, let them know. Um, because yes, 7,000 living donors, but exponentially more who have got the pink dot, you know, so you're saving lives always. Have the conversation with your family. With yourself and your family. 100%. Yeah. It's important that your family knows what your wishes are because I've talked to many family members who, um, said they wouldn't have donated their loved one, but they knew it was what their loved one wanted. So they did it out of respect. And that has to be the hardest decision when you're in the middle of such grief and loss. I mean, I really applaud them to be able to do that. I love hearing, you know, how you mentioned the core, um, team member, though, they helped you ask for help, right? Because it's hard, especially if you don't feel well, even if you've normalized not feeling well or emotions run high to ask for help, you know, no matter what, but to have someone that help you ask for help is its own, you know, the caregivers. Yeah, I mean, it's so important to acknowledge the caregivers, you know, your caregiver was your husband Rick, right? But they are the true angels as well. Yeah. And I think we don't do enough to recognize them. And that was also the part of the float that we did is a caregiver's walking and riding on the float as well. But I also want to give a message to our audience who are, you know, who has a loved member who's on dialysis, getting close. So preemptive transplant, which means that the normal process is, you know, you should know your kidney function. Once you're GFR, which is a filtration where every kidney patient should know that number. Once it falls 20 or below, then you can be evaluated by a transplant program and get listed. And once you're listed, then you, you know, you can get a living donor evaluated, but the process should start much earlier, right? Because, and I do want to say, Philip, as you, you, you know, the way you approach, you know, the transplant or, or, you know, approach it when, when you're giving, you know, you had decided and, and, and, you know, whatever it took, you, you had done that. What we have to keep in mind, it is a process. It is a major surgery, right? It is, you have to go through testing and stuff. But the key thing is what I tell, I was a medical director of the living donor program for 10 plus years. I've spoken to a lot of donors and it's the purpose of life, right? It's what it means to the donor. You know, we all talk about what it means to a recipient, right? And it does, but, but it is a very special feeling. And, and once you've gone through it, they will say, we'll do it again if we have to. I've never seen a very rarely. I'm not gonna. But you're doing it in different ways. You're doing it in different ways by giving back to, and I think that's also the donor identity for life, for sure. Yeah. I, you know, I would add to one of the things that you said, though, about being proactive. Yes. Um, and as a primary care physician, uh, you can only do so much at some point. The patient has got to do their job as well. Um, and when you talk about not talking about your illness, there's a measure of that. I don't want to acknowledge what's going on. And when we both Dale and I, once we did this or, or found out it was possible, we needed urine sample. Well, I carried the jug around and, you know, it was like, let's go. And then it's like, we need to do the blood sample. When can I go? And so there was, there was a measure of we're going to do this. Let's, let's just go. And, and I would suggest to people who might be feeling ill, um, or they might think they need help, make the phone call. And when somebody tells you something, if your doctor says, Hey, you've got some levels that we need to send you to an aprologist, you need to go. Right. Jump. But guys, there is a measure of logistics here. Yes. Then are a challenge. We can't just, when you get sick, schedule you for next week and go do it. It's logistically a challenge. And that's the one thing that I try to tell people is like, Hey, they've told you you're sick, let's go. You know, get up and go. And the most successful outcomes I've seen are the people who take matters into their own hands when it's what they're supposed to do. Right. And regardless of what your illness is in today's world, in today's healthcare, you have to be your own advocate. Yes. Yes. And, you know, it is great to have people supporting you and fighting for you. But like you said, if you, if you don't get up off that floor and do it, if you don't put it out there, you know, no one else is going to do, no one else can. And so you do have to show up for yourself. And that's a big, you know, working in mental health. That's a huge thing. Learning to show up for yourself. As you say, and tell, and you're worth it. Yeah. Yeah. And you're worth it. And that, that you can get through the depression, you know, you can get through the fear, you can get through the anxiety because it's powerful. You know, what do you, I mean, I can only imagine there's so many everyday lessons, but how have you incorporated your experience as a donor recipient to the work that you do in mental health? All the time. I mean, it's on my website, you know, that I'm a kidney advocate. It's a story that I tell. It's when I'm, you know, if there's an area where I can relate it to family participation or family involvement or wellness or being willing to accept help, you know, I may not have, you know, psychosis or I may not have a cocaine problem, but I do had, I did have a very serious mental illness that I was definitely afraid of and the word deathly was what was going to kill me. Yeah. Right. And so when you look at addiction and mental health, they have a deathly fear and that those, those illnesses, you know, can be just as deadly. So I bring it into all my work, you know, this episode will probably be on my website. I think it's very, if you're in healthcare, you've got to encompass all of it, but mental health touches everything. Yes, it really does. Since, since, since you donated in 2007 and I mean, again, it seems like you're just, it's this ongoing identity. I mean, correct me if I'm assuming, but do you just continue to incorporate kind of this, this identity for yourself and your work with your family? I mean, you bring so much awareness, obviously, to kidney disease. No, an odd thing. I am always willing to do what I can when I, and anybody, you know, but I forget. And I think sometimes that's what I try to tell people who are wondering. I've done two half Ironman triathlons. I've done multiple sprint triathlons. I remember one time I thought, Hey, I'm going to go do boxing to get in shape. And my wife said, No, you're not. And I'm like, why not? And she said, you have one kidney. And I'm like, Oh, right. So that to me is the thing. Right. It's like, when the subject comes up, I'm like, Oh, I can, I'm, yeah, yeah. Here's, here's the thing. But my life is completely normal. I, I, I'm just like anybody else when it comes to health. I forget sometimes. I was sitting here going, you got to be proactive. And I remember I'd gone to the doctor, got my blood work. The, the, you know, the, the staff called me to give me the blood work. I forgot to call them back. They called me later in the day and said, Hey, you've got to call us. We've got the results. And I'm like, Oh, you know, so I'm as forgetful as the next person. But that's, I think my narrative is, I forget. You forget, you forget kind of physically, physically, I forget. And sometimes I will look in the mirror and go, Oh, wow, you've got one. Okay. But I just want to maybe kind of live my life in service as a fan. But I think that was, I try to be that anyway. I was just going to say, I mean, it seems like there's just an enduring spirit of giving though, in service, you know, I hope. And maybe that was always there. I know there are times, I mean, there are times when I, you know, if I have, you know, when I go to the doctor and I have a physical something and they, they sit, you know, I say, Oh, well, by the way, I have one kidney and they go, Oh, well, we should have known, you know, we need to know that. I don't take, I will say I don't take anti-inflammatory medicines. But, you know, there's the jury is out on that one. I've had an aphrologist say, if I would let you take anti-inflammatory medicine with two kidneys, then I don't mind you taking anti-inflammatories with one. And then there are others who say, don't. So I just choose not to. Yeah. I choose not to. I think, you know, that's just, you know, we can have a different discussion. We'll take that offline. I also try to, you know, stay hydrated. Oh, you know, but other than that, I feel like I live my life the same way I did before. You're thriving. Yeah. With one kidney because it grows. You're living it better. And then that you're thriving. Yeah. I'm thriving. Yeah. By God's grace and Diana's grace. Yes. I met a bunch of awesome people because of it. That's the way I've always looked at it. Me too. I've been, I am surrounded by some of the most amazing people I never would have met because of the community of donation. Because you're both vital members of that community. Whether it's this organization, whether it's what donate life one legacy, you know, it's, it's really an amazing show up for them. Always shows that every time I call him that we're having this event, we need you. He says, when is it? I will be there. Well, it's also because he calls me three years in advance. Yes. So it's like, yeah. That's not true. That's not true. We've been last minute. Can we get that love? And the answer is, you know, if he can make it possible. I mean, he has a life of, you know, children, but if he can make it, I'm sure I get possible. He showed, and that's what's, that's, that is core. You know, Phillip is an embodiment of, because he's one of the founding members of people he leads by example. Real ambassador. And, um, really, that's awesome because I see all the same people there. So it's, yeah. And you tune in that. Is there anything else about core that we want to share with our audience too? One thing to the audience is, you know, you saw Phillip and what difference he has made in somebody else's life, society and everything else, but also in his own life. Right. Um, so what I say to everybody is that if you're interested in learning more, right, there are resources and there's no better resource than core kidney. Whether you talk to Phillip, Brian Gillums and the name was mentioned. There's so many, you know, kidney donors that one year out, five years, 10, 20. So get to learn more. And I think was you who, who said that in the net, which really left an impression on me that if you have an opportunity to help somebody, right, why pass that out? All that we give, we give to ourselves. And I think that is such a powerful statement, right? If you can help somebody, why pass it? And that's what core is about. And these are two, you know, examples of what core does. I'm very grateful. Like I said, Phillip, and I'm speaking on behalf of the net as well, that, uh, you know, you're a super angel and, and thank you for all that you do. You know, um, and it's a great fundraiser too. Yes. Yes. For many organizations. Yes. Yeah. Well, I guys, I think. Maybe I'm an example of others in that, you know, yes. After having become a living donor, it's like you can't donate again really, but you can tell people the experience. Yes. And I think there's a lot of questions that people might have. Right. We go to an event and somebody is like, well, I was thinking about doing this and, or I just did this. Right. And what about this thing? Sure. And, and that's when you can give again. Yeah. It's ongoing giving. And for sure. And the understanding and I don't know what time we have, but I remember sitting in the Connie Frank center, which is the kidney transplant center at UCLA, and there was these two young Hispanic boys. And I say young, they're probably mid to late twenties, right? Both of them on dialysis and both of them were new recipients. And one of them was showing, you know, I was on dialysis for seven years and he had, you know, the things that change the fistulas and the others said, well, I was nine and, you know, I did dialysis at three AM because I had to go to work because my mother was sick. And what I know, you know, I have family that are of the Latina community. What I know about the Latina community or Latino community, you said we have to be male, female, but if they knew, if aunts, uncles, grandmothers, if they knew they could donate to those boys, what a difference it might be.  amelodipine, and there lies to seven to nine years of dialysis to doing that. And I think it's about education. It's an awareness. Because there are so many beautiful communities that are very family-centered that I know would show up if they have the information. So awareness is so key. Education is so key. So key, which is so great while you're here. This is so key, talk about these. These are such amazing programs that you and your team are putting together. Oh, no. We're just, I mean, you're kidding. We're so honored to just have this platform, too. Getting the message out. Share. In a way that people can understand. I mean, I've heard your podcast, you know, and they're really, I mean, you know. Like you're turning it around. But these are things that we need to get out there. Yes, absolutely. And that's where the use of the health care is involved. And then your example is very well taken because, I mean, you know, we do so many wonderful things at UCLA Health and we need to bring them to, you know, the communities where people are all over Los Angeles, if not further. But they only knew. That's right. You know, if they only knew, these things would be different. And that's on us to share and educate. And that's why we have to continue to show up for however, what was yours, 2007 you donated? I think so. And you received yours in 2020? 2020, 2022. 2022, it's just three years. So, I mean, he's 20 years in and still showing up every time. So, I want to be that person. Yeah, I'm sure that you will be. I could not. Yeah, I know she will be. I mean. Yeah, and you know, since we're thinking of things that we want people to know. Yes. I could speak to somebody who might be listening to this and they're wondering if they wanted to or not. The one question that I always get is, well, what happens if I get sick? What happens if I need or if my family member does or doesn't? And there's two parts that the one that the doctors told me at the beginning was that in general, kidney disease will attack both of your kidneys at the same time. So if I have kidney disease in the future, it would have gotten my kidneys anyway. So having one or two, you know, but the personal thing, because this question was asked of me by a person who was considering donation and they said, what if your child needs a kidney down the road and you don't have it? And I said, but what if she doesn't? And that was the thing for me because of the here and now is what I was worried about. I can't worry about the future. I said, what if Dale dies and the family member never got sick? So that was my thing. So I did look at it logically. I did ask the questions about what if what would happen to me and the meat part, I felt like I answered from the scientific element, which is I have a chance of getting sick. You're at the top of the list. How friendly. As a donor, you know, go. But they also said anecdotally, you know, there's not a lot of research been done, but they said kidney donors no longer, you know. So I mean, it's an interesting thing. Was it healthier? Yeah, they stay healthy. And they have to talk right. And so I asked the questions about what happens if I get sick in the future. And I felt I got those answers. But the one about what if somebody in your family needed it later? That was the one that for me, I was like, yeah, but what if they don't? Right. What if you can save a life now? Yeah. Yeah. And a family and just going back to that, there are other programs and usually health has been a leader and is a leader and and think a lot of innovative stuff. So we have a voucher program in which you can donate in advance and it's basically a voucher. So somebody wants to give, you know, then it is doesn't need or or something in our family, but they might need it eventually. So somebody can donate on their behalf and they can put, you know, multiple peoples on the name that, you know, this one, this one, this one, and they'll be on that list. So if they ever need the get. So that's a voucher program. We have a member of core that did that. There is also the paired exchange. I don't think that's very important. Those are amazing in the in the pathway. Asked, am I a match? Well, you don't have to be a match. What's the paired exchange? So paired exchange is suppose Philip wanted to donate to Nenet, but, but they are mismatched. Their blood group is not compatible. They think, but what you can, Philip can donate to somebody else and that's person can donate to. So they match it up and a lot of times you get a better kidney. So there's better matching. So what I tell this can happen with nine to 10. Yes. I think it's chain was 90. But it doesn't happen immediately. This is Sarah. It's got a matrix. Yes. It goes on and on and on. But it's like, it's like a potluck. Right. You can say, you know, Philip's chain letter ever. Philip gives on my behalf and I get on someone else's behalf because they get to and so. No, you're right. Potluck. It's great. It's a kidney potluck. I love it. Also why you call for. This is another reason you call for because they can say, here's your answers. Another thing that core does that, that I've experienced myself is not just with kidneys. So you have this advocacy. You have this case management team. Part of my disease didn't go away because I got a new kidney. I still have an immune system disease, polycystic kidney disease. So I have other complications. Well, you know, I needed to be able to see another provider and the list was very long the wait and I couldn't wait. Well, I have an advocacy in core to help me get through that, you know, and to help me get a resource in the time that I need it. So it's beyond kidneys. Yes. You know, it's that social, social work part. It's that you part. It's that research. Yeah, it's amazing. And just going back to the blood group, because a lot of people ask, can I be a donor and then said, if you're healthy, you can be. There's lots of ways. The blood group is not a factor anymore. This period exchange will take care of it. The other is which is still a smaller group, but it's called non directed donors. We used to call them, you know, by different names in the past. Outroistic donors, but non directed means that you don't know who's getting the kidney. Somebody will benefit from that. So these are all very, very powerful things that that that, you know, usually health is as leader in, I mean, tolerance, you know, programs are going on. So so I mean, and usually health has always been known for for transplant, not just kidney, the heart, the lungs, the liver, you know, bone marrow, gut, you know, so so it's really a very, I would say inspiring place to work at, you know, and working with people like, like, you know, Philip and Nanette. It's it's it's it for us as healthcare providers and you being one as well. And a very good one. I think we feel good, right? When we see this kind of passion about about it. I'm very grateful to both of you and spending your time with us, right here and sharing your story because, because, you know, we did the rose parade float and somebody twice. And the only reason why we didn't do this is because we had a lot of other things that we had to do, but somebody asked me about the kidney center. Yes. Yeah. But somebody asked me what is the purpose of the float, right? A lot of people want more business. A lot of people want the name, right? And I told them, and which I truly meant, if there's a person sitting in Mississippi and they see Philip and Nanette going by, it gives them hope. And that was that was if we can make a difference in one person's life, right? Yes. It's a success. And that was the purpose of the float. Yeah, it's that saying, right? When they say, you know, you're walking down the beach and you throw one starfish and they say, why are you throwing one? There's a million here. It doesn't matter. And you're like, it did to that starfish. Thank you. Thank you. You know, so like the pebble that you spoke about initially in every one matter, right? There's so much just shared humanity in this amazing community. Amazing. I can't thank the three of you enough. Is there any just last minute kind of take a ways or final reflections just for the audience? I mean, there's been so many, but I just I just need to hear your voice one more time. Be brave. Reach out. Be brave. Reach out. There is there is help. There is hope and and it's there and available and you deserve it. Thank you so much. I would say that you never know who in your life has a desire to help that may be their prayer. And if you don't give them that chance by talking to them, then they're missing out and you're missing out. So share your story and you never know what you might get back. It's beautiful. And on Jay, last word. I mean, I would just say that humanity is alive and kicking. That's all that I would say. Well, and you're leading the charge with these with these podcasts. Oh, thank you. Thank you. I couldn't be luckier. We have the best team and we couldn't be luckier. More grateful for the three of you being here. And I mean, not just sharing your story and your perspectives and reflections with us right now, but just really everything that you do every day. I mean, it's just incredible. And I mean, I think that, you know, this is a these are beautiful stories. And I know marked by so much, you know, like hardship that we're not even talking about and or you've alluded to, you know what I mean? But, you know, it's it's, you know, kidney donation isn't simple. It's not casual and it's not that you've represented it that way at all. But you're both doing so well and thriving. But it's not something that, you know, anyone does lightly and they just hearing how thoughtfully just how, you know, ethically, just the support from the core program. It just I really think that just you and this story that every that you're sharing really represents humanity and medicine, you know, at their best. And I'm just joining very, very grateful. You know, for our listeners, we'll have a lot of information in our show notes and links to the core kidney program. I'm sure a lot of people are very curious and have a lot of questions. And so we'll have a lot of resources about, you know, transplantation and kidney health. We'll reference back on Jay's other episode, which is very remember medically, I know nothing. So always go with whatever they medically speaking. Medically speaking, so thank you so much. And thanks for everyone for listening and we'll see you next time. Thank you. So much. All of you so much.