first came to UCLA a long time ago as an undergraduate here. I studied psychobiology and neuroscience and that was the beginning of my training in brain studies. I went off to med school in New York and I came back here and I've been here ever since. Mattel is a fantastic place to practice medicine. It's a one of the few places around where there is equal emphasis on excellence in patient care and excellence in science and discovery. I'm Dr. Shan Hussein and I'm a pediatric neurologist here at Mattel Children's Hospital at UCLA. Pediatric neurology is a pretty broad field. It it refers to diagnosis, evaluation, treatment of many different disorders of the brain. I specialize in epilepsy and especially epilepsy in infants. So we specifically evaluate these kids, figure out what kinds of seizures and epilepsy they have and tailor treatments to those kids. And I direct the UCLA infantile spasms program. This is a program that is dedicated to research and clinical care of children with infantile spasms. You think about epilepsy in general, there's a a huge spectrum. Some folks with epilepsy will only have a couple seizures in their life. Others will have hundreds or thousands in a single day. Infantile spasms is one of the more severe forms of epilepsy. And for a parent new to this diagnosis, it is downright terrifying. When you as a parent find out that your child has a relatively rare disorder that requires specialized, prompt, and high-risisk treatment, you want to go somewhere where people have experience, where they know what they're doing, and where they can draw upon their experience to give your child the best possible care. The most exciting thing is when our treatments work, especially when there's something new we figured out and we're able to bring that new technology or new drug to a patient and it works. There are many cases where patients have been around the block. They've seen many different practitioners and we've been able to add something new to that treatment puzzle that's been successful. You know, we we keep coming because there is a tremendous need and our therapies are getting better. Uh the last generation has seen abundant discovers in pediatric neurology and brain sciences. But we still have a long way to go.