So, hi everybody. Thanks for coming. Um, my name is Jenny who and I'm a dermatologist and I also Oh, okay. I'm a dermatologist, but I also um do uh a type of surgery, skin cancer surgery called MO microraphic surgery, which I'll kind of briefly mention a little bit later on. Um and um I'm happy to be uh talking to you today. So, thanks for coming. Um so, the timing is right. May is actually um um National Skin Cancer Awareness Month and the first Monday of May is actually melanoma day as well. So um so it's kind of great timing that I'm giving uh this talk uh during May. So hopefully you guys, you know, take a lot from this lecture and learn a lot. And if you have any questions either during the lecture or afterwards, please feel free to just ask me. Um so just kind of a couple um uh little data interesting points here just um for us to kind of ask you. Um how many people do you think were diagnosed with skin cancer in the US in about 2009? Um, over 10,000, over 100,000, over 500,000, or over a million? Anyone else? You're right. Over a million. So, um, well, as we'll talk later, but, um, skin cancer is the most common form of skin canc uh, the most foreign common most common form of cancer overall in the United States. Um, and what is the rate of death from melanoma in the US? Is it one person every week, one person every day, two people every day, or about one person every hour? Any guesses? Every hour? Yes, one person every hour. So, it's a lot of people unfortunately dying from melanoma um in the United States. And what percentage of people in the US report at least one of the following sunprotective behaviors of using sunscreen, wearing sunprotective clothing, or seeking shade? Is it about 80%, 70%, 60%, or 40%. 40 close. We're pretty good. We're not too bad. 60%, but we can do better. That's 40% that's not practicing any some protective behavior. So, um hopefully we can improve on that. So just to kind of go over briefly uh skin cancer uh it's the most common form of cancer in the United States overall as I mentioned um and the most three common the three most common types of skin cancer include basilc cell carcinoma otherwise known as BCC uh squamous cell carcinoma otherwise known as SEC and melanoma. Um and as we learned from the first the first question was that in 2009 more than 1 million people were diagnosed with skin cancer in that year and this is more than people uh diagnosed with skin cancer um more than breast prostate lung and colon cancer combined. So it's a lot of uh people um about one in five American five one in five Americans will develop skin cancer in their lifetime. And in 2009 over 60,000 were diagnosed with melanoma of which about one six of them you know close to 10,000 died from melanomas of the skin. So unfortunately it's a pretty high uh death rate as compared to some other cancers as well. So it's really important to be really protecting ourselves and um really recognizing the signs of skin cancer and melanoma early on and seeing your dermatologist or a doctor for skin exams. Um melanoma is the second most common form of uh cancer for adolescence and young adults um aged 15 to 29 years old. And about one American dies of melanoma almost every hour as we learned from one of those questions. So it's a lot. Um for people who were born in 2006 about one in 53 uh of those people be diagnosed with melanoma in their lifetime. The current rate is about 169 but um we are seeing a lot of upward trends of melanoma um being diagnosed in young people nowadays. So it's going to be about one in 53 for this newer generation unfortunately. And when you compare this back to about 1930s, this is about 30 times the rate of melanoma diagnosed back then. So, it's not necessarily just that we are diagnosing it um that we're detecting it any more than before, but it's actually that there's actually new cases of melanoma a lot. And a lot of it has to do with just um our you know sun behaviors and also um as I'll mention later on tanning bed behaviors and just a lot of the behaviors with our younger generation as well. So um so the incidence of melanoma this these are graphs um by if you look at by race and ethnicity in the US. So um this is males and this is female. So among um Caucasians they're um not surprisingly the most um highest of getting melanoma just because they're fair more fairs skinned. Um, and then if you look at other uh races, there's Asian, Hispanic, um, AsianPacific Islander, as well as African-American, they're much lower, but they still do get melanomas and skin cancers, too. And then if you look at the death rates of uh from melanoma, also by race and ethnicity, um, again, Caucasians are the highest here. This is male, this is female. So, we have more males dying from melanoma than females. Um, and we do have a pretty consistent rate um, for Hispanics, Asian, Pacific Islanders, and a African-Americans as well. So, this is a huge cause for concern, especially in California as well. Um, it's melanoma is the fifth most common uh, cancer among Caucasians in in California. And over the past decade, the rate of new diagnosis of melanoma has really increased and especially among Hispanics and Caucasians, but surprisingly among Hispanics as well. So this is something really interesting. Um in 2009 over 9,000 residents of California were diagnosed with melanoma. And when you look at break you break it down in um counties within California, St. Louis Abyispo County has the highest rate of new melanoma diagnosis and they're 106% above the national average. Does anyone know why? Um it could just be also related to uh it's it's hard to say because it could also be a lot to do with the behaviors out there just you know great amount of sun exposure out there. Um you know possibly it's you know the demographics maybe a little bit different a lot more Caucasians out there too as well. So um but I I don't think they've actually been able to you know pinpoint any particular one or a few reasons why but it could just definitely be accumulation of reasons why that is. So this is the incidence of melanoma by state if you look. So here we are in California. So we're not too bad. We're the second lowest. Um and so there's about, you know, an average of about 20 um people being diagnosed per 100,000 in California. If you noticed in some of these other states, the darker kind of blue turquoise, that's where they have the highest rates there. Um in California, we're not as high. It could also also be due to the the uh demographics of ethnicities and the people who live in California may diff, you know, differ from some of these other states as well. Again, being more fair skin is going to put you more at risk of getting melanoma. And then this is just by um counties. So, if you look at the rate of new melanoma diagnoses by county, this is um this circle on the right side is Los Angeles County and the circle on the left side is Ventura County. So, Ventura County rate of new diagnosis of melanoma is a little bit higher than Los Angeles. There's about 22 to 29 uh new diagnosis per 100,000 people per year. And unfortunately, about two Californians die of melanoma every day. So, that's really high. Um, and Tulumi County has the highest melanoma death rate in California and it's 96% above the national average. uh not not quite sure why as well. Um but and if you look at this is another map but looking at death rates um from melanoma by state California fortunately for the death rate we're among the lower so it's good um but that still doesn't mean that there's no cause for concern. We still have a good number of new melanomas being diagnosed every year. And then if you look at the death rates by county again um this circle on the right is Los Angeles County and the circle on the left is Mura County. So uh the rate of death from melanoma is a little bit higher in Ventura County than Los Angeles County. So you know it's it's nice to kind of look at what the behavior is among young adults, older adults, children uh in terms of how this really you know affects our risk of getting skin cancers in both non-melanoma skin cancer which is basilc cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma or melanomas as well. So um they did a survey um from the center center center of disease control and prevention so from the CDC uh in 2008 and they found about 58% of adults practice at least one of the following sun protective behaviors of using sunscreen, wearing sunprotective clothing or seeking shade. Um so only about if you look at actually only a third of adults use sunscreen. Um so that's pretty low. um wearing some protective clothing which includes long pants, long sleeves, um widebrim hat, a little bit higher about 40% and about a third of them just seeking shade. So I think we can improve on this a lot still, you know, on all three components of this. And when you break down adults um to young adults and um older adults or adults aed 25 years and older, only about 45% of young adults practice one or more of the following some protective behaviors. Whereas about 60% of people aged 25 years and older um practice one of the following some pro protective behaviors. So um again we can improve again on the younger adults but also the older adults as well. And when they did a survey among high school teenagers, they found about only four 14% of girls and then about 7% of boys routinely use sunscreen when they're outside for more than an hour on a sunny day. And about a third of teens um aged 14 to 17 years old had um a sunburn during the past year. And this is important because this is a risk for melanoma. Um if you do have any sunburns, we'll talk about it a little bit later as well, but um one of the risks of um developing melanoma is having sunburns in your um childhood or teenage years. So more recently, I don't know if you guys heard of all the kind of um policy changes with tanning beds in California, um but it's been a really huge issue here in the past couple years. Um and the reason being is that when anytime you get intermittent exposure to UV radiation and that's also from tanning bed use this leads to sunburns and when you have sunburns especially during the childhood and teen years as I mentioned that increases your risk of getting melanoma and the world health organization or the WHO the WHO uh classified UV radiation as a car group one carcinogen so that it's definitely carcinogen to humans and so basically it's in the same category as tobacco. However, with tanning beds, you know, they have UV radiation. And so, this is why it's become such a big concern over the past couple years, especially um and more than when you look at the survey of high school students, about 13% of them had used an indoor tanning device at least one or more times during the past year. So there have been a lot of studies especially in the past decades that's been showed increased risk of not only melanoma but also of the other skin cancers uh associated with tanning bed use especially when you're younger and um for the risk of melanoma it's increased by as high as 75% if you use tanning beds when you're younger and your risk of squamous cell carcinoma increases by about two and a half times and your risk of basilc cell carcinoma increases by about one and a half times. So there's a lot of evidence showing this. So this is um you know non-disputed. And um California uh was actually the very first state to ban tanning bed use for minors. So anyone under the age of 18. And this was um this just happened about a year ago uh January of uh 2012. And so this was a huge victory for California. And now there's a lot of states who are following with um trying to pass laws as well. Um, so, um, previous to this law, you weren't allowed to use tanning beds at all if you're under 14. But if you're between the ages of 14 and 17, you're allowed to use it with parental consent. And there was like a good number of people who were, you know, who were in that age the age um, gap there who really were using a lot of tanning beds. So, for whatever reason, the parents were giving consent for them to be using tanning beds, which is unfortunate. So, um, more recently, Vermont and New Jersey has passed similar laws. is California and there's um a handful of other states who are in the process of also passing laws as well u to ban tanning bed use in minors. So even though this may not pertain to you directly but you know for your relatives or grandchildren or things like that too. I mean this is all really important information to be sharing to you know whoever you know. Um I don't know how many of you guys use counting beds now so I figured probably not too many. Um but internationally um interesting if you look at internationally Brazil as an entire country has banned tanning bed use and they banned it back in about 2005. Um and Germany um followed suit and they banned tanning bed use and then there are certain regions of Australia that's banned tanning bed use as well. So this has become um you know a huge um a huge uh topic and policy changes. So we'll go over some skin cancers just about some brief background about them how you can recognize them and um so for basilc cell carcinoma it's the most common type of um skin cancer especially in Caucasians. Uh more than 1 million of these are diagnosed in the US annually. Um the highest incidence actually occurs in Australia where there's about 726 people per 100,000 who are diagnosed with basilc cell carcinoma. more often occurs in the older population and it rarely metastasizes um which means goes to the other parts of your body. So um if you were to get a skin cancer, this is the best one to get. So I know that kind of sounds awkward, but um this would be kind of the best skin cancer to get just because the aggressiveness of the basilc cell carcinoma and of it spreading to other parts of your body are so low. um for risk factors for developing basilc carcinoma includes highdosese um um UVB exposures or or a lot of sunburns and we'll talk about um UVA and UVB a little bit later um and if you have exposure to ionizing radiation um so like any type of X-ray therapy in the past whether you had that for other tumors or other cancers but um back uh several decades ago they used to do X-ray um they used to do radiation for acne treatment too unfortunately as well. So people who had really severe acne either of the face or the back were treated sometimes with radiation therapy. And so if you've had that or anyone who's had that, that really increases your risk of getting a lot of basilc cell carcinomaomas. So sometimes I'll have people coming in and they'll have like literally 10 or 15 basilc cell carcinomomas on their back. Just they just keep developing over and over again because they've had radiation in the past for acne. Um if you've had any exposure to other carcinogenic um chemicals including arsenic or there certain type of um genetic syndromes that you're born with one being something called basil saliva syndrome but genetically you're kind of more just um you because because there's something wrong with one of your genes um that you develop skin cancers basilc cell cancers um really early on as young as your teens or 20s and a lot of them. So what does it look like? Um, so they're usually on the head and neck area. So the areas that are exposed, um, it grows very slowly. It may bleed and may be sore. It may not bleed. It may not be sore. It may just kind of be there as well. And it may have a center that doesn't heal. So these are kind of typical um, pictures of basilc cell carcinoma. So they're kind of a little bit what we call flesh colored or skin colored, a little bit pearly or shiny. Sometimes if you look at it, there's a little bit of some little blood vessels on top of it. um it could have a c central area where it doesn't really heal becomes an ulcer. These are other variations of basilc cell carcinomomas as well. Um so this is what we call pigmented basilc cell carcinoma and this is you actually see more in people of um ethnic skin. So Asians um Hispanics African-Americans they tend to present with more what we call pigmented basil cells. So they look really scary when you see them because you're thinking is that a melanoma because it's so dark looking. Um but um a lot of times it ends up being a basilc cell carcinoma. Um this is what we call superficial basilc cell carcinoma meaning that it stays more on the top layer of the skin um as a tumor. And if you look at it here, sometimes people will think this is some sort of rash that they're having. You know, like if you have this in a small area, sometimes people think it's eczema or a fungus and you're treating with different creams and it never it never gets better. then you should really be thinking about um or your you know your doctor and dermatologist would be thinking about um well maybe this is a skin cancer that's developing. It's not responding to anything. Um and this is what we call morphia basil cell. Um this is more rare. Uh it looks almost like a scar. Um so a lot of times um people don't really notice it because it doesn't look like your typical basilc cell carcinoma like this one or this one. And it's more of just kind of scarred area and it doesn't have to be this big. It can just be a tiny little spot. Um so you know for example just the other week I noticed a tiny little white just a small small white scar it looked like a scar on somebody. I asked you know did you have anything done there? They said no. Biopsy did was a morphia form basil cell. So um you know so if you do have any of these spots where you think you know it looks kind of scarike and um not going away sometimes hurts maybe maybe doesn't hurt but um never remember having anything done there and definitely have it checked out too. And squamous cell carcinoma is the second most common type of skin cancer uh following basilc cell carcinoma. And about 200,000 cases are diagnosed per year. Uh seen more in the um the more older population as well with um Caucasian populations as being more fair skinned as well. And um the metastasis of it the rate of it going to other parts of your body is about 2 to 6%. So um not super high but um you know high enough to be of concern and not as low as basilc cell carcinoma which was less than.1%. Um so a little bit more aggressive. There are certain areas too for squamous cell carcinomomas that are more high risk what we call high risk. So if you have it on your lip or your ear and sometimes of your scalp area that's a little bit more high risk of it um going to other parts of your body. So um if you have it in those areas especially it's really important to get it diagnosed um in a timely manner as well as treated in a timely manner. So what are the risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma? A lot of them are similar to the risk factors for basilc cell carcinoma. So if you've had accumulative um UV exposure so for basil cell it's sometimes really more intermittent or sunburns that you've increased your risk of um for basilc cell carcinoma. But for squamous cell carcinoma, it's more of just the cumulative dose of UV you've had over your lifetime. So all the small amounts of UV radiation you've had um over the years. If you're fair skin increases your risk, u male gender increases your risk if you're over 50. Um smoking really does increase your risk um as well because it uh smoking does cause damage to your um certain damage to um certain biological functions of your skin to protect itself. Um, and especially if you do smoke too, you're at a high risk of getting the skin cancer on your lip as well. Um, if you've had exposures to chemical carcinogens, including arsenic again in the past, that increases your risk. And if you have any some sort of imunosuppression, so for example, anyone who's had a solid organ transplant, like a liver transplant, kidney transplant, lung card or heart transplant, and they're on medications to suppress their immune system, then that puts them at higher risk. Um even if you have other kind of you know diseases that put you on different u medications that suppress your immune system that also increases your risk. So um any you know any type of sometimes arthritis or go ahead. Yeah. Question. Could that be just cortisone? Cortisone. Yeah. If you even if you're on long-term cortisone like prenazone or something like that that also will increase your risk because it does suppress your immune system too. So if you're on it for a short time then usually it doesn't you know affect your risk too much. But if you're on prolonged periods of it, then definitely and some people for certain things that they have, they're, you know, on it for years and years, even low dose for years. So, and so what does squamousel carcinoma look like? It's a little bit different from basilc cell. It's but again it's usually on sunexposed areas and it can come up kind of quickly can bleed could be sore may not heal but it looks more like a red crusted lesion like a plaque what we call but like a red crusted spot or sometimes a spot that you know has a ulcer or soore in the middle doesn't heal on other areas it can be very even on the lip it can be very subtle where you don't really notice it just kind of a spot that keeps getting rough and scaly doesn't heal um you know and uh so it can be pretty small um on the hand here it I mean this you can see anywhere on the body but um in this picture it looks almost like a rash again sometimes might people might think this is ringorm or something like that and again it's one of those things that you treat and uh it's not going away then you know we should be concerned about it and or it can look like um it's got this thick kind of crusted dry looking skin on there it can look like that too. So it can look like a lot of different things. And then on to melanoma. So in 2009 over 60,000 people were diagnosed with melanoma of the skin. And again over 9,000 of them died from melanomas of the skin. So pretty high rate unfortunately. Um it's the second most common form of cancer for adolescence and young adults aed 15 to 29 years old. And the current lifetime risk is one in 70. Um although we mentioned that for people born in 2006 their lifetime risk is much higher. It's going to be like one in 59. Um the incidence of melanoma has increased about 15fold over the past 40 years. So this is more rapidly than any other cancer that we know of. So pretty fast. Risk factors include intermittent um high intense um UV exposure. So like intermittent um sunburns um especially when younger or um in your teenage years. If you have fair skin um if you have a family member what we call first-degree family member which means a sibling or your mother father with um history of melanoma that increases your risk. Um or if you've had a history of melanoma yourself that increases your risk of getting another melanoma as well. if you have over 50 moles on your body. Now, a lot of us will have what we think are moles, but they're not moles. And I'll kind of show you pictures of it later. Um there sometimes a lot of us have something that we call sebate kertosis, which are benign benign growth. They're not true moles, but um so those don't increase your risk, but true moles, if you have like over 50 of them on your body, then that increases your risk of having melanoma. If you have what we call a large congenal nevas, which is basically a large um like a birthmark mole that you have, um that increases your risk of uh melanoma later on as well. And if you are imunosuppressed in any way, again, if you're on some sort of chronic prennazone or other medications that decrease your immune system, um that also increases your risk of getting melanoma later on. So when you look at melanoma and ethnicity um again um for Caucasians they're the highest rate of getting melanoma um and with Latin Americans just only four per 100,000 and African-Americans and Asians and Pacific Islanders only about one in 100,000. Um, however, the instance of melanoma has been really rising for Hispanics in California. And even though Hispanics, African-Americans, and Asian Pacific Islanders have such a low rate of melanoma, when they do get melanoma, they tend to be on the feet actually um or on the palms of the palms of soles like where there doesn't get sun exposure. And when they get it, they tend to get thicker melanomas, more aggressive melanomas, and uh more late stage melanoma where it's spread to the different parts of their body. So even though they have a lower risk of developing melanoma, when they do develop melanoma, they have a much higher risk of it metastasized having already metastasized to other parts of their body at time of diagnosis. So I don't know if you guys have heard of the ABCDE of melanoma um but it's just kind of like we go through the alphabet. So um A stands for asymmetry. So this column is what normal moles look like and this column is what a melanoma may look like. And so if it's asymmetric, then part of the mole doesn't look like the other part of the mole. So for example, this looks symmetric. It's just round the same color. But this looks all irregular. The edges, the color is all irregular. So that's asymmetry. B stands for border. So normally the border of a mole are kind of more smooth. Although some people do make a little bit more jagged moles. Um, but if you do have one that's, you know, really jagged here, then that would be more suspicious for a melanoma. C stands for color. So, um, usually for moles, they're usually one color. Um, sometimes, again, some people will make abnormal appearing moles that are, you know, kind of two colorish. But, um, but if you anytime you have more than one color that's not evenly throughout the whole mole, then you're a little bit more concerned of melanoma. doesn't mean that it necessarily is a melanoma, but just more concerning for a melanoma. And then D stands for diameter. So diameter, if the mole is larger than the um 6 millimeters or the uh eraser on a pencil, um then you're a little bit more worried of it being melanoma. Again, it doesn't necessarily mean it's a melanoma, but more worried for it. And then E, which they added on more recently, stands for evolving. So, anything that's been changing, whether it's been growing in size, changing in color, becoming more asymmetric, you know, something strange about it that's just been changing, then that's a little bit more suspicious that it may be a melanoma as well. So, those are the ABCDE E of melanoma. So, hopefully that kind of help you uh remember what to look for. And then where can you find melanoma? So, when you look at um the women and men um the men tend to get it more what we call in the trunk. So like their their back, their chest area. Um whereas women tend to get more on their leg, but again you can get it anywhere on your body as you can see here. But um men tend to be more on their trunk area and then women tend to be on their legs area. And so I just wanted to show a little bit more pictures of what melanoma can look like because it's just nice to see a lot of pictures. Um so again this looks with irregular borders, two different colors. There's a dark versus light. This is much darker black versus much lighter out here. If you look at, it's probably hard for you to see, but even the black part in the inside looks very different. All scattered. Um, this is one that just looks really irregular borders, very dark, very black, a little bit kind of different colors. Again, two different colors, very irregular. And this is on the foot. So, you can definitely get on the foot. So, as I mentioned to you, the people who tend to get on the feet are um Asians, Hispanics, African-Americans. So, um although Caucasians can still get on the bottom of the feed as well. So, it's always important to have your feet checked as well or for you to look at it. So, I just did a quick slide on MO microraphic surgery in case um you guys were wondering what that is just because a lot of people ask me about it. So, it's just named after the doctor who invented it. His name was Frederick Mo. Um so it's not mole surgery like mole surgery but it's mo surgeries named after his name and um basically this is kind of it's a reserved type of it's a specialized type of surgery that for skin cancer especially for more cosmetically sensitive areas or areas where reserving function is really important. Um so a lot of times we do it more on like the scalp, head and neck area, ear um the hands and the feet. Um where you know there's not a ton of skin to spare. Um and how it works is that basically for example if someone was to come in uh this is you know something I do um come in with a skin cancer I what I do is I look at where the skin cancer is at and I take out a piece um around that piece. I cut it out um and uh and then we make that into um we cut it up in different pieces here and then we put it onto a microscope slide and then after we put onto microscope slide then I look at it. So, I'm the pathologist and I look at what edges on that piece that we cut up um have skin cancer there and whatever edges have that skin cancer there, that's the part that I take again. So, we color code everything. So, we don't necessarily have to take around the whole entire uh uh tumor. Again, we just take only in the areas where it shows a positive on the microscope. So, that's why we call it tissue sparing, which means because we we're saving you your normal skin. we're just only taking out the skin that really needs to be removed for skin cancer. Um, so again, these this type of surgery, the specialized type of surgery is more appropriate for areas that where it's important for preserving more of normal skin like your face and things like that or preserving function even like your hands and your feet. Um, it's appropriate for if you have any recurrence after a previous treatment for a surgery, uh, previous treatment for a skin cancer. um if your skin cancer is located into any type of scar tissue where sometimes the scar tissue the skin cancer can kind of weave in and out through the scar. So it's a little bit harder to make sure you get it all out. So we um do it through mo microraphic surgery. If you have any large skin cancers or any type of aggressive skin cancers and um the reason why mo surgery is great for these is because when we do this we're looking at 100% of the skin margin which means we look at the 100% of the skin edges. Whereas if you um uh were to just cut it out and you know send it in uh you look at a lot less percentage of it. So um that's why this is high has the highest cure rate because we look at 100% of all the edges and everything like that. It's just we we prepare it differently. Um so basically anyone who's a MO surgeon um is is trained as a skin cancer surgeon pathologist and a reconstructive surgeon as well. So it's it's you just kind of have everything in one person. So they they kind of go through the whole process with you. So you can tell you personally can tell looking at it in the slide. Yeah. Yeah. Because um the tumor looks different from normal skin. So yeah. So when I cut it out and we prepare it in slides and I look under the microscope and I look at and we color code everything so everything's colorcoded, mapped out and I look at where the tumor is at because it looks different. And then I'll only take that edge or that piece on your, you know, where I'm doing it from like your face, you know, so I don't have to take around the whole thing again. So, um, now I think it's important to talk about skin cancer prevention. Um, and I'm sure you guys know a lot of this as well. So, um, but basically the radiation that we get from the sun, there's a lot of different types of, um, different rays that we get from the sun. There's things called cosmic rays, gamma rays, x-rays, ultraviolet rays, infrared rays, microwaves, short radio waves, and long radio waves. But what we're more mostly interested in for our purposes is the ultraviolet rays here or the UV rays. So in terms of the UV radiation, um, so this diagram just shows there's kind of three main components, three main UV rays. There's UV A, there's UVB, and UV UVC. And so UVC, most of it's filtered um through the um the ozone layer and the atmosphere of the earth. So not much of UVC actually reaches the Earth's surface. So most of that's actually filtered out. UVB does reach the surface. Um part of it's filtered out, but a lot of UVA comes through um through the Earth's surface and even goes, you know, pretty deep. Um and then this diagram here looks at how deep it goes into the skin surface. So this is a skin surface here. Um the epidermis is just like the first layer of the skin. The dermis is the second layer of the skin. So as you can see UVC doesn't reach our skin. UVB reaches the first layer of our skin and UVA reaches kind of the second layer of our skin. So UVA goes deeper. Both of these cause DNA damage or damage to your genes. Um so both UVA and UVB causes damage to your genes or your genet um genetic makeup or your DNA. And this is bad because if you have damage to your DNA then as that keeps that's kind of what promotes cancers from growing and they because they they're they basically have uh lost their normal DNA function. Um, and so when we're talking about SPF or sun protection factor, not a lot of people are aware of this, but that only refers to UVB uh protection. So it doesn't refer to UVA protection at all. So SPF is only protection from only UVB rays. And so when you look at a SPF of a sunscreen, it doesn't tell you how much it protects from UVA. So that's important to know. So that's why recently the FDA um has come up with specific guidelines of labeling these over-the-c counter sunscreens. So this is all good for you to know. This has happened just recently. Um but um so now there's this um quoteunquote broadspectctrum labeling of sunscreens which you'll start seeing on a lot of your sunscreens now. So this started in December of 2012. So just about five months ago. The FDA established a standard test for sunscreen products that determine which ones can be labeled as broadsp spectrum. And broad spectrum meaning it's going to provide protection against both UVA and UVB. Because remember SPF only refers to protection against UVB and not UVA. So now if you see something that says broadspectctrum, you know that it has protection against UVA as well. Does that make sense? Um, and so for uh for a sunscreen to be labeled as both um if it's labeled as both broadspectctrum and if it has at least an SPF 15 or higher, then you know that sunscreen will protect you against getting sunburns, but it will also protect you um against the risk of skin cancer and early aging if you do other sun protective measures. So, if you have a sunscreen that um isn't labeled broadsp spectrum, then that means it doesn't necessarily protect you from skin cancer, but it protects you from burning. If you have a sunscreen that's less than SPF 13, so like anywhere between two and 14, that only protects you against burning and not against development of skin cancer or early aging. So, it's really important to know that this is all kind of new things that the FDA has put in place just since, you know, six months ago. So, for example, this is just a generic um sunscreen, but you'll see they'll say broadsp spectrum and the SPF number. So, that's what you look for. So, SPF or the sun protection, what it stands for, sun protection factor. So, what does this mean? Um, so basically, it's a theoretical amount of time that you can stay in the stay in the sun without getting sunburned. So, let's say for example, if you don't usually use sunscreen and you go out in the sun and you kind of get red after, you know, 10 minutes uh without any sunscreen. So, if you use an SPF 15, that means you can stay out 15 times longer before you get red. So, um so then that means um instead of 10 minutes, you you can stay out for 150 minutes um uh before your skin gets kind of red. So, that's what it means. So, it's like you you you multiply it by the by the number of minutes that it you know normally takes you to get red. Um um and um but the thing is even though for example if you use a SPF 15 and theoretically you have 150 minutes that it can protect you from the sun, it's not always so straightforward as that because there's a lot of reasons why it doesn't work out that way. One being um when you're out a lot of times a sunscreen can be easily wiped off or washed off when you're on the water. When you sweat it can be wiped off. So, it's not going to be lasting that 150 minutes. Um you may not have applied the sunscreen um evenly. talking to us. And uh one thing that I do see from people is that when they especially with the newer sunscreens when they use a spray-on sunscreens, it's nice because it's really fast and you can spray it on, but I've had people come in where they've missed a whole spot and they come in and they said, "I have this red area on my back. What is this?" You know, is it some rash? And I look at it and it's a sunburn. And it's a sunburn because they missed that part of their back. So, so even though the sun the spray sunscreens are nice because you know it makes it easier for people to use. I usually recommend people to spray it on and then rub it into their skin to make sure that you really get it into all parts of your skin. Um, and you may not have reapply the sunscreen often enough as well. A lot of times we recommend for people to reapply about every two hours if they're out in the sun. So, if you're not reapplying, a lot of times people will just apply it in the morning and not reapply at all during the day. then that's going to be basically not working as well as too. And then there are certain medications that you may be taking or maybe using certain medicated creams that you may be using that may make you more sensitive to the sun sunlight anyway. So um for example certain antibiotics um like tetrayans will make you more increase um um have more sensitivity to the sun or if you use some certain topical creams like retinoids like a retina or retinol like nighttime creams and things like that that makes you more sensitive to the sun as well. So that doesn't fully you're not fully covered by that SPF. Excuse me. I've heard that you're supposed to use a sunscreen with zinc in it. Is that true? So yeah. So zinc um which I'll talk about later and that's a really good question. Zinc and titanium um so zinc oxide and titanium dioxide are the ones when we were younger they're like white pasty ones or the pink ones, you know, when we went to the beach. And um so now they make it clear, but those are what we call physical blockers and they block the UVA and UVB. So um but I I have slides with it and yeah so those are definitely I usually recommend zinc or titanium. There are um chemical blockers which I'll mention too that um are more broadsp spectrum. One is avoenzone. So but um so that's a chemical one that's a little bit more broadsp spectrum but I I like to recommend zinc and titanium because um a lot of times if people have sensitivity to the skin as well then those don't get absorbed by your skin. So they work a little bit better for people with sensitive skin too. But so you just have to look on their Yeah. on the back includes zinc or titanium. Yeah, zinc or titanium. So, you usually look on the back on the top part of it'll say active ingredients and they'll list a couple like one or a few of the ingredients um that they have in the sunscreen and so you can look for zinc or titanium um or aenzone which I'll talk about too. So, so when you look at the um SPF again, so um when you look at like for example comparing no sunscreens, basically all of what we call photons or just the the rays um comes into the skin. But if you do a SPF 15 sunscreen, you have about 93 protection in the skin. And if you do a SPF 30 sunscreen, you get about 97 protection in the skin. So, as you go up in the SPF, you get a little bit more protection in the skin. Um, I usually like to recommend, and I'll talk about my recommendations later, but I usually recom like to recommend SPF 30 or higher. Um, just because again with even with SPF 15, a lot of times people aren't applying it correctly, applying enough of it, reapplying it enough. So I usually like to recommend a SPF 30 or higher at least. So when you have, for example, SPF 100 plus, like how important is it to go really high? So when you have an SPF of 30, you get up to about um 97 97 uh% protection as we mentioned. SPF 50, you're approaching about 98%. And then when you go closer approaching the 100, you're just going more to 99%, but you're never going to get a full 100% protection. So, um, you know, a lot of times once you reach about even 50 higher, it's it's pretty much all the same. Even with 30 higher, you get 97% of protection here. So, you're only missing 3% of protection. That's why um, a lot of times us dermatologists like to recommend an SPF 30 or higher. And so this is what um she was referring to in terms of physical versus chemical blockers. Um so physical sunscreens, they basically how it works is that it it reflects the sun's light. So physically physically blocks the sun's rays. So that's why it's called a physical blocker. It just bounces off. So in terms of physical blockers, again, they physically block all the UV rays. And these physical blockers block both Yeah, they block both. I don't know if you missed this part, but um yeah. So physical sunscreens block it. They just reflect the light off. Chemical sunscreens um they absorb the light and then they convert it into other things to break it down. Oh yeah. So for physical blockers, they actually block all UV rays, meaning both UVA and UVB. So they're broadspectctrum. So these are zinc oxide and titanium dioxide. And I mentioned earlier um you know they make these what we call micronized now too. So they're clear. So you don't have to have a white nose or a white face or or a pink nose or pink face. So they uh they make it now so people actually want to use it. Um and chemical blockers again they absorb chemically the the rays and they convert it to heat. So they don't necessarily block both UV and UVB. So the one the chemical blockers that block both UVA and UVB include Avoenzone and Mixural which is a special one that the brand Lar Ro Paz uh makes. So, those are the two main ones that are chemical blockers that block um that block both UVA and UVB. There's a lot of other ones that you'll see. For example, if you pick up sunscreens and look at the back, there's a lot of other ingredients on there that are um listed as active ingredients, but they're they block mostly just UVB. So, again, the main thing, it's nice that the um FDA has made new guidelines now that you basically need to just look for broad spectrum on the on the sunscreen now and you'll know for sure. it makes it easier for people who you know buy these products. And so my recommendations um for sunscreen use and this is uh very kind of common throughout um most dermatologists but I recommend SPF 30 or greater. Um of course broadspectctrum um and if you can get a water resistant one the better because even though you're not really going into the water you know you just kind of sweat especially being in Southern California it gets hot you sweat and some of that comes off. Um, and you want to apply a liberal amount. So, um, I didn't mean to put a shot glass here, but it's just to help you remind you about how much you need to put on. So, there's a guideline of 1 o enough to fill a shot glass to all the exposed parts of your body. So, basically, you want to fill this much um just sunscreens and apply that to the parts that are exposed on your body. Um, now, of course, everyone's body is a little bit different. Some are more petite, some are, you know, a little bit um have more body surface area. So, you just have to kind of adjust to your own body. Um, but that's kind of like the guideline. And it's best if you apply 30 minutes before you go outdoors. Um, and recommend that we reapply every two hours. This is kind of the main thing that you have to do to really keep up the the use of your sunscreen. And a lot of people don't really like to do that. So, um, like I mentioned, a lot of times people just apply in the morning and they just go through the whole day without it. But definitely definitely if you're going to be outside for a while, you know, whether it just be walking, hiking, um at a picnic, anything um uh you know, a family event, reapply every two hours. So just you want to bring sunscreen with you. And you want to reapply after you swim, after you dry off um and even after you sweat. Even if you're wearing something that says waterproof or water resistant, still reapply because it's very easy. I'm sure you've done it all done it, but you know, you go in the water, you wipe it off, and you notice, you know, all that sunscreen kind of comes off. So, other sun protection measures, um, wear some protective clothing. So, a hat with a wide brim. So, you can see here it has a wide brim. If you wear just a baseball cap, you'll notice that it only covers about this upper part of your face. And all this area is is exposed. So, baseball caps aren't really that great. And plus, your ears are exposed as well. And we're seeing a lot more people with skin cancers of the ear as well. So you want to wear um hats with wide brims, sunglasses with UV protection, and that's really important, too, because um people are starting to get skin cancers right on their eyelid here. And you know, it's not a great place for people to want to have surgery there to take out the skin cancer. So make sure you wear sunglasses. Long sleeves are in long pants or skirts, so if you can keep covered up. Um and there's also um sunprotective clothing as well. So, I I don't know if you guys have heard of it, but there's like clothing with actually built in some protection into it, too. So, a lot of those types of clothing, especially if you're very fair skin or um have had skin cancers, it's really nice to get those. So, they have that built into hats, built into, you know, shirts, pants, everything pretty much you can think of. And it's important to seek shade, especially um between 10:00 a.m. and 400 p.m. when the sun's rays the strongest. So during that time, you really don't want to be outside directly in the sun uh so much. Um if you want to take walks, it's best to take it before 10:00 a.m. or after 400 p.m. Um so you're not directly in the sunlight. As you can see this little baby, he's doing a job seeking shade. So and then this is a question that I get from some people. I think with vitamin D, it's becoming a more concern especially that we've been seeing more vitamin D deficienc deficiency in a lot of people. So um so the issue comes is that you know uh for vitamin D to become active it needs to be activated by sunlight. So what happens is that sunlight comes comes into your body and then it basically goes through this whole process through your liver through your kidney and then it turns um this into an active vitamin D and vitamin D helps maintain your bone your calcium level everything like that. Um it helps prevent osteoporosis with the calcium. So, there's a lot of concern about, well, if I'm using a lot of sunscreens and I'm not in the sun that much, then my vitamin D, where am I supposed to get it from? Or, you know, is that going to be really bad for my vitamin D? Um, vitamin D is also important for other things that aren't related to your bone. Um, so it helps with um some of your immune system. It helps with your blood pressure to regulate it. It helps with some of your other hormones or parathyroids, what we call um also your blood sugar control. And more recently in the past decade, there's been a lot of research looking at vitamin D and if it helps to prevent um or decrease the risk of getting certain cancers like breast cancer or colon cancer, rectal cancer, uh prostate cancer, and more recently, they're also looking at um different skin cancers as well. So, there's some evidence showing that um vitamin D may help protect your body against um or at least decrease your risk from developing some of these cancers as well. So, that's why there's a lot of interest in vitamin D right now. So, in terms of what I usually tell my patients is that um there's there's two ways you can there's two other ways you can get vitamin D as well. Definitely, you can get it from your diet and you can get it through supplements. Um and so a lot of times, especially if someone's super fair or they've had a lot of skin cancers, you I'm really hesitant to be telling them to be going out in the sun to get their vitamin D just because any type of remember with cumulative sun exposure, you can get increased risk of squamma cell cancer. So, a lot of times, you know, I I I mentioned that if you go to your regular doctor and talk to them about vitamin D supplements, they can help you with that. And then you can also get from your diet. And so, these are some food sources for vitamin D um that you can get it from. It may be a little bit hard to read, but you can get it from like pure cod, liver oil, salmon, mackerel, tuna fish, sardines. Um some milk that's fortified with vitamin D. Uh margarine that's fortified with vitamin D. Certain puddings are prepared with vitamin D as well. And there's certain um cereals that's also fortified with vitamin D. Eggs, liver, beef, um and cheese and Swiss. So um these are just kind of different amounts of um vitamin D you can get from them. But as you can see, you can get them from a lot of fish as well. So um so if you um you know, if you eat more kind of fish, um that would help with it. And so that's it. Thank you. I have a question. Why someone wanted me to ask you if you get rocher rosacea? Yes. Is there any sunreen to put on? Um, well, I I guess this friend of mine breaks out with with sunscreen. Oh, I see. Yeah. So, I usually like to recommend the more for sensitive skin ones. So, for zinc and titanium, I usually recommend those and the ones that are more um don't have a lot of different um chemical preservatives in them. So, for for example, there's one called Vanocine. Okay. Yeah. So, it's V A N I and then cream. Okay. That brand um they they take out a lot of the things that you know people really react to. So, that's a good one, too. Yeah. Okay. Yes. Is it true that you have it in your system? Um skin cancer? I mean, even even if you're never exposed to sun, Uhhuh. that it's just in your system. It's not necessarily in your system. I mean, it's it's more of um and no one's going to never really never be exposed to sun because even when you're just walking to and from your car, you know, you get a little bit exposed to your sun. So, it's not really in your system. It's what it is is that you're it develops from normal skin cells. So, your normal skin cells that make up your skin, they turn abnormal and that's when they start developing into skin cancer. So, it's not necessar No, it's not really in your system or anything like that. It's it's like changes in your skin cells that make them turn into cancer. So that's how if you've never been you must have been exposed a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Yeah. Yeah. Do you have any recommendations for vitamin D supplement? My doctor said just go to the drugstore get on your face. Yeah. Yeah. So anything that you recommend? Um so the vitamin D so the main thing that I recommend they've looked at studies that to see if certain vitamin D uh like there's a vitamin D2 vitamin D3 which is like 25 vitamin D or 125 vitamin D and they looked at like um you know if anyone is more absorbed better than the other and I think a lot of the studies show that you can take either one of them. Um what I did a lot of I actually looked into this a lot um about how much vitamin D you can actually take without becoming you know toxic or anything like that. So, you can actually really before I mean it's um they've done a lot of studies and if people take up to 2,000 units of vitamin D a day um a lot of people tolerate that really well without getting any symptoms from it or anything like that. Um so, um for people who part of it depends on how deficient you are too. So, it's really important for your doctor to check your vitamin D level. The more deficient you are, the more you're going to need to take. So um now unfortunately um they've done a lot of studies and a lot of us are vitamin D deficient a little bit and um and on top of that they're really trying to increase the recommendations for your vitamin D level in your body anyways because before a long time ago they used to only look at its importance in maintaining your bones so you don't get osteoporosis but now that there's a lot of um um evidence showing that it's important for other things like your immune system and other things that there's some um push to maybe even increase the recommendations of where your vitamin D level should be really. So they may be making changes to recommendations of that. So um which would mean that we are even more vitamin D deficient, you know. So um but um I know from if you can you can take up to like 2,000 and it doesn't matter really which type you need to take, but you can take usually for most people up to 2,000 units a day um without really having much problems with it. But if you're really vitamin D deficient, then they'll you'll start getting like up to like 25,000 and stuff like that. So yeah. Yeah. Question. I actually live in Alaska a lot. There's a higher rate of breast cancers in Alaska. So they they link it with the sun low levels of vitamin D. Yeah. Yeah. And it's really interesting like all the research that they've been looking at in vitamin D and different cancers right now and the geographical differences. So, um, they there's a lot of studies looking at, you know, for areas that's more away from like the equator or doesn't get as much sun, they're more vitamin D deficient and yeah, they do have higher risk of like breast cancers, possible colon cancers, prostate cancer. So, it's it's um it's definitely something that a lot of researchers and um, you know, physicians have been really looking at, especially in the past 10 years. So, um, do you tend to agree with that idea that it might be related low vitamin D? So yeah, so the thing is um it's really hard sometimes to prove that it's causing it. So for example, a lot of times you can see a lot of associations and you can say that you know it's associated with it so maybe it may be causing it or more directly related to it but a lot of times it's really difficult to prove that's one one thing is causing another thing. Um so this is just coming from my public health background. and I um did a degree in public health and we looked at like you know how you you evaluate studies and things like that but it's um I definitely think there's an association but is it is it really because low vitamin D level is causing it? It's I think at this point it's hard to say. Um you'll have to have a lot more evidence and research showing that it's more causing it, you know. So it's a it's a different thing. Causing versus associated is two different things that we look at. So, but um but I think you know the more research we do associated. Yeah. Yeah. It definitely is associated. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely associated. Yeah. So, uh you said the radiation therapy can cause skin cancer. Yeah. Is it in the area where you had the radiation or can it cause it anywhere in Yeah. body? So, it's usually in the area where you had the radiation. So, yeah, just in the area. So that's why for people for example if they've had radiation on their face for something for another type of cancer or acne or something then it's usually just on that area of the face that has increased risk of getting skin cancer and what about all these uh CT scans and so on that have so much radiation. Yeah. So I mean there there has been um you know they do look at like you know about how much radiation levels you're getting from it and everything like that. So, um, they're not too high. Um, you know, but it depends on, for example, how many CT scans you're getting because some people, for example, they've had history of some sort of other cancer in the past. So, they're getting CT scans every three months or every six months. Um, so the more you get them, that kind of I mean, it does kind of increase your exposure to it. Um but um but it's not um it's not as high definitely as for someone getting like radiation uh for something like a tumor for them where they get it every day, five days a week for like six weeks or 12 weeks or something. So um yeah, but it's definitely more they see it more for you know like if you've gotten radiation for something in particular to treat something. That's a good question. Yeah. Another question. um with this is not in your field but anyway probably but in breast cancer they do radiation treatment a lot. Yeah. Seems like that would be something that they want to reduce that exposure somehow. Yeah. I Well, it's hard because you're always balancing the risk and benefit of radiation for what they're treating, you know. So um you know if it's radiation is really necessary for your breast cancer then that's going to be at that time more important to get radiation than to not get radiation and have your breast cancer kind of keep getting you know so it's hard that's the thing I think that's hard in medicine a lot of times is that there's always risk to everything that you do um to any treatment that you do but it's about you know the benefit the the the ratio of benefit and risk at that time what's needed for so Um, so it's it's tough, you know. Um, but yeah, before a cycl, I used to be treated for herpes on my lip with yellow or red dye or ultraviolet light. Oh, okay. Yeah. No. Yeah. I was afraid I would get Oh, yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. I'm not familiar with that. Was that a while ago that they used to do that? Was that a while ago that they used to do that? A while ago. a while ago. Oh yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, we don't do that anymore, but yeah, if you did get um ultraviolet radiation there, then you always want to be careful about your lips. Even now, for example, when people get nails done, and they've been shown that people who get a lot of their nails done and they put it under the the UV radiation to dry that they are increased risk of getting skin cancers on their on their fingers. So, yeah. So, there's there's been evidence of that too now. So any type of but fortunately at least your treatment probably wasn't a lot a lot. I mean you might have had it I don't know intermittently or something like that but yeah yeah but I definitely yeah definitely you know watch your lips and um make sure there's no you know rough spot there or anything that you know we we can take a look at. So yeah what is a neas? NeAs means mole. It's just a it's a medical term for mole. So if it's just a colored flat thing uh that's also Yeah. So a mole or a neas can be flat or it can be raised like a little bump. You know how sometimes we have moles that kind of are raised? Yeah. So both of those are neas birthark is non neas. So yeah. So this gets complicated. So there are certain birtharks that can be a neas and there and there certain birtharks that are called something else. So but um but basically you know um so birth marks can be an neas or something else. Yeah. So it can even be like a even sometimes people have like a what we call like a vascular birthark or like a blood you know birthark too. So that's not really an neas because it's blood it's you know made of blood vessels. So there's different birth marks and that part gets yeah there's different things that they can be called. So yeah any other questions? Okay thanks. Well yeah just let you know there's pamphlets in the back on skin cancer the ABCDE um moles. There's also a card that I've u make for my patients about sun protection. So you can pick that up and you know about different um sunscreens and ones that I recommend. Um and there's also samples of sunscreens back there you guys can take. So okay and then if you have any questions there oh my business cards are back there too. So you can get my business card and um call me if you have questions. Okay.