Okay. Um, so my name is Ravi Sola. I'm a assistant clinical professor in pulmonary critical care in sleep medicine, which means I spent a lot of time in fellowship and took a lot of tests. Um, I joined the faculty here at UCLA approximately four years ago. I did my training in uh Texas and uh in Missouri afterwards. um raised in Southern California so it's coming back home. Uh one of the things I'll tell you is my interest in sleep is primarily related to the fact that I'm also an ICU doctor where oftentimes we deal with disease at very advanced stages and uh having that perspective I'm very excited about the opportunity to see patients early and treat sleep disorders because there's a strong relationship between uh sleep disorder breathing and sleep apnea which I'll discuss and focus on primarily. uh and and future development of other cardiovascular disease, things like high blood pressure, heart disease, and stroke, which which are the most common diseases that affect our our population today. So, briefly, I it's always kind of nice to discuss the history of sleep medicine. A lot of my patients ask me, you know, I didn't hear a lot about this sleep stuff, you know, from my primary care doctor or my cardiologist for for years and years and years. And and why is that? I think there's there's been a real change in how we look at sleep and and the importance we we ascribe to to sleep and sleep disorders. This was the traditional feeling in regards to sleep. And back in 1834 published in uh one the book the philosophy of sleep. Sleep is the intermediate state between wakefulness and death. Wasn't anything really to pay attention to. You just slept. It was kind of like an intermediate state between wakefulness and death. there was nothing specifically going on that that physicians needed to worry about. More recently in in in 1989, more has been learned about sleep in the last 60 years than the preceding 6,000. What we learn now is that sleep is a dynamic behavior. It's not just simply the absence of waking, but it really is a specific activity of the brain with very tight regulation and control. So, so what we've learned, I'll try to speak up until we have a mic, uh, is is that really sleep is is very tightly regulated. It's a very tightly regulated uh, process of the body and the brain. And when there's disease, most commonly sleep disordered breathing, that can affect the quality of sleep, which has an impact on on overall health. One of the first people to describe sleep apnea, which is the most common, and we'll talk more about that, was Charles Dickens. Um, and he actually described a character uh in in the postpapers of the Pwick Club. Uh, Fat Joe, also his nickname was Young Dropsy. Anyone here know what Dropsy is? The medical term for Dropsy? Edema. It's It's edema, more specifically, heart failure. is it's congestive heart failure when people have that that's the the term used. So even then there was a little bit of an awareness that these things are related that that people who are really sleepy and in this case overweight developed other health problems and heart failure early on and so he was called young dropsy. In the 1920s, uh, Hansburgger developed the EEG, the electroinsphlogram, which first allowed, uh, physicians to look at brain wave activity and and start recognizing that there was distinctions between the brain wave pattern seen in an awake patient and the brain wave pattern seen in sleeping patients. They also noticed that there was distinctions even within the sleep pattern that there was something called REM sleep that was that term came much later actually and then non-REM sleep and that these patterns were quite different. REM sleep is when we tend to dream and and actually the brain wave patterns we see in REM sleep is almost similar to that that we see when we're awake. So the brain is very very active when we're dreaming and and in the 1960s is when that development that distinction really became apparent and uh Dr. uh William Dement was one of the first uh uh people to describe this uh difference in in in types of uh brain waves in sleep. Excellent. Thank you. Can everyone hear me now? All right. A little bit better. Okay. Oh, yeah. All right. So, um, in the 1960s, uh, here at UCLA, uh, Rex Schaefen and Kales were one of the first, um, uh, researchers and physicians to describe a, uh, method of evaluating sleep and distinguishing the different sleep patterns and the brain wave patterns associated with sleep. So this is really when the sleep medicine started to take a big step forward in regards to to being considered a part of of um general medical practice. And uh in in ' 65 uh it was the first description of sleep apnea in Europe. In the early 70s uh by pioneer work at Stanford uh they coined the term polyomnography. So polyomnography is is the medical term for a sleep study and and we'll talk about what is involved in a sleep study as as we go forward. And then finally in the 1980s uh is when a pulmonologist started developing CPAP which stands for continuous positive airway pressure. Who here in the audience is familiar with CPAP? Okay. All right. uh that essentially he what he did is he took a vacuum cleaner and reversed the uh suction on it so it would blow and that's the first uh beginnings of of CPAP and CPAP therapy. Prior to that, you know, the only real treatment for sleep apnea was a surgery that basically put a hole at the base of the neck. So you can imagine doctors and patients weren't too interested in doing research in in for a medical problem for which the only treatment was something that most people think is pretty dramatic. So so that's why really it's been uh sleep medicine has really lagged behind other areas of medicine. Now, switching over to sleep disorders. Um, you know, everyone sleeps. So, a significant number of people have sleep problems. Um, often underrecognized, under reportported, but the estimates are that about 60% of patients who go to their primary care doctor complain of some sleepreated problem. Whether it's insomnia, not good quality sleep, or trouble staying asleep. A majority of patients complain of this to their primary doc. About a quarter of these patients have symptoms consistent with OSA. And that's the that's the abbreviation I'll use for obstructive sleep apnea. And and I'll be more specific about that as we move on. 30 to 50% of patients complain of insomnia or not being able to sleep well. And these things often coexist. And then 30% of patients report symptoms consistent with RLS or restless legs syndrome. Anyone familiar with restless leg syndrome here? Okay. Very common problem. These are the two obstructive sleep apnea and restless leg syndrome are one of the most common sleep disorders we see in the clinic. Now, I'm going to try and cover a couple of topics here, but what I'd like to do more than spend time reading off slides is really getting feedback from you because I know as I go through this questions will come up and I think this is an opportunity where I I can answer a lot of questions in in plain language. Um but but the first part I want to talk about the breathing problems and the second part we'll talk a little bit more about restless leg syndrome what we call periodic limb movement disorder um which is the leg moves that occur at night. Insomnia we'll talk about briefly. I'm going to skip over things like narcolepsy and parasomnia. Let's if we have time I can touch on those because for me they're fascinating aspects of sleep but but certainly less common. Now, one of the most common questions I get is, "I snore. Does that mean I have sleep apnea?" Not necessarily. So, like in a lot of areas of medicine, there's a spectrum of disease. There's on one end of the spectrum what we just call primary snoring. So someone who snores and the snoring doesn't interfere with their sleep may interfere with their partner's sleep. It doesn't interfere with their sleep and doesn't cause oxygen levels to drop or fragment the sleep pattern. And we call that primary snoring. One question that commonly comes up is I snore. I had a deviated nasal septum. They fix my deviated nasal septum. Does that mean that I'm not going to have apnea anymore? Snoring can happen anywhere from the nose all the way down to the windpipe, the trachea. Okay? And and it can become it's essentially turbulent flow or soft tissue somewhere in the pathway of the upper respiratory tract that's vibrating and that's what makes a snore sound. So people can snore for a number of different reasons, but as we go on I'll talk about how apnea really happens in the back of the throat and there's a distinction there. Um then we move on to upper airway resistance syndrome which is when people have to work harder to breathe and that triggers awakenings from sleep. So so they snore and then they have some struggling breathing and then they wake up and they may not wake up completely to awareness to know I was having trouble breathing and that's why I'm snoring but they wake up just enough to fragment the normal sleep pattern. So in the mornings they feel I slept seven hours but I'm still tired. I'm still tired and I still don't feel like I can do much. But that's not apnea. That's not necessarily apnea. It can be. There's a spectrum here and that's why we do the studies. That's why we do the test. So if you have fragmented sleep that could be upper airway. It certainly can. It can. And obstructive sleep apnea is we have a specific diagnosis for that and and that's been looked at. And and if you have obstructive sleep apnea, it's what's happening is during sleep, the upper airway is partially or in some cases completely collapsing, blocking air flow and oxygen levels may be dropping and that can trigger awakenings from sleep and over the long term over a period of years can contribute to the increased risk of heart disease um heart failure and high blood pressure. The last two I mentioned um central sleep apnea and Shane Stokes respiration and complex sleep apnea. Those are things we see in patients who have history of stroke or heart failure. That that essentially is what I've written more complex than than straightforward obstructive sleep apnea. But what we see most commonly really is obstructive sleep apnnea. So how many patients have obstructive sleep apnnea? How many people out in the community do? And this is tough to estimate. Um, and most of these studies were done based on big population surveys, phone surveys, as well as doing home tests. But the estimate is about one in five adults in the US has at least mild obstructive sleep apnea. One in 15 has moderate to severe. And and that doesn't mean they're always having symptoms. The natural history of sleep apnea is that as you get older, it tends to get worse. What is the impact? We don't know. We're still learning about that. What is the impact in in in an an older age group uh versus a very young age group. We certainly know that the risk of heart disease is is significant in in patients with moderate to severe sleep apnea. The vast majority of patients are undiagnosed over 85%. This is again an estimate. Most of the patients I see in the office have had problems for years before coming to attention or before they complained about it. A lot of patients I see just thought that this is the way it is. I'm just tired. It's just part of getting older and I'm not sleeping well. Another important point is some people think that if I'm not sleepy during the day and if I'm not falling asleep driving or falling asleep sitting in my chair, then I can't have sleep apnnea. That's not true. It's it's actually uh not always the case that sleep apnea causes daytime sleepiness. in severe cases certainly but it's not absolutely the case every time. So as I mentioned and alluded to earlier that obstructive sleep apnea cardiovascular risks there are higher prevalence of high blood pressure type 2 diabetes cardiovascular disease including heart failure heart attacks as well as stroke in patients who have sleep apnnea. not treating it is associated with an increased risk of of developing these problems and it is also associated with insulin resistance or pre-diabetes and so it contributes to poor blood sugar control in patients who have both sleep apnea and diabetes and it makes you feel bad it's associated with clinical symptoms of depression inadequate sleep for whatever reason is bad for your overall mood and your overall health. There's been some excellent studies done by some of the psychonuroimmunologists at uh UCLA at the Cousins Institute who have looked at uh sleep deprivation and its effects on the immune system and and it does significantly impact the immune system and it impacts longevity if you're if you're sleepd deprived for any reason again so what I just mentioned is that from any cause sleep deprivation can can contribute to to uh dysfunction in the immune system as well as uh a shortened lifespan. Coronary artery disease again just to hit home with the point sleep apnea is associated with coronary artery disease. Most of the patients who have coronary artery disease also have sleep apnea. They tend to have worse outcomes if you have both. And we talk about sudden cardiac death when the heart goes into an abnormal heart rhythm that doesn't allow adequate profusion to the brain. In people who have sleep apnea, most of that happens at night. You know, in the early morning hours from 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. The major, you know, almost half the the cases of a dangerous um heart rhythm, a fatal heart rhythm occur during sleeping hours for people with sleep apnnea. Now, this is something I I've taken from my lecture that I give to medical students and residents. So, I apologize for for the jargon and I'll kind of go through this, but I think this is important in in helping people understand because there's differences in how um men and women are affected by by sleep apnea and sleep disordered breathing. I'm also going to show you some pictures of a sleep study and what we're looking at during a sleep study. I don't expect that you'll all become experts in EEG and reading sleep studies, but I think I want to show I think the picture can sometimes take the place of a lot of words, right? So, we'll we'll go through that. So, non REAM sleep the the the stages of sleep where you're not dreaming typically uh is a very kind of a regular controlled period. It's very when we look at the sleep study breathing is very regular, heart rate is very regular and it's a stable state where most of the activity is parasympathetic and you may recall that sympathetic and parasympathetic are two parts of the nervous system that kind of control the overall tone including blood pressure, heart rate and everything else. The sympathetic system is what we think about when fight or flight. When you're getting stressed or um there's a danger or perceived danger that increases your epinephrine, your adrenaline, which which is the fight orflight feeling. Um and associated with that is an increase in stress hormones and an increase in uh um the uh uh brain's activity. Now, in REM sleep, that's what happens. In REM sleep, it's very irregular. During this dreaming period, there's periods of bursts of this fight or-flight activity which can cause increased oxygen consumption by the brain, increased workload for the heart, and in someone who has apnea, a bigger stress on the body. And this all happens in the early morning hours. And transitioning from these periods is is, you know, for us very fascinating because we see changes in heart rhythms and people who are predisposed to heart rhythm abnormalities, we see these changes uh quite quite dramatically. Um now, so obstructive sleep apnea and hypopnia. So I've been saying apnea the whole time. Apnea and hypopnia are we kind of link them together. Apnea is when a person is trying to breathe but there's no air flow at all. A hypopnia is when they're trying to breathe but there's some air flow but not normal and the oxygen levels are dropping. So we link those together and we call that the apnea hypopnia. So this is just a diagram, a schematic diagram showing kind of where the air flows normally and where the tongue and nasal passages are. That's where the throat collapses to cause apnea. It's so so again, it's not necessarily at the nose. It's happening in the back of the throat. When you're lying flat on your back and you fall asleep, your muscles relax during sleep and the tongue may drop back and either partially or completely olude air flow and that results in in an arousal and and a drop in oxygen levels which is is where the apnea happens. Here on the left you see the hypopnia which means the little squiggly arrow showing unfortunately I don't have a pointer but the little squiggly arrow is showing that air flow is decreased. And here you can see the tongue in the uvilla which hangs from the roof of the mouth are completely blocking off the the airflow. So you may hear this in a bed partner or a friend who you've you know witnessed sleep as the you know the snoring goes on and on and then you don't hear snoring then you hear and the is the waking up from from the apnea. The throat's been closed. The person's brain is telling them lungs aren't filling up with air. need to breathe and then waking up and that's the awakening. So how do we get this history and how do we figure out if someone has sleep apnea? Well the things that we ask in the history and this is what I teach the medical students and the residents. One you want to know if someone snores first thing you want to know. Not everyone who snores has sleep apnea but the majority of people have sleep apnea snore. Okay. Second, sleep fragmentation. Meaning, do you wake up four or five times a night after you go to sleep? In men, especially as we age, people think, "Oh, it's because of my prostate. I wake up four times a night, you know, to to use the restroom." In women who wake up three, four times a night. That's not normal. And often this is an underrecognized symptom in patients with sleep apnoa, especially by doctors. Because I'll tell you a lot of my patients once we treat the sleep apnea especially in men first thing they tell me is doc I don't have to get up to pee anymore I sleep through the night and it gets a little bit tricky because certainly the prostate plays a role but but it's not the only thing that's contributing to getting up at night to urinate daytime sleepiness is something we always ask about because it can affect uh uh uh it can be significantly affected uh and be a significant symptom in patients with sleep apnea. Yeah. Um certainly when when I'm counseling patients who see me in the office, we talk about all the cardiovascular risk and the risk of diabetes and stroke, but all you need to do is fall asleep driving down the 405 or 10 and then that's it, right? You know, all these other risks are kind of secondary. So sleepiness is is one of the most important things that that we worry about. You know, uh driving when you're drowsy is is is dangerous, not just for yourself, but for everyone. So nocturia meaning having to urinate at night is is is the the symptom I mentioned. Orthopia meaning um when you lie flat do you have trouble breathing that can be from a number of factors. Uh heart problems can contribute to that but apnea as well and for the reasons I I showed. If you're lying flat on your back your tongue is more prone to dropping back and helping and blocking off your throat the windpipe. what position you sleep in. A lot of people who have had sleep apnnea for years and haven't necessarily had it tested tell me, "Doc, I sleep on my side. Only on my side. I never sleep on my back." And it's because they've learned that they can't sleep on their back. That if they try sleeping on their back, they have a lot of problems and so over time have adapted and automatically tend to sleep on their sides. We always ask about work performance. Um, in addition to work performance, I ask about do you fall asleep when you're doing something you like to do? Uh, because that that certainly can be a sign that that you're significantly sleepy. You know, as a group, we tend to underestimate a lot of symptoms and put up with a lot of symptoms for a long time. But, but, you know, it's after a good night's sleep, you shouldn't be falling asleep, you know, reading or or doing things that you enjoy. Um, driving, of course, we worry about. We I I wrote up here comorbid rhinitis and GERD. Who here knows what GED is? Anyone? Gastro esophageal reflux disease. So those are other things that can interrupt sleep. And um if you have a lot of nasal congestion, can't breathe through your nose when you're asleep, you tend to open your mouth. And when you open your mouth, that lower jaw is a hinge joint. You can pull that jaw forward and back. And if that jaw opens and your muscles relax, the jaw is going to drop back, taking the tongue with it. That's going to increase the chances that you're going to have apnea. Reflex as well can certainly interfere with sleep and and and having big meals close to dinner time, nighttime reflux can wake you up and people don't necessarily know what's causing them to wake up. What do we look for in exam? We look at if someone is obese certainly that can increase the chances. malampati airway class and I'll show you what that is. It's basically when we look at the back of the throat if we're able to see the uvula which hangs from the roof of the mouth or if we can't see much at all in someone who has a very shallow throat where we can't see much or they have a lot of tissue back there they may be more prone to having apnea. One question here. Retronatheia and micronaththeia. That means a jaw that's positioned is kind of backward a little bit farther back and a little bit smaller. So people have a big overbite. And this is this is often the case. Um I see a lot of patients who are not overweight and this is very common actually in women who have kind of a very petite small lower jaw that just because of the anatomy just because of how they're built in the neurologic changes that occurred during sleep they may be more prone to having apnea. Uh as far as how we test it now um the the gold standard the test that we uh use is called a split night polyomnogram. So a split night sleep study. What does split night mean? Split night means that if during the test, during the first half of the test, we see that the patient has significant sleep apnea, we put them on the CPAP, and I'll go over what that is, the treatment, the second half, and adjust the pressures to find an an optimal setting. Now, the vast majority of the studies that we're doing right now are attended studies. So, you come spend the night in the sleep lab. There are there is the potential to do sleep studies at home with a simpler device. Uh we're not doing them as much yet at UCLA because there's a lot of devices out there and there's still it's still an area where we need to figure out which device is best. Um and in some cases there's a lot of failure with the information. It's not as good a test because it's hard for patients to do this on their own at home versus in in in a in a lab where we're uh watching them very closely. So this is the malati airway classification which I mentioned one two three four. So if you're on this end, if you have your partner, your person sitting next to you, you turn to them and say, "Open your mouth, stick out your tongue, and can't see anything. Can't see the u can't see through his mouth." That's more at risk for sleep apnnea. These two, if you're on the other end, doesn't mean you don't have any risk, but but it's less likely. Less likely. All right, changing gears a little bit. People come into my office and they ask, "All right, all right, doc. I've heard what you have to say. I'll do the sleep study. What's what's what's involved? This is a a rough kind of a an idea of what's there. Now, just to tell you, there's more wires than than usual here. Some of these are they're it's put it in the front of the picture so you could see it. But what we're looking at is brain wave activity or EEG activity. And that's how we tell the difference between whether the person's asleep, awake, or in REM sleep. Um then we look at um the eye movements that helps us determine whether they're in REM sleep. REM sleep is rapid eye movement sleep. And so we look at the eyes. We look at air flow through the nose. As you can see right up by his nose, that's an airflow sensor. And that's how we detect flow. And that's how we what we look for in patients with apnea. We also look at effort in the chest and abdomen. So we know if when they're trying to breathe, is air going in as it should? Uh there's also uh oximter, so we're looking at oxygen levels as well as an EKG, which you can't see. So we're looking at heart rate. We also have monitors on the muscles on the legs to see if the legs are moving. First question when I say all this, doc, how's anyone sleep with all this on? I'll tell you 90 98% of the time we get enough data to make uh a diagnosis you know and get the information we need. If someone can sleep even four or five hours that's usually enough for us for us to see the different stages. So very rarely do we do a sleep study and get no information. I have certainly seen that cases and I've certainly seen cases where people are quite anxious and they show up at the sleep lab and can't sleep and you know a sleep study is not very helpful if you don't sleep. All right. Um I'm going to just discuss this briefly because this is kind of my quick introduction so you guys know the next slides I'm going to show you which are going to be a lot of squiggly lines but this is uh how we stage sleep. So when we're looking at the EEG pattern, what we're looking at is the pattern here, the primary rhythm on the EEG, and that tells us what stage of sleep the person is in. Sleep stages change during the course of the night. During the first half of the night, you don't have very much REM sleep or dream sleep. That tends to occur more towards the early morning. Common complaint that we hear in the office is I wake up earlier than I want to and I have a real tough time going back to sleep and that's when they tend to have REM patients tend to have REM sleep and that's when you're also more prone to having apnea. So, so it's one of the things that helps clue us in in regards to what may be going on. So again, the formal criteria for a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea, you asked earlier, could you have upper airway resistance or have obstructive sleep apnnea? This is what Medicare and everyone else wants to see. Do you have symptoms unintentionally falling asleep, feeling fatigued, not not feeling that sleep is restorative? Do you ever wake up with breath holding, gasping, or choking? Does someone else ever notice that you breathe irregularly during sleep or have periods where it seems that you're struggling to breathe? And then during the sleep study, we're looking at the apnea hypopnia index. Looking at the number of times per hour we see this abnormal breathing. Less than five is considered normal. 5 to 15 is mild. 16 to 30 is moderate and upwards of 30 is severe. And that's really what we're looking at. And and how we came up with these numbers was based on the level of sleep disordered breathing that contributed to cardiovascular risks. So risks of high blood pressure and heart disease. All right. Bunch of squiggly lines. Now I'll go through this so uh very carefully. I want you up here is the EEG. I don't want you to pay too much attention to that. That's when we're looking at brain waves. This is what we're doing when we're looking at a sleep study. But I think I'm going to just cross over here. I I I think everyone can can everyone see this these lines here those are effort that's a person trying to breathe this is when we're looking at the flow here you see there's air flow and there none is that clear to everybody person is trying to breathe but there's no air flowing then what happens oxygen go level was 96% here and it dropped all the way down to 79% %. This is a this is a twominut fragment of a sleep study. So in this process of two minutes, this person is trying to breathe probably for a good almost 30 seconds. No air is flowing. Oxygen levels are dropping and then we look at the EEG pattern. The person wakes up, wakes themselves up because they can't breathe. Then they fall back to sleep. Great. What happens after that? Fall back to sleep. cycle repeats itself. Fall back to sleep, muscles relax, person's trying to breathe, there's no flow, oxygen levels drop again. And this pattern just keeps on going during the night. So this is someone who has severe apnea. So if this is happening 30, 40, 50 times an hour over a period of 20, 30 years, it's not hard to imagine why this contributes to to the risk of heart disease. and stroke. And this is what I mentioned, the hypopnia. This is the same sort of idea. There's still some air flowing, okay? It's not completely blocked off, but oxygen levels are still dropping down to as low as 85%. And this is with the person sleeping on their side. There's this little watermark in the back. You can see. Is that clear to everyone? I know I got to go real slow with this with the with the medical students and residents, too, because there's a lot of information here. But but I really want you to focus down here on the oxygen levels and the breathing because because that's really where where we know that there's a significant risk. This is just another closer view of it. Same idea. Person, this little watermark is telling us he's sleeping on his side. And over on this end, the chest and abdomen working to breathe, but no air is flowing. And oxygen levels again dropped from 94 all the way down to 83%. The low oxygen levels you're seeing early there you can see for those of you with very sharp eyesight the 86 87% that's from the episode that occurred before and we can't see it on the page. How do you control this? Very good question. So getting there. So what we do during that split night study is then we say okay this guy's several times an hour having sleep disordered breathing. Oxygen levels are dropping. Um, if this person is awake, they're in the intensive care unit because oxygen levels in the low 80s are dangerous. In the lab, we use CPAP. So, we put a mask on. I'll go over that. And we start oxygen. Now, we start air. And CPAP stands for continuous positive airway pressure. People often ask, do I do I just if I use extra oxygen, is that enough? No, it's not. Because the problem isn't low oxygen all the time. It's that the air is getting obstructed. there's an obstruction to flow. So pressure is what's needed and that pressure opens up the airway here. So during that second part of the test, what we're doing is we're putting that mask on and the technician is adjusting those pressure settings. And you know this is the the beauty of having what we the attended polyomogram doing this in the sleep lab. The technician is monitoring multiple issues and and seeing what pressure is needed to keep the throat open. Here, this person is uh a very big guy. He's about 6'5 and about 300 plus pounds. So, he needs a higher pressure. And at a pressure of 14, his oxygen levels still aren't normalized. Finally, he get to a we get to a higher pressure and we use a little variation on CPAP called a BiPAP. And then we see all the oxygen levels are normalized. Everyone can see that these waves are all in sync now. There's no blockage to flow. Oxygen levels are normal. He's in REM sleep. He's dreaming. He's lying on his back, which is when you're most prone to having apnea. And it's being effectively controlled. So, this is the treatment for for the severe cases, not for every case, but for the severe cases. And we'll touch a little bit on um what sort of uh uh what sort of other treatments are there just to give you an idea of what this person does during the day. mathematics, physics professor. So this is not someone who can't get through the day, can't get their work done. This is a highly intelligent, highly functional person who has been dealing with this for years and finally came to our clinic because starting to develop high blood pressure that was hard to control, was taking three different medications, was, you know, started to report fatigue, but had been putting up with this for years and years and years. All right, I put this slide in too just so uh uh and I'll go through this. This is a more compressed version. Um but you know, people often assume, you know, as as I mentioned that sleep apnea is a disease only of overweight middle-aged men. That's not true. Now, overall, the chance of women having sleep apnea is less than that of men until menopause. After that, it it kind of evens out. Women also have a number of sleep complaints around the time of menopause as well. Um, some of that is hormonal and and things like hot flashes can certainly also contribute to to sleep problems, but but sleep related breathing problems also increase in women after menopause. And that's something um you know for everyone to keep in mind. Also, women's pattern of sleep apnea can be different than that of men. They may have apnea only when they're in REM sleep or dream sleep and be fine at other times. And this is a case. This is a non-obese woman in her I think I believe she's in her mid60s and she this is a 10-minute site highly compressed and there's no apnea here. You can see all you know there's some irregularity with the air flow if you look at all these waves but but they're essentially pretty normal. Oxygen levels look pretty good, 93 94%. And this is during nonREM sleep. Again, we discussed why the the distinction of the type of sleep you're in is important. As we go on and keep watching her sleep during the night, we start noticing, well, as we're going through the night, she starts having a few events, meaning a few episodes of apnea where she's trying to breathe. And this one is for 16, 17 seconds, 20 seconds, 24 seconds. And oxygen levels are starting to dip. 93 94. We're approaching a period of REM sleep. And then we start transitioning from stage two, which is one of the non-REM stages to REM. And again, REM sleep is when we dream and our muscles really relax. And what we see here those apnea start getting longer starts getting from 25 seconds over a minute at 79.4 seconds and then these oxygen levels start dropping down to 73%. And then we go full-blown dream sleep, REM sleep. And this is a period for 81.7 sec seconds. She's she's trying to breathe for over a minute almost a minute and a half. She's trying to breathe and there's no air flowing. And oxygen levels started out at 97%. No breathing all the way down to 62%. Okay. You know anyone remember uh Shakespeare Hamlet? There's a rub if you're for chance to dream and go into REM REM sleep. There's a real danger there in patients who have apnea. And remember this is that REM sleep is really in that early morning period. So we often hear people having heart attacks or strokes early morning. You know this is an association for those of us who do sleep we really think about. We're like well doesn't that's not hard for us to imagine in someone because that that's the period when they're most vulnerable. What are these supposed to do about it? Treatment with CPAP. So again, this is that same patient with the mask. We put them on CPAP and a CPAP of seven. This, remember I showed you that other picture and that was a very high pressure. CPAP of seven, which is a very mild level of pressure, was effective in keeping her throat open. So are you supposed to do that every night? Every night for the rest of your life. So what do you do? So treatments, we'll talk about it right now. Changing lifestyle, which for people who are overweight, losing weight can help. not always easy to do for people with mild apnea. Just the position you're sleeping in can help. So, if people have mild apnea, just staying off your side. Uh I'm I'm staying off your back and sleeping on your side or just elevating the head of your bed. Uh those people who have hospital beds or have wedges in in mild cases that can improve the apnea because, you know, gravity is your enemy when you're lying flat and your your muscles are relaxed. Even just getting your head up a little bit can make the apnea less. There's surgical treatments available. Um, surgery tends to be the lower on my list of of options because it's invasive and and honestly there's less information in regards to surgery being effective. Oral appliances. These are the mouthpiece. We call them a mandibular advancement device. I mentioned that when you open your mouth, your lower jaw is a hinge joint. slides forward and back. What these devices do, and I'll show you a couple pictures, is it brings that lower jaw forward, which helps keep your throat open. A and that, you know, most of these other treatments work better, you know, for milder cases. And then there's positive airway pressure treatment, which is CPAP, which is the mask. Now, now we'll go over that. That across the board has been shown to be the most effective. Um, and that's been studied the most. And the reason it's the most effective is you're wearing this mask on your nose or your mouth and it's providing air pressure. So it's keeping everything open. It doesn't matter what part of the throat is collapsing. Whether it's the tongue or farther down or you know the the uva which hangs from the roof of the mouth and the tongue it doesn't matter. It's keeping everything open. All right. Does this look familiar to anybody? Anyone here? I had it. You had it. What does everyone think about going to sleep with one of these things on? Look exciting. No. If I had a million dollars for every time I saw that look, I could start my own super PAC. Um, it is not easy to use for the vast majority of people. It's not something that you just put on one night and it's done, taken care of. Vast majority of people take time to adapt to it. There's a small group of patients I have who have real real severe apnea that the first time they wear this. It's the first time they've really slept in years and they love it. I call them my CPAP evangelist. They go out and they tell all their friends and their family, "This is the greatest thing. You know, I'm finally sleeping. I love it. It's fantastic." On the other end of the spectrum, I have patients who I show them their own sleep studies, how low the oxygen levels are getting, how their heart is being stressed, they just can't get used to it. But the majority of patients, the majority, I'd say about 60 to 70% of the patients we see in our office are able to adapt to it if if that ends up being the treatment they need. Um, most people take a couple weeks. And the biggest complaint that people have with using this is discomfort with the mask interface. There's literally hundreds of masks out there. Um, new ones are being out all the time. With how common a problem this is, all the big companies are big dollar signs on their eyes. They're looking at how can I come up with the best mask so people will tolerate this. Sometimes when I see patients in the office, it's just a matter of switching masks, trying some a different mask and that helps. I had a conversation not long ago um with one of my patients. You know, I hadn't seen him in the office. You know, he was referred by a colleague and I and I was talking to him about his results and you know, he had severe apnea and and we're discussing that really CPAP's the best treatment and you know, the response was, "Doc, there's no way. Have you seen this thing? Could you ever wear this thing? I wear this thing. Okay, so I wear this thing. So I know exactly what everyone's going through. First week I had it, ripped it off every night. Ripped it off every night and threw it to the side. And and I'm not overweight. It's not a body weight related thing for me. It's probably a neurologic factor and just my anatomy. It's why I'm predisposed. But I wear it. I wear something that looks similar to this one. And now if I go two days without it, I feel terrible. My wife is very happy that I wear it. She's the first one to remind me to put it back on if it comes off. Um, and people ask, "Is the machine loud? Does it make a lot of noise?" You know, quite honestly, it's it's it's it sounds kind of like a soft white noise, you know, and people prefer that sound to listening to someone snort and snore the whole night. This is a mandibular advancement device. Just to give you guys a sense of what's involved here, what this is is essentially it's the custommade ones tend to work better than the commercially available ones. Now, this is, like I said, big business. So out there, you know, on the internet and on TV, you see Snore No More. We've got the pillow or the mouthpiece that's going to fix sleep apnea. You know, the there's what we call the boil and bite devices. So those are the mouthpieces that people take and they kind of look like for any of those any of you guys were athletes out there and use the mouthguards. You kind of put it in hot water and it molds to your teeth and that's supposed to partially help with the snoring. Those tend to be cheaper, but they also tend to be less effective. These devices are typically custom made by uh a dental sleep specialist. Um we have uh at our dental school we have uh several of the dentists are are uh are trained and uh interested in in taking care of patients with apnea who either are intolerant of CPAP or just don't want to use it and have mild enough apnea that this will work. What this does is anchors the lower jaw to the upper jaw. And this little, it's clear on the next picture, but there's a little screw with a torque mechanism there. And what that is done is that screw is turned to pull that lower jaw forward. And pulling that lower jaw forward helps keep the tongue from dropping back. This is another example showing on on a model. So you can see this doesn't stay there all the time, but this is essentially what the dental sleep specialist does. He attaches this, cranks it a little bit, and helps pull the jaw forward. What are the downsides of this? Well, it can potentially cause teeth to move a little bit and it can um uh cause some changes in the bite or or some pain at the temporalmandibular joint. If you see someone who's a specialist, they're aware of all these things. So, that's what they're working on. That's what they're adjusting to specifically. You've got to have a a good set of teeth or or implants for this uh to to work. Now, the Darth Vader mask. This is this I got this off the internet off one of the CPAP sites. Um he this person went on CPAP uh online because he was very upset about Jay Leno making fun of CPAP and and so it was a fake ad and Jay Leno was going on about who could sleep with something like that on and was uh going on with with the gag, hey, do you want to make love with the CPAP mask on? And he panted my pantoimed heavy breathing like Darth Vader, you know, taking the joke further. Patient was upset by this and said, "The only reason I watch his show is because I have sleep apnnea. That's the only reason he's awake long enough." And he wears a full face mask, one of those more kind of intimidating looking masks, because he wants to get sleep. And then he felt like writing a letter to NBC, but was up late at night writing it on online. Anyway, one comment I hear often times uh from my uh my my women and my female patients is it's it's just so ugly and it it's just it's just not sexy. I just want to remind everyone this is for use when you sleep. If you choose to use it at other times that is up to you, but its intended purpose is for use during sleep. On the other end, what we really see from patients and this is something that that you know us as pulmonologists and also neurologists who are the other group of specialists who are very commonly involved in treating patients with sleep disorders. This is one of the reasons why we go into sleep because we can really improve quality of life in patients that that are able to adapt to these treatments. So this is another testimonial I took from online uh one of the patients uh uh discussing um their experience with CPAP and and he describes it as I've been on my CPAP journey for four months now. At time it's been frustrating mask leaks, nasal congestion almost across the board. Very very common experience for most patients who who are first starting out on CPAP. And then he realized in order to reap the benefit of therapy is to stick with it, find ways to make it work. And this is again something that I emphasize when we see our patients. It's there's got to be some buy in. You know, you've got to say, look, I this is not the greatest thing treatment option. You know, I'd much rather just take a pill and be done with it. But that that's not how it works. So there's got to be some buying. And then this is what we hear though. The people who are able to adapt, I do feel I've changed my life and given a second chance. No longer wake up with a headache, which is also a very common symptom. No longer wake up to use the bathroom. No longer feel sleepy during the day watching TV or at the movies. Just feel happier and more full of life. Not my words. This is taken from online. This was posted at 2 am, which which my point here is there's other issues that this person probably could be working on is being on a more set schedule. Um, but but at least, you know, they're the they're using the CPAP. I'm going to skip over these. This is uh this is some of the medical journals, the big New England journal articles looking at patients with sleep apnea and heart failure finding that really treatment of coexisting obstructive sleep apnea by CPAP reduces blood pressure improves left ventricular systolic function. It improves your heart function and people with heart failure or heart disease. Using this treatment not just if you can adapt to it not just makes you feel better but improves your heart. I always put this on there because it's interesting. Anyone ever think about how dolphins sleep? Dolphins are mammals. They have to go to that surface to breathe, right? So, what dolphins do is actually they sleep half a brain at a time. It's really fascinating. Half their brain goes to sleep. And this is what they look like. They're called it's called logging. They kind of just, you know, group together in their pods and and then aren't actively swimming. And then the other half reminds them to go up and breathe and come back down. And that they actually do hemispheric sleep. And a lot of marine mammals do this. It's really fascinating. I'm going to skip over this. This is in patients with heart failure. Um this is often how I feel and and and this is this is why this is an important topic to to those of us who practice sleep medicine. Again, we we really see and it's only in the last few years that we're really seeing that that sleep disordered breathing and sleep apnea contributes to other health problems. And if we can go and treat this and we can get people to use this device if they need it or find something else um then then we can have a significant impact on both quality of life and and and overall health. restless leg syndrome. I'm just going to touch base on this. These are the symptoms of restless leg syndrome. Oftentimes I have patients who've had this for years and they never had words for it. Never had words for it. But it's this urge to move the legs that's typically occurs when you're sitting around like now at a listening to a talk for a little while and have a tough time sitting still. Tends to worsen in the evenings and in some cases it really bothers people when they're lying down to sleep. They notice it gets better if they're up and walking. Um, and and movement or massage tends to help. The description of the feeling h what I hear is everything from a creepy crawly sensation to itching inside the bone to really just people have a tough time verbalizing it, but it's just I just can't get my legs comfortable. And that really can interfere with sleep. What we see when we do that sleep study on these patients is intermittently while they're asleep, their legs are are twitching. And it's a twitch. It's not a big kick. It's essentially a contraction of the muscles in the front part of the leg that occurs every 30 to 90 seconds or so. And that can cause awakening from sleep just like a breathing problem can. So again the the polygram just just the only thing I want to point out here is these are the leads we look at at the people's on people's legs and what's happening is every few seconds their legs are just twitching constantly and bed partner may not be aware of this. This is a subtle contraction. They may not know that they say oh yeah they're not kicking or the bed partner may be completely asleep and not aware of this at all. But but what's happening is these twitches are causing them to wake up. And this is happening repeatedly through the night and that can be another cause of poor sleep. Now what contributes to these leg movements and this restless legs? Well certainly we know that alcohol, caffeine, nicotine uh all contribute to to restless legs feelings and the leg movements at night. Um I've also heard not as much in the medical literature but but just clinically having seen patients salty foods uh can certainly contribute to it. Uh you know women during pregnancy often have restless legs and it's thought to be related to iron stores in the body. Um and people who have kidney disease or are on dialysis often also have these leg movements and this this uncomfortable leg feeling. The treatment for this again is lifestyle modification meaning avoid the things that make it worse. Caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, benadryil can, some of the what we call serotonin reuptake inhibitors, common anti-depressants can also contribute to this. Often times in those cases, we really have to weigh what the benefit of the anti-depressant is versus how many side effects it's causing. And different types of anti-depressants can also contribute. So the treatment are medications, things that uh you may have seen uh uh advertised muripex and and uh requip are some of them. Um gabapentin or neurontin which is often used for people who have neuropathic pain because of diabetes. People with peripheral neuropathy because of diabetes can also have this restless legs and that can interfere with sleep. So a medication like gabapentin can help because it addresses both issues. It addresses the neuropathic pain or that that kind of sharp um sometimes it feels like pins and needles or shooting pains in the legs that that occurs with neuropathy. So treating that can can be effective. In in tough cases we do use sometimes uh benzoazipines medications like clonopin um as well. This was uh just to remind me that we're going to switch over and just talk about insomnia. So just briefly as as we're going through insomnia one of the most common complaints um when we talk about insomnia um certainly if you have a breathing problem or a leg movement problem that's going to also contribute to insomnia but in general we talk about the three kind of categories that contribute to insomnia. One is the predisposing factors underlying personality. Some people are just hardwired that way and and just have I have had trouble sleeping since I was a kid. My mom told me since I was a child I I was a poor sleeper and we don't understand that completely but but certainly that plays a factor. Circadian rhythms meaning how much our bodies are in tune with our environment. Um, and we live in a society now that's 24/7 going on all the time. Whether it's TV or computers, people have there's always something to do to gather your attention. And nighttime doesn't mean the end of activity. So, what that ends up doing sometimes is really shifting us away from our normal bio-ythms where we're designed when to be up and around when it's light and to start turning things down when it gets dark. Um, there's also a natural dip for those people out there who like to take naps. There's a natural dip after lunch. That early kind of afternoon period is a natural time when our bodies are telling us it's time to be a little bit sleepy. That's why siestas are popular around the world. I haven't been haven't been successful in um uh lobbying for siestas for us here at work, but but I'm working on it. Then, uh certainly there's precipitating factors. Now, um you know the situation certainly if you know there's 405 right outside your window tough to sleep uh that that contributes to the environment. If you move to a new place and are in unfamiliar surroundings that certainly can contribute to to insomnia medical problems. If you hurt and you're in pain all the time it's hard to sleep and that's something that has to be taken into account. It's something often times when I have patients who have a lot of medical problems, you know, I don't necessarily have a specific treatment other than talking to their primary doctor about about what is it that we can do to get better control of pain. Um, people with psychiatric disease, you know, if you're really depressed or really anxious, this this affects mood and and sleep. I I often, you know, tell my patients, you know, you can't separate mood disorders and sleep disorders. They go together. If if you're depressed or you have uncontrolled anxiety, you're not going to sleep well. If you don't sleep well, you're going to make the depression and the anxiety worse. They're interrelated. We have to really address all of it um to to to to be successful. And then lastly, we talk about perpetuating factors. And this is where we can really intervene. So doing the things that make the insomnia worse. There's a lot of beliefs out there about if I'm not sleeping well, what can I do to make it better? Some of those are are are helpful and there's other things that are are not helpful. Um, a lot of patients self-medicate, drink alcohol, try and that puts me to sleep. Sure. Sure it puts you to sleep, but once that alcohol is metabolized, it starts interfering with the normal sleep patterns and can actually contribute to waking up afterwards and worsening insomnia after. One other thing I see commonly, I see a lot of very very uh high functioning, motivated people with insomnia and say, you know, if I just get some sleep, everything would be better. And so they get in bed, go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep. So can't do that. This is you can't force yourself to sleep. You know, part of the falling asleep is letting that go. And that can be very very hard can be very hard to do. and and and that's something that we we often have to work on often with um help with the psychologist. So, inadequate sleep hygiene. General rules for people who have sleep problems of any kind. Things that you should avoid, avoid caffeine. Okay, I can't sleep, but I'm having my cup of coffee at 5:00 p.m. That's that's going to contribute. Nicotine and alcohol. Again, some people say exercising in the evenings can contribute to insomnia. That varies. Some people are okay um they don't mind going on an evening walk. It doesn't interfere with with sleep. Practices that interfere with sleep organization. Now you see the one that I've highlighted. More time in bed does not equal more Okay? sleep. If you feel like I'm not getting enough sleep and I'm tired, so instead of going to bed at 900 p.m. or 10 p.m. or 11, I'm going to get in bed at 8 and I'm going to sit there and just because I get in bed earlier, I'm going to get I'm going to feel better tomorrow. No, what happens? You sit in bed at 8. Mine keeps working. No, I'm not asleep yet. And then what happens? You start looking at the clock. It's not Now it's 9:00. Now it's 9:30. Now it's 10:00. I'm still not asleep. I gotta be up at 6 tomorrow. Oh, tomorrow's gonna be terrible. Now it's midnight. Oh my goodness. Now it's 1:00 am. I haven't slept. I've got Okay, four hours. Five hours. I can get four or five good hours now if I if I get to sleep right now. Is this familiar to anybody? Yeah. This is the classic insomnia belief and behavior that exacerbates the insomnia. Because when you're sitting there in bed getting agitated and frustrated that you're not able to get some sleep, do you think that increases your overall arousal and stress level or decreases? Increases it. And so you can't go into that natural process of sleep when you're all amped up and agitated. So what do we do in those circumstances? Sleep hygiene is is is this is where this is not easy to do and it's slightly different for different people, but if you're not asleep within about 20 minutes, and I'm not saying get out of bed, get out of bed, sit in the chair or leave the bedroom. You can do something that's boring. Don't get on the TV, watch your favorite show or get on the computer. Couple reasons. One, we don't want you to do anything that's going to interest you and wake you up. Two, you don't want a lot of light. That light also is very activating to the brain. Tells you it's time to get going. So read in dim light. Crack open the dictionary or the you know yellow pages you know I tell med students they just need to open up their textbooks um which is extremely common you know you know and then read and then try again. There's going to be nights where you you may struggle, but eventually what you want to do is what our goal is to separate that experience of frustration with insomnia from the bed. Bed is where you go to relax and sleep and restore yourself and be strong for the next day, not where you go and fight to try to get some rest. Okay? And that that's that's it's a very much a behavioral aspect. And you know, I'm a pulmonary critical care doc, but but I spend my time doing a lot of discussion about psychology and mood because that's really what what most powerfully impacts uh how patients with insomnia do. Uh also, poor sleep environment can contribute. A lot of people like to watch a little late night TV in bed. You know, that's what they love to do. You know, by the strict recommendations, you're not supposed to do that. there's some room to to to negotiate there. But if you've got, you know, the TV going on full blast for a long time, you say, "I fall asleep with it on, it's okay. It doesn't keep me up." Your brain is still hearing all that. And those brain waves that I'm talking about may respond, and you may think you're out, but you may may not be. So, cool, dark, quiet. Um, one of the things we also recommend is having a set wake up time. 7 o'clock, 8 o'clock, whatever it is. Yeah, but doc, you know, it was a really late night. It's really tired. If I just stay in bed a little bit longer, get a little bit more sleep, I'll be okay. That just perpetuates the pattern. Then that following night, you're going to be off schedule. So really, the easiest thing to do to help get a just a a good schedule is to say 7 8 a.m. I wake up. Who here is retired? What? retired. You guys are the worst culprits there. You and the college students because you know I don't need to get up. I don't have to go to work. This is why I retired so I can sleep for as long as I want. I don't think most of you want to spend your retirement to sleep the whole time. So, so I think that that that idea that now, okay, I don't have anything I need to get up for, so I can just sleep in really exacerbates the problem. And, and this is something that I spend my a lot of time talking to two different groups, you my college students who for some reason schedule all their classes at 1:00 p.m. And and, you know, don't take any morning classes and really so so it's a unique time. You know, in all through grade school, they had to be up early and then once you go out in the workforce, most people have to be up early. But these periods where you have that opportunity to kind of be on your own schedule kind of the the onus is on you to to to instill kind of some order and that really can help you know that structure. We're we're creatures of habit and that structure can improve sleep. A lot of people don't know that this is what's contributing to the insomnia. So that's why uh we bring it up. And cognitive behavioral therapy. This is the last thing I'm going to touch on. This is stuff that uh I just briefly mentioned. This is all the formal terminology. And often times when I see patients and we do a sleep study and it doesn't show any apnea, it doesn't show any leg movements and there's still complaints. Then we get to start talking about psychology and we start talking about what are the things that are preventing you from sleeping. Not necessarily need to talk to me about, you know, how your mom treated you when you were growing up, but need to talk about what practical things can we do now to improve sleep. And a lot of that is behavioral um things that help BOF feedback what we call multiaceted cognitive behavioral therapy you know teaching people to to be aware of their bodies and and and train themselves to relax. But uh other things like yoga, taichi, physical activity that that coordinates breathing and relaxing can really really help. And this is something that I think I personally am not a big fan of medications. I use them when I need to to treat a specific problem. But a lot of cases, I think if there's alternative to medications, if there's something that we can do changing our lifestyle or behavior, I think we're much more successful in in treating insomnia. And a lot of that is addressing stress. Number one cause of insomnia is stress related. So, so we sometimes have to spend a lot of time discussing how do we deal with stress and the things that are bothering us that prevent us from falling asleep. Some people it's making a list so you don't keep thinking about it in your head when you're in bed. Other people it's to completely get out of your head and do something like yoga or ta chi or or uh deep breathing exercises. All right. Lastly, abnormal behaviors during sleep. Very, very uncommon, but in some cases, especially in people with other health problems, things like Parkinson's disease, there may be episodes where they hurt themselves because they're asleep and they do things in their sleep without being aware of it. And uh this is an uncommon problem, but I just mention it because most doctors out there aren't really attuned to this and aren't really aware of it. the neurologists are because they certainly see a lot of the Parkinson's patients. But people who may have uh a predisposition to Parkinson's disease may do this dream reenactment where their muscles don't go into the normal relaxed phase during REM sleep and they act out their dreams and they can actually hurt themselves and fall out of bed and that's that's a real danger and there's medication for that that's that's very effective but but it's just something I mention because um like I said you know not a lot of the general docs don't aren't necessarily aware of All right. Yeah, that's that's the way to go. Why aren't you talking to us about taking an ambient every night or be very good question. So take one every night after four or five years. So my question taking an So the question was talking about taking an ambient or Lunesta every night. So in general there's only a small group of patients I think who should be taking medications like ambin or lunesta every night. Why? Because if they're taking a medication to sleep and that's covering up another problem with their sleep. If the person has apnea that's not been diagnosed or investigated or the person has leg movements that not been diagnosed or investigated and they're just taking a medication that may help them fall asleep, but it may be masking an underlying health problem that has a significant impact. So, what are we supposed to do? Come and see you and get some examination. I would keep popping the pill. I would not recommend keep popping the pill. I would recommend discussing this with your primary care doctor first and say, "Look, I just listened to this talk. You know, Dr. Isol was by. He was telling me about all these things that can happen when you sleep. I've been taking these meds for three years because I don't I don't know if the reason was cuz you couldn't sleep. Primary care doctor prescribes and he's been my doctor for 40 years. For the last four, five, six years, I popped him. I'm not thrilled, but I'm waiting to hear something adverse. You're not telling me anything adverse. It's adverse if it's covering up a health problem that's not being asked. There's the primary care docs, like I said, this is this is an area of medicine that's taken a while to catch up with other areas. So, a lot of what I spend and a lot of the slides I'm showing you are the same slides I show the primary care docs because they're not aware of this and they're not realizing that apnea contributes to risk of heart attacks, risks of strokes, and risk of heart failure. So I don't treat obstructive sleep apnea with a sleeping pill. That's that's not the right treatment and and that needs to be investigated. Put a mask on. The pill, you know, if you want the problem is the pill isn't it may make you fall asleep but it's not treating the problem and your underlying risk is still there. Yeah. Go ahead. You showed a slide that showed that sleep apnea was associated with heart disease. So oftentimes when the the message I try to get across the primary care paradox is, you know, they're very attuned to to checking everyone's cholesterol, you know, checking everyone's blood sugars, you know, they want to know is your lipid panel, is your LDL, your bad cholesterol in the right range? You know, is your blood sugar, your hemoglobin A1c in the right range? Because they're thinking if those are out of control, that person's risk of having a heart attack or stroke is increased. they need to add to that list sleep apnea and and and that's why I always love the opportunity to talk to y'all here because if you go to your primary care doctor and say, "Hey, this is something that's been, you know, I heard about this. It's in the news. You know, there's a big study that's been published. Is that something I could have? Should I be tested for that?" Um, and I think those are those are valid questions. Yeah. Another question is your that the patient in the sleep lab showed no electrodes around the eye. How do you measure rim? Right. There there were electrodes on the eye. I didn't there there's two electrodes on the left and right. Um that that we do look at the eye. So REM we look at both the eyes and the brain wave activity and that's how we tell RAM. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. No, that that's a that's the That's the best question because the problem is the biggest problem with sleep and the reason this area of medicine has taken so much time to catch up is because the patients can't tell me very much. They're asleep. They don't notice it. If there's no bed partner saying, you know, a lot of the patients I see is are one people who just got married too. You know, they they just got married or just got a new partner and the partner says, "Wow, it was scary. I had to elbow you because you would stop breathing." you know, there was no, you know, you were snoring a little bit, then it stopped and I got scared and so I elbowed you and you woke up. The patient themselves may not know any of this. You know, I have several cases where the patient's not aware that this is happening because they're not waiting for long. So, people can have, you know, usually majority of people who have apnea also snore. the majority do. It's it's probably rare that that I I probably have a couple cases where people don't have noticeable snoring but but still have apnea. I don't know if I'm pronouncing this correctly, but I take tradone. Yeah. Uh what effect does that have? Trazadone is is uh an old medicine that we've had, you know, around for a long time. that that's actually one of the the more the safer well tolerated sleep medications and and certainly you know things like amin and lunesta are are very helpful in some patients but but some you know people who have a little bit of insomnia um and do need some medicine you know trazadone is usually a very good well tolerated choice uh you mentioned that the CPAP lowers the systolic blood pressure but not diastolic Well, these studies looked at, you know, looked at one parameter, you know, and so these in general, I think the take-home message is it improves your blood pressure. Okay. And the other question, can you comment on melatonin? Melatonin, yes. So, melatonin is uh one of the natural hormones um in the in the brain that helps coordinate our circadian rhythms for our 24-hour cycles. Melatonin. Melatonin. It does. So it it controls it helps control our 24-hour rhythms. And uh normally melatonin increases as we get close to bedtime. As when dusk happens, that's when melatonin starts increasing. When we see light, there's actual receptors in the eyes connecting to parts of the brain that release melatonin. That tells the brain, "Stop melatonin. It's daylight. It's time to wake up." Again, why it's very important to have a regular pattern. So, people with insomnia as well as daytime sleeping, that's one of the recommendations is when you wake up in the morning, open the shades, get outside, get the light, because that tells your brain it's time to wake up. Tells your brain to shut off melatonin. And then in the evenings is when that melatonin level starts to rise again, telling you it's time to get ready for bedtime. Now, there's over-the-counter melatonin. Yeah, that's generally if you buy it at the, you know, a reputable uh uh pharmacy or nutrition store, it's pretty safe. Um, it can help people fall asleep. Uh, it really, it is something that if you're taking melatonin or thinking about taking melatonin, you should bring up with your doc just to make sure that there's no interactions with any of your other medications. It's generally pretty safe and generally does not cause significant problems. um its effect is variable and can be taken on a long-term basis. Usually, yes. Yeah. Usually, it's not a problem long term. We use it when we're taking care of sleep patients for a couple different reasons. Um sometimes we use it in people who have circadian rhythm disorders who really have they're real night owls or real kind of um early birds and and you know, so it's really a case byase basis and it depends on the other medical problems the person has. Yeah. All right. How much of the melatonin should you take? What about So, uh, melatonin. So, if that's an excellent question. So, melatonin, if it's being used as a hypnotic, meaning I'm taking it so I can fall asleep. Typical dose is somewhere between six and nine milligrams. Benadryil is very common sleep medic used as a sleep medication. A lot of the over-the-counter sleep aids that they sell, if you look through the list of ingredients, benadryil is on there or dyen hydramine is on there. Downside of that is it has side effects. Um, call them antiolinergic side effects. Dry mouth, urinary retention can be some of the side effects. Um, and you know, I have some patients who actually take benadryil and have been taking it for years and they also have a lot of allergies and nasal allergies. So, it kind of addresses a couple things at once and and it's the side effect of making you sleepy is it's kind of an added bonus for them because they're taking it at night. Um, it again, it's a really case by case. It depends on what you're taking it for. I don't recommend it as a long-term sleep medication solely for sleep because it does have side effects and those side effects can be bothersome. But occasionally, occasionally it's it's generally safe and well tolerated. But but again, we have to look at why we're using it and make sure that we're not masking something else by by by taking that medicine. How much I I've never taken. So I think the over-thec counter dose for the most of the capsules and tablets is 25 milligrams. Um people's again depends on what other medicines you're on and and and and how much that affects you. Yeah. But less is always better. Yes. Yeah. Lorazzipam. Lorazzipam is an anti-anxiety medication and also has a side effect of being sleepy. Um, Adavan is the other name for it. Um, so what's the difference between laorazzipam, Adavan and things like ambient or lunesta? They're actually very similar. Um, there's that class of medications laorazzipam is called a benzoazipene and that affects a certain part of the brain. Um and that medication has both sleep inducing properties, anti-anxiety properties as well as anti-seizure properties. Medications like ambulin and lunesta are called benzoazipene related bzzoazipene agonists. So it's a mouthful. So they're not the exact same class. And the difference being that Lunesta and Nambian have the sleep inducing qualities but they don't have the anti-anxiety or the anti-seizure properties. Both medications both benzoazipines and benzoazipine agonist have the potential to be habit forming and potential to develop tolerance meaning that after time just doesn't seem to work anymore and you got to take more and after time. So, so I certainly have patients that that are on both of those types of medications long term, but again, it's it's after an evaluation of what else could be contributing to the sleep problem and making sure that we're addressing, you know, certainly anything that's going to affect health and and what our goal is with the medications. Yes. What about the buildup effects of all these medications? So, most of these medications get cleared out of the system within a matter of several hours. Now, that varies significantly depending on a person's kidney function, liver function, the specific medication, and the dose. Um, you know, one of the concerns I have when using sleep medications is a hangover effect. meaning when the person wakes up the medication from the night before still affecting them. Uh so there is certainly a potential for the medications to build up and and have unwanted effects meaning residual sleepiness during during wakeful hours during daytime hours. Does that include melatonin? Less likely with melatonin. Less likely. Yeah. A couple of weeks ago in the health was asking One of the answers was an acupressure. Now, I don't like taking medication. I thought this might work. Some people, you know, I I often get approached and you know, people who have tried what what we call alternative therapies or or acupressure or acupuncture. I really think that you know a lot of the medicine eastern medicine both Chinese and there's Indian medicine that that those developed in a time when they didn't have the technology and the words that we have now. So so I think there's value to to all these different approaches but I I and I think things can be complimentary. Um the one thing I I some people I have patients who've tried acupressure or acupuncture both for restless legs um as well as insomnia and had very good benefit from it. Um the one thing I do caution is herbal medications. So over the counter and herbal does not equal safe. Okay. So so there there can be problems with those. Um and just because they're prescription doesn't mean absolutely safe either. So, so there needs to be an awareness of of what you're putting into your body and and and make sure that your doctor is talking to you about that and you're bringing that up because ultimately you're the one taking it. But certainly I I I've heard, you know, mixed results, but I have I have several patients who've had real significant improvements with with things like acupre acupressure and acupuncture. Any other questions? All right. Is sleep apnnea consistent every night or can somebody and not other nights that again an excellent question you guys are fantastic audience. Um it can vary night to night to some degree in part if like what we see on the sleep study if the person never slept on their back during the sleep study and sleeps on their back all the time at home that certainly can be a cause. Medications and drugs, especially alcohol, can affect how severe the apnea is. Some patients only have apnea if they drink alcohol or take something that suppresses the the brain's uh arousal threshold. So, it can be some variation night to night. That variation is more in the milder cases. In the severe cases, it's usually it's pretty consistent. And usually doing a a one night study in the lab is enough to to make the diagnosis. Yeah. Could you have had sleep apnnea that has gone away after so many years? Uh in general it's possible weight loss in people who are overweight and have apnea related to being overweight. Weight loss can improve the apnea and and it and and it can get uh better but in general it the natural history is it tends to get worse with time. It tends to get worse. There's the alcohol, the having a glass of wine every night or one and a half glass of wine and then taking and then that's at 7:00 and then take it in. Yeah. That that's a tough question to ask. Uh that's a tough question to answer. I mean there's a lot of things like I said there's a lot of patients I see who've had this problem for years and I showed you that case of the real severe apnea was someone who's a physics professor. Um, you know, so people can put up with it for a long time. Doesn't mean it's not there. A glass of wine. I generally don't recommend combining ambient with any alcohol of any kind. Um, if there's a couple hours later and it's been times been metabolized, that may be okay. But, but like again, my the biggest concern about this is using a medication to help sleep, which may be masking a more serious problem. And and that's that's the point, you know, the take-home point here. Is heart disease the same is atrial fibrillation heart disease? What is heart disease? Absolutely. Good question. I'm sorry I didn't spend more time on that. Yes, absolutely. Atrial fibrillation is heart disease. Um, and apnea contributes to atrial fibrillation. People who have atrial fibrillation often undergo certain procedures to try to put their heart back into a normal rhythm. either things like uh uh electrical cardioversion or chemical cardioversion, taking a medication that puts them back into a normal rhythm. There's been studies there that have shown that patients who have both obstructive sleep apnea and atrial fibrillation who have both problems then go and get a procedure to put their heart back into a normal rhythm and then you look at them afterwards and those patients who are treated for the obstructive sleep apnea have a much lower risk of having atrial fibrillation come back. If you don't treat the apnea, the risk of the atrial fibrillation coming back is much higher. I have a couple patients, I have one case in particular that we've written up about a patient who had atrial fibrillation only at night and woke up with these atrial fibrillation episodes. And so the cardiac electrphysiologist who was very attuned to sleep apnea and kind of was on his radar sent him over to our office. I talked to the patient. Patient says, "Yeah, I snore a little bit, but I'm not sleepy. I'm not falling asleep driving. I'm a TV producer. I'm super active. There's, you know, I do everything I need to do. I don't think I have sleep apnnea. Said, "Okay, well, let's do the test." We did the test and he had severe sleep apnea. Took some convincing, but we eventually got him to use the CPAP, which was the treatment that he needed. And I think now we're three years out from when I first saw him and we've done heart rhythm monitoring at home and he hasn't had a recurrent episode of atrial fibrillation. Does he sleep with that mask every night? Or he sleeps with the mask? Sleeps with the mask every night. Yeah. So, you know, that that's one case and that's not the case for everyone. But certainly, you know, atrial fibrillation, you know, in someone who has a normal heart, who doesn't have valve problems or heart failure or heart attacks and has just the abnormal heart rhythm, which atrial fibrillation is the most common abnormal heart rhythm. They we should the cardiologist certainly should be thinking about whether this patient may or may not have sleep apnnea. And if they do, it's something that needs to be treated because it can contribute to the atrial Okay. All right. Excellent questions. I really enjoy spending time with you all. Have a good day.