Our American diet is filled with so-called bad fats that we need to avoid or eat in moderation. There's good fats as well as bad fats. The bad fats are usually things that we think about when it comes to trans fatty acids as well as saturated fats which are found in animal meats and animal products or butter. Trans fats are the oils that we usually come across when it comes to processed foods like cookies and potato chips, uh, French fries and things like that. But not all fats are bad for us. In fact, fat is an important part of our daily diet. We should have protein, complex carbohydrates, and fat in our diets every day. The fats that we are interested in or at least what I promote are good fats, monounsaturated fats as well as uh polyunsaturated fats which are usually found in our nuts, seeds as well as our fish uh supplies as well. In particular, salmon, albocore, tuna, and sardines are loaded with those heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids. Avocados and olives are other good choices for healthy fats. They're better for us because when we eat good fats, our body reacts to good fats very differently compared to bad fats. It doesn't clog up our arteries or build plaques which causes are or increase our risk for cardiovascular diseases such as strokes and heart attacks. Dr. Lee says raw walnuts are excellent, full of omega fatty acids and raw almonds are good for us, too. Every day I I see clients for for their conditions that I treat with food and just conversations about food and how I can make an impact on incorporating, you know, a orange or a citrus fruit just so that could help them in the long run with their conditions. I am fortunate enough to actually specialize in the field. So on a daily basis, I encounter a lot of clients that I help uh with coming up with diets and formulation that fits their needs. I don't treat my patients like, you know, a cookie cutter uh clients. Everyone's different with their different backgrounds and cultures, their family makeup, their lifestyle, and everything that plays a role in who they are. Today, it's very important for you to be mindful of all the different types of diets, and consult your physician on which diet is right for you. Dr. Lee says the medical profession now recognizes that many of our most common serious diseases can be treated, in fact prevented in part by a patient's diet. It is changing the way doctors practice medicine and UCLA is on the forefront of the field.